LG Chem LG Chem in 2015 LG Chem in 2015 CEO Message Operating Income Capital Expenditures (CAPEX) 2015 Overview 04 16 Overview and Business Areas Philosophy & Vision 19 Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Report 1,823.6 billion won 1,722.8 billion won 20 22 Ten Year History of Sustainable Business Management Materiality Assessment Value Adding Activities 39.1% 8.9% 26 Issue 1. R&D and Technology Innovation 30 Issue 2. Reinforcing Product Responsibilities Dividend Return on Assets 34 Issue 3. Greenhouse Gas Reduction and (ROA) Response to Climate Changes 331.3 billion won 6.3 % 38 42 Issue 4. Creating a Culture of Occupational Safety, Health, and Environment Issue 5. Strengthening Relationship with Suppliers 12.5% 1.5%p 46 Issue 6. Human Resources Development 52 Issue 7. Promoting Strategic Social Contribution Greenhouse Gas CDP Intensity Sustainable Governance Awarded for 3 0.480 57 Corporate Governance consecutive years as an 60 Ethical Management excellent company for 62 Risk Governance tCO2-e climate change response 0.2% Our Performances 65 Economic Performances Social Contribution Accident Rate 68 Social Performances Expenditure 71 Environmental Performances 20.2 billion won 0.19 % Appendix 75 About this Report 76 External Verification & Assurance Statement 3.1% 0.03%p 78 Sustainability Management Index 84 Memberships 84 Awards and Recognition 84 Participation Information 02 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report CEO Message 03 CEO Message Despite such challenging circumstances, LG Chem will continue overcoming threats and strengthening the foundation for sustainable growth through the future-oriented, proactive changes and organizational culture that sticks to the basics. “We will continue establishing future-oriented business portfolios.” There is an old saying, “Cho-mok-ji-si (草木知時),” which means to look ahead into the future and prepare yourself thoroughly. We will take the lead of markets by making changes proactively. We will grasp the flow of social ·environmental mega trends and actively establish future-oriented business portfolios. LG Chem will continue overcoming obstacles and Particularly, LG Chem will focus on energy, water, and bio areas with great potentials for growth specifically in such businesses as electric vehicle batteries, water treatment RO membranes, green bio business, etc. strengthening our sustainable growth foundation “We will continue developing products that create new values essential for mankind.” LG Chem will grasp changes in the world and among customers, focusing on providing values that customers desire to have. By securing differentiated comthrough continuous change and innovation. petitive edges in terms of technologies, commodities, and prices, we will create customer values and develop products necessary for the life of mankind based on differentiated technologies. In addition, LG Chem also will take the lead of the eco-friendly energy solution market with its high energy efficiency materials and products especially in the automotive/ESS battery business. “We will secure sustainable competitiveness based on the organizational culture that sticks to the basics.” In this time of high uncertainty, it is essential to be ever more faithful to the basics than before in order to overcome the challenging business management environment and continue developing corporate competitiveness. LG Chem will fulfill its social responsibilities as a global enterprise by complying with principles and regulations throughout the business operation process from raw material purchase to product development, manufacturing, and sales. With safety and environment as the top priority in every business activity, we will achieve the ‘Zero Accident’ goal. For fair transactions with suppliers and customers, we will continue practicing Jeong-Do Management and strengthening partnerships to share social responsibilities with them, strengthening sustainable competitiveness over the entire value chain. Dear Stakeholders, LG Chem has put forth efforts into mutual growth with the society based on its sustainable competitiveness. In reflection of such efforts, LG Chem issued ‘2015 Sustainability Report.’ Especially this year, LG Chem released the 10th Sustainability Report. For the last decade, LG Chem has established the dedicated departI would like to express my deep appreciation for your constant care and support for LG Chem. ment for CSR in addition to publishing reports in order to practice sustainable management systematically. It also has conducted various activities to promote Last year, LG Chem increased operation profits successfully and drastically, improving the product spread, saving prime costs company-wide, its economic growth and fulfill social and environmental responsibilities such as establishment of the chemical management system and greenhouse gas inventory, introduction of the company-wide energy performance evaluation system, entry into UNGC, and so forth. As a result, LG Chem has obtained good results and establishing differentiated product portfolios despite challenging situations such as global economic recession and low oil prices. In the in various evaluations and awards such as winning the prize for outstanding response to CDP climate changes for 3 consecutive years, winning the Presidential area of basic materials, LG Chem has secured the world highest energy efficiency in NCC and maintained high profitability by strengthenAward for national green technology, and winning the best prize for sustainable management businesses. ing the cost-competitive capacity in basic petrochemical. In the area of IT and electronics materials as well, LG Chem has developed the local Looking back the efforts for the last 10 years, LG Chem will continue putting forth efforts to grow as a global chemical company that creates sustainable future production system in China further, maximizing the profitability of polarizing plate products. Based on its superior technical power and stavalues in every business activity. LG Chem promises to do its utmost to practice sustainable business management proactively with a strong sense of responsibilble supply capacity, LG Chem has established the foundation for RO membrane business. In the area of energy solutions, we have secured ity towards its customers. We really appreciate your continued support and encouragement. major customers in the global market by developing the market-leading automotive/ESS battery products. The business of mobile batteries is Thank you very much. expanding for emerging markets such as the rapidly growing small EV market. This year, the business management environment is more uncertain than previous years due to various risks such as prolonged periods of low growth and low oil prices, unstable conditions of global financial markets, and so forth. As the rate of self-sufficiency of petrochemical products in China increases, emerging companies equipped with innovative technologies are ever more threatening. Competitors are strengthenJune 2016 ing their competitiveness by seeking consistent changes such as restructuring and new business promotion. CEO and Vice-Chairman of LG Chem Jin-Soo, Park 04 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 05 Company Overview 9 Paju Plant 1 LG Chem, Ltd. Since its founding in 1947, LG Chem has 5 Daesan Complex steadily grown to become South Korea’s 3 Ochang 1 Plant leading chemical company that has contrib2 Cheongju Complex uted to the enhancement of mankind’s qualResearch Park Frankfurt 8 22 Wroclaw 1 ity of life through continuous new products 2 Troy 8 Gimcheon Plant Iksan Plant6 4 Ulsan Plant and businesses and technological developMichigan 21 5 New Jersey Los Angeles 14 Moscow ment. LG Chem has operated various sectors 6 7 1 Yeosu Complex Naju Plant such as basic materials, IT and electronic materials, and energy solutions. In addition, 12 Istanbul 11 Tokyo 3 it has established a global network of production, sales, and R&D over major regions New Delhi 9 such as Asia, Europe and America to become 23 Visakhapatnam Mumbai 10 Bangkok 15 16 24 Ho Chi Minh a global chemical company. Beijing 2 16 13 Kuala Lumpur Sao Paulo Tianjin 10 11 14 Moving forward with a vision To be a global 7 Jakarta 17 leader, Growing with customers by provid15 19 Nanjing Chongqing 18 ing innovative materials and solutions , LG 3 12 Ningbo Chem plans to keep growing as a responsible Huizhou 17 20 Taipei and sustainable company. Guangzhou 13 4 Hongkong ● Office ● R&D Overview (As of late December 2015) Operations Location Operations Location Operations Location Major Products Name LG Chem, Ltd Headquarters ●1 LG Chem, Ltd. Korea ● 1 Research Park Korea ● 10 Tianjin LG BOHAI Chemical Co., Ltd. VCM, EDC LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Headquarters Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, South Korea ●2 LG Chem(China) Investment Co., Ltd. ● 2 LG Chem Power Inc. USA ● 11 Tianjin LG BOTIAN Chemical Co., Ltd. SBS China ●3 Ningbo Zhenhai LG Yongxing Trade Co., Ltd. ● 3 LG Chem, Ltd. Japan R&D Center Japan ● 12 Ningbo LG YONGXING Chemical Co., Ltd. ABS, SAN, SBL, EP Foundation January 1947 ● 13 LG Chemical(Guangzhou) Engineering Plastics ● 4 LG Chem Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Co., Ltd EP Employees 26,195(14,280 in Korea, 11,915 Over●5 LG Chem America, Inc seas) USA ● 14 LG Chem(Tianjin) Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd EP ●6 LG NanoH2O, Inc. ● 15 LG Chem(Nanjing) Information & Electronic Rechargeable Marketing Materials Co., Ltd. China batteries, ● Manufacturing Facilities ●7 LG Chem BRASIL INTERMEDIACAO DE NEGOCIOS Brasil Subsidiary polarizing plates DO SETOR QUIMICO LTDA Operations Location Major Products ●8 LG Chem Europe GmbH Germany ●1 Yeosu Complex NCC, SM, LDPE, HDPE, PVC, VCM, ABS, ● 16 LG Chem Display Materials(Beijing) Co., Ltd. Polarizers for SAN, PS, EPS, Acrylate, Oxo-alcohol, TFT-LCD 2015 Financial Snapshot (Unit:100 million KRW) ●9 LG Chemical India Pvt. Ltd. NPG, SBS, MBS, SB Latex, BPA ● 17 C NOOC & LG Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. ABS, SAN India ● 10 LGC Petrochemical India Private Ltd. ●2 Cheongju Complex Electrolytes, anode materials, PCM, ● 18 LG Chem (Chongqing) Engineering Plastics Total Assets 185,787 EPC ● 11 LG Chem Japan Co., Ltd Japan sensitizer, rechargeable batteries Co.,Ltd. Total ●3 Ochang 1 Plant Rechargeable batteries, Display ● 19 Nanjing LG Chem New Energy Battery Co.,Ltd. Automotive Liabilities 54,752 ● 12 LG Chem TK Kimya Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey materials, Optical materials batteries ● 13 L G Chem Malaysia SND.BHD Malaysia Total Equity 131,035 ●4 Ulsan Plant Korea Plasticizers ● 20 LG Chem(Taiwan), Ltd. Taiwan Polarizers Represen● LG Chem, Ltd. Moscow Office 14 Russia ●5 Daesan Complex NCC, EO/ EG, SM, BD, MTBE, B-1, PE, ● 21 LG Chem Michigan Inc. Lithium-ion Sales 202,066 tative ● 15 LG Chem, Ltd. Bangkok Representative Office Thailand PP, Synthetic rubber, PVC, VCM USA batteries, Battery Operating Office packs 18,236 ● 16 Hochiminh Office Vietnam ●6 Iksan Plant ABS compounds, EP Income ● 22 LG Chem, Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Polarizers, EP ● 17 Jakarta Office Indonesia ●7 Naju Plant Octanol, Butanol, Plasticizers, Net Income 11,485 Acrylic acid ● 23 LG Polymers India Pvt. Ltd. India PS, EPS ●8 Gimcheon Plant SAP ● 24 LG Vina Chemical Company Ltd. Vietnam DOP ●9 Paju Plant LCD glass substrates 06 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 07 LG Chem’s Business Model for Sustainability * Based on domestic operations Input Value Chain Outcomes of business Input Value added Sharing of Capital by LG Chem of Value ·Domestic and overseas Raw Material Our Businesses Customer End-user / Public economic condition Basic Materials Domestic and Corporation tax Shareholder and Financial ·Response to governProduction of basic materials such as ethylene, overseas patents investor dividends Capital mental regulations EDC, Naptha, etc. propylene and etc. ·Assets (capital) ·M&A Developing fuctional polymers and eco-friendly / high-functional materials 35,111 secured 401.1 billion won 331.3 billion won Economy Advanced Materials Manufactured ·Domestic and Millbase, Lithium etc. Production and sales of display / battery materials ·Synthetic resins/plastic Economy overseas operations such as photoresist, OLED materials and etc. ·Residence Capital processing company ·Manufacturing facilities construction & ·Information & For more information, See page 29, 65-67 IT & Electronic Materials infrastructure Production and sales of polarizer, LCD glass substrates communication company ·IT & electronic TAC film, etc. and etc. ·Home appliance ·Core technologies Developing materials in the display, circuit and devices Intellectual manufacturer Environmental Energy Saving Accident rate ·Intellectual property semiconductor areas Capital ·Automobiles Investment rights, patents ·Automotive (finished Energy Solutions ·Household goods vehicles)manufacturer Environment Anode and cathode materials, Separators, etc. Production and sales of lithium-ion batteries Developing battery materials and small-/medium and 25.8 billion won 75.2 billion won 0.19 % large-sized batteries ( ▼0.03%) Environment ·Natural environment Environmental ·Energy/water/electric Capital New Businesses and Platform Technologies power, etc. Developing new businesses and platform technologies For more information, See page 70-73 including water treatment, bioindustry, new elements, etc. Investment into Purchase from Technical support local communities suppliers for partners ·Professionalism of (social contribution) (raw materials) Human employees Value Adding Activities ·Vocational experience Capital and capabilities 20.2 billion won 9,337.7 billion won 31.4 billion won ·Ethical awareness ·R&D and Technoloy ·Creating a Culture of Occupational Society Society Annual wages of Direct/indirect job Innovation(p.26) Safety, Health, and Environment(p.38) · Strengthening Relationship ·Reinforcing Product ·Promoting Strategic employees creation ·Local community with Suppliers(p.42) ·Greenhouse Gas Reduction and ·Human Resources Responsibility(p.30) Social Contribution(p.52) Social Capital ·Government ·Customers Response to Climate Change(p.34) Development(p.46) 1,215.5 billion won 1,110 individuals ·Suppliers For more information, See page 42-54, 68-70 08 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 09 LG Chem has maintained its competitive edge within the basic materials sector with consistent business success Basic Materials HIGHLIGHTS in the Year of 2015 achieved through factors such as stabilized raw material supply, expansion of high added-value product sales, and & Chemicals continuation of strong spread despite fierce rivalry in the industry sector due to long-term economic stagnation, slowNCC PO ABS ing growth and increasing rate of self-sufficiency of petrochemical products in China. Furthermore, LG Chem is focusImproving the production ability Expanding the weight of high Transparent ABS quality ing its research capacity on new areas of opportunity and proactively develops strategic new technologies in order to and energy efficiency based on added value products includimprovement & cost innovation the successful T/A(Turn Around) ing metallocene  orld Best quality and W overcome the uncertainty within the petrochemical industry.  aintaining the world best M *Sales of high added value prodprime cost competitiveness competitiveness of ethylene ucts(1,000 ton) *Transparent ABS product sales prime costs (1,000 ton) 280 346 39 51 EPC(Engineering Plastic Compound) New Materials 2 3 Increasing sales by strengthenCNT (Carbon Nanotube) ing the auto-component market commercialization with the self-developed technology Market Prospect & Business Strategy *Automotive EPC sales (1,000 ton) of the competitive edge in 79 93 Market Prospect quality and manufacturing As oil prices remain at low levels, the gap is decreasing between the low-cost produced ethane cracker and the existing naphtha cracker in terms of competitiveness. It is expected that the economic growth of major countries 1 NCC(Naphtha Cracking Center) 5 EP(Engineering Plastic Compound) will slow down due to the sluggish global demand while NCC is a facility that pyrolyzes naphtha These are highly-functional engineering the growth over the emerging Asian regions will continue. by refining crude oil for the production plastic elements that can be utilized in elecLikewise, demands in the highly functional material diviof basic petrochemical elements such tric/electronic products, automotive parts, sion are expected to continue growing. as ethylene and propylene. LG Chem and information/electronic parts. Produced ensures superior cost competitiveness by LG Chem, they lead the market as differBusiness Strategy through high energy efficiency. entiated, high value-added products. LG Chem plans to form a stable, profit-making structure through its superior business model, expand its corpo2 PO(Polyolefine) 6 Acrylates / SAP(Super-Absorbent Polymer) rate reach on a global scale, especially within the high We produce and supply polyolefin prodBy securing superior position within the added-value division, and develop new, promising mate4 5 ucts, such as films, pipes, and wires, for varSAP market, LG Chem is seeking to spur rials in order to remain one step ahead of market growth. ious uses that feature outstanding workcontinued growth in the prophlene derivaTo this end, LG Chem is seeking to boost sales of high addability and quality. With excellent chemical tives sector. ed-value products while reinforcing the profitability of resistance, electric isolation, and mechanexisting business areas. LG Chem is also seeking to estabical/optical characteristics, these products lish groundwork for advancement into emerging markets, allow for increased global market shares. and expanding production bases overseas. Furthermore, LG Chem has taken part in nurturing similar businesses 3 ABS(Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene) 7 Rubber / Special Resin and putting forth constant effort into introducing external Thermoplastic resin products made mainly We create products of various applications capacities for new material development. of SM(Styrene Monomer), AN(Acryloniincluding tires and packing material such trile),and BD(Butadiene) and are widely used as synthetic rubber made mainly of butaGenerating Stable Profit Via Superior Business Model for automotive parts, electric/electronic diene, shock-absorbing MBS(Methacrylate items, industrial materials, and household Butadiene Styrene), glove and paper coat·Assuring high quality in all products as a top-tier company items. The production capacity amounts to ing latex, asphalt and plastic modifiers, 1.5 million tons, in Korea & abroad, as we SBS(Styrene Butadiene Styrene), etc. ·Expanding the magnitude of high added-value product sales lead domestic and global markets, maintain·Improving prime cost competitiveness of existing business ing the No. 1 global market share. divisions 6 7 ·Strengthening profitability by focusing on high yield products 4 PVC(Polyvinyl Chloride) / Plasticizers Universal thermoplastic products, available in various forms, are utilized in mulSecuring Growth through Global High-Added Value tiple areas, such as construction materiBusiness Expansion als and household items, to serve diverse · Expanding overseas production bases of high added-value purposes and are supplied with durability products to China, Southeast Asia, America, India, etc. and sound quality assured. · Seeking ways to procure raw materials in order to advancement into emerging markets Value Creation with Products Products Made of PCR Raw Materials | PCR(Post Consumer Recycled) is an eco-friendly Planning for Future Growth by Seeking New, raw material that replaces existing raw materials by collecting, separating, and recycling Promising Materials used plastic items, aiding to the reduction of CO2 emissions. When a ton of 25% PCR ·Fostering similar business areas through our unique capabilities products are manufactured, CO2 emissions are reduced by 1.37 tons. Currently, develop·Introducing external capacities for the development of ment of products whose PCR content is 25~70% has been completed, and consequent future-oriented new materials for next-generation busiproducts, such as mobile phones, laptop PCs, etc, have entered the market. The scope ness sectors such as electric vehicles, 3D printers, etc. of PCR application will continue to see growth through sustained R&D. 10 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 11 In 2000, LG Chem firstly succeeded in commercializing polarizer for TFT-LCD in Korea. Since then, LG Chem has made IT&E Materials HIGHLIGHTS in the Year of 2015 remarkable achievements in LCD and IT industry. Especially, LG Chem is expanding its business into China which sustains constant growth, in order to strengthen its global No.1 status. LG Chem also dedicate its ability in cutting-edge IT&ElecOptical Materials Polarizer RO Membranes tronic materials as reinforcing its R&D capacity. At the same time, LG Chem is developing its competency through finding Strengthened local supply capacity in Established domestic production new business opportunities, such as RO membranes. China Maintained 1st place system and customer base. 1 2 1 Optical Materials 1 LG Chem is leading the market of polarizer which is a key component of TFT-LCD display panel. 2 High Functional Materials LG Chem produces protective film for polarizer, and materials for OLED and semiconductor. In particular, LG Chem consistently has been focusing its ability on the area of high-functional materials. 3 Glass Substrates Since LG Chem started its business in 2012, it produces high-quality glass substrates with constant R&D investment. 4 4 3 4 RO Membranes By acquiring NanoH2O, a U.S.-based company specialized in RO membrane, LG Chem obtained a high technical competence in the field. Thereby, LG Chem produces the products with the worldbest salt rejection rates. Market Prospect & Business Strategy Business Strategy LG Chem will strengthen its growth potential and profitability Value Creation with Products Market Prospect by centering our capacity into the development of differentiGrowth rates of 5% in the LCD market are expected within Leading a clean energy future with next-generation technological development | Recently, climate changes and environmental polated technology. By maintaining a superior position in the TV the Chinese market. Leading Company's efforts are conlution have caused water shortages, and water quality instability around the world, endangering the livelihood of all mankind. In market and increasing sales of small and medium sized prodtinuously being put forth into OLED market expansion. response, various activities such as sea water desalination and water resource recycling are conducted actively, while the household ucts, LG Chem aims to secure profitability of polarizing plates In the field of RO membranes, a new area of business, a water purifying market for the stability of drinking water continues to grow. Accordingly, LG Chem aims to enhance quality of life for and seek sustainable growth by expanding highly functional all mankind and contribute to solutions of global problems like water shortages and worsening water quality by developing top-tier growth rate of 10% is expected as interest in eco-friendlismall scale technology industries. In addition, effort will be RO membranes. ness and well-being increases around the world. made to achieve market leader status by maximizing the productivity of glass small scale and RO membranes. 12 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 13 With an aim to foster specialty chemicals as a future growth engine, LG Chem separated Display Materials and Advanced HIGHLIGHTS in the Year of 2015 Rechargeable Battery Materials from IT&E Materials and reorganized them into the Advanced Materials business unit. Materials In 2015, the LCD market entered its maturity stage as the rate of increase slowed down. Competition with China in relaDisplay Materials Rechargeable Battery Materials tion to anode material, a core material for rechargeable batteries, is also intensifying. Despite a strenuous business '16 LCD TV color sensitizer development Development of next-generation electric vehienvironment, LG Chem has developed anode materials for next-generation electric vehicles as well as materials for '16 OLED TV transporting and light /emitcle anode materials ting layer materials development High capacity anode materials development new LCD/OLED TV products, successfully attaining major customers and buyers. 1 1 Market Prospect & Business Strategy 1 Display Materials LG Chem produces photoresists and process materials Market Prospect which are key materials for LCD color filters, as well as transFollowing the expectation that the LCD market will porting and light-emitting layer materials for next generacontinue to experience low growth rates, competition tion displays, OLEDs, and encapsulants for LED devices. between material businesses will become more fierce. Accordingly, many companies are expanding the market by developing highly functional materials and strengthening their partnership with the Chinese market. In the 2 Rechargeable Battery Materials case of the OLED market, the number of global compaWe produce anode materials, a core component of nies actively establishing patent barriers in effort to conrechargeable batteries and meet the demand of ecotinue leading the competition is increasing in response to friendly large-size batteries for future industry sectors, the growth of OLED TVs. It is expected that rechargeable such as electric vehicles and power storage devices as batteries will have a chance at growth in the area of high well as small batteries that are used for various IT devices. capacity/high voltage anode materials as the market for 1 2 electric vehicles continues expanding. Business Strategy LG Chem plans to timely develop high resolution TV sensitizers and strengthen its favorability among major customers. In addition, efforts will be put forth into expanding large panel companies in China to take preemptive measures in response to the growth of the Chinese market. OLED TV materials will also be developed actively to secure a high position within the Global Top Tier by 2018, while substrate materials, which are essential for flexible display development, will be cultivated with the goal of providing differentiated values. Concerning battery elements, the line-up of anode materials, which are essential for rechargeable batteries, will be expanded, and anode materials for next generation electric vehicle batteries will be developed and supplied in effort to lead of the market. 1 2 Value Creation with Products Core Materials for Electric Vehicle Batteries | LG Chem works diligently to distribute eco-friendly electric vehicles and simultaneously produce electric vehicle batteries and anode materials, which are essential components of batteries. In 2015, we contributed to a wide-scale distribution of eco-friendly vehicles by supplying Global Top Tier finished vehicle manufacturers with anode materials for electronic cars. In addition, we will continue our contribution to eco-friendly growth by developing high capacity, long-life products for 2nd generation and 3rd generation electric vehicles. 14 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Overview and Business Areas 15 LG Chem produces electric vehicle batteries, ESS(Energy Storage System) Battery, and small-sized batteries as part of Energy Solutions HIGHLIGHTS in the Year of 2015 a clean energy development project in order to address issues such as natural resource shortage due to rapid industrialization, and an insufficient supply of energy sources. Recently, we have continued expanding our customer scope as Automotive Batteries Small-sized batteries ESS Batteries we secured large-scale projects from major electric vehicle manufacturers, strengthened our partnerships with major Development of major PHEV / EV products New market expansion Securing major power grid players within the ESS power networks of North America and Europe, and improved product capability through expanSecuring major models of leading electric vehicle and product differenESS customers in North manufacturers tiation America and Europe sion of residential products line-up. Completion of China EV battery plant Expansion into housing material markets 1 Automotive Battery 2 IT & New Application Battery 3 ESS Battery Electric vehicles batteries discharge no air LG Chem has supplied various types Based on our specialized Moreover, we aim to accelerate entrance into the smallpollutants and can be utilized to supply of batteries that meet customer needs new production line and Market Prospect & Business Strategy energy to electric cars, which are an effibased on their differentiated technical product competitiveness, LG sized battery market, which has displayed potential for sigcient and green mode of transportation. abilities such as ultra-small batteries, Chem is supplying ESS batMarket Prospect nificant growth. As the energy solution industry in China LG Chem is staying ahead of the compefree-form batteries, and more, effecteries that are optimized for Following electric vehicle propagation and increase in ESS grows, the number of global companies entering the Chitition by supplying top global automotively strengthening our position in new and renewable energy sales, the market for lithium batteries has shifted from curnese market is increasing, and the positionality of Chinese tive manufacturers with electric vehicle the market. In addition, we contribute generation and power suprent mobile device utilization to electric vehicles and ESS energy solution companies in the market is strengthening. batteries that feature high energy density, to environmental protection by movply stabilization. application. Particularly in the automotive battery market, Therefore, LG Chem seeks to capitalize on this opportunity durability, and safety. ing to replace existing lead storage high growth rates are expected as government support for and enter the ESS market in China accordingly. batteries with lithium batteries. global environmental regulations has been strengthened, and new electric vehicle models have been consequently Prospect of Global Demands for Lithium Batteries introduced. ESS batteries, as a result, have seen kindled 1 2 expectation of significant market expansion based on com[Unit:GWh] petitive new and renewable energy unit prices. In the IT China Bus 169 & New Application battery market, new markets such as ESS 157 small EV (Electronic Vehicle), wireless vacuum cleaners, EV 136 Mobile 115 and the drone market are growing. 90 68 52 Business Strategy LG Chem has secured world-class product competiveness by focusing on the development of electric vehicles and ESS batteries. Through cost innovation strategy, we are working to lead the popularization of electric vehicles. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 *Source: B3 Report 3 3 Value Creation with Products Supply of electric vehicle batteries to China | As environmental conditions in China deteriorate, the Chinese government is working to strengthen its environmental regulations and eco-friendly support measures. Accordingly, LG Chem is pioneering efforts to facilitate electric vehicle market growth and address pollution issues by supplying electric vehicle batteries. Recently, we developed products customized for the Chinese market by significantly reducing costs, attracting major automotive manufacturers in China, to whom LG Chem supplied with transportation trucks and cleaning vehicles for public agencies, allowing us to play a role of major supplier of electric vehicle batteries in China. Increasing orders of power grid ESS | As fuel costs increase and global environmental regulations get stricter, the development of new and renewable energy and efficient utilization of electric power has become a major issue. Therefore, LG Chem has come to develop high output/high energy ESS batteries for power grids, subsequently establishing partnerships with major electric power companies, and sought to maximize the power efficiency of new and renewable energy generation. In this way, LG Chem plays a central role in controlling coal-fired electric power generation and while simultaneously expanding the eco-friendly power generation market. 16 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Philosophy & Vision 17 LG WAY The LG Way is the foundation of LG employees’ way of thinking and conduct, aimed at achieving LG Chem’s Vision LG Chem realizes the vision of Growing with customers by providing innovative materials and soluour goal of ‘No. 1 LG.’ LG’s vision is composed of ‘Customer Value Creation’ and ‘People-Oriented tions in pursuit of the 3 Shared Values customer-centered Customer Value Creation, Strong and Core Values Management’ on the basis of ‘Jeong-Do Management,’ LG’s unique code of conduct. LG Chem is Implementation for corporate goal achievement and Mutual Respect for teamwork and capability actively pursuing the title of ‘No. 1 LG’ through daily practice of the LG Way. development. As it continues growing, LG Chem will become a sustainable global leading company that gains trust of customers, the communities, and the world. Growing with customers by providing LG Chem’s Vision The ultimate goal of LG is to be innovative materials and solutions recognized as a market leader in business No 1. LG performance as well as in management VISION practices. Ethical management and code of conduct Jeong-Do Innovative Materials Innovative Solution Management was created to enable development of LG’s capabilities and fair competition. We deliver the best materials We identify problems in cusBehavioral with unrivaled prices and pertomers’ businesses, solve them, Mode formance, designed to improve and improve performance by CustomerPeopleThe management principles are the the performance of customers’ incorporating our services and Value Oriented fundamental organizational principles products and lead customer knowledge into products and Creation Management which have guided LG from its inception. businesses to success. offering value aligned with cusManagement Principles tomers’ individual needs. Growing with Customers Global Leader We grow with our valuable cusWe strive to be a company that ACHIEVING 'NO.1 LG' tomers by delivering innovative is trusted and admired by our values that help them thrive customers, the most attractive and prosper. choice to our investors, the workCode of Conduct : Management Vision : No.1 LG place of choice for the best and Joeng-Do Management Principles the brightest, and feared and emulated by our competitors. To Customers Integrity Customer-Value Creation A trustworthy brand that provides Work done with utmost transparency Customer-First / Substantive value the best products and services. according to principles and standards. delivery / Innovation-driven creation. Core Values To Investors Fair transaction People-Oriented Management A secure investment that yields Provide equal opportunities and Self-Management and creativity / sustainably high returns. fair treatment in every transaction. Respect for human dignity / Capability development and actualization / Performance-based Customer Strong ImpleMutual To Employees Fair-competition rewards. Value Creation mentation Respect A exceptional workplace that Improve capabilities through with attracts talented individuals. which one can beat rivals in fair competition. We deliver value that substantially Strong implementation is essential Mutual respect plays a key role in improves customers’ performance and to bringing corporate objectives and building teams and the capacity to To Competitors competitiveness. We act to enhance aspirations to fruition. It is a systematic make breakthroughs. This teamA leader that dominates, and a customer value with a customer-cenprocess that requires an objective work, strengthened by mutual recogleader to learn from. tric mindset and a deep understanding view of reality, thorough analysis, and nition and respect, is what empowof both our customers and the market. concrete planning to achieve our goals. ers us to achieve our goals. 18 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Stakeholder Engagement 19 Sustainability To become an element supplier that creates sustainable future values, LG Chem has established Stakeholder LG Chem has established a system of participation for direct and indirect stakeholders such as a sustainable business management vision of ‘Sustainable Chemistry for Humanity and Environshareholders, investors, customers, employees, NGOs, local community representatives, academic Management Engagement ment’ and selected 10 core objectives, together with the sustainable management principles, in the researchers and experts, industrial associations and organizations, media, and governmental agenSystem areas of economy, environment, and society. cies to gather various opinions. Among the collected opinions and information, aspects that may cause significant influence on the economy, society, and environment are reflected in decision-making related to sustainable business management and strengthens communication with and assures the trust of stakeholders. Sustainability Vision Key Stakeholder Groups and Communication Channels Vision Sustainable Chemistry for Human and Environment Industrial Associations & Organizations Principles of Sustainability We abide by the principles of sustainability to create Shareholders & Customers sustainable value. Rating Agencies Academia & Government Experts Agencies 01 02 03 04 We provide environmentally We adhere to business We make products and run We contribute to the growth friendly and innovative ethics as a corporate citizen. operations in sustainable of communities using our Suppliers Employees materials and solutions. ways. unique capabilities. NGOs & Local Media Tasks Communities Stakeholder groups Expectations Communication Channels Economic Environmental Social ·Corporate presentations ·Financial informaShareholders & ·Long-term growth ·Transparent corporate ·Creating and distributing profits ·General shareholders’ tion disclosure ˙Expanding markets and increasing ˙Strengthening product ˙Respecting human rights and Rating agencies information disclosure meetings ·Credit ratings sales responsibility Developing talent ·Open communication with ·Collecting customer ˙Improving customer value ˙Responding to climate change ˙Reinforcing safety and health ·Improving product Customers customers quality and safety feedback and reducing energy use ˙Strengthening fair trade compliance ·R&D capabilities ·Product liability monitoring ˙Reducing the environmental ˙Bolstering relationships with ·Improving corporate culture ·Employee satisfaction survey ·Safety and impacts of industrial operations suppliers ·Participating in a wide range of ·Reinforcing employee ·Labor-management Employees corporate operations safety and health committee environmental ˙Pursuing strategic social partnership ·Promoting employee benefits ·Company magazines committee ·Supporting suppliers and ·Shared growth committee ·Business and providing training Suppliers ·Strategic social partnership ·Supplier technical support presentations programs ·Investing in local communities Strengthening Communication with Internal and External Stakeholders NGOs & Local ·Strategic social partnership · Local CSR activities by ·Community cooperation in educational and welfare LG Chem has held panel meetings with experts in various areas of sustainable business management, sharing Communities ·Investing in local communities overseas subsidiaries businesses opinions on the current condition and future prospect of LG Chem’s sustainable business management, with ·Industry-academic cooperation ·Consultation results being reflected in our business activities and reports. In 2015, 6 sustainable management experts particAcademia &Experts ·Technological development ·Joint R&D activities ipated in meetings, discussing 2014 sustainability reports, materiality assessment process, sustainability of LG ·Industry and Chem and chemistry industry. In addition, standardized CSR education is conducted overseas for dispatched Industrial ·Responding to new regulations ·Councils and forums business related Associations & corporation heads, employee consultative bodies, and new employees, contributing to better understanding ·Chemical management on sustainability business Organizations associations of sustainable business management amongst executives and employees. LG Chem will also form and operate a CSR committee by 2016 in order to integrate the CSR activity of employees and strengthen cooperative sys·Creating and distributing profits ·Technological Media ·Social partnership activities innovation ·Informal press meetings tems between related divisions. Through these efforts, LG Chem aims to disclose core issues and activity results related to sustainable business management and will establish a more systematic and active CSR management Government ·Shared growth ·Occupational ·Advice on industrial ·Various pilot Agencies ·Fair trading and compliance safety and health policies projects system, whose performance analysis will be reflected in the following year’s execution plan. 20 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Te  n Year History of Sustainable 21 Business Management Ten Year History of Sustainable LG Chem has issued the annual sustainable business management The report in the year of 2007 first applied the materiality assessment method. Since 2013 Sustainability Report, we started applyreport since 2006 to share the related achievements and to coming GRI G4, meeting the global standards. In addition, we have improved the general level of sustainable management by fulfilling Business Management municate with stakeholders with this year as the 10th publication. its social and environmental responsibilities in such ways as operating the dedicated CSR division, UNGC entry, corporate-wide safety and environment policies, establishment of the Energy Technology DB System etc. Ten Year 2006 Sustainability report started to be published 2008 Sustainability Report released 2011 Sustainability Report released GRI G3.1 adopted 2013 Sustainability Report released GRI G4 adopted Automotive battery plant (Ochang) and industrial History GRI Guideline 2002 applied LG Petrochemical Co., Ltd.merged complex (Paju) construction commenced World largest automotive battery plant completed (Ochang) NanoH2O (water treatment filter manufacturer) acquired 2009 DJSI Asia-Pacific and Korea  eb-based greenhouse gas W Greenhouse gas inventory established in CSR executive office newly founded Corporate-wide safety and management system established all domestic business places IT-based energy and greenhouse gas emission environment policies established REACH4 response system established amount management system established 2015 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2005 Environment Report released 2007 Sustainability report released 2009 Sustainability Report released 2010 Sustainability Report released 2012 Sustainability Report released 2014 Sustainability Report released LG Daesan Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. Merged Materiality assessment (GRI G3) ‘LG GREEN 2020’ published Established a petrochemical China Nanjing polymer China Guangzhou and Huanan(桦南) High added-value synthetic resins elastomer U.S. Michigan electric vehicle plant joint venture in Kazakhstan battery plant expanded Technology Center founded Introduced SCM including environmental development mass production construction commenced LG Polycarbonate merged Water treatment reverse osmosis regulations such as RoHS CSR team newly established & CSR selfEstablished ‘Jeong-Do Management Shared growth committee founded Integrated RM Management system adopted membrane plant completed(Cheongju) Amount of chemicals made public inspection implementation Practice Guideline’ for fair competition Social voluntary organization founded Chemical substance management Environment management system established Energy management system introduced Water resource inventory established DB/system established Energy Technology DB System established Greenhouse gas inventory established in the China-based business place 2006 2015 Amount of R&D Social Contribution Employee Environmental investment Job creation Expenditure education Investment Energy Saving Reporting SUSTAINABLE Sales 2006 10,795.3 Business PERFORMANCES since 2006 [Unit: billion won] 2015 20,206.6 3,475 billion won(accumulated) 10,979 individuals(accumulated) 156 billion won(accumulated) 141.3 billion won(accumulated) 374.1 billion won(accumulated) 761.2 billion won(accumulated) CSR Activities 22 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Overview Materiality Assessment 23 Materiality LG Chem prepares reports in compliance with the guidelines set forth by GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G4 standards on report theme and content. Materiality Assessments are conducted through Result of Materiality Assessment Assessment primary channels such as global standard analysis, leading company benchmarking, and interMaterial Issues nal/external stakeholder surveys, after which the annual report contents are selected and outline Potential Issues General Issues R&D and technology Impact innovation major issues within LG Chem. The procedure of the Materiality Assessment is as follows: Social Energy-saving & contribution Human resources development Greenhouse Gas and charity Reduction Mid and long-term Occupational management strategy safety and health Product responsibility Materiality Assessment Process Business Partnership Risk management growth and Prevention of competitive edge environmental pollution Good working place Compliance with laws and Step1 Internal review of materials International standard analysis Attracting and retaining human resource internatial regulations Human rights and Labor rights Based on LG Chem’s vision and philosophy, Reliable international standards and Intellectual Corporate Anti-competition and Product life and internal communication documents, requirements are reflected. property / patent Water cycle governance anti-corruption Issue Pool management assessment reporting issues are reviewed. 24 Issue Pools · UNGC (UN Global Compact) · LG Chem vision & philosophy · GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Tax strategies Stakeholder Efficient use of resources · Existing Sustainable Management report · ISO26000 / EICC / DJSI (Dow Jones Susengagement · Newsletter : ‘LG Chem family’ tainability Indices) Biodiversity and ecosystem management Global benchmarking Media Research Based on benchmarking companies’ MaterialMajor keyword analysis of news articles Relevance ity Assessment results, major issues of global about LG Chem and chemical industry in the chemistry companies are analyzed. year of 2015: · Benchmarking companies: 15 total global ·Media: 12 nationwide daily newspapers chemistry companies such as Joongang Ilbo; online newspapers, TV news, daily economic news, etc. Key Issues & Descriptions Data Analysis Surveys among internal/external Step2 Rank Key Issues Description GRI G4 Aspect page After each of the selected 24 issues is chosen, stakeholders 1 R&D and In addition to continued R&D on new technology, we pursue technological Product & Service 26-29 attention is given to each item. Media expoOpinions of stakeholders on the 24 issues Major Issue technology innovation to achieve energy efficiency and safety. sure frequency, importance of global benchare echoed. Importance of issues regarding innovation Assessment marking issues, LG Chem strategies and manLG Chem Sustainable Management, and Quantification of agement policies are reflected in review. response by LG Chem to the selected issues 2 Energy-saving We pursue eco-friendly, green processes in areas of the highest energy Energy/mission 34-37, Issue Importance & Greenhouse consumption and assume priority in responding to climate change with 73 is also surveyed and demonstrated. Gas Reduction eco-friendly products. 3 Occupational Based on the institutionalized safety and health management system, we Occupational 38-41, Step3 Result Collection & Analysis safety and secure absolute safety and minimize potential risks. safety and health 70 Based on results garnered in Step 2, the health Materiality Assessment matrix is formed. 4 Human We train global talent that display professional capabilities based on the Training and 47-51 Selection of Key The correlation between sustainability and resources belief that ‘talent is the very source of differentiated competitiveness’. Education Issues relative effect of stakeholders is accounted development Key Issues Selected for in prioritizing the issues, after which, the 5 Partnership We have established partnerships with other companies through mutually Procurement 42-45 top 9 issues are chosen. beneficial activities such as fair transaction, partner support, and CSR Practice/Compemanagement. tition Elimination 6 Product Through systematic management of product eco-friendliness and stability, Customer Safety 30-33 responsibility we have practiced our social and environmental responsibilities for products, & Health strengthened quality competitiveness, and improved customer value. Result of Stakeholder Feedback Research Report-based understanding of CSR 4.12 7 Prevention of Through continued improvement of working environments such as toxic Waste Water and 38-41, LG Chem collects stakeholder feedback on the previous year’s susenvironmenchemical management, air environment management, waste management, Solid Waste 71-73 Selection of major report themes 4.15 tal pollution LG Chem hopes to minimize environmental impacts on the local community. tainability reports to improve reporting quality and reflect their requirements. As a result, stakeholder satisfaction was high, above 4 Appropriate opening of business info. 4.03 8 Social We are responsible for unique social contribution in areas such as youth Local Community 52-55 contribution education and eco-friendliness/energy. points on average, on various components such as selection of report Transparent report 4.06 and charity themes, understanding of CSR, and report contents. Aspects to be improved include utilization of visual material such as pictures and 9 Business By maintaining business growth and a competitive edge in climates of Economic 65-67 Design that reflects corporate features 4.09 growth and economic stagnation and fierce competition, we maximize economic value Achievement diagrams, quantitative (figures) data improvement, and other design competitive shared domestically, regionally, and with stakeholders. Readibility 4.06 visualization elements. Opinion breakdown: edge VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES 26 R&D and Technology Innovation 30 Reinforcing Product Responsibilities 34 Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Response to Climate Changes 38 Creating a Culture of Occupational Safety, Health, and Environment 42 Strengthening Relationship with Suppliers 46 HUman resources development 52 Promoting Strategic Social Contribution Material Issues 1 R&D and Technology Innovation 27 Corporate R&D Center under Research Park supports technol1 Corporate-wide R&D Implementation and ogy innovation by operating the Platform Technology Research R&D and Technology Management System Center to strengthen the current business competitiveness and Future Technology Research Center to continue new business Strengthening the R&D Implementation System Innovation LG Chem seeks to find new business areas based on its constant investment into R&D and secured core technologies. and technology research. In 2015, Gwacheon R&D Center was newly opened to expand the research infrastructures. LG SciParticularly, the focus of R&D is on next-generation display ence Park, the largest convergence research complex in Korea materials, green energy areas, and eco-friendly / highly will be operated by 2017, for researches mainly on future funfunctional materials as future growth areas. damental technologies and synergy areas among affiliates. To make good use of external technologies, the Open Innovation system is utilized to share ideas with overseas Strengthening Competitiveness through companies that own various global networks, carrying the Development of New Business Areas out businesses through collaboration with them. and Base Technologies In addition, the technology exchange system includes Development of Water Treatment Reverse monthly research topic instruction and presentation, Osmosis(RO) Membranes To foster the water treatment business which is a core of annual technology exchange meetings, etc. future eco-friendly business as a new growth engine, LG For efficient management of intellectual properties, the Chem has adopted the nano complex substance reacgroup dedicated to intellectual property management is tion technology secured by NanoH2O, which is a water operated and manage patents for each step of R&D. treatment filter producer in the U.S., and developed the Continued R&D investment and techK E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance water treatment RO membranes of superior performance nology innovation are core elements in Research Organization & Infrastructure to existing products. RO membranes mass production strengthening an enterprise’s competitivestarted at Cheongju Plant with the mass production sta·Finding new business challenges Expansion ness and creating values. Securing fundaLG Chem operates the domestic/overseas Tech Centers and bilization process applied, and the sea water desalination 2015 Goals Finding and Promoting ·Wider application of the core base technology mental technologies has become essenNew Business Area ·Expansion of promising material businesses technology development center to optimize production filter has demonstrated its highest level of desalination tial for a company to survive continually. : Water Treatment and ·Non-Display R&D area expansion and response to customer feedbacks as well as the research performance up to 99.85%. With such differentiated tech·Development of energy solutions for each center directly managed by the operation division for the basic nical power and stable supply capacity recognized, RO In addition, securing excellent research Bioindustry Sectors application research and product development in each business area. The membranes exclusive supply contracts have been conworkforce is essential to maintain a leadcluded for 8 sea water desalination projects in 5 countries ing position in the global technology market in which competition is ever fiercer. 26.8 % ·Successfully introducing new business in water Corporate R&D Center including Egypt in 2015. 2015 Performance treatment and strengthening Research Park Accordingly, LG Chem develops its capacity its competitiveness Core Element Development for the OLED in key business areas and prepares thorPlatform TechnolFuture Technology The OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) is a luminous ·Focusing more on developing basic material ogy Research Center Research Center element through which electric charges from anode and oughly for the future to become ‘a global Sales to R&D market-leading products such as PO, SAP, investment ratio synthetic rubber Japan R&D Center cathode are converted into light in reaction to luminous cutting-edge material producer.’ To that ·Acquiring technology for fast-charging, highorganic substances. LG Chem has conducted research end, LG Chem strengthens its competitivecapacity, high-energy-density, and ultrathin Basic Materials Basic Materials & on the luminous layer and common layer which are core battery products ness of core base technologies, contin& Chemicals Chemicals R&D Center organic elements applicable to mobile devices, TVs, ·Continuously developing core substances for Tech Center/Business ues investment into next-generation cutOLED and materials for next-generation display and curved display sets. In 2015, it developed the adheSector T/S Team ting-edge materials, technologies and R&D human resources to develop a new growth 2.9 % IT&E Materials R&D Center sive film element that features the outstanding moisture blocking performance, which is a core element for plastic IT&E Materials engine. Particularly, it is sought to create ·Increasing R&D investment to 720 billion won OLEDs. This enhanced the lifespan and strength of plasTechnology/Development tic OLED elements. The reflection-preventive coating film 2016 Goals and R&D manpower to 4,200 persons values that contribute to the society and Department* for OLED TVs minimizes dazzling and improves visual recThe Ratio of ·Future-oriented portfolio management environment in the long run by developing (long-term) ognition. LG Chem also has developed the BEZIL printing New Products in Sales Advanced eco-friendly technologies and products. : R&D ratio of 23.6% anticipating business Advanced Materials R&D Center Materials ink for OLED TVs, providing a solution for thin OLED TV ·Finding new business area and early business Technology/Development manufacturing. promotion Department* : Energy, water, and bioindustry sectors Energy Battery R&D Center Solutions Automotive Battery Development Center Mobile Battery Development Center ESS Development Center Overseas Corporation Development Org. * Under this department, some teams are operated as R&D units Water treatment reverse osmosis(RO) membranes 28 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 1 R&D and Technology Innovation 29 Development of Differentiated Products Display PI Substrate Material-Plastic Substrate High-density Energy Storage System respectively and those in the area of energy solutions Based on the Basic Materials & Chemicals Material / Barrier Film Development account for about 42%. LG Chem focuses on strengthenTechnology As interests in displays that are flexible, light, and bendThe smallest and lightest energy storage system for ing competitiveness of intellectual property in the areas able increase, LG Chem develops next-generation plastic housing solar energy, which features the world’s best of cutting-edge materials and technologies through the Highly Functional Nanocomposite-SAP substrates of high heat-resistance that can replace existenergy density, was developed in the year of 2015. convergence of core base technologies. The fiercer competition in the global diaper market than ing glass substrates. These substrates can be applied to ever before demands technology improvement and difflexible OLED, rollable e-paper, etc. LG Chem is putting This product is designed with the ability to expand its Progressive Patent Management and Dedicated ferentiation. In response, LG Chem has developed 2 new forth efforts into providing mankind with new values with capacity according to customer needs. The high energy Organization Operation products with 6 to 22% better absorption rates than comits research on various optical resin polymers that feadensity power storage system, optimized for a power LG Chem sought out the convergence of R&D managepetitors in application of the newly developed Nanoture transparency and outstanding functions as well as grid, has been developed with a 1GWh supply contract, ment and intellectual property management by supportcomposite-Network technology and SAP particle surface compensation films for displays. the largest scale in the world. 1GWh is electric power ing an IP workforce to secure patents and establish utilistabilization technology. The application area has been that 100,000 households (composed of 4 members each) zation strategies that covered product life cycle from the expanded to other 3 products. In the future, the developcan utilize within a single day. LG Chem hopes to conearly stages of R&D to the point of commercialization. Competitive Edge of Battery Technology ment of differentiated SAP products will be accelerated tinue strengthening its position in the market through its research to develop high-capacity, compact products. Additionally, for effective company-wide intellectual by expanding the application to other new products of Free-Form Polymer Battery With Outstanding property management, LG Chem also operates an organew concepts and functions. Space Utilization LG Chem has developed free-form polymer battery difnization dedicated to intellectual property protection. Development of High-stiffness Eco-friendly ferentiated from existing fixed-form batteries. As freeSystematic Intellectual Property LG Chem is working to strengthen the system of patmPP(metallocene PP) Products form polymer batteries can be utilized efficiently in small Management ent strategy establishment within various business secMetallocene PP is light and easy to recycle. It is widely space, they are applicable to wearable devices, smart tors. With combined efforts of talented LG Chem professionals such as patent attorneys and legal experts, LG Quality Improvement of Patented Portfolios and used for high quality masks, industrial filters, baby feedphones, etc. Accordingly, LG Chem has developed worldChem is always displaying its professionalism in activiPrevention of/Effective Response to Disputes Interview ing bottles, and medical items. LG Chem has developed first smart-watch hexagon batteries and wrist band type LG Chem has established a basis for continued new next-generation metallocene PP products with better wire batteries in application of the existing wire battery ties related to intellectual property and has developed business growth through quality improvement of its properties and eco-friendliness than existing products technology, enhancing the IT device use and efficiency as its patent-related capabilities in various regions by dispatented portfolios. By using IP-R&D activities to culbased on the existing base technology of metallocene well as contributing to product differentiation. By develpatching experts to strategic regions overseas. tivate source technologies for businesses of the future catalysts and provide differentiated quality to customoping various designs of free-form batteries that lead the and cutting-edge materials, LG Chem has put forth ers. In the future, more metallocene PP products will be market every year, LG Chem continues maintaining its [Unit:Person] efforts into finding and registering excellent patents, Expansion of R&D Investment developed continually in the area of high stiffness / ecosuperior position in the future IT market. R&D Workforce focusing on strategically obtaining more patents and friendly products. Efforts to Secure Talented R&D Human Resources intellectual property both at home and abroad. In addi2015 3,360 To develop differentiated next-generation products and Sung-soo, Yoon High Energy Density·High-rate Recharging tion, LG Chem has strengthened functions related to new businesses, it is essential to recruit, train, and retain Research Fellow of Platform EV Batteries Technology Innovation in the Area of 2014 3,148 proactively monitoring and preventing risks of patent LG Chem has developed high energy density batteries talented R&D professionals with outstanding capabilities. Technology, Corporate R&D IT&E Materials/ Advanced Materials for that allow drivers to travel long-distances of up to 500km disputes through strategic patent management system. 2013 2,590 LG Chem secures exceptional R&D talent through camCenter Display Items with one recharge. Following the enhancement of highpus recruiting and onsite interviews at major local uniAs of 2015, LG Chem owns about 35,420 intellectual speed recharging capabilities, LG Chem products are versities in the U.S., Europe, and Japan as well as domesWith a view to vaulting into a Ultra-slim Wide View Polarizing Plate Technology expected to lead in the EV battery trend, which utilizes property rights, among which, future growth engines tic industry-university cooperative programs. materials company with strong for Tablet LCD Products high-speed recharging technology for long-distance drivand IT&E material businesses account for about 20% LG Chem has developed the ultra-slim wide view polaring. In addition, first-rate global levels of performance [Unit:billion won, %] R&D, LG Chem strengthens R&D Invest In addition, workshops and exchange meetings with izing plate technology applicable to tablet LCDs to enter have been secured by LG Chem in the production of high the competitiveness of its Total Amount of Investment domestic and foreign professors, as well as lab tours the market of highly profitable high-end premium polaroutput and safety products. LG Chem’s battery energy Sales toR&D Investment Ratio [Unit:case] core generic technology to seek out major domestic research teams are just Patent management izing plates among small and medium-sized polarizing density and high-speed recharging technology currently and actively invests in and Classification DomesOverDomesOverseas Total two examples of various promotional activities carried plates. These plates feature the thinness of 220㎛ and remain superior to those of its competitors. At present, 2015 594 2.9 supports next-generation tic Patseas tic TradeTradeout to attract potential R&D talent. To improve work wide view of 360 degrees in every direction. In the future, the driving distance recorded by LG Chem’s technology ent Patent mark mark materials and technology. satisfaction among researchers, efforts are put forth as the application areas will be expanded to smart phone is about 3 times longer than that of common EV (about 2014 513 2.3 High-molecular addition Registration 7,260 9,951 83 217 17,511 into creating a sound organizational culture based on and automotive displays, etc. , LG Chem will lead the 150km), and the time inefficiency problems caused by polymerization is a core 2013 450 1.9 the spirit of creativity and autonomy, and operation of high-end premium polarizing plates market. recharging have also been resolved. It is expected that Application 8,079 9,821 1 8 17,909 generic technology that can the Research Expert System is conducted to improve these batteries and high-speed charging products will Total 15,339 19,772 84 225 35,420 contribute equally to all areas researchers’ capabilities and support their growth. The contribute to the popularization of EV. of LG Chem’s business and has number of R&D talent is also expected to climb from a wide range of applications. New Product Sales about 3,300 at present to about 4,200 by 2016. Our research team, which [Unit:billion won, %] has acquired technology for Percentages of Applications in Each New Product Sales [Unit:%] Further Investment into R&D and Technology controlling high-molecular Technology Area The percentage of new products Innovation structure and controlling in total sales In order to lead future markets, LG Chem has continsurface properties, creates ued to increase investment into R&D infrastructure. The synergy from collaboration 2015 5,425 26.8 18.8 20.7 42.4 R&D intensity (sales to R&D investment ratio) will be with other research teams expanded to 3.3% by 2016, and the ratio of new product 2014 5,084 22.5 and research labs of the other sales, which are expected to contribute significantly to affiliates of the Group. By 2013 4,254 18.4 Future Growth IT&E Energy total sales, is projected to increase from 26.8% up to 30%. applying ourselves to develop Engine Materials Solutions core differentiated materials and brand-new applications, we will help LG Chem grow into a world-class materials maker. Hexagon Battery Wire Battery Material Issues 2 Reinforcing Product Responsibilities 31 and abroad. In relation to the management of chemi2 Creation of Customer Values by Improving cals harmful to human bodies and the environment, LG Reinforcing Product Product Reliability Chem has presented a guide issues found within product development, production and supply such as proStrengthening Product Responsibility and Responsibility the Quality Management System LG Chem manages social and environmental issues hibition of African conflict area minerals. The company, through active participation in halogen-free activities, found within the overall process of product developand a sense of environmental responsibility, also conment, production, and supply with the goal of fulfilling tributes to international environment protection efforts. its environmental and social responsibilities as well as LG Chem also has held annual meetings among matesystematically managing product quality. It also has rial suppliers and purchase suppliers in order to share established and operated management of hazardous information on trends of various domestic and foreign substances based on its product material examinachemical regulations and to raise awareness of safe tion system. In addition, LG Chem puts forth constant management of chemicals by providing a guide to ecoefforts into improving product safety and reliability by friendly supply networks. monitoring product stability and recent chemical regulations. For efficient quality management and continued quality improvement, LG Chem has established and Strengthening Chemical Management operated organizations dedicated to quality manageImprovement of Chemicals Management System ment. LG Chem’s strive for quality innovation at each LG Chem has achieved various systematic improvements business sector contributes to improving product reliin 2015 since the establishment of CHARMs(Chemical ability as well as customer satisfaction. Assurance and Regulation Management System), which As various regulations on product safety K E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance is a chemical management system for used materials and and environmental impacts are becoming Systematic Response to Chemical Regulations products created in 2014. LG Chem has automated the stricter in Korea and abroad, the neces·Established response system to the Act on the inspection and product regulation certification process sity for systematic chemical substance as well as MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) through 2015 Goals System to manage substances Response to Domestic Regulations Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals LG Chem has been actively responding to the Act on the management is growing. Furthermore, as ·More education programs about regulations for CHARMs, and has produced product environment cersubject to registration according to suppliers Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals and the Toxic tificates within its system. LG Chem completed its matethe Act on the Registration human rights and labor issues have grown ·Improving competitiveness through quality Chemicals Control Act, enforced in the year of 2015. By and Evaluation of rial element inspection on basic material products and in importance, the systematic manageimprovement activities, etc establishing a system to manage substances subject to Chemicals established ·Strengthening the conflict mineral management chemicals and posted results by utilizing CHARMs. LG ment of conflict minerals has become a registration according to the new law, LG Chem has evalsystem Chem has checked RoHS* content in every material and major risk of product responsibility. Accord·Improving the chemicals management system uated new and existing substances found within its prodelement, being able to indicate that products do not coningly, numerous chemical businesses are (CHARMs) ucts, and paid keen attention to all clauses found within tain outlined hazardous substances. Material Safety Data being required to take social responsibilthe Act on the Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals Sheets of products are provided in the IT system in 33 with regard items that require registration. The quantities ity as well as the safety and environmental ·Development of a system to inspect product languages. By reflecting global customer needs and the and usage of new and existing chemicals that are manu2015 Performance Registration of product impact of their products. If companies fail materials and elements that are subject to newest international regulation trends in the form of sysinformation on basic materials & registration in accordance with the Act on the factured, imported, and sold are reported to the Ministry of to respond properly, their competitiveness tem certificates, LG Chem is striving to improve product chemical elements Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals Environment in addition to the total inspection of directly safety and lessen environmental impact. may be weakened due to financial loss and ·‘Conference on Responding to Chemical imported materials in compliance with the Act. In 2015, Regulations’ held for suppliers diminished trust. To respond to strict global LG Chem joined Korea Petrochemical Industry Association ·Manual for responses to conflict mineral regulations more actively, LG Chem has regulations and support for CMRT preparation and initiated its activity as a representative for common *RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive): Environmenimproved its chemical management system and put forth numerous efforts to adhere 100 % ·Conflict mineral content check for suppliers ·Regulation certificate revision (REACH certificate substance registration mandated by the 2015 act. Accordingly, it plans to form a consortium and conduct a docutal regulations initiated by the EU to restrict the use of 6 specific hazardous substances (lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chrome, modification and PAHs certificate production) mentary survey in order to complete the public registration and flame-retarding materials) in electric/electronic products. to its social responsibilities by participating and support for MSDS preparation of existing chemicals by June 2018. Furthermore, LG Chem in associations related to conflict mineral Huanan(桦南) Technology ·100% registration of basic material & chemical information has effectively conducted various systematic response resolution. In addition, LG Chem pays keen Center founded in China activities to domestic regulations, including checking attention to systematic quality manageand limiting the amount of imported toxic substances in ment in order to improve customer value ·Securing common registration materials in response to the Toxic Chemicals Control Act. 2016 Goals accordance with the Act on the Registration and through overall quality improvement. Evaluation of Chemicals in 2018 (17 types of substances subject to registration) Response to Global Regulations · Education for suppliers and company employees As global regulations on chemicals become stricter, in related divisions to strengthen their response LG Chem has produced and applied, in its overall busicapabilities to environmental regulations ness activities, a manual to respond to global product · MSDS registration of exported items in the chemical management system (more than 4,000 materials) environment regulations. In 2015, LG Chem revised its ‘Instructions for Eco-friendly Product Development and Management,’ in order to present clear standards for product element management, such as restriction on the use of designated hazardous substances in Korea 2015 Conference on Responding to Chemical Regulations 32 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 2 Reinforcing Product Responsibilities 33 Strengthening Conflict Minerals Management Strengthening Customer Services for Quality Innovation Activity & Achievement LG Chem has added conflict minerals to the list of prohibProduct Responsibility ited substances in the instructions for product responsibility management (LEVEL 2) provided to manageCustomer Service through Tech Center LG Chem provides customers with various technical Basic Materials & Chemicals IT&E Materials ment. The material and element survey process includes services by operating the Tech Center, which is an indechecks for purchased materials to determine conflict pendent organization that provides service at various The quality management organization is operated As business environment is turning to requiring more minerals presence and checking certificates in an effort contact points for customers. Among more than 300 to establish quality-related policies, while defective diversified and customized items, quality issues increase. to strengthen ethical responsibilities beginning at the Interview researchers, those with a master or doctor’s degree product delivery is prevented through the inspection, As the speed of product development and release is accelpreliminary phase of purchasing. Participating in ‘LG 4 whose reliability is constantly examined. To respond erated, the importance of proactive quality management account for about 65% of the center’s workforce, proAffiliates Conflict Mineral Association’ which is comprised to customers CTQ (Critical to Quality) promptly, efforts is growing more than ever before. Accordingly, LG Chem viding a higher level of technical support than most of four affiliates of LG Group, LG Chem shares information are put forth into grasping and improving the quality is operating an organization exclusively responsible for domestic business research centers. In 2015, the ‘Huaon the current status of conflict mineral utilization and level of major products. Quality surveys are also conquality assurance and “Quality Committee” led by the nan(桦南) Technology Center’ was founded in the seeks ways to respond to this crisis by including surveys ducted to evaluate quality reviews among customers top management that monthly analyzes quality issues southern part of China to overcome the limits of the of conflict mineral uses among suppliers and operation and to compare the current quality results with that including quality competitiveness of major products existing Tech Center by responding to product issues of competitors to find ways of improvement. In the and improvement plans. Furthermore, the regular qualguides that outline conflict mineral use. promptly, improving reliability of product stability, and future, LG Chem plans to continue examining major ity management system reduces internal loss while cusHyeong-cheol, Jin Improvement of Product Responsibility creating customer satisfaction with high quality prodelements of quality satisfaction through the customtomer satisfaction is improved through management of ucts. The center seeks to establish a foundation for a er’s perspective and maximize customer satisfaction subcontractors’ product quality. The quality management Head of Safety & Management Capabilities among Employees LG Chem conducts various education activities on prodsynergy effect between localization and communication by setting clear goals and objectively measuring pressystem has been established in reflection of each prodEnvironment Team uct responsibility among employees, such as, educawith customers in the global market. ent quality status. uct’s unique characteristics and operates with the aim to As preference for ‘ecotion on MSDS preparation and oversight among manproactively strengthen the level of quality assurance and products’ increases agers in related departments, and education on the Act stabilize new products in their preliminary stages. Quality Innovation in Each Business sector and the global market on the Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals as well pursues green industry as trends in production environment regulations within Maximization of Customer Satisfaction through recently, the demands for the Tech Center and the technology institute. Especially Quality Innovation systematic management LG Chem is always seeking new ways to secure comamong departments related to sales and purchasing, of hazardous chemicals petitiveness through quality enhancement, such as Advanced Materials Energy Solutions education programs are being conducted on domesare increasing around the strengthening suppliers’ quality capabilities. Each busitic and foreign product environment regulation trends Quality management organizations are formed for globe accordingly. Besides, ness sector under the operation headquarters has its To improve customer satisfaction through quality and the LG Chem chemical substance management syscompetitiveness, a quality management organizaeach business sector depending on product characcompliance with global own quality management organization that oversees tem in order to connect practical duties with LG Chem’s tion is operated specifically for the business sectors teristics such as small size, automotive items, ESS, etc. regulation/restriction of efficient quality monitoring depending on the business overall product safety & environment management. comprised under Advanced Materials for Displays to secure quality competitiveness. In addition, a sepchemicals that are type and product characteristics. In addition, quality In addition to education for employees, the Safety & and Energy Solutions. Superior business positionalarate reliability team is operated to strengthen prodgetting stricter around the meetings are held quarterly to share the direction and Environment Portal is utilized to provide quality manity is sought after through differentiated quality. Variuct stability and performance. Particularly, preventive globe including Europe achievements of quality innovation between each indiagers at each business sector with newest information ous activities are conducted to meet the diverse needs quality innovation activities are conducted amongst has become a major vidual company and the chief executives in charge of on global product environment stability and hazardous of customers such as an advanced quality system, developers, mass producers, and partner companies requirement to secure quality management. substance regulations. Essential aspects of regulations removal of quality risks, the Customer Claim Zero goal, to reduce the number of defective products down competitiveness in the passed in countries where LG Chem operates a subsidquality accident reoccurrence prevention monitoring, to zero. FEMA activities for preventing reoccurrence chemical industry. In etc. As a result of these activities, the business sector of in product development, CTQ(Critical to Quality), iary are also shared to strengthen managers’ capabiliresponse, LG Chem has Advanced Materials of LCD/OLED achieved ‘customer CTP(Critical to Process) and Control Plan are optities in preventing corporate and legal regulations from established its product claim zero’ in 2015, as LG Chem plans to continue its mized and improved. In the mass production phase, element database and being violated. early quality stabilization activities for new advanced the EC/SPC management system is initiated and chemical regulatory materials to minimize customer inconvenience. implemented. The system of monitoring is operated in compliance monitoring accordance with the control plan standards that guide system for product quality competitiveness. stewardship. To respond to the Act on the Registration and Evaluation of Chemicals proactively, LG Chem holds the Annual Meeting for Response to Chemical Case Improvement of Customer Satisfaction by Strengthening Quality Management Regulations in an effort to As the automobile battery market rapidly grows and new business areas diversify, the necessity for systematic maintain close cooperation quality management is becoming more urgent. In response, LG Chem has established a development/mass with partners in this regard. Establishment of Huanan(桦南) Technology Center in China Huanan(桦南) Technology Center in China production quality system (LGC APQP*) that major customers in the energy solution business sector, including global automotive companies, have demanded. After objective evaluation by customers, LG Chem obtained the global top automotive parts partner quality assurance certificate (ASES* Rank 'A') in December 2015, a first for LG Chem in the battery industry. In addition, the specially designed process to secure functional safety of automotive ESS batteries obtained ISO26262 FSM* certification (certification agency: TUV Rheinland), catapulting LG Chem to receive recognition as a top battery supplier in the global market of automotive energy solutions. *APQP : Advanced Production Quality Planning / ASES : Alliance Supplier Evaluation Standard / FSM : Functional Safety Management Material Issues 3 G  reenhouse Gas Reduction and 35 Response to Climate Changes in production activity, LG Chem reflects its emission trad3 Strategic Response System to ing expenses in monthly accounting records. LG Chem has Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Climate Changes also automated the accounting and input process, and currently operates a top-tier greenhouse gas management Strategies for Proactive Response to Climate Response to Climate Changes Changes LG Chem practices ‘Green Business’ as part of a proacsystem that few companies in Korea have integrated into their business structure. tive response to government’s effort regarding climate change and minimizes impact brought on by changes Strengthening the Management of Greenhouse in domestic and foreign energy policies. In addition, LG Gas Reduction Goals Chem is seeking to take leaps forward as an innovative LG Chem has established and worked towards mid/long‘Green Company’ by strengthening support for ‘Green term energy-saving goals as well as a 23% reduction of Business’ practices and the company’s eco-friendly comBAU by 2020 with an overall aim to reduce greenhouse petitiveness within each business sector. gas emissions and energy consumption. LG Chem has achieved annual reduction goals every year since their With a view to contributing not only to directly reducing implementation. For more effective operation, reduction greenhouse gas through saving energy in production but activities for each energy source have been reinforced. also indirectly reducing greenhouse gas in consumers’ use of its products, LG Chem applies itself to researching [Unit:1,000 ton] and developing high-efficiency batteries for electric vehiGreenhouse Gas Emissions cles and energy storage system. Especially EV discharge less greenhouse gas than the existing fossil fuel vehicles, As global warming is drawing keen attenwhile energy storage system contributes to raising the staBAU 12,757 K E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance tion internationally, response to greenbility in national management of power demand and supBAU 10,626 house gas reduction and climate change ply and power supply from new & renewable energy, thus ·Additional introduction of energy-saving activities is becoming recognized as a shared issue suppressing construction of additional power plants. 2015 Goals Introduction of Ochang/Naju Plant for each process and facility 23% 9,821 among nations within the international Energy Achievement Evaluation ·Improvement of engineer capabilities 18% 8,719 ·Strengthening internal management system for For greenhouse gas and energy data to be managed community. After 2020, the New Climate System proactive response to emissions trading efficiently, an online management system has been Regime will be created through the COP ·Promoting greenhouse gas reduction in partner ventures 2015(Achievement) 2020(Goal) established, spanning various workplaces at home and 21 in 2015. Since then, the response sysabroad. As the emission trading system becomes nortem has been expanded to cover not only ·Expanding energy saving activities such as energy malized in Korea, LG Chem is training experts special2015 Performance major emitters such as the U.S., China, and consulting, facility-specific activity, and legal ized in understanding the financial impact of carbon Communication with Stakeholders energy diagnosis, differentiated and tailored to LG Chem is fulfilling its legal obligations regarding greenEU but also developing countries. Accorddifferent worksites regulations and the emission trading system. ingly, the Korean government set a goal to ·Creating an energy portal (with 1,000 technology house gas emission and energy consumption. The comdatabases registered) pany has established greenhouse gas reduction and reduce national greenhouse gas emissions Energy Saving Proactive Response to Greenhouse ·Automated reflection of the cost for purchasing energy-saving plans accordingly, conducting various ecoby as much as 37% of BAU by 2030. To this Gas Emissions Trading emission permits in monthly accounting and developing tools for calculating marginal reduction In preparation for the implementation of emissions tradfriendly activities such as introduction of new emission-reend, the government has introduced and cost (350 of them) ing in January 2015, LG Chem has taken proactive steps ducing technologies. For strengthening communication operated the greenhouse gas·energy tar·Developing guidelines on analyzing the effects of greenhouse has on new or additional investments toward greenhouse gas reduction as well as emission with stakeholders related to climate change, carbon emisget management system, and the greencontrol by planning cost-effective emission trading portsion reports required by customers and external institutions ·Implementing external reduction project (Green Credit) house emission trading system. Recog·Participating in a pilot project for water inventory folios. To meet the current demands of greenhouse gas are prepared, provided, and made public. The company will nizing such changes as a crisis as well as an opportunity, LG Chem is now focusing 81 billion won and CDP water evaluation pilot reduction, LG Chem has estimated the MAC(Marginal Abatement Cost) for each process and has been conductmake related information available to its investors and the public to raise the consumer awareness on climate change its energy on improving the greenhouse ·Discovering new items in energy saving and ing effective reduction activities accordingly. To increase and further promote corporate development of eco-friendly 2016 Goals ga s · e n e rg y ta rget m a n a ge m e n t a n d Establishment of strengthening monitoring of energy saving activities awareness of the importance of greenhouse gas reduction products and corporate responses to climate change. ·Implementing establishment of energy technology reduction analysis system. Particularly, LG an Energy Portal database and upgrade of reduction technology Chem seeks to reduce emissions directly ·Applying energy management performance evaluation in all worksites by improving the process efficiency as well Case Awarded CDP Excellent Company in Climate Change Response for 3 Consecutive Years ·Upgrading global greenhouse has management ability as indirectly by promoting high added through improving in-company management system CDP is an international institution that evaluates clivalue production and low energy con·Establishing guidelines on analyzing the LG Chem’s Level of Response to Climate Changes in 2015 profitability of energy investment and system for mate change responses among major listed companies sumption production. timely purchase of emission permits around the globe. Having its climate change data manLG Chem Governance & ·Increasing local and international operations in agement transparency and achievements in emissions Sector Average Strategy water supply inventory reduction recognized, LG Chem has been awarded as Korea250 ‘CDP Excellent company in climate change Response’ for 3 consecutive years since 2013. LG Chem plans Risk & Verification Opportunity to continue fulfilling its social responsibilities and Management strengthening its investment and management activity in response to climate change. Emissions Management 36 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 3 G  reenhouse Gas Reduction and 37 Response to Climate Changes Establishment of the Company-wide mary, achievements, and investments involved in those Strengthening Response Activities at Each the energy committee and working group were estabResponse System instances of energy saving. All-time sharing of the speWorkplace lished, the executive ability and achievement measurecific technological know-how among different workment by managers have also been drastically improved. sites is expected to prod similar manufacturing proOperation of the Corporate Energy Committee Participation of Cheongju Plant in Demand LG Chem operates the Corporate Energy Committee to Especially at the Ochang Plant, more than 100 reduccesses to adopt energy saving technology, thus bringing Response address current climate change issues through strategic To prevent rolling blackouts caused by low electric power tion projects have been implemented with 10% of them much help in energy managers’ decision to invest in energy conservation/greenhouse gas reduction activreserve rates and insufficiency of electric power supply, producing quite outstanding results, going on to be recenergy saving. ities. In order to enthusiastically continue greenhouse the Cheongju Plant has been actively participating in Reliognized by the Korea Energy Agency. LG Chem seeks to gas reduction and energy-saving activities at each workability Demand Response since 2015. expand the application of the Energy Performance Evalplace, exemplary sectors are routinely provided with uation System corporate-widely so that energy-savEnergy Portal This is a project created to produce economic benefits incentives. In addition, the committee emphasizes the ing activities can be promoted in more of its company importance of proactive response to emissions trading such as better efficiency of national electric power marworksites. In addition, LG Chem will continue to contribin terms of business management and social responsiModule 1 Module 2 ket operation, reduction of electricity charges among ute to climate change through internal and external recbilities, applying external certification systems such as participant companies, and acquisition of incentives. Greenhouse gas and Technological ognition of reduction result. performance evaluation system to each workplace in energy target encyclopedia The Cheongju Plant has achieved a 2,200kW contracted order to facilitate energy-saving activities. management capacity in the year of 2015 by introducing and operating Yeosu PC Plant Distillation Process Improvement high-efficiency energy facilities. In 2016, the contracted LG Chem has been achieving greenhouse gas reduccapacity was increased to 2,700kW, and more efficient tion and energy-saving success through collaboration Module 3 Module 4 Energy Committee facility operation and active energy-saving strategies are between research centers and production plants as well Major activities Sharing greenhouse Interview scheduled to be implemented in order to achieve this goal. as analysis of major energy-consuming processes. Disof the year gas and energy tillation processes consume a large amount of energy, Chairman(CEO) information approximately 11% of the total national energy conIntroduction of Energy Performance Evaluation sumption, and they are widely used in various indusSystem Ochang/Naju Plants Vice Chairman Ochang/Naju Plants have been conducting Energy Man(Corporate Affairs trial sectors. In this regard, the Yeosu PC Plant has conagement Performance Evaluation Pilot Projects. These Department Leader) ducted a low-temperature waste heat steam production two cases are major examples of energy management Green Credit Business of SMEs ‘Green Credit’ businesses induce greenhouse gas emispilot project by utilizing heat pump technology that that led to substantial energy-saving results and EnMS cersions among SMEs through the cooperation among reduces energy consumption in the steam production Energy tification at the same time. Since the introduction of the Department IT DepartBasic Materials large companies subject to greenhouse gas reduction Kyu-cheol, Choi energy management system, the monitoring system for process. It is estimated that through utilization of the ment & Chemicals LGCCI regulations and SMEs that are not subject to such regfeatures and advantages of new coolants, this technolLeaders at Head of Yeosu VCM Process energy use and reduction has been strengthened. After Leader R&D Center ogy can save 0.5 tons of steam per hour through conPlants ulations. This way, companies subject to regulations Technology Team can relieve the burden while the goal of national greenverting unused low temperature waste heat into high house gas reduction is achieved more closely. LG Chem has conducted temperature steam. To translate these benefits into the greenhouse gas reduction language of greenhouse gas emissions, the Yeosu PC activity continually to Ochang Plant Energy-saving Efficient Energy Saving through Energy Consulting LG Chem finds SMEs willing to reduce emissions and Plant can effectively save about 600 tons per year. LG With energy consulting, LG Chem works to ensure efficient promote businesses that introduce high-efficiency promitigate worldwide Chem plans to continuously seek out additional appliuse of energy resources by discovering ideas for improvcess facilities, which correspond to the emission reducclimate change. It meets cable distillation facilities and spread energy-saving ing core production facilities and strengthening engineer tion methodologies for external businesses acknowlnational energy policies Improveknowledge throughout the company, creating signifiment Implemented skills. Energy consulting, which includes process analyedged by the Ministry of Environment. Such businesses as well by expanding new cant energy-saving results. Efforts will continue to be sis, energy loss check, and selecting topics for implemenwill be recognized as greenhouse gas reduction in the green businesses. Yeosu rate10% more than Reduction Project 100 put forth into optimizing the balance of utilities, improvtation, discovers topics for improving energy loss through future. LG Chem provides technical and financial supVCM Plant, for example, ing energy efficiency, and developing low-quality heat process analysis performed by the staff in charge. port for SMEs’ emission reduction and relieves the burmaximizes waste heat source utilization as a method of responding to national den of greenhouse gas reduction through certification recollection and enhances energy-saving initiatives as well as continuously conIn 2015, the company conducted energy consulting for of external emission reduction as well as contribute the process operation Plans Results ducting greenhouse gas emission reduction activities. 3 facilities of Acryl/SAP Division and as a result, accomto mutual cooperation among large and small/mediefficiency for each energy plished a cutback of 5.4 billion won. Looking ahead, the um-sized companies. sources. In 2015, the company will share reduction methods and achieveESS (energy storage Case Optimization of BPA Process Energy Network ments through its technology sharing group with a view system) was introduced, to discovering additional topics for saving and strengthcontributing to saving 1 Steam↑ 2 Maximization of heat source 3 Steam↓ The BPA process has been conducting long-term recollection at each process ening engineer’s problem-solving skills. electric power purchase energy-saving activities and is currently reestablishexpenses at the plant ing its process operation methods and optimizing Purifias well as controlling cation the energy network further: The general network has Establishment of the Energy Technology DB System LG Chem has created a company-wide energy portal new plant foundation 1 Tower been optimized by maximizing heat source recollec#1 2 for the purpose of more actively supporting an assortAgency and stabilizing new LG Chem SMEs tion at each step and changing the steam flow while PurifiConsulting ment of energy and greenhouse gas reduction activities and renewable energy cation the process redesign was successfully completed Tower implemented at its worksites. In particular, the techsupply nationwide. In by utilizing low-temperature heat sources instead PurifiLP #3 nical indexing module, which is a database that comthe future, LG Chem will of high-temperature. Yeosu and Daesan BPA Plants cation ·Investment ·Consulting continue improving the 1 piles key details of in-company energy saving efforts so Tower currently hold dominant positions related to steam far implemented at different company worksites, pre·Providing Know-how ·Various Supports corporate competitiveness #2 sources by applying mutual improvement ideas. 3 sents in a single view information on technical sumin effective response to climate changes and fulfill its social responsibility of ExistSteam decrease (Purification Tower #1, #2) EnhaSteam increase (Purification Tower #1, #2) ing < Steam increase (Purification Tower #3) nced <<< Steam decrease (Purification Tower #3) greenhouse gas reduction. Material Issues 4 C  reating a Culture of Occupational 39 Safety, Health, and Environment & Environmental management. The Safety, Health & 4 Establishment of the Global Safety, Health & Environmental System Environmental System includes guidance on compaCreating a Culture of Occupational LG Chem has created the Safety, Health & Environmenny-wide safety and health, environment regulations, rules, instructions, and detailed workplace instructions. tal System in accordance with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Safety, Health, and Environment PSM (process safety report), RC (Responsible Care) and Efforts are also put forth into securing independent verification and seeking aspects of improvement through through this system, practices global Safety, Health third-party certification. Safety, Health and Environmental Policy & Strategy Here at LG Chem, we recognize that safety, health and environment(SH&E) is the fundamental element for securing differentiated competitiveness. For continuous improvement on SH&E performance, LG Chem will be committed to implementing the following principles. · We will comply with all SH&E legal requirements and establish global-leading SH&E rules and best practices. · We will drive continuous innovation throughout the entire life cycle of the product to supply environment-friendly products and services. · We will provide a safe and healthy work environment, and ensure the principle-adhering corporate culture. · We will support our suppliers and local communities in the improvement of the SH&E practices as our social responsibility. · We will communicate our SH&E policies and programs with stakeholders. As demands for safety and environment K E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance management at workplaces grew stronger, related laws and regulations have ·Raise awareness of safety & environment among also been reinforced. Proactive response 2015 Goals Strengthening evaluation of execuemployees To make known the company’s will of safety & environment manto risks related to environment safety ·Prevention of accidents due to unsafe behaviors tives’ and organizations’ performance agement, present a consistent direction for safety & environment in safe environment ·Safety & environment regulations and proactive Policy policies, and thus establish a foundation for optimized safety & such as prevention of critical disasters response to customers’ demand (reflecting on-site environment management is regarded as a core element of sustainmanagement To specify basic rules over general company-wide safety & enviable business management. To improve activities and Standards ronment management as well as standards for related duty implethe safety and environment management mentation internal ·On-site management activities for managers 2015 Performance system, prevent incidents, and establish improvement activities) and higher positions To specify detailed methods and means for work procedures and ·Strengthening safety & environment education Requirements uniform steps and methods for other duty implementations safe and environmental cultures, LG Chem programs has been conducting various education ·On-site improvement activities To specify comparatively temporary and variable work procedures Holding Company-wide Safe programs and campaigns to encourage ·Strengthening safety & environment inspection Procedures and standards for each workplace (headquarters, business secEnvironment Performance ·Proactive response to newly stipulated or employee participation. In addition, safe tors, plants, research centers, etc.) Sharing Meeting revised laws and regulations working environments have been created ·Responding to customers’ safety and by strengthening management activities environmental evaluation in consideration of each workplace’s char〮Review of Safety and 〮Safety, Health and acteristics. Environmental impact on the Environmental management Environmental Policy local community is also monitored. Dis·Improving the business management system for 〮Corrective measures for Lea 〮 Safety, Health & ent 2016 Goals better executive ability inappropriate Safety and em d er Environmental management ease prevention and health promotion ov sh ·Strengthening issue-centered safety & Environmental aspects pr system programs for employees according to their m T environment examination AC ip Performing safe environment 〮Safety and Environmental monitoring 〮Environmental effect vocational characteristics are other examI inspection for all global places ·Reinforcing suppliers’ safety and environmental and achievement management assessment management 〮 Risk assessment ples of the ways in which LG Chem is work〮Incident report and investigation rmance Perfolu ·Strengthening safety and environmental of business 〮 Safety and Environmental 〮Internal audits of Safety and ing to create a safe and healthy work enviCHECK Pl a n n i n g Eva ation education Environmental PLAN law/regulation management 〮 Safety and Environmental ronment in all of its worksites. 〮Chemicals management goal management 31 〮Change management 〮Suppliers' Safety and Environmental management pe DO 〮 Safety and environmental risks management in new business and investment rat rt 〮Preventive/responsive measures po O ion Sup for emergency situations 〮 Safety and Environmental 〮Health management education 〮Process safety data management 〮 Safety and Environmental 〮Work safety approval communication 〮Fire-preventive management 〮 Safety and Environmental 〮Safety and Environmental inspection documentation management prior to operation 〮Safe operation management 〮Transport Safety and Environmental management 〮Product environment management 〮Environmental operation management 40 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 4 C  reating a Culture of Occupational 41 Safety, Health, and Environment Strengthening Safety, active employee participation in safety and environmental research parks, 12 overseas corporations, and suppliers. Simulation facilities and training procedures reflect Health and Environmental improvement activities. In 2016, the evaluation system and Superior themes of safety and environmental practice as actual accident cases and improve risk awareness leader’s on-site management activity will be reinforced for well as exemplary cases of suppliers were presented, conamong employees. To strengthen monitoring, CCTVs improved safety and environmental executive ability, and tributing to promoting the roles and responsibilities of are installed in spots of high fire risks. As a result, the Operation of a Company-wide Safety and programs to prevent unstable behaviors will also be presafety and environmental platforms and improving the awareness of risks among workers has been improved Environment Committee LG Chem operates an executive safety and environment pared and distributed. To increase awareness about safety level of corporate awareness and response. from 53% to 92%, and the number of unsafe behaviors consultative body to ensure ‘Zero’ safety and environand environment among employees, the education system recorded among workers at the mixing room has drastimental accidents. This body holds meetings twice a will be also reinforced. Strengthening Safety Practice Ability through cally decreased. year, discussing key issues of safety and environment, ‘Management by Wandering Around’ –Daesan Plant major achievements, and discusses plans with manageAdvancement of Safety and Environmental As demands for top tier safety increased and related govEstablishment of a Safety and Environmental ment board members as well as each workplace’s chief among Corporations in China ernment regulations became stricter, the Daesan Plant Management System with Excellent Executive safety and environment managers. Following the revision of the Work Safety Act and Environresponded to this shift in values and growing safety concerns Ability –Beijing Plant mental Protection, safety and environment regulations by announcing its ‘management by wandering around’ polBeijing Plant in China (LGCE BJ) has established its in China have become stricter. In response, LG Chem has icy through which an organization leader takes responsibility Safety and Environment Management System with the Occupational Safety and Health Committee LG Chem oversees the organization of the Occupational advanced its China-based safety and environment manof strengthening labor and management capabilities to pregoal of proliferating knowledge on all departmental Safety and Health Committee at each workplace to preagement system. An organization dedicated to safety and vent accident occurrence and reoccurrence within the workduties related to safety and environment and to facilivent risks and manage the health of workers. This comenvironment management was established within the place. Particularly, action plans for worksite visitation were tate member participation in safety and environment mittee consists of an even ratio of employee represengeneral management corporation overseeing Chinese created, and the work standards and procedures for each management activities. With the Safe Production Comtatives and worksite representatives, and it conducts regions (LGCCI) with the goal of managing local subsidiarbusiness site were reevaluated. Leading up to an inspection, mittee organized, the safety and environmental orgainvestigations and supervises decision-making proceInterview ies, while the Nanjing plant (LGCE NJ) has also formed an related work contents are shared, and work approvals are nization has been reorganized to strengthen business dures on major safety and health issues. executive group and organization to take charge of safety issued after onsite inspection, while ‘safety golden time’ is momentum within the work process. Regular meetings and environmental management. LG Chem’s safety and implemented in order to identify and remove risks prior to and monthly onsite safety inspections are conducted Continued Improvement of Workplace environmental goals, which are comprised of 26 unique work. Through these efforts, a safety-first culture has been by safety managers appointed at each department. A Safety and Environmental Conditions regulations, and the safety and environment portal have successfully established and safety-related abilities have process for annual internal inspection has been created been expanded to LG Chem’s Chinese subsidiaries. From been strengthened as a result. Worksites have also seen a to improve the professionalism of the internal audit as Strengthen Workplace Safety and March to October 2015, the safety and environment decrease in the total number of safety-related incidents comwell as self-inspection capabilities. To improve accident Environmental Inspection inspection was conducted in 7 plants to assess aspects pared to the previous year. awareness, uniform safety and environment education Jun-ok, Lee LG Chem divides the existing safety and environmental dealing with safety and environmental organization, operand evaluation has also been established. As a result, inspection system into 3 categories including the reguHead of Safety and Health ation management, and facility management. In 2016, the Improvement of Safety and Environmental ‘zero accident’ certification was achieved in 2015, and lar inspection, project inspection, and special inspection. Team at Daesan Plant advance project inspection was conducted for facilities Audit System –Yeosu Plant the safety risk improvement rate* climbed to 91.3%. The regular inspection is conducted company-wide once exhibiting high risks in order to strengthen the accident Yeosu Plant seeks to address fundamental problems onsite As laws and regulations for every 3 years in every workplace, and covers the business *Safety risk improvement rate: Number of improvement cases / prevention system. A legal regulation management sysand achieve ‘Zero’ risk factor and indication of inspectors estimated number of safety risk cases *100 safety and environment management system, process safety, facility and work tem also will be established in reflection of the standards based on the participation of every member. To this end, the management are safety, fire prevention, dangerous objects, and the envistrengthening, LG Chem is of the Chinese government and local communities. existing audit system, which focuses on disclosing incidents ronment. In 2015, the regular inspection was conducted Improvement of Employee Health related to safety and environment, has been improved. All Ochang Plant actively implementing training in 3 domestic workplaces, 1 Research Park, and 8 overLevel of Risk Recognition Management and campaigns for upgrading Establishment of Safety, Health and members related to safety and environment are divided into seas manufacturing facilities. The project inspection is [Unit:%] its management system and Environmental Culture 14 areas, and the introduced audit system is applied to every Hearing Ability Protection & Noise conducted on items related to certain safety and environ92 internalizing safe environment. To firmly establish a culture that prioritizes safety, health department. Problem-addressing ability has been improved Management–Daesan Plant mental issues and done according to the management’s Daesan Plant is currently operating the Hearing AbilAt DaesanPlant, leaders have and environment, management itself actively participates with the focused examination of each area. Inspection results taken the initiative of safetydemands. In 2015, the project inspection was completed ity Protection Program to manage noise created by in various activities to enhance the awareness safety, health are shared with heads of business sectors and operations to first culture by improving with special attention paid to subcontractor safety manthe production processes. One measure that highand environment management. Safety and environment is 53 arouse interest from the management in safety and environexecutive ability of safe agement systems and emergency response systems. noise facilities are taking is to record and assess noise a major part of the CEO’s on-site management, and execument. In 2015, audits were conducted 40 times in total, and environment management tives as well pay keen attention to safety and environment 4,647 onsite improvements were found. These achievements by creating a noise map. In addition, education proThe special inspection is conducted for workplaces accordto achieve ‘zero accident’ improvement activities in individual production lines. Eduindicate that the general level of safety and environment grams on harmfulness of noise and prevention pracing to the seriousness and frequency of disasters. In 2015, through ‘management by tices and hearing tests for employees have been conthe inspection process was conducted a total of 31 times cation programs and special lectures given by the CEO on management at Yeosu Plant has been improved. walking around’ since 2015. ducted. High-noise facilities and hearing tests results including the regular, project, and special inspections. safety and environment are also arranged to improve the It has adhered to standard Before After In 2016, various project inspections are planned in addiprofessionalism and awareness on safety and health among are utilized in manual. In the future, hearing tests will be procedures, shared work Training Training Yeosu Plant Safety and Environmental Audits tion to the regular inspection for facilities that are likely to executives and employees. In 2015, the CEO’s special lecupgraded and engineering elements of high-noise facilidetails, issued work approvals display significant damage in the event of an accident or tures were conducted a total of 4 times at workplaces in ties will continue to be improved. after onsite inspection, and Focused Audit Improvements found conducted 5-minute checkups unforeseen incident, as well as for emergency response Korea and abroad. before work initiation. Also, this systems that respond to temporally sensitive risks. Industrial Sanitation Program –LG CMI practice has been expanded Safety and Environmental Management at Ochang Plant Number of mixing room workers’ unsafe behaviors 40 times in total 4,647 in total LG CMI operates an industrial sanitation program to provide workers with a pleasant working environment. The to annual maintenance work Strengthening the Safety and Environment Each Workplace [Unit:case] (Turn Around). It has been program aims to manage working environments pro75 Management System successfully implemented LG Chem has distributed its Safety and Environmental Management improvement through the Establishment of a Foundation for Safety actively to monitor any hazardous factors. To this end, with no accident. LG Chem Guidelines among overseas corporations according to Conference on Safety and Environmental Result Culture – Ochang Plant industrial sanitation managers are appointed to monitor continues to work to the company-wide integration policy and improved the To share information on results of safety and environmenThe Ochang Plant conducts various autonomous safeenvironmental factors, identify worker exposure level, strengthening its basis for safety and environment portal to strengthen the comtal accident prevention activities taking place at domestic ty-management activities in order to increase accident and assess the real-time risks present at worksites. safe management through pany-wide safety and environmental communication. In and foreign workplaces, LG Chem held a meeting to share and safety awareness among employees. To prevent creating a culture for practicing addition, the company has added new clauses related to results on company-wide safety and environmental data 1 unsafe behavior, which account for about 90% of accithorough-going safety and safety and environment in the executives and organizain November 2015. More than 140 employees participated dent causes, existing knowledge-focused safety educaenvironment management. tion performance evaluation in order to encourage more including representatives from 10 domestic workplaces, 2 2013 2015 tion has been improved by utilizing safety simulations: Material Issues 5 S  trengthening Relationship 43 with Suppliers 5 each sector participate under the CFO as the chairman. Strengthening Relationship Shared Growth Strategies LG Chem has established and is currently operating the Efforts are put forth into internalizing shared growth culture throughout all of LG Chem’s workplaces by discusssustainable Shared Growth System based on its 5 major with Suppliers strategies in recognition of suppliers as ‘mutually growing major shared growth issues and analyzing activities. ing companions for market-leading.’ Various support channels have been provided to establish solid collaboration culture, strengthen suppliers’ competitiveness, and fulfill social responsibilities. In addition, the Shared Growth Resolution Body and dedicated organizations Shared Growth Steering Committee Organization Chart are working to carry out shared growth activities and strengthen business competitiveness. Participating Organizations Operation of the Shared Growth Steering Committee LG Chem has organized the Shared Growth Steering Corporate Committee, which is a company-wide supreme resoluCFO Affairs Research Tech Business tion body established in 2010, to create shared growth Department Park Center Division (2) (1) (1) (1) (7) plans and asses their results. At present, 11 officials from A s the global economic crisis continK E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance ues and market uncertainty remains, it is unable for a large company to grow all ·Developing new Shared-Growth programs by itself. Rather, a large company with a 2015 Goals Energy Shared Growth ·Strengthening support for secondary suppliers wealth of technology and capital needs to ·Strengthening internal/external communication ·Expanding support for Energy-Shared Growth cooperate with suppliers with specialty in and safe environment projects 5 Major Strategies for Shared Growth a certain area, trying to achieve technology advancement and innovation together in Finding items order to improve competitiveness. In this regard, ‘Shared Growth,’ that is, establish16 63 ·Providing suppliers with employment incentives 1 〮Adopting/operating four guidelines for fair 5 〮Operating the Open Procurement 2015 Performance companies cases ·Patent support for suppliers free of charge transaction System ing a healthy industrial eco-system and ·CEO’s visit to secondary suppliers 〮Internal examination committee for 〮Publishing Shared Growth Brochures strengthening future capabilities through ·Adopting and expanding shared growth subcontracting transactions 〮Sending Shared Growth Letters payment system 〮Providing compliance education for employees close cooperation with suppliers, is sugIntroduction and operation of 〮Holding technology seminars ·Shared Growth Brochure released 〮Adopting/using the standard subcontract gested as a business management para〮Sending Tech Letters the Shared Growth ·Sending quarterly Shared Growth Letters agreement digm essential for sustainable growth. Payment System ·Facilitating suppliers’ participation in the Energy 〮Publishing a Polymer Journal 〮Practicing Jeong-Do management and Shared Growth Project in connection with the operating Jeong-Do management system 〮Providing SMEs with access to performance sharing system collaboration system 〮Compliance Program activities e Issuing ad Co m Dis ·Conference on responding to chemical Tr m cl 〮Site visits to suppliers and informal regulations a ir re un os meetings F e ica ur g a ph 981 companies 4,026 cases ·Safety and health education for suppliers 2 〮Shared Growth Fund raised 44 billion KRW a Cr A tin mos e t 1 5 tio e a n A nd ct ivi ti 〮Operating an online grievance system for suppliers 〮Direct and special funding es 〮Adopting a shared growth payment system Inevitable partner 4 〮Localizing parts and facilities Technical Support ·Facilitating participation in the Shared Growth 〮Improving subcontract payment terms to gain Market 〮Technical support for suppliers 2016 Goals yProject (payment terms, due date) Leadership d Pa Activ 〮Provision of patents for suppliers rt an vement ·Fostering major Shared Growth activities Sup ities to S 〮Customer supply(contract material Establishing a ppo purchasing) support 〮Product analysis and testing support l Su n Impro ·Promoting fair transaction among suppliers plie rs’ C trength 2 Sustainable 4 ncia ·Strengthening suppliers CSR activities 〮Joint participation in government apa bilit en 〮Supporting suppliers for molding expenses Shared Growth Fina Conditio projects System ies t men 〮Recruitment support for suppliers 3 〮Providing suppliers with employment 31.4 billion won, 2,641 cases 3 〮Energy reduction audit/consulting/ infrastructure investment support Safety & Environment / Energy Shared Growth incentives 〮Operating a Polymer Processing School 〮Providing online training for suppliers 〮Facility and occupational safety audits 〮Technology protection for suppliers 〮Conference on responding to chemical (joint patent applications, etc.) regulations 〮Helping develop domestic and 〮Material chemical analysis system international sales channels 〮Green supply chain management guidelines 〮Technical data of new product 〮Shared growth agreement on safety and health development trends 〮Adopting a performance sharing system 44 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 5 S  trengthening Relationship 45 with Suppliers Creating a Fair Trade Atmosphere as much as 8,051 ton per year and energy-saving impact Information on Technology Trends and Strengthening Suppliers’ CSR Management was recorded at 2.3 billion won. For the excellent reducOverseas Markets LG Chem conducts regular evaluation of suppliers on tion technologies that are selected by LG Chem, financial LG Chem supports suppliers so that they can respond selected evaluation items such as response to environ4 Major Practices for Fair Transactions In order to avoid unfair transactions and promote shared investment was provided either directly or indirectly, conto product export regulations with the aim to improve mental regulations, shared growth, and compliance with growth with suppliers, LG Chem sticks to the four major tributing to reducing greenhouse gas and creating profit. SME suppliers’ export competitiveness. In addition, it labor and human rights laws in addition to technology practices of the Fair Trade Commission: Agreement conprovides suppliers with opportunities to participate in and financial evaluations. Evaluation items regarding clusion; Careful selection and operation of partners; Disclosure and Communication Activities overseas exhibitions of various technology trends and to safety & environment, human rights, and labor continue Establishment and operation of the internal audit comconduct overseas marketing activities. In the Job Fairs, to be strengthened in order to oversee various managemittee; and Issuing and preservation of documentations. CEO’s Visit to Suppliers’ Workplaces conducted by the Shared Growth Committee, current rial aspects related to suppliers. Depending on the evalRelated aspects are reflected in the company regulations LG Chem has its management visit suppliers’ production business interests, areas and base technologies of LG uation results, exemplary suppliers are given incentives such as ethical norms, purchase regulations, and instrucsites to encourage employees and listen to record difficulChem were introduced to and shared with SMEs. such as advantages in payment conditions. Suppliers that tions for purchase contracts and shared with suppliers ties in transaction processes. In 2015, the CEO visited secfailed the evaluation and failed to receive a score above through the open purchase system. In addition, LG Chem ondary suppliers of the energy solution division, examining the status of the production sites and communicating with Education for Suppliers’ Employees the necessary standard are required to submit a plan for has introduced the standard subcontracting agreement LG Chem operates the ‘Polymer Processing School’ for hands-on workers. In the future, the CEO’s visit to producimprovement. In addition, in the event of a serious vioin reflection of the Fair Trade Commission’s submitted the benefit of suppliers’ employees, presenting technotion sites will continue to establish a solid collaboration cullation of laws or regulations concerning the environrecommendations. When there are revisions to the Sublogical know-how on design and development of plastic ture and seek improvements in the collaboration process. ment, safety, or labor, according to LG Chem’s principle of contracting Act, they are reflected in the agreement form products. The curriculum covers comprehensive subjects Jeong-Do Management, uncompromising measures such immediately to reinforce fair contract culture between a from the basic knowledge of plastics to injection moldas transaction/contract termination will be carried out. large company and a small/medium-sized company. ing, contributing to improving the professionalism of suppliers’ employees. LG Academy, an education institution To improve CSR and secure a sustainable value chain, Financial Support and Payment Condition designated by the Ministry of Labor, also provides various ‘LG Chem Partner Behavior Norms’ has been created to Improvement education courses such as language classes, and general be accessed by all of LG Chem’s suppliers. For suppliaspects of business management. In 2015, 134 individuals Interview ers that have submitted an agreement of compliance, from suppliers participated in such education programs. Introduction of the Shared Growth Payment System an examination is conducted through a written form or LG Chem introduced the Shared Growth Payment Sysan onsite visit to check if the principle is substantially tem to reduce the financial burden placed on secondcomplied with. This is one way for LG Chem to gradually ary suppliers. This system aims to expand the credit sale Systematic Management of Suppliers expand partner CSR activities. bond benefit for primary suppliers to secondary supCEO’s visit to secondary suppliers pliers. The Shared Growth Payment System is a safety Operation of the Internal Audit Committee payment method with no recourse. Bonds between priOperation of Information-sharing System LG Chem operates an Internal Subcontracting Audit Supplier Management in 2015 mary and secondary suppliers can be utilized for payCommittee, consisting of purchasing managers from Kwang-ho, Lee among Suppliers ment of delivered goods. Since the interest rates for LG Chem operates the Open Purchase System through all of its divisions, purchase strategy team heads, and Supplier Major suppliers’ ratio among 5% Head of Basic Material & Chemical large companies are applied, financial expenses can be which suppliers can easily transmit and store various purchase team heads in order to ensure fairness and Registrthe primary suppliers ation Procurement Strategy Team saved on the part of suppliers. In the near future, details documents necessary for partner transactions. This syslegitimacy in subcontracting. This committee manages tem enhances the work convenience and transparency Purchase Purchase amount of major suppliers 66% on bank websites will be made clear to all suppliers, preliminary auditing for subcontracting contracts, pricAmount in the total amount of purchase and primary suppliers’ cooperation will be requested of transaction procedures. In addition, suppliers’ teching, partner registration/cancellation procedures, and In recognition of the fact that nologies and materials are utilized in cooperation with Supplier No.of Companies subject to 168 through LG Chem notices and presentations. standard legitimacy. mutual growth is an essential Assessassessment through on-site visit LG Chem for further development and commercializament strategy for market leading, LG Shared Growth Fund tion of the Shared Growth and Collaboration Channel. LG Chem has established a LG Chem has formed and is maintaining the Shared sustainable mutual-growth Growth Fund, which amounts to around 44 billion won, Activities to Strengthen Suppliers' system. By operating the with the aim of addressing financial difficulty among Capabilities Case Technical Support for Suppliers purchase portal, LG Chem suppliers through low-interest loans. The Shared has established the order Growth Fund provides partners with loan services Support for Employment Support for Domestic Production of LG Chem has provided various channels of support for of fair and transparent within the limit of 0.5 billion for max. 3 years, and a min. Facilities ㅣ JS Tech Free Provision of Patents ㅣSEIL Hi-Tech transaction. It also shares 1% of interest reduction benefit is provided. SME suppliers to improve their competitiveness by To help JS Tech address the problem of over reliance Due to difficulty that SEIL Hi-Tech experienced in overmarket and business securing talented human resources. LG Chem particion processing facilities imported from Japan due to all growth and in developing new products caused by prospects through regular pates in Job Fairs, together with suppliers, helping supSafety & Environment / Energy Shared Growth pliers recruit talented individuals by utilizing LG Chem’s the limitations of existing optical film manufacturing stagnation in related industry sectors, LG Chem promeetings with partners and brand name. For those who are employed through a job methods, LG Chem dispatched processing/facility vided support to SEIL Hi-Tech in establishing a founaddress difficulties through Energy Shared Growth with Suppliers To establish an Energy Shared Growth model with cusfair that LG Chem supported, employment incentives technology experts to share their technical expertise dation for further growth by providing the application VOC hearings sessions. Also, tomers and suppliers, LG Chem has concluded MOU with amounting to 3 million won per head are provided. for the duration one year. As a result, a new concept of LG Chem’s rechargeable battery technology patent outstanding partners are Korea Energy Agency and conducted various support of facility (suction roll) was successfully developed, through the Chungbuk Innovation Center. By combingiven advantageous such as activities. Every year, selected customers and suppliers which saved prime costs as much as 30% compared ing the independent technology of SEIL Hi-Tech with payment in cash and, more Employment Incentive System are provided with education and benchmarking services to when the facility was imported. Likewise, the its patented technology, LG Chem developed swelltransaction opportunities to enhance their expertise. Support for administrative sysre-export also resulted in a sales increase. ing tape manufacturing technology applicable to so that they can enhance tem establishment is also provided including the greenrechargeable batteries. As a result, SEIL Hi-Tech could competitiveness. In addition, LG Chem’s Official house gas inventory and management tools. In addition, LG Chem secure new suppliers and increase sales successfully. various win-win programs Suppliers Job Fair such as support for operation/ the Energy Shared Growth Fund, currently amounting 3 million / person 30% prime cost Patent application and Patented technology Sales increase during investment fund, education to 4 billion, has been formed to create financial support reduction compared to re-export to Japan and applicable to the second half of 2015: for partner employees, for such projects. In 2015, 16 customers and suppliers Participation Employment Proof of imported facilities China rechargeable batteries about 0.5 billion won were selected. Newly developed 63 energy-saving tech6-month or loninvestment for energy-saving, ger employment etc. are provided. nologies have impacted greenhouse gas reduction by Material Issues 6 Human Resources Development 47 6 Principle of Talent Management LG Chem’s Ideal Employee Human Resources In recognition of LG’s management principles – ‘CrePerson of action with belief in LG Way ating Value for Our Customers’ and ‘People ManageDevelopment ment’ – that can be realized when individuals’ creativity and autonomy are respected, LG Chem guarantees fair opportunities and performance evaluation to all Challenging for the world’s best employees so that all employees can exert their abiliwith dream and ties to their full potential. In addition, LG Chem has crepassion ated and henceforth complied with the ‘LG Chem Global Guidance on Human Rights and Labor’ which is a docWorking Competing fairly ument that ensures human rights protection, minority creatively while steadily worker protection, cooperative labor-management relaand autonomously cultivating with tions, etc. In addition, the human rights and labor printheir abilities team spirit ciples of UNGC, Universal Declaration for Human Rights, and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Constantly Rights; Ruggie Framework are also supported within LG innovating Chem’s labor code. and putting customers first *Link to LG Chem Global Human Rights & Labor Policy : http://www. lgchem.com/kr/sustainability/sustainability-introduction/principle Fundamental corporate competitiveness is K E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance rooted in the excellence of talented human resources. Numerous companies spare no LG Chem's HR Principles ·Nurturing future entrepreneurs investment in improving employee capa2015 Goals Establish Job Training ·Strengthening business skills for future business leaders (team managers) bilities and operates a top-tier recruiting System to foster experts ·Strengthening professional training in functionsystem to secure talented employees with specific tasks Management Philosophy Respect Source of Value creativity ·Improving on-the-job specialization for locally world-class capabilities. To boost employhired employees for overseas business operations and freedom ees’ morale, efforts are put forth into Ability·Performance Management improving working conditions. LG Chem Creating Rewards ·Continuously nurturing division leader candidates People respects individuality and diversity and Management Value for Our 2015 Performance and next-generation global business leaders Customers encourages a work culture where employ·Conducting diagnosis of individual employees’ Fair Chance·Long Term Perspective Basic Thought abilities Process ees can exert creativity and autonomy, ·Checking points for nurturing individual which are the very sources of corporate Total amount of employees through a new team manager’s investment into education diagnosis of individual team members’ abilities value creation that LG writes in its princi·Performing B2B-specific business marketing ple of ‘People Management’. In response to ·Creating a strategic plan for nurturing expert in different divisions its own values, LG Chem has since created Best Ability, Best Results, and Best Benefits ·Supporting Korean language class for locally hired and operated an educational program to employees ·Conducting work training program (EO&D) for new train core talent. In addition, the company seeks ways to motivate employees and 14.2 billion won employees invited from abroad ·Creating and distributing salespeople’s product manual and production technology learning Highest Capability Highest Performance Highest Compensation improve their satisfaction by guaranteemanual for locally hired employees for overseas ing fair work conditions such as a balance Hours of education per head business operations LG Chem recruits the most LG Chem provides more tasks and LG Chem provides the best between work and life, as well as fair evalutalented people from around training opportunities to excellent benefits to top talent regardless the world regardless of their race, employees through fair and of their race, nationality, gender, ation and compensation according to work ·Strengthening of the nurturing of division leader nationality, or gender. objective evaluation, eventually religion, disability, region, or 2016 Goals performance. candidates and next-generation global business leaders promoting them to become affiliation. ·Fostering entrepreneur candidates operating overseas 41.3 hours ·Creating and strengthening work academy ·Establishing job training system for on-site workers ·Recruiting creative and original the core talent of the company. ·Objective and fair evaluation ·Salary system based on personal ·Strengthening vocational expertise for locally hired talent ·Providing systematic training ability and performance employees for overseas business operations ·Department assignment based opportunities ·Fair rewards based on ·Strengthening advance nurturing of employees for on the recruit's preference and ·Providing individual promotion performance overseas duties aptitude consultation and a career ·Promotion by selection ·Providing incentives to core taldevelopment planning system ent in consideration of the market value and business influence 48 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 6 Human Resources Development 49 Efforts to Procure Talented Personnel Employment of Local Talented Personnel Improvement of Employees' Vocational vocational capabilities for successful business expansion LG Chem has organized ‘Youth Employment Consultative on a global scale. Such programs include local language Professionalism Global Talent Procurement Group’ to address the problem of youth employment and learning and market research, through which individuals The chief executives of LG Chem put forth every effort to recruit local talented individuals by finding and arrangStrengthening Vocational Capabilities at each can develop core capabilities necessary for service in their into procuring a talented workforce in order to contining community-customized departments, employment-faBusiness Division respective region. 150 individuals from 12 countries comuously grow as a global material manufacturer. In 2015, cilitating programs, and hosting a 200,000-job creation fare. LG Chem manages curriculum for improving new pleted the local expert program as of the year of 2015. representatives visited the global economic epicenters In 2015, to find talented human resources in Chungbuk, employees specialty and operates LG Chem Academy. – China, the U.S. – and a major material manufacturer – location of the Ochang Plant, the ‘Battery-Customized Additionally, new employees in regions other than China Japan – and conducted two major global talent employTrack Agreement’ was signed with Chungbuk National Curriculum for new employees is composed of 12 are invited to Korea to receive customized vocational edument events, ‘BC Tour & Tech Fair’ and ‘LG Techno ConUniversity. Efforts are put forth into training science major courses including 9 existing vocational education procation. For domestic employees to improve their foreign ference.’ In addition, the head office internship program engineers specialized in the battery sector and providing grams, and general/common courses. E-learning and language skills and for foreign employees to improve their was conducted and saw the recruitment of a number of support for their employment. LG Chem is contributing to mobile learning systems have also been established for Korean skills, intensive foreign language/Korean courses foreign students by local corporations in Korea, which addressing the problem of youth unemployment, local ecoflexible learning at one’s discretion. are conducted to create better communication capabilcontributed to overseas corporation localization and nomic development, and social stabilization by expanding ities. In the future, the manuals of product education for business capability improvement. local talent employment projects and actively supporting LG Chem Academy provides 157 specialized courses for local employees will continue to be developed, and various vocational ability development training. various business divisions. Experts in various areas particlearning tools such as e-learning will be applied in order to ipate in leading education programs, sharing their experimprove overseas employees’ vocational capabilities. Advance Procurement of Talent To proactively recruit and secure talented individuals, tise and experience. In 2015, 21 programs were provided Strengthening Market-leading Capabilities LG Chem promotes the ‘Advanced Talent Procurement’ for B2B business and sales marketing education. The QualStrengthening the Expertise of R&D Workforce program. This program consists of an R&D ScholarSupport for Next-generation Leader Training ity/Purchase Academy System operation project was also LG Chem has established and operated an education sysship, Industry-University Cooperative Program, Global To train talent that displays capability in market leadercarried out in the same year. In 2016, 40 courses on qualtem for the researcher committee members so that the Internship, and Industry-University Cooperative Internship, LG Chem has been conducting training programs for ity management and 13 courses on purchase duties will be committee can have the opportunity to become the top ship, providing scholarship for talented individuals and the division leader candidate pool, next-generation global newly provided to further enhance vocational expertise. expert group and lead the market in various areas. In 2015, employment opportunities. business leaders, and HPIs (High Potential Individuals). the Workshop for Research Committee Members’ was In 2015, the education system for next-generation leadheld to improve the business insight and leadership of the Interview Establishing Job Training System for ers in China was established and its first year course was research group. Qualified experts in various areas were On-site Workers initiated shortly after. Individuals’ leadership capabilities LG Chem has promoted ‘Establishing Job Training Sysinvited as lecturers to present on new business areas and were examined and the results of evaluations were furAdvance Procurement of Talent tem for On-site Workers’, which is a program where plans, actual cases of R&D commercialization, and give ther examined. In the future, education programs accordhands-on technicians can improve their production Program ing to the years of service will continue to be conducted in leadership lectures. Opportunities to discuss business Description skills and capabilities and field knowledge and knowName strategies for each business division were also provided. association with the domestic education system. how can be handed down between employees. OutR&D Scholarship for domestic and foreign R&D Scholarship masters and doctors; employment Improvement of Leadership Capabilities of standing individuals are given rewards according opportunities after graduation to their ability development results. This system is Investment into Education for Hyeon-bae, Kim Each Position intended to present a growth vision for hands-on proEmployees in 2015 (Korea) IndustryCustomized education and scholarship for To improve position-based leadership capabilities, annual University masters/doctors graduating from leadership education programs are conducted. Major conHead of Competency duction technicians. In the future, the training system, Cooperative MOU universities; Total expenses Total hours of Program tents include organizational management, organizational Development Team with structured-OJT, will utilize NCS(National Compefor education education development, and strategies. In 2015, with ‘Executive Leadertency Standards) promoted by the government with Global Advancing cultivation and verification of ship’ as the main theme, leadership education was provided the aim of systematically developing field workers’ key Internship global talent; mentoring of team heads in addition to employment opportunities for team heads. More leadership education courses are in development with more diversified themes in attempt to conLG Chem provides differentiated HRD Solution capabilities and ultimately contributing to the creation 14.2 billion won 590,698 cases of business successes. IndustryLong-term internship with credits during to help members grow as the tinuously improve leadership capabilities of all employees. University semesters (4 months); employment opporEducation expenses Hours of Cooperative tunities after internships best vocational experts in Strengthening Global Capabilities for Given Duties per head education per head Internship Leadership Education System for Each Position various areas and contribute LG Chem operates local expert programs in major strateto the improvement of gic regions such as China, India, Brazil, and Russia in order Enterpreneur Cultivation System Leadership · Discussion on the direction of organicorporate competitiveness. to cultivate global talent and allow for the development of 1 million won 41.3 hours enhancement Education programs are zational operation for market leading program for operated by each position Target Method team leaders · Action plans for team heads and vocational duty. Leadership capabilities that CEO Company 2nd-year · Essential capabilities for future leaders Candidate leader senior manager (work facilitator, relationship linker, resident employees need Pool candidates program performance coaching) to cultivate as well as local (Executive) ·Mentoring by superiors ·Appointing superiors in targeted languages and cultures are all post as mentors · Finding individuals’ advantages and Division Leader 2nd-year disadvantages to be complemented major aspects of education Succession Plan Candidate Pool ·Mentoring on capabilities manager program · Improving future leaders’ basic that overseas resident (General Manager) Division necessary to fulfill duties such as leader leadership and business acumen capabilities employee candidates will Case Human Resource Development Activity in Overseas Workplaces candidates · Recognition of effective mediators’ roles in need to develop their global 2nd-year Next-Generation Global assistant the organization; ways of implementation Business Leader capabilities. In addition, the LGCCI Corporation operates a leadership course for HPIs so that they can internalize ‘LG Way’ and grow as a (Senior General Manager) Entremanager ·Guide and mentoring for new preneur program employees job training system for on-site core resource of LG Chem. The leadership course includes KPI items and includes actual business operation Candi·Establishing and operating CDP* HPI Team workers is in development to case studies, reducing expenses and environmental effects, as well as year-end evaluation. Next-generation (Assistant Manager – date ·Assigning individual challenges Together leader help on-site workers to have Junior Manager) Pool ·Conducting workshops and program · Review of individuals’ duties based leaders are selected among team heads and managers to improve their leadership capabilities by examining candidates annual training (2nd-year on the 1-year experience of service a vision on their growth as an assistant) their personal leadership style and aspects requiring further attention. *CDP : Career Development Plan expert in their respective area. 50 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 6 Human Resources Development 51 Fair Performance Evaluation and eration and active participation. Using the company’s unique Corporate Culture Transformation established, and utilized to collect diverse opinions. Compensation labor-management cooperation model as a basis, organic Efforts are consistently put forth into communication participation and cooperation from members in corporate with career employees and different vocational groups. Corporate Culture Transformation for Market and worksite management as well as collective bargaining Advanced Performance Evaluation System Leadership LG Chem evaluates work performance quality systematically LG Chem has selected 7 Major Goals for Organizational To also promote preferable working conditions for are sought after as key elements of labor relations. In addito ensure fair evaluation. To this end, merit and demerit evalCulture Change including presenting original ideas, female employees, the Women’s Lounge has been cretion, a business-oriented labor-management partnership uation of achievements, personal ability/teamwork evaluaself-initiative working attitude, and inter-organizational ated and is currently being provided at LG worksites. has been established so that members’ values are continutions such as work difficulty and team contribution evaluacollaboration for mutual growth. Strategies for corporate The Women’s Lounge was established to improve work ously improved and top-tier productivity can be secured. tion, analysis of internal/external environmental changes are culture transformation include spreading and internalizenvironments so that female workers can autonoall conducted as part of the evaluation process. In addition, ing corporate culture transformation values, support for mously exert their creativity and promote work-life balpersonal work performance evaluation for each position and change in each corporate unit, communication between Employee Benefits ance. The female employee mentoring system and CEO occupational group and LG Way-based attitude evaluation Benefit System members, and pursuing diversity. In 2015, ‘Chemi-Talk,’ a meetings also provides female employees with a platare also included as two other items of the high-level perforLG Chem provides employees with various benefits that communication channel among employees, was newly form to develop their professional capabilities. mance evaluation system. In 2015, this system was applied to contribute to stable family life, health, and leisure activall subjects as part of the work performance evaluation. ities. To create an environment where employees can concentrate on work duties, On-Line EAP(Employee Assistance Program) Service has recently been initi7 Tasks for Corporate Culture Transformation Goal of Goal of Goal of Business ated and has contributed to addressing various issues business company Divisions (sectors) sectors at work and family life such as health problem, asset 7 tasks for Corporate Culture Transformation for Market leadership management, and stress reduction. Furthermore, LG Chem introduced the retirement pension system so that Goal of teams employees can collect a post-retirement income and ·Listen, Discuss & Implementation enjoy a stable retirement. The retirement pension sysInnovation in Ways · Work Smart Personal goal (Team head setting/agreement tem is operated according to legal standards. DB and DC of Working · Self-Initiative MBO to team retirement pension systems are also in operation. · Collaborations evaluation member) Intermediate checkup Absolute Benefit System Year-end personal evaluation evaluation score ·Safety & environment principles Support Item Description Compliance with · Jeong-Do Management Area Basics and Principles Organizational · Comply with work regulations evaluation Housing Loan for employees of one year+ serloan vice; company house and dormitory TeamChildren’s Supporting tuition fees for children (Team head relativization Curve-based school attending middle/high schools and to team expenses universities Activities that Promote Market-Leading Corporate Culture evaluation member) IndividualFamily Family Expenses and leaves for family relativization & F/B Support events/ events emergencies Spreading/Sharing ·Leaders’ taking the initiative and sharing the direction for the Direction for organizational transformation (leaders in the management) Childbirth/ Company childcare center, Corporate Culture ·Analysis and improvement of organizational culture change maternity maternity/childbirth/childcare Transformation ·‘Focus Board’ (at all workplaces, twice a month) Labor-Management Relationship care leaves, temporary retirement Medical Medical expenses for employees, Business-Oriented Labor-Management Partnership expenses spouses, and children Reform Programs ·Support for organizational transformation programs development Based on management principles such ‘Creating Value for at Each Domestic and Health Regular health examination ·Customized programs for local employees at overseas corporations Our Customers’ and ‘People Management,’ LG Chem pracHealth examination Foreign Organization Support tices labor-management partnership through mutual coopHealth/ Consultation with specialists such as psychological health managers and psychologists ·A communication channel for members (Chemi-Talk) newly opened to collect consultation various opinions Improving Strengthening Recreation 3 recreation centers ·Women’s Lounge and Female Professional Mentorship systems newly opened members’ values Communication through transpacenter for talented female workers Corporate rent management ·Communication with career employees and different vocational groups Company Supporting more than 150 clubs at management and open club different workplaces management Leisure Prize for Souvenirs and trips in Support long-term commemoration of long-term service service Optional Use of accumulated points for Collective benefit self-development and leisure Worksite bargaining package activities Securing highest-level Business-oriented productivity through labor-management partstrong teamwork and nership through producinnovation tive bargaining culture Material Issues 7 Promoting Strategic 53 Social Contribution 7 Social Contribution Promotion System To consistently improve social contribution programs, Promoting Strategic LG Chem conducts various social contribution activities, ‘LG Guidelines for Social Contribution Evaluation’ have been introduced, and program improvement stratefocusing on such areas as Youth Education, Green and EnerSocial Contribution gy-Related sectors, in accordance with LG Chem’s social gies are developed by focusing on strategies to address social issues by utilizing business advantages. Social contribution promotion direction ‘Love That Makes Young contribution and effectiveness of major programs are Dreams Come True’ and LG’s unique business character. measured by means of SROI (Social Return on Investment) methodology. LG Chem's Social Contribution Voluntary Employee Social Contribution Culture d Pro mo Education on Social Contribution an nt To spur interest in social contribution among employe Evalua ees, CSR education is conducted among corporate t impro ion irection ve nD executives dispatched overseas, employee consultatio m 3 tive bodies, and new employees. CSR education seeks 1 to improve understanding of social contribution by presenting the LG Chem direction of social contribution, system, and major programs. For corporate executives 2 Recently, corporate activities related to K E Y P ERFORMANCE Goal & Performance overseas, attention is paid to identifying social contribusocial contributions are changing from P r o g ra m s tion activities that correspond to LG Chem’s values and existing charity endeavours to substantial help address social problems in the local community ·Education programs specialized for elementary/ where the corporation is located. For new employees, value creation for local communities. Like2015 Goals Total amount of middle/high schools ·Strengthening social contributions in green and opportunities of experiencing social contribution activwise, a lot of companies have established contribution in 2015 1 Social Contribution with a Social Contribution energy-related areas Focus on Youth Education which Reflects the ities are provided. their own social contribution systems in reflection of their specialized corporate characteristics and strategies for effective 20.2 billion won ·Introduction of the social contribution evaluation system ·LG Group’s slogan : Love that makes young dreams come true Business of LG Chem ·Green / Energy related area Twin Angel Fund The Twin Angel Fund is a fund for social contribution activity based on employees’ voluntary participation. Contribution to Local social contribution activity. LG Chem has Communities 2 Youth Education Green/Energy-Related ·Programs specialized for elementary/middle/ Areas 100% of the Twin Angel Fund is matched by LG Chem also established social contribution strate·Improving perception 2015 Performance high schools [Unit:billion won, %] about chemistry and the ·Green Partnership to raise separate fund. Twin Angel Fund and matching gies that reflect its unique corporate values Elementary school (chemistry park) Sales to contribution ratio environment Project, LG Social Fund Middle school (chemistry camp) (Education tailored for funds are utilized to support social contribution activiand the nature of the chemical industry. Upcycling program (high school /employees) Amount of contribution to local communities elementary, middle, and ties at each workplace. The focus for LG Chem remains on ‘Youth · Green Partnership project high schools) Total number of volunteer · Chemistry Camp and Upcycling program Education’ projects that provide educaemployees in 2015 0.10 3 LG Group-Wide Evaluation Guidelines for Social evaluation Contributions tion programs related to chemistry and 0.09 0.09 ·To resolve social issues the environment. In addition, LG Chem ·To utilize the strength of our business 21 practices sharing of community and con20.2 19.6 ·Promotion of employee volunteers’ participation tributes to solving global climate change 6,473 2016 Goals ·Expansion of regions subject to green and and resource depletion through ‘Green and individuals energy-related areas Energy-Related’ businesses. ·Expansion of programs subject to contribution evaluation Case Analysis of Social Contribution Program Effectiveness 2013 2014 2015 Number of social contribution beneficiaries in 2015 LG Chem measures social values of programs by utilizing the SROI*. LG Chem plans to raise the number of pro15,800 individuals Percentage of grams subject to effectiveness analysis to improve the performance of social contribution programs and to operate such programs more effectively. Contributions in Different Areas of the Local Community Social contribution Measurement of benefits Stakeholders Input to output ratio program and change elements 0.37% 36.5% Beneficiaries LG Chem Chemistry Camp Voluntary participant Values of benefits 183.4 % Upcycling Partnership and changes agency 61.98% Program LG Chem 113.1 % Charitable Community Donation Investment * SROI(Social Return on Investment): Indicator of effectiveness of invested values as the enterprise’s social activity result is converted into financial values. Etc. 54 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Material Issues 7 Promoting Strategic 55 Social Contribution Area of Youth Education Upcycling Program LG Social Fund supported 67 local childcare centers so far. In 2015, autoIn 2015, LG Chem began the ‘Upcycling Program’ for ‘LG Social Fund’ is a program to support eco-friendly, matic hand sterilizers were donated to 12 childcare cenhigh school students and employees. As a part of the social economic organizations and is operated in coopters with an aim to supply medical necessities and contribLG Chem Fun Chemistry Park LG Chem has operated ‘LG Chem Fun Chemistry Park’, program, the ‘Green Chemi-Environment Club’ program eration with LG Electronics on behalf of LG Group. ‘LG ute to the wellbeing of children vulnerable to diseases. a chemistry class for elementary schools, in neighborprovides upcycling education for selected high school Social Fund’ has been operating since 2011, aiming to Interview hoods surrounding its worksites since 2015. ‘LG Chem environment clubs. Students visit youth welfare instituhelp organizations with high growth potentials, pubDong-go-dong-rak Program– Daesan Plant Fun Chemistry Park’ is an experience-based learning The Daesan Plant has conducted the ‘Dong-go-dongtions such as local childcare centers nearby and make lic contribution, and innovation in eco-friendly areas program in which various themes such as chemistry, the rak Program’ for high school students since 2014, assistknown the importance of upcycling as ‘Peer Tutors.’ so that they can achieve financial growth and become environment, and energy are presented in an accessible ing students in planning their academic future and More than 100 students from 10 environment clubs in an example to other companies within the corporate way for students. There are 4 experience halls: ‘Energy career. The project’s mentorship provides students with Seoul and Gyeonggi participated in this education coneco-system. As LG Group operates Chungbuk Creative Zone’ and ‘Life Zone’ whose basic theme is chemistry an opportunity to explore career choices creatively; the tribution program in 2015. In 2016, this program will be Economy Innovation Center, efforts have been put forth in life; ‘Education Zone’ where global citizenship is culcollege entrance briefing session helps bridge the inforexpanded to other domestic regions such as Yeosu. into finding and supporting social economic organizativated and sharing is practiced; ‘LG Chem Hall’ where mation gap between cities and agricultural regions; Young-jin, Cho tions in Chungbuk since 2015. students can explore various chemical products and In addition, LG Chem operates the ‘Upcycling Experience and famous individuals are invited to participate in disHead of General Affairs gain new knowledge. In 2015, more than 370 elemenProgram’ for employees, which contributes to increasing ‘LG Social Fund’ has supported 76 companies (12 in course with the students 4 times a year. In particular, Team, Yeosu tary school students in Yeosu and Ochang participated interest in environmental issues and spreading contriChungbuk). Idea contests related to business items are the project’s mentorship program matches students in various experiments and simulation classes. The probution culture. Employees’ families and new employees also conducted to inspire college students. In addition, the and LG Chem employees and contributes to developing gram is expected to expand to elementary schools near LG Chem implements strategic participated in making upcycling products (eco-friendly Social Campus was opened in Korea University’s Indusstudents’ creativity and knowledge of chemistry as they the company’s worksites nationwide. social contribution activities hot packs made of car seat waste) and donating created try-University Cooperation Hall in order to address the prepare a thesis on chemistry together. that focus on youth, ecomaterials to the underprivileged in need of energy. spatial limit of social economic organization operation. LG Chem Chemistry Camp friendliness, and energy. Our Social Contribution of Overseas Corporations ‘LG Chem Chemistry Camp’ is LG Chem’s major youth plant in Yeosu keeps ‘Local Overseas subsidiaries of LG Chem in China, the U.S., Taisocial contribution program initiated in 2005. UtilizGreen and Energy-Related Area Children’s Center Genie Day’ Social Contribution Activity at Workplace wan, Vietnam, and Poland have strengthened unity with ing LG Chem’s chemical expertise, this program aims to with a view to promoting the Green Partnership Project Junior Science Class – Research Park local communities by supporting disadvantaged groups instruct students on various themes related to chemiswelfare of youths from local LG Chem concluded MOU with the Seoul Metropolitan Since 2004, LG Chem Research Park has operated ‘Junand local youth. try and the environment with creative experiments and community, and implements Government and Community Chest of Korea to creior Science Class’ as a way to donate LG Chem’s talent interesting performances so that students can become an ‘Upcycling Program’ for LG Chem has donated library facilities, books, and major ate the ‘Green Partnership Project’ in 2015. This projto elementary school students. Researchers with profamiliar with new topics during the 3-day camping prohigh school students and equipment to schools through the ‘Building a Library of ect includes the ‘Solar Energy Generation Project’ and fessional degrees at Research Park visit adjacent elegram for middle school students. In January 2016, this children’s centers in the city. Hope Overseas’ program. This program has contributed ‘Green Remodeling Project’. The ‘Solar Energy Genermentary schools and participate in science classes to program was conducted for 4 rounds and provided stuFurthermore, with a view to to spreading book-reading culture among youth and proation Project’ aims to install the ‘Hopeful Green Power spark interest in and provide children with opportunidents with opportunities to get to know green energy addressing the local issues viding disadvantaged local residents with cultural facilPlant’ and use subsequently generated funds to support ties to learn more about life science. In 2015, an expederiving from increasing ities. In 2014, Janddeonkeung Elementary School and sources such as sunlight, wind power, and hydrogen for financially disadvantaged youth. The project is a susrience study was conducted for more than 200 elemenelderly people of Yeosu, the Human Job Training School in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam were energy, which have been recently spotlighted as future tainable social contribution plan with an applied ecotary school students from 2 different schools. Students company conducts ‘Project also supported by this program. In 2015, library facilities industry trends. This camp has been conducted a total nomic model. The ‘Green Remodeling Project’ aims to made ‘nude headphones’ by using magnets and coils for Funding Surgery on Senile of 47 times since 2005, and more than 6,000 students install rooftop tree-planting units and insulation mateduring the session. More than 1,500 students in total were donated to a primary school in Chongqing, China. Blepharoptosis.’ Looking have participated. The program is provided in various rials for facilities in need of energy so that the city of have participated since 2004. ahead, LG Chem continues to 1. Upcycling Program locations for students’ safety and approachability. Seoul can reduce its energy consumption and economic 1-Company 1Army Campaign work on and puts into action Since it set up a sisterhood relationship with the 1st 2. LG Chem Fun burden. In the future, LG Chem plans to expand this ‘Genie Day at Local Childcare Centers’ solutions for sharing prosperity Infantry Division in 2011, LG Chem has provided comfort Chemistry Park ‘Green Partnership’ to other areas. with local community through program Yeosu Plant Yeosu Plant has organized Genie Day every year since 2010 articles and presents of money every year. Especially 3. Green Partnership Project its CSR activities. primarily through the support of volunteer clubs. It has at the end of 2015, the CEO visited the battalion of the 4. LG Chem Chemistry Camp 1st Infantry Division and Dora Observatory to encourage officers and soldiers who dedicate themselves to 1 2 4 1 national defense despite difficulties, hand-delivering wintering articles such as daily suppliers, frostbite preventive cream, etc. in addition to presents of money. 3 2 3 1. LG Social Fund 2. 1-Company 1Army Campaign 3. Genie Day Program, Yeosu Plant Sustainable Governance Corporate Governance 57 Corporate Composition and Responsibilities role of LG Chem’s supreme decision-making body. The majority number of directors sitting on the BOD are the Governance of the Board of Directors outside directors, who have a wealth of experience in varLG Chem’s Board of Directors consists of seven directors, ious areas including chemistry, energy sourcing, IT/elecincluding two inside directors, one non-executive directronics as well as technology, law, finance, and accounting. tor, and four outside directors. To ensure independent and These members are responsible for monitoring, managtransparent operation of the BOD through checks and baling, and advising in all important aspects related to busiances, the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee ness operation. In addition, they oversee and investigate for Independent Directors sits below the BOD. The BOD Sustainable has the authority to appoint and dismiss executive officers and hold responsible executive officers who exercise corporate management, restricting the voting right of directors who have shown conflicts of interest in certain fields. As such, LG Chem maintains a transparent goveractions that directly affect shareholder profit. It plays the Governance Board of Directors nance structure under the direction of its outside directors. Category Name Career and Concurrent Posts Remarks Inside Directors Park, Jin-Soo - Former CEO of Hyundai Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Chairman of the Board of Former CEO of LG Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Directors Current Vice Chairman & CEO of LG Chem *Concurrent post : FarmHannong Jeong, Ho-Young - Former CFO of LG Display 57 Corporate Governance Former CFO of LG Household & Health Current CFO of LG Chem Non-Executive Director Koo, Bon-Joon - Former CEO of LG International Chairman of the Nomination 60 Ethical Management Former CEO of LG Electronics Committee for Outside Directors - Current vice-president of LG New-Growth Business Promotiongroup *Concurrent post: LG Electronics, LG Sports 62 Risk Governance Outside Directors Nam, Ki-Myoung - Former Minister of Ministry of Government Chairman of the Audit Legislation Committee - Current Chair-professor of Law, Chungnam Chairman of the Nomination National University Committee for Outside Directors Kim, Se-Jin - Former member of the National Competitiveness Member of the Audit Reinforcement Subcommittee Committee - Former Professor of Economics, Washington State Chairman of the Nomination University Committee for Outside Directors Current President of Korea Fund Ratings Ahn, Young-Ho - Former Standing Commissioner, Korea Fair Member of the Audit Trade Commission Committee - Current Adviser at Kim & Chang Char, Kook-Heon Former American Physical Society-Fellow Current Gutenberg Research College-Fellow - Current Professor at the College of Engineering, Seoul National University Transparent and Independent Operation of diverse sectors such as the economy, environmental planthe Board of Directors ning, and HR, that can positively influence corporate management are carefully selected, candidates for the position of outside director who are independent and not in conflict Transparency in the Election of Directors The Audit Committee and Nomination Committee consists with the interest of LG Chem are recommended to attenof 1 inside director and 2 outside directors. This committee dants of the general stakeholders meeting. Among the recappoints outside directors in full consideration of indepenommended candidates, outside directors are appointed dence and professionalism while voting. After experts from through the approval and resolution of the general meeting. Appointment Process of Independent Directors 01 02 03 Resolution by the Resolution by the Resolution by the Nomination Committee BOD Shareholder's Meeting -V  ote on the nomination -Approve nomination -Appoint independent of independent directors Propose the plan to directors Propose to the Board the shareholder's of Directors meeting 58 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Governance Corporate Governance 59 Independence of the Audit Committee fer System(DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service 2015 Board of Directors and Audit Committee Meetings The Audit Committee has the authority to audit current and the Korea Exchange(KRX) and LG Chem website. directors on the basis of their legitimacy. Auditors are Session Held date Agenda all outside directors with strict independence. Quarterly Board Activity and Evaluation 1 2015.01.26 Reporting on the work of regulatory compliance supporter in 2015 audit committee meetings are held to establish, exeReporting on management performance in 2014 cute, and evaluate internal audit procedures. For critical Board Activities aspects, each auditor suggests discussions when necCrucial discussion items are identified and chosen Reporting on the operation of internal accounting management in 2014 and through the selection criteria of agenda items as out5 other cases reported essary. To control and monitor business management activities, aspects related to quarterly business results, lined in the Board of Director Regulations. In addition 2 2015.02.24 Reporting on the evaluation of the operation of internal accounting management internal accounting systems, and internal monitoring are to regular board meetings, special board meetings Approval for agenda submitted to the 14th general meeting of shareholders reported to the audit committee. In addition, major ecoare frequently held to deal with urgent management Approval for convening the 14th general meeting of shareholders nomic, environmental, and social issues are reported to issues. In 2015, the board held 10 meetings resulting in 3 2015.03.13 Approval for amendment of the regulations on the management of executive the audit committee in advance so that they can be dis32 approvals and 13 reports. Each year, the board visdirectors cussed promptly. its key plants in Korea, including Yeosu, Daesan, and Approval for payment of special bonus for executives Naju, as well as subsidiaries in overseas countries such Approval for paymentof directors' compensation and 6 other cases reported Board Secretariat as China and Taiwan to conduct on-site oversight. To 4 2015.04.17 Reporting on Q1 2015 financial statements LG Chem operates the Board Secretariat under superfulfill its commitment to social responsibility, LG Chem vision of the Credit Management/Compliance Team to made amendments to the Board of Director Regulations Reporting on company Q1 2015 performance help the Board of Directors fulfill its role and responsibiliin 2014 so that CSR goals, direction and implementation Approval for self-dealing involving major shareholders ties, by managing board operations such holding regular results are reported to the board. 5 2015.05.29 Approval for maintaining advisor appointment contract meetings. In addition, prior to commencing a meeting, a 6 2015.06.24 Approval for investment in facilities for 2nd phase of mobile battery, 3D cell briefing is held for outside directors to provide them with Approval for appointment of an executive director [Unit:%] sufficient time to review agenda items that will be introBoard of Directors Attendance 7 2015.07.17 Reporting on 1st half of 2015 financial statements duced in the meeting and to allow them to conduct a Reporting on 1st half of 2015 company performance detailed yet comprehensive review of the items. Inside Outside Approval for delisting stocks from overseas stock exchange and 1 other cases Stakeholder Communication reported The Board Secretariat receives feedback from relevant 82.5 100 95.8 100 8 2015.10.16 Reporting on the progress of Kazakhstan project Reporting on Q3 2015 financial statements teams before holding a board meeting to ensure that 2014 2015 2014 2015 any last-minute items that need to be discussed will be Reporting on Q3 2015 company performance and 5 other cases reported added to the meeting agenda. In addition, the Board 9 2015.11.06 Reporting on the acquisition of DongbuHannong shares of Directors communicates with stakeholders through 10 2015.11.26 Reporting on CSR implementation 2015 Board of Directors and Audit Committee Meetings internal and external communication channels includApproval for contract with LG Co., Ltd. For using trademark ing public disclosures and IR events. The board makes Board of Directors Audit Committee Approval for self-dealing involving major shareholders etc. in 2016 and 3 other top-level decisions at general shareholders’ meetings cases reported and provides shareholders and stakeholders with business information promptly by disclosing important decisions. Business issues related to investors’ interests are 10 meetings 5 meetings 100% attendance by outside directors Approval: 32 / Reporting: 13 Approval: 3 / Reporting: 10 disclosed through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and TransBoard of Directors Evaluation and Compensation 4.124 billion won. This is a performance-based payment Members on the Board of Directors receive compensation system based on the previous year’s business perforgiven within a limit that is decided through the resolution mance and annual salary. Wages for individual directors and auditors that exceed 0.5 billion won are made public Case Independence of Outside directors of the general shareholders meetings, to be granted justly according to wage regulations. The limit for a director’s through a business report in accordance with related law. LG Chem defines the criteria for judging the independence of outside directors under the Commerwage and the amount is calculated in reflection of her or his cial Code to ensure that the Board of Directors can fulfill its duty to ‘check and balance’ management. position’s value and grade. The total sum of yearly wages is Outside directors currently represent 57% of the entire board in accordance with the criteria. divided into months, and the same amount is paid every 2015 Compensation for Directors month. Performance-based pay for directors is paid within 1. D irector, executive officer, and employee engaging in the company’s business operations or director, auditor, the limits of 0 to 150% of base salary after an overall evaluNo. of Total payment Average executive officer, and employee who has engaged in the company’s business operations within the past two years people (million KRW) compensation per ation is conducted in terms of quantitative indicators, such person 2. Majority shareholder or the spouse and direct-line ancestor/descent as sales and operating income, and non-quantitative indica(million KRW) 3. Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of a company if the company is a majority shareholder tors, such as an evaluation of the degree to which long-term Registered 6 3,944 657 4. Spouse and direct-line ancestor/descent of a director, auditor or executive officer expectations have been fulfilled. The Board of Directors is director 5. Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of the company’s parent company or subsidiary authorized by shareholders to make top-level decisions and Outside 3 28 9 determines compensation of top management. director 6. Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of the company who has special interests such as a business Member of 3 152 51 relationship with the company Director Compensation Payments the Audit 7. Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of another company where the company’s director, executive The upper limit of wages to the board of directors that Committee officer oremployee serves as a director or executive officer or auditor was decided by the general shareholders meeting in 2015 Total 12 4,124 344 is 8 billion won, and the total amount of wages paid is 60 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Governance Ethical Management 61 Ethical Jeong-Do Management No. of employees received education program Compliance Management Fair Trade Compliance Management Principle of Jeong-Do Management Employees Partners Compliance Management System Fair Trade Compliance Program ‘Jeong-Do Management’ is not just a mere code of ethLG Chem's Board of Directors appoints a compliance LG Chem introduced the Fair Trade Compliance Program ics, but rather mindset that LG aspires to in order to conofficer who controls matters of compliance. The compliin 1995 and published the ‘Fair Trade Guideline’ in 2006, tinuously cultivate our talents and capabilities, main6,179 Individuals 718 Individuals ance officer inspects the compliance status of the comas the first among domestic Korean companies, practain a superior position through fair competition, and to pany and its employees and establishes goals and politicing the principles of fair trade diligently. In order to achieve successful results. According to this corporate cies related to compliance activities. To provide support assure the quality of operation, the Compliance Team philosophy, LG Chem pledges to all our employees and Jeong-Do Management Violation Report System for the compliance officer’s activities, the company is run under the oversight of the Fair Trade Compliance partners that we will practice and promote further impleLG Chem has established a reporting system through operates the Credit Management/Compliance Team, manager, who is responsible for establishing, executing, mentation of Jeong-Do Management. which internal employees and external stakeholders which works to identify standards, practices or operaand reporting the program operation. Furthermore, the can report violations through LG Jeong-Do Managetions of the company that may cause violations of laws Internal Deliberation Committee on Subcontract Transment Homepage in order to prevent injustice, corrupor regulations in collaboration with related parties. In actions conducts examination procedures on all subcontion, bribery, and unfair transactions while ensuring tracting transactions that are valued above 3 billion won 2015, Subcontracting-related law/regulation violation Jeong-Do Management that countermeasures are promptly implemented. in order to secure the legitimacy and fairness in subconrisks have been investigated in effort to reevaluate and Reports may be submitted either anonymously or with Ethical institute improvement. Compliance education contintracting with the small and medium enterprise partners. manageIntegrity Fair transaction the disclosure of the reporter’s identity. For those who ment ues to be conducted to spread law-abiding consciousJeong-Do report with the disclosure of their identity, the identity ness amongst employees. In 2016, the Compliance Risk Fair Trade Education and Inspection Manageof the reporter and the report’s content are managed ment Pool will be prepared to ensure consistent manageLG Chem conducts the annual inspection and prevenconfidentially. The grievance system for suppliers is also Cultivating Fair competition ment, and online compliance education will be contive education programs within all its departments on capabilities operated to manage partners’ complaints. ducted for all employees. subjects such as cartel, internal transaction, and subcontracting, to raise awareness amongst employees on the issues related to fair trade. In 2015, prevention Implementation programs and Whistleblowing System Corporate Subcontracting Management System Jeong-Do Management surveys are regularly LG Chem has formed the corporate subcontracting TF education regarding cartel and quarterly monitoring Jeong-Do conducted among suppliers and related LG Code of Ethics Management employees, and the results are used to prevent in cooperation with related divisions to actively hanregarding internal transaction were conducted, espeLG Chem has stipulated LG Code of Ethics for behavior Survey unfair practices from recurring and establish dle risks such as disguised subcontract, and illegal cially centering on the 110 employees that work for the and value judgment according to Jeong-Do Managedirections for improvement dispatching while simultaneously conducting onsite subcontracting-related departments. ment, demanding that all employees and worksites, in If gift exchange occurs, it is reported under the gift inspections of subcontracting management conditions Gift Exchange Korea and abroad, display ethical and fair business pracReporting exchange reporting system and then returned; if at major workplaces in March to May. Interviews with the gift cannot be returned, it will be donated to Compliance Program Organization tices accordingly. LG Code of Ethics outline the basic System social service centers through an in-house auction onsite managers were also conducted to grasp onsite direction of Ethical Management, which is a key element risk factors and all results were reported to LG Chem’s of Jeong-Do Management. Ethical Management is a stanWhistle˙Ethics hotline: System for reporting practices Compliance Manager(Corporate Affairs Department Leader) that violate Jeong-Do Management managerial body for improvement. In 2016, the corpodard for upright behavior and value judgment for all blowing ˙Win-Win Growth system: Grievance system for System rate subcontracting guideline will be newly issued in Compliance Team(Public Affairs Team) suppliers stakeholders related to LG Chem as well as its employees. reflection of onsite demands and needs. In addition, Details on Code of Ethics and the practice are available Rewarding ˙Designed to strengthen transparency and System root out corruption in business operations legal advisors will be placed at each sector division to for all stakeholders through the menu item ‘Jeong-Do support legitimate subcontracting operations. Management’ found at the LG Chem Homepage. Subcontract Fair Trade Transactions *LG Jeong-Do Management Homepage(http://ethics.lg.co.kr) Fair trade facilitators in each Overseas Employee Compliance Education Running the Internal business unit and plant Report Investigation & Measures LG Chem puts forth efforts into strengthening complideliberation committee Education and Promotion for Jeong-Do Unit 2013 2014 2015 ance education for overseas employees and improving Management Internalization Investigation by Ethics Inci68 68 56 employee compliance consciousness as per the requireLG Chem conducts education programs on Jeong-Do Office dents ments of ethical business management. In 2015, lecture Spread of Fair Trade Culture Management for all our employees and partners every Disciplinary actions taken Persons 10 15 21 videos on 4 themes of compliance were produced and LG Chem provides manuals on fair trade compliance against persons involved four years as per the Jeong-Do Management education made available for online lecturing through which 934 through the corporate intranet in effort to disseminate system. In 2015, education was provided for company Number of laid-off Persons 4 9 5 local employees utilized in China while completing our fair trade culture amongst our employees. The manuemployees due to leaders in the production sector as well as suppliers, corruption and irregularities compliance education program. In addition, the basic als are always open to revision so that they may reflect including new and experienced employees, senior offimaterials business office conducts their own lectures on recently amended laws and practical issues that presNumber of companies Compa5 8 12 cers, overseas dispatched employees and those who whose businesses with LG nies major issues of overseas compliance for overseas disent themselves at a given time. In addition, all employreturn to the office or are in the course of a promotion. Chem have been terminated patched employees. In 2016, animation videos on comees are expected to act in absolute dignity, to avoid the The work-site Jeong-Do Management operation educapliance issues are scheduled to be produced, while an unfair trade practices and cartel behavior, in compli1) Severe disciplinary action or more severe tion program is provided and held by each team head online compliance education system is set to be estabance with the fair competition practice guidelines. LG for the team members. In 2016, additional Jeong-Do lished. The education programs will be conducted Chem also seeks to improve law-abiding consciousness Management instructors will be trained for effective Transaction Fairness annually. An effective compliance education system through the Fair Trade pledge in accordance with the practical education. Moreover, LG Chem is conducting To create an environment that values fair trade, the will be established in reflection of the lecture content, Fair-Trade Act and Subcontracting Act. various activities in effort to internalize Jeong-Do Manreporting and approval procedures available to customassessment results and provided opinions. agement for all employees through channels like the ers in contact with current and former employees of LG Jeong-Do Management newsletter, Jeong-Do ManageChem have been reevaluated and improved. As informament campaigns, and events, in order to improve the tion on transactions with customers is opened to related understanding and awareness of Jeong-Do Managedivisions to assess the transparency of transactions, ment. Newsletters are also sent to partners to spread efforts are put forth into preventing the risk of dishonest awareness and promote Jeong-Do Management. transactions and unfair advantages. 62 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainable Governance Risk Governance 63 Risk Enterprise Risk Management System Prevention of Risk Reoccurrence Risks of Priority Control Governance In order to construct a foundation that nourishes the To prevent risks from reoccurring, prompt inspection LG Chem identifies risks from various perspectives by analyzing long-term corporate strategies and function-based business processes, evaluates the likelicompany’s continued growth, it is of great importance and systematic follow-up are necessary. LG Chem examhood and impact of risks, establishes and also implements appropriate measures to minimize negative effects of risks. to manage non-financial risks concerning the local comines risks through an Internal Audit and takes countermunity and our supply chain as well as traditionally outmeasures to prevent risks from reoccurring. Moreover, lined financial risks. LG Chem efficiently manages risks all major projects are evaluated based on sales, profit/ with its 3-step management system: daily management loss data, and investments in comparison with investClass Risk Factors Potential Impact Mitigating Actions by hands-on workers, integrated management for the ment plans for the last 3 years. For projects whose To transform into a global company that is known for cutting-edge materials, it is risk management department, and supervision of the results were different from predicted outcomes, major Expansion of Fierce competition in emerging markets and rapid necessary to expand technology-based divisions, strengthen global competitiveness of new board of directors. The daily management includes factors are examined through follow-up inspection to businesses; growth of competitors may affect the business existing businesses, and invest more into R&D risk identification through business activity monitorimprove the success rate of future investments. fierce competitiveness of LG Chem negatively -To become a market leader, it is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness in the area of competition ing, cause and correction analysis. The integrated mannew businesses such as batteries, water treatment, bio businesses agement step includes risk inspection and response Internal Control System -For mid/long-term strategies (first-half) and business plans (second-half), the focus is on analyzing according to each division’s characteristics by the changes in business environments and coming up with measures accordingly RMC(Risk Management Committee). completed by the The Internal Control System is a series of continuous Mid/long-term growth rate decrease due to inappropriate company-wide integrated risk management system. We activities led by the Board of Directors, management, Sales and Responses to each scenario based on major indicators such as oil price and exchange rates business portfolios; inefficient resource operation due to and other members to provide reasonable confidence production provide guidelines to every division so that each diviimproper response to demand/supply changes Analysis of short-term business environments and risks with the head office and overseas sion’s risk management team can predict and respond in its operation, financial reporting, and legal compliaffiliated companies based on monthly profit/loss estimates and actual result settlement ance. The system’s goals are aimed at reinforcing manreports. to each risk scenario. agement’s responsibility to secure the confidence of Business investors in the company and its financial statements. In the case of an issue regarding product responsibility, RoHS in material elements and product MSDS are provided in 33 languages through the Risk Product it may affect LG Chem’s business operations negatively. IT system in order to improve trust in product safety LG Chem operates the Internal Control System based responsibility Improvement of customers’ trust by strengthening on the IACS(Internal Accounting Control System) Framestrengthened product responsibility is an important element in Business divisions and quality management systems are operated in order to optimize work to secure the reliability of financial data, effectivebusiness operation of LG Chem, a B2B company. the quality of management ness and efficiency in business operations, and ensure compliance of applicable laws and policies. -LG Chem’s individual divisions are operated and managed -Operation of an information protection association that oversees company-wide by an IT system. Leakage of confidential information and information protection through various information security policies as well as system IT system data manipulation may cause negative effect on the manintegration for better execution. management ufacturing and distribution processes. In addition, unauand thorized access to sensitive information and negligence in -DB encryption/DB access control system establishment and operation for retaining information management can be a direct cause of legal action against customer information security LG Chem or erode LG Chem’s competitiveness. -On/off-line education for employees on information security and data management -An investment committee is operated for each business sector. When necessary, investment and support from the corporation is considered to minimize risks -When investment decision-making or a change in -A self-examination is conducted bi-annually on the progress while the expense of an business environment results in a failure to achieve profit investment, KRI(Key Risk Indicator) and investment result predictions are all reflected in Investment gain, it is likely to cause financial loss and deterioration Risk Management System decision-making of cash flow -A company-wide contract examination committee is operated to manage general risks Financial of any major large-size projects currently in progress, including any legal issues that may ˙Approval of management direction and policy / Supervision Board of Directors present themselves supervision of management activities Risk -Risk management at each dedicated division according to policies approved by the -Operating various activities, LG Chem is exposed to management committee Reporting Approval˙Verification Finance various financial risks such as market risk, credit risk, and Verification Internal Audit liquidity risk -Advance identification and assessment of financial risks through cooperation among related divisions Chief Risk Officer(CRO): CFO -Safety management plans are discussed and practiced by the Safety and Environment ˙Corporate-wide guidelines Committee conducted by the CEO. ˙Inspecting strategic business environment risks Risk Management Team and discussing countermeasures Environmental -Negative effects of direct financial loss and damage to -Regular and special inspections of workplace Safety and Environment in domestic and (Planning & Coordination Team) safety corporate image caused by business suspension or management foreign worksites penalties due to violation of related laws -Company-wide safety and environmental policies and regulations, and the safety and Reporting environment portal are utilized to manage risks and record achievements. Integrated -The Energy Committee conducted by the CEO is utilized to discuss current issues related to Management Division-level Risk Management energy and greenhouse gases as well as to strengthen response capabilities Committee(RMC) ˙Division-level guidelines -Increase of production costs caused by operational ˙Inspecting business-related risk trends and Social/EnviResponse to expenses due to investment in energy conservation and -Decision-making of investment into energy reduction according to the priority for Division-level Risk Management discussing countermeasures ronmental carbon policy changes purchase of emission trading right effectiveness maximization Team(Management Coordination Team) Risk Minimization of financial effects through advance prediction of expenses for emissions trading Compiling Supporting As the global water management system is expanding, -With water resource risks regarded as a business opportunity factor, water treatment Water home and abroad, mainly by advanced countries, operations are experiencing a full-scale expansion resource interests in this issue are increasing accordingly, and ˙Identifying risk / analyzing causes / taking corrective action management so are the demands for businesses’ active response to Daily Management Risk Owner(at a working level) -Pilot project involving water resource inventories in domestic and Chinese worksites ˙Monitoring(at a division level) ISO14046: Water Foot Print, CDP Water, etc. Our Performance Economic Performance 65 Economic Financial Highlights Performances Consolidated sales in 2015 amounted to 20,206.6 billion won, a bit less than sales in the previous year due to low oil prices. Owing to improved petrochemical proliferation and sales capacity, as well as prime cost reduction, however, the operating Income amounted to 1,823.6 billion won, a 39.1% increase compared to the previous year. The net profit of this term amounted to 1,148.5 billion won, a 34.5% increase. Consolidated Income Statement [Unit:million won] Our Item 2013 2014 2015 Sales 23,143,612 22,577,830 20,206,583 PERFORMANCES Operating Income 1,743,044 1,310,761 1,823,568 Net Income 1,270,613 854,025 1,148,531 Owners of the parent 1,265,968 867,924 1,152,987 Statement of Profits and Losses [Unit:million won] 65 Economic PERFORMANCES Item 2013 2014 2015 68 Social PERFORMANCES Sales 20,255,935 19,675,975 17,334,109 Operating Income 1,579,269 1,133,125 1,620,092 71 Environmental Net Income 1,174,392 823,496 1,203,855 PERFORMANCES Consolidated Financial Statement [Unit:million won] Item 2013 2014 2015 Current assets 8,031,617 8,146,821 8,655,605 Non-current assets 9,414,847 9,980,825 9,923,123 Total asset 17,446,464 18,127,646 18,578,728 Current liability 4,597,877 4,809,049 4,798,981 Non-current liability 1,122,925 1,052,745 676,225 Total liability 5,720,802 5,861,794 5,475,206 Owners of the parent 11,596,946 12,139,945 12,991,465 Non-controlling interests 128,716 125,907 112,057 Total equity 11,725,662 12,265,852 13,103,522 Financial statement [Unit:million won] Item 2013 2014 2015 Current assets 6,689,921 6,756,841 7,114,410 Non-current assets 8,697,255 9,136,605 9,117,186 Total asset 15,387,176 15,893,446 16,231,596 Current liability 3,286,775 3,738,040 3,412,605 Non-current liability 1,022,500 603,829 374,428 Total liability 4,309,275 4,341,869 3,787,033 Total Equity 11,077,901 11,551,577 12,444,563 66 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Our Performance Economic Performance 67 [Unit:%] Financial Ratio Distribution of Economic Value LG Chem justly distributes revenue from business activities among direct and indirect stakeholders. In addition, taxation Item 2013 2014 2015 records are made transparent and public through business reports, as we strive to fulfill tax duties and payments faithGrowth Indicators 174.7 169.4 180.4 fully. In 2015, the financial values distributed among LG Chem stakeholders including employees, the government, partners, shareholders, investors, and local communities amounted to 11 trillion and 314.3 billion won. Debt-to-equity ratio 48.8 47.8 41.8 Stability Indicators Dependency on bor25.7 23.9 20.3 rowing Operating income 7.5 5.8 9.0 Economic Achievement for Each Stakeholder margin Profitability Net income margin 5.5 3.8 5.7 Stakeholder Item Unit 2013 2014 2015 Indicators ROA 7.5 4.8 6.3 Total annual wages1) million won 904,319 999,884 1,215,543 Employees ROE 11.4 7.3 9.1 Average wage per head million won 72 73 85 Sales growth (0.5) (2.4) (10.5) Government Income tax expense billion won 330.7 305.8 401.1 Growth Sales growth (8.8) (24.8) 39.1 Partner Purchase of raw materials million won 14,072,848 13,400,114 9,337,722 Indicators Net income growth (15.6) (32.8) 34.5 Shareholder & million won 294,520 294,520 331,287 Total dividends Investor Total assets growth 5.2 3.9 2.5 Expenses for social Local Community million won 20,953 19,559 20,149 contribution2) 2015 Sales by Business Area Business Results by Business Area [Unit:million won] 1) Total wages: excluding employee benefits and retiring allowance reserve; excluding registered officers; applying the Korean standard 2) Expenses for social contribution: the domestic standard 2% Business Area 2013 2014 2015 11% Sales 17,545,205 17,080,354 14,463,487 Basic Materials 16% Operating income 1,332,021 1,117,308 1,676,940 72% IT & Electronic Sales 2,526,722 2,356,009 2,288,246 Purchasing from Suppliers Materials Operating income 325,207 92,809 117,349 In 2015, the amount of major raw materials that LG Chem purchased from partners is 9 trillion and 300 billion won. Basic materials IT & electronic Sales 498,053 305,713 307,744 Naphtha, EDC, and others account for about 80% of purchases. As for overseas production corporations, purchases materials Advanced Materials from local suppliers contribute to creating indirect financial impacts on the local communities Energy solutions Advanced Operating income 53,731 39,613 28,999 materials Sales 2,573,632 2,835,754 3,147,106 Energy Solutions Operating income 32,297 64,858 520 2015 Raw Material Purchase Sales Others Business Sector Purchase(Unit:million won) Item Use Seller Operating income (212) (3,827) (240) Basic Materials 7,415,347 Naphtha, EDC, etc. PE/PVC materials GS Caltex, Oxy Chem, etc Sales 23,143,612 22,577,830 20,206,583 Total IT & Electronic 833,582 TAC films, etc. Polarizer materials Hitachi, Mitsubishi, etc. Operating income 1,743,044 1,310,761 1,823,568 Materials Advanced Materials 270,551 Surfactants, etc. LCD materials Fuji, etc Energy Solutions 818,242 Anode and cathode Battery materials SANYO, BASF Korea, etc. materials and separators 2015 Sales by Region Regional Sales [Unit:million won] 8% 1% Region 2014 2015 6% Korea* 7,895,399 6,510,954 32% China 6,851,706 6,693,042 20% 33% Asia (Korea, China excluded) 4,805,364 4,022,590 America 1,209,538 1,161,018 Korea America Europe 1,402,163 1,539,219 China Europe Etc. 413,660 279,760 Asia Others (other than Korea and China) Total 22,577,830 20,206,583 *Domestic sales include export totals according to local LG conditions The values in the years of 2013 and 2014 are applied retrospectively according to the changes in national calculation standards 68 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Our Performance Social Performances 69 Social Current Condition of Employment Job Creation & Retirement Performances LG Chem has recruited many talented employees through our just employment procedures, pursuing diversity among In 2015, LG Chem newly employed 1,110 individuals in Korea and 4,230 in foreign countries, 5,340 in total. 71% of them are male employees and applicants. As of the end of December 2015, the total number of LG Chem employees is 26,195, and and 29% female. The 2015 retirement rate at domestic workplaces is 2.74%, 0.17% decrease compared to the previous year. among these, employees in domestic workplaces account for 55% and those in foreign workplaces 45%. To enhance diversity among employees, LG Chem continues employing female and disadvantaged persons. Female office-work 2013 2014 2015 managers in 2015 accounted for 4.73% of the workforce while the number of socially vulnerable workers (the disabled Classification Unit and veterans) stands at 428. Male Female Male Female Male Female Job Korea Individual 975 238 1,185 216 973 137 Creation Overseas Individual 2,277 2,227 3,913 2,868 2,835 1,395 Employees by Age [Unit:person] RetireNo. Individual 312 42 336 60 328 63 ment1) Rate % 2.75 3.30 2.76 4.18 2.57 4.20 2013 2014 2015 Category Male Female Male Female Male Female 1) The no. and rate of retired employees are limited to domestic workplaces Total 15,936 5,053 18,629 5,855 19,601 5,708 50 or over 1,430 2 1,659 3 1,833 2 Participants of Maternity/Child-care Leave 40 to 49 3,001 45 3,038 63 3,125 80 LG Chem operates a maternity/child-care leave system to contribute to solutions to the Korean low-birth rate problem Korea 30 to 39 2,872 684 4,376 617 4,831 719 and to enhance satisfaction among employees who work both inside the office and in their homes. Under 30 4,022 540 3,116 751 2,990 700 Total 11,325 1,271 12,189 1,434 12,779 1,501 Maternity/Child-care Leave1) 50 or over 204 69 232 66 250 52 Classification Unit 2014 2015 40 to 49 331 108 422 124 474 127 No. of maternity leave beneficiaries 91 90 Individual Overseas 30 to 39 1,075 831 1,560 1,061 1,853 1,216 No. of child-care leave beneficiaries 72 75 Under 30 3,001 2,774 4,226 3,170 4,245 2,812 Ratio of those returning to work 94 90.7 Total 4,611 3,782 6,440 4,421 6,822 4,207 Ratio of employees working for 12 % 92 89.6 months or more after a maternity leave 1) Domestic workplaces only Labor Union Employee Status by Region1) LG Chem guarantees the three basic rights of organization. It notifies the labor union of major changes in business management. LG Chem is taking steps to localize workforces at overseas subsidiaries through the recruitment and development of local top talent. The total number of local managers2) in 2015 is 459, accounting for 72% of total managers. Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 No. of Members Individual 5,593 5,863 6,065 Korea [Unit:person] Admission Rate % 74 74 77 Employees by Region 2015 Ratio of Employees by Region No. of Members Individual 5,379 6,234 9,114 Category 2013 2014 2015 Overseas Admission Rate % 94 95 96 2% Korea 12,596 13,623 14,280 China 8,203 9,955 10,448 55% Europe 534 552 495 40% Education for Employees Asia (China excluded) 406 424 445 LG Chem seeks to improve employees’ professionalism and abilities as global leaders through various education programs such America 225 374 527 as leadership development, vocational capability development, and hands-on production work. In the year 2015, the total time of Korea Europe education amounted to 590,698 hours, corresponding to 41.3 hours per person. Total 21,964 24,928 26,195 China Asis I nvestment into employee education limited to Total amount (except Korea/ 1) Data Includes number of employees in overseas marketing subsidiaries, manufacturing facilities, offices and R&D center domestic workplaces [Unit:million won] [Unit:billion won] America China) 2) Data is limited to China(LGCCI) and overseas manufacturing facilities 16.9 15.3 14.2 1.34 1.13 1 2013 2014 2015 1) Investment into employee education limited to domestic workplaces 70 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Our Performance Environmental Performances 71 Environmental Safety, Health & Environment Management Certification Water Management Performances Classification Region Worksite Water Use LG Chem has responded to water resource risks by systematically managing water resources to ensure stability of supYeosu Plant Naju Plant Ochang 1 Plant ply. It also takes into consideration the influence of discharged water on adjacent eco systems and water-intake areas. In Paju Plant Gimcheon Plant Daesan Plant 2015, The total amount of LG Chem water use amounts to 63,330,905m³. Korea Paju Plant Iksan Plant Cheongju Plant ISO Technical Research Center(Daejeon) 14001 Bohai(China) Beijing(China) Yongxing(China) Water Use Dagu(China) Botian(China) Najing(China) Overseas Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Tianjin(China) Taiwan Vietnam India Poland Amount m³ 53,111,259 55,581,210 55,388,961 Korea 1) Yeosu Plant Ochang 1 Plant Paju Plant Intensity m³/ product ton 3.80 3.78 3.70 Gimcheon Plant Daesan Plant Cheongju Plant Amount m³ 6,786,360 6,955,158 7,272,417 Korea Overseas Technical Research Center(Daejeon) Intensity m³/ product ton 3.32 3.40 3.42 OHSAS 18001 Bohai(China) Botian(China) Dagu(China) 1) Domestic water consumption is subject to data change due to changed measuring method at Daesan Plant. Overseas Nanjing(China) Yongxing(China) Taiwan Poland Naju Plant Ochang 1 Plant Daesan Plant Wastewater Management KOSHA 18001 Korea Iksan Plant LG Chem operates occupational water quality target management to reduce the amount of contaminants released Into PSM Korea Daesan Plant(Grade P) the water supply and tightened regulations in 2015 to improve facilities. To reduce the amount of waste created and minimize the effect on the environment, efforts are put forth into developing waste water condensing technology, existing waste water treatment systems, and water pollutant management methods at each worksite. The amount of overseas water pollutants have increased due to the expansion of plants and facilities. In 2015, the total amount of waste water Accident & Severity rate was 17,282,181m³ , and the recycling ratio in domestic worksites was 6.45%, while that of overseas worksite was 30%. LG Chem puts forth efforts into promoting safety culture in domestic and foreign worksites with its systematic diagnosis and assessment methods such as regular examination, planned examination, and special examination to prevent accidents. Particularly, compliance with principles is emphasized among employees through safety environment education Wastewater Discharge programs with the goal of achieving ‘Zero Accidents’ Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Accident rate & Severity rate [Unit:%, hours] Amount m³ 12,866,046 12,830,118 13,383,269 Category 2013 2014 2015 Intensity m³/ product ton 0.92 0.87 0.89 Accident rate1) 0.33 0.22 0.19 Korea Amount of Korea m³ 889,568 811,724 923,446 Severity rate2) 0.05 0.05 0.03 Recycling Accident rate 0.39 0.48 0.19 Ratio of Recycling % 6.47 5.95 6.45 Overseas Severity rate 0.06 0.07 0.06 Amount m³ 3,556,683 3,731,330 3,898,912 Korea Safety & health 327,678 350,076 301,291 Intensity m³/ product ton 1.74 1.82 1.83 Overseas education 9,404 26,281 152,550 Overseas Amount of m³ 1,468,950 1,557,442 1,683,179 Recycling 1) Accident rate: (No. of lost-time injuries) / (Total no. of full-time workers) x 100 2) Severity rate: (Lost labor days) / (Total labor hours worked by full-time workers) x 1000 Ratio of Recycling % 29.2 29.4 30.0 Environmental Investment Discharge of Water Pollutants [Unit:ton, kg/product ton] LG Chem is continuously stepping up its investments into the environment. In 2015, the total amount of home and abroad investment into the environment amounted to 36.8 billion won. The domestic investment into the environ2013 2014 2015 ment in the year 2015 decreased as much as 40% compared to the previous year due to the reduced investment into Classification Daesan and Iksan plants, but in overseas worksites, general investment rapidly increased as the investment into corAmount Intensity Amount Intensity Amount Intensity porations in China (Guangzhou and Tienjin) and Vietnam significantly rose. COD 635 0.045 684 0.046 689 0.046 Korea T-N 198 0.014 233 0.016 243 0.016 Environmental Expenditure [Unit:thousand won] Overseas COD 124 0.060 156 0.076 388 0.182 Category 2013 2014 2015 Korea 52,372,599 41,326,113 25,821,718 Overseas 8,224,079 2,304,847 10,998,055 72 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Our Performance Environmental Performances 73 Air Quality Management Hazardous Chemical Use and Management LG Chem is moving ahead of the competition with air quality improvement efforts as regulations on air pollutant emisLG Chem has restricted the use of hazardous chemicals in order to promote eco-friendly item production. Through its sions guidelines become stricter. Likewise, efforts are being put forth into reducing emissions by installing supplemenmaterial element analysis system and IT system, LG Chem thoroughly manages hazardous chemical contents to decrease tary boiler burner facilities, and improving existing related systems. the total amount of hazardous chemicals found at worksites and to improve product stability and eco-friendliness. Total Amount of Hazardous Chemicals (Toxic Substances) Emission of Air Pollutants [Unit:ton, kg/product ton] Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total amount ton 3,189,845 3,341,244 5,623,781 Classification Korea Amount Intensity Amount Intensity Amount Intensity Intensity ton/product ton 0.228 0.227 0.375 Dust 164 0.012 146 0.010 141 0.009 Total amount ton 1,364,623 1,273,618 1,365,685 Overseas Korea NOx 1,039 0.074 1,073 0.073 991 0.066 Intensity ton/product ton 0.667 0.623 0.642 SOx 383 0.027 299 0.020 285 0.019 Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Dust 112 0.055 96 0.047 73 0.034 LG Chem has adopted various methods to actively respond to climate change such as establishment of an energy committee, energy Overseas NOx 56 0.027 230 0.112 240 0.113 technology DB system, energy-related performance system, and major energy consumption analysis. At overseas worksites, plant operSOx 32 0.015 31 0.015 27 0.012 ation rates increased as plants in Bohai and Botian resumed their operations after regular maintenance while the automotive battery sector expanded within the U.S. and Nanjing plant. Moreover, the company conducts process-specific activities to reduce greenhouse gas, all the while focusing on developing technology for saving greenhouse gas generated in consumers’ use of its products. Total Amount of Raw Materials LG Chem has reduced raw material consumption by utilizing resources more efficiently. As a result, the total amount of Energy Use intensity raw materials of domestic operations decreased as low as 1.013 compared to the 2014 amount. In 2015, the Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 total amount of raw materials stands at 16,982,023 ton, and the amount of recycled raw materials amounts to 22,663 ton Direct energy TJ 87,542 83,492 90,257 among domestic worksites. Indirect energy TJ 48,151 51,126 49,793 Korea Total Amount of Raw Materials Sub total1) TJ 135,676 134,605 140,035 Intensity GJ/product ton 9.702 9.145 9.343 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Direct energy TJ 2,053 2,254 1,783 Indirect energy TJ 7,115 6,652 9,286 Total amount ton 14,949,131 15,514,628 15,185,371 Overseas Korea Sub total TJ 9,168 8,905 11,069 Intensity Total ton/product 1.069 1.054 1.013 amount ton Intensity GJ/product ton 4.482 4.354 5.199 Total amount ton 1,673,929 1,685,098 1,796,652 Overseas Intensity Total ton/product 0.818 0.824 0.844 amount ton Scope 1, Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Waste Management Direct emission tCOT2-eq 4,697,356 4,504,759 4,815,354 Indirect emission tCOT2-eq 2,466,167 2,571,216 2,385,513 LG Chem has established and operated waste treatment strategies to identify and reduce waste sources. Recycling Korea Sub total2) tCOT2-eq 7,163,510 7,075,962 7,200,851 efforts at worksites lead to overall improved management of waste and decreased harm to the environment. In 2015, tCOT2-eq/prodthe total amount of waste of domestic operations stood at 177,401ton, and the recycling ratio was improved from 67% Intensity uct ton 0.512 0.481 0.480 in 2014 to 73% in 2015 among domestic worksites. Direct emission tCOT2-eq 143,722 159,067 110,394 Amount of Waste Indirect emission tCOT2-eq 1,349,380 1,194,699 1,407,502 Overseas Sub total tCOT2-eq 1,493,102 1,353,766 1,517,896 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 tCOT2-eq/prodIntensity uct ton 0.730 0.662 0.713 Common Waste ton 121,028 115,609 109,770 Designated Waste ton 38,253 50,323 67,631 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Korea) Korea Sub total ton 159,281 165,932 177,401 ton/product Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Intensity 0.011 0.011 0.012 ton Electricity resold tCOT2-eq 30,592 27,377 16,806 Common Waste ton 39,932 41,781 43,821 Wastewater discharge tCOT2-eq 17,607 17,462 18,313 Designated Waste ton 9,189 11,191 13,305 Waste disposal tCOT2-eq 12,740 13,383 12,354 Overseas1) Sub total ton 49,115 52,9701) 57,126 Water use tCOT2-eq 15,980 16,816 18,611 ton/product Employee business trip3) tCOT2-eq 1,398 1,940 2,188 Intensity 0.024 0.026 0.027 ton 1), 2): Sub total and sum of direct and indirect data are different because data of each operation rounded off. 1) The total amount of waste has been modified according to 2014 LGCE NJ data of common and designated waste 3) Emissions caused by employee business trips are limited to those arising from transport by car. appendix about this report 75 About this report General Characteristics LG Chem has published sustainable management reports every year since 2006 with stakeholders’ opinions reflected within each report. In 2015, our 10th report was presented in high quality format and outlined LG Chem’s major achievements of the last 10 years, a Materiality Assessment of sustainable management activities and achievements, Appendix as well as future plans. Principles of Report Preparation This report complies with the core requirements of the ‘GRI G4’ guideline, which is a collection of standard conditions for sustainability reporting originating from the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), and also reflects some of the principles and contents provided by IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council). In addition, the financial information in this report complies with the standards of K-IFRS and reflects the 10 principles of UNGC, ISO 26000, and core requirements of EICC. 75 About this Report 76 Independent Assurance Term of Report Statement This report covers activities from January to December 2015. For more accurate comparison of major sustainable management achievements, data spanning a 3 year time frame, from 2013 to 2015, is included. Specific information 78 GRI Index that may significantly affect stakeholders is also included in the reporting period from 2015 to 2016. 84 Memberships Scope of Report The report covers the 10 production plants in Yeosu, Cheongju, Ochang, Ulsan, Gimcheon, Naju, Iksan, Daesan, and Awards and Recognitions Paju as well as the head office in Seoul and one technical research center (Daejeon). Overseas worksites include the Participation Information 7 production corporations – LGCCI, LGCE NJ, LGCC TJ, LGCE BJ, LGCC GZ, LG BOHAI, LG BOTIAN, and LG YX as well as those in other countries LGCE TP, LGCMI, LG VINA, LGPI, LGCE WR, etc. (Except corporations that were recently founded, initiated, or are currently in preparation during 2015). Economic data covers all consolidated companies. Some social and environmental data sets of a different reporting scope are separately indicated. Reliability of Report To secure reliability, data went through an extensive verification procedure based on the DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1 and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000), and subsequent results are presented on page 76-77. Additional Information To improve stakeholder accessibility to information, LG Chem has published sustainable management reports both in Korean and English. They are available at LG Chem Homepage (http://www.lgchem.com) as well. 76 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report appendix Independent Assurance Statement 77 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Introduction Sustainability Context STATEMENT LG Chem, Ltd. (“LG Chem”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV The stakeholders can review LG Way which represents the LG's corporate philosophy, LG Chem’s vision and GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of LG CHEM 2015 Sustainability Report (“the Report”). core values from the Report. In addition, the sustainability vision and principles, and 10 core tasks classified The directors of LG Chem have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility into economic, environmental and social aspects are also addressed in the Report. The process flow of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of LG Chem in accordance with the showing the value creation model in LG Chem’s value chain by inputting various capitals helps stakeholders terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and better understand sustainable business model of LG Chem. The audit team considers the Report is prepared information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. in sustainability context by providing sustainability performance in 2015 and targets in 2016 for 9 material issues derived from the materiality assessment and describing management approaches. Scope of assurance Materiality The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the LG Chem has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The pool of 24 relevant issues is reporting period from 1st January to 31st December 2015. This also includes: formed by analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics that ˙Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting 15 industry peers consider material and the subjects covered by media for the year ending 31 December Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 2015. The issues in the pool are rated for the prioritization, based on the external stakeholder survey result ˙Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management and internalstakeholder interview result. The audit team has reviewed the materiality assessment process approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and confirms relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. and qualitative data in the Report. Completeness The Report has covered sustainability performances of LG Chem and management approach to material issues for the reporting period. The reporting boundary includes the operations over which LG Chem implements Basis of our opinion We’ve performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on management control in 2015. The audit team has not noted that the material information is intentionally our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard omitted that may influence the decision making process of stakeholders during the engagement. on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in April and May 2016. The site visits were made to LG Chem’s Head quarter in Seoul, Korea. Accuracy and Reliability We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: Any errors and misstatements identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being ˙challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the published. Based on the sampling check and the evidence provided by LG Chem, the audit team observed robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; that the data and information from the operations in Korea are accurate and reliable in general, however ˙interviewed representatives from the various departments; the accuracy and reliability of the data and information from the international operations can be more ˙conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and improved by documenting the procedure and definition of performance indicators. associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; ˙reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report. Opportunity for improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to OCI’s management. However, Limitations it does not affect our conclusions on the Report, but is provided to encourage continual improvement. The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LG Chem’s ˙To present the measurable performance indicators so that the analysis of sustainability performance subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. can be addressed next year reporting. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial Competence and Independence statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http:// DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, dart.fss.or.kr) as well as LG Chem’s website (www.lgchem.com). These documents, financial statements and assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. May 2016 Seoul, Korea Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusiveness LG Chem has identified 8 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Shareholders/Rating agencies, Customers, Employees, and Suppliers, NGOs and local communities, Academia and industry experts, Industry association, Media, and State authorities. LG Chem engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. selected stakeholders and expectations of respective stakeholder groups are described in the Report. Country Representative 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html In Kyoon Ahn 78 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report appendix GRI Index 79 Sustainability Management Index GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals verifiction verifiction Strategy G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2-3 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and G4-48 18, 58 & analysis G4-2 ensures that all material Aspects are covered Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-15 G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 57-59 G4-3 Name of the organization 4 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 8-15 G4-50 57-59 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 4 Ethics and G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration 57-59 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has Integrity G4-6 4 The process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 57-59 G4-52 remuneration and whether they are independent of management Report any other relationships which the G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Business Report 259-260 remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-8 Markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 4-5 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on OrganiG4-53 57-59 Goal 16 zation G4-9 Scale of the organization(Total number of employees, net sales, total capitalization, products and services) 4, 68-69 remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable Profile G4-10 Total number of employees 4 Goal 8 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations 59, Business Report G4-54 to the median annual total compensation for all employees(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 267-270 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 69 Goal 8 The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 43-45 59, Business Report G4-55 country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 75 267-270 (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 62-63 GoverG4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 16-17, Hompage Goal 16 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the nance Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-15 84 G4-57 60-61 Goal 16 organization subscribes or which it endorses organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-16 84 G4-58 60-61 Goal 16 which the organization organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 5 Identified G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 22-23 material G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 22-23 aspects G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 26, 30, 34, 38, 42, 46, 52 and boundarG4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 26, 30, 34, 38, 42, 46, 52 GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures ies G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 75 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 75 Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals verifiction G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19 Procurement G4-DMA Management approach 42 Goal 1, Goal 5, Goal 8, Goal 10 StakeG4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 19 Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 67 Goal 12 holder Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, G4-DMA Management approach 38 EngageG4-26 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process 19 Raw ment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 72 Goal 8, Goal 12 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has material G4-27 19 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 72 Goal 8, Goal 12 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 75 G4-DMA Management approach 34 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 75 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 73 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-30 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) 75 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 73 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 Report Energy Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 75 EN5 Energy intensity 73 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 78-81 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 34-37 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 76-77 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 34-37 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any comG4-DMA Management approach 38 G4-34 18, 58 mittees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 71 Goal 6 The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 71 Goal 6, Goal 8, Goal 12 G4-35 18, 58 to senior executives and other employees G4-DMA Management approach 34 Goal 3 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for Goal 3, Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, G4-36 18, 58 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 1) 73 economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body EN15 Goal 15 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and Goal 3, Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, G4-37 18, 58 Goal 16 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions(Scope 2) 73 social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body Goal 15 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 57-59 Goal 5, Goal 16 Emission Goal 3, Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 3) 73 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer(and, if so, his or her function within Goal 15 G4-39 57-59 Goal 16 the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) EN18 Greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions intensity 73 Goal 13, Goal 14, Goal 15 The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 34-37 Goal 13, Goal 14, Goal 15 GoverG4-40 57-59 Goal 5, Goal 16 nominating and selecting highest governance body members nance EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 72 Goal 3, Goal 12, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 57-59 Goal 16 G4-DMA Management approach 38 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s G4-42 18, 58 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 71 Goal 3, Goal 6, Goal 12, Goal 14 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Wastewater Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmenEN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 Goal 3, Goal 6, Goal 12 G4-43 18, 58 Goal 4 and Waste tal and social topics Goal 3, Goal 6, Goal 12, Goal 14, EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 72 The processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, Goal 15 G4-44 18, 58 environmental and social topics G4-DMA Management approach 30 Products The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social Goal 6, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal G4-45 18, 58 Goal 16 and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 30-33 impacts, risks, and opportunities 14, Goal 15 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for G4-46 18, 58 economic,environmental and social topics G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 58 80 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report appendix GRI Index 81 Sustainability Management Index Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals verifiction verifiction G4-DMA Management approach 38 Goal 3 Labor/ManageMinimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether LA4 69 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and ment Relations these are specified in collective agreements LA5 40 Goal 3, Goal 8 Occupasafety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category tional LA12 68 Goal 5, Goal 8 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Equal Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Health and LA6 70 Goal 3, Goal 8 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Equal Safety Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Business Report LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 41 Goal 3, Goal 8 remuneration for LA13 267-268 Goal 5, Goal 8, Goal 10 by significant locations of operation women and men LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 40 Goal 3, Goal 8 Supplier Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices G4-DMA Management approach 46 LA15 45 Goal 5, Goal 16 Assessment for in the supply chain and actions taken Training LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 49, 69 Goal 4, Goal 5, Goal 8 Labor Practices and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Labor Practices LA10 46-51 Goal 8 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Education assist them in managing career endings Grievance LA16 50 Goal 16 grievance mechanisms Mechanisms LA11 Receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 50 Goal 5, Goal 8 G4-DMA Management approach 52 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Local Investment HR2 69 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained CommuniSO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 52-55 ties Nondiscrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 50-51 Goal 5, Goal 8, Goal 16 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 52-55 Goal 1, Goal 2 Freedom of AssoOperations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Anti-ComG4-DMA Management approach 60-61 ciation and ColHR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 50 Goal 8 petitive 60,Business lective Bargaining these rights SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Goal 16 Behavior Report 285 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Child Labor HR5 47 Goal 8, Goal 16 G4-DMA Management approach 30 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Customer Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Forced of ComOperations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory PR1 30-33 HR6 47 Goal 8 Health and improvement pulsory Labor labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Safety Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and Business Report PR2 Goal 16 Assessment HR9 45 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 285 or impact assessments Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 45 Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45 Human Right Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Grievance HR12 60 Goal 16 formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the Goal 16 GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Other Disclosures SO3 60 significant risks identified Anti-Corruption SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 60 Goal 16 Aspect Index Content Page External SDG Goals verifiction SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 60 Goal 16 65-67 Goal 2, Goal 5, Goal 7, No donations to EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Goal 8, Goal 9 Economic Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary political parties or Goal 16 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 34-37 Goal 13 politicians EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 50 Goal 1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-comBusiness Report Compliance SO8 Goal 16 pliance with laws and regulations 285 Business Report Market EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Goal 5, Goal 8 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and 267-269 Compliance SO10 42-45 Presence actions taken EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 68 Goal 8 Goal 2, Goal 5, Goal 7, Supplier AssessIndirect EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 67 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain Goal 16 Goal 9, Goal 11 ment for Impacts SO11 60-61 Economic on Society and actions taken Impacts Goal 1, Goal 2, Goal 3, EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 67 Goal 8, Goal 17 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with PR3 and |service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service 30-33 Goal 12 Compliance EN29 N/A Goal 16 Product and environmental laws and regulations categories subject to such information requirements Service Labeling Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the orgaTotal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Business Report Goal 16 Transport EN30 73 Goal 11, Goal 12 PR4 nization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 285 Goal 7, Goal 9, Goal 12, Goal Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 70 PR8 0 Goal 16 13, Goal 14, Goal 15, Goal 17 Privacy losses of customer data Supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 38-41 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Business Report Compliance PR9 Goal 16 Environmental the provision and use of products and services 285 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 38-41 Assessment Environmental Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, Grievance EN34 38-41 Goal 16 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 69 Goal 5, Goal 8 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Employment LA2 50 Goal 8 by significant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 69 Goal 5, Goal 8 82 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report appendix GRI Index 83 ISO26000(International Guideline on Social Responsibility) EICC Core Subject Issue Page Section Standard Page Section Standard Page organizational governance Decision-making Process and Structure 57-59 Freely Chosen Employment 47-51 Business Integrity 60-61 Due Diligence 47-51, 60-61 Young Workers 47-51 No Improper Advantage 60-61 Human Rights Risk Situation 47-51, 60-61 Working Hours 47-51 Disclosure of Information 26-73 Avoidance of complicity 47-51, 60-61 Laobr Wages and Benefits 47-51 Intellectual Property 29 Ethics Resolving Grievances 60 Humane Treatment 47-51 Fair Business, Advertising and Competition 60-61 Human Rights Non-Discrimination 47-51 Protection of Identity and Non-Retaliation 60-61 Discrimination and Vulnerable Groups 47, Business Report 267 Freedom of Association 47-51 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 31-32 Civil and Political Rights 50 Occupational Safety 38-41 Privacy 63 Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights 47-51, 52-55 Emergency Preparedness 38-41 Company Commitment 2-3 Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 47-51, 68-69, Business Report 267 Occupational Injury and Illness 38-41 Management Accountability and Responsibility 57-59 Employment and Employment Relationships 47-51, 68-69, Business Report 267 Health and Industrial Hygiene 38-41 Legal and Customer Requirements 30-33 Conditions of Work and Social Protection 50, Business Report267 Safety Physically Demanding Work 38-41 Risk Assessment and Risk Management 62-63 Labor Practices Social Dialogue 50 Machine Safeguarding 38-41 26, 30, 34, 38, Health and Safety at Work 38-41 Improvement Objectives Sanitation, Food, and Housing 38-41 Manage42, 46, 52 Human Development and Training in the Workplace 46-51 ment Training 47-51 Health and Safety Communication 38-41 System Prevention of Pollution 38-41, 71-73 Environmental Permits and Reporting 38-41, 71-73 Communication 47-51 Sustainable Resource Use 38-41, 71-73 Pollution Prevention and Resource Reduction 38-41, 71-73 Worker Feedback and Participation 47-51 Environment Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 34-37, 73 Hazardous Substances 38-41, 71-73 Audits and Assessments 60-61 Protection of the Environment, Biodiversity and Restoration of Natural Habitats 71-73 EnvironWastewater and Solid Waste 38-41, 71-73 Corrective Action Process 60-61 Anti-Corruption 60-61 mental Air Emissions 38-41, 71-73 Documentation and Records 60-61 Responsible Political Involvement Materials Restrictions 38-41, 71-73 Supplier Responsibility 40-45 Fair operating practices Fair Competition 61, Business Report 285 Storm Water Management 38-41, 71-73 Promoting Social Responsibility in the Value Chain 42-45, 60-61 Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34-37, 73 Respect for Property Rights 61, Business Report 285 Fair Marketing, Factual and Unbiased information, and Fair Contractual Practices 30-33 Protecting Consumers’ Health and Safety 30-33 10 principles of UN Global Compact Sustainable Consumption 30-33 Consumer issues Consumer Service, Support, and Complaint and Dispute Resolution 30-33 10 principles Contents Contents Page Consumer Data Protection and Privacy 30-33 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Based on its management philosophy of respecting humans, LG Chem Access to Essential Services 30-33 Human internationally proclaimed human rights; and supports international declarations related to protection of human 47-51, 60-61 Rights rights, and ensures that no human rights abuse occurs in all its Education and Awareness 30-33 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. business operations, by including human rights in partner evaluation. 47-51, 60-61 Community Involvement 52-55 Education and Culture 52-55 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 47-51, 60-61 Employment Creation and Skill Development 47-51, 52-55 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; By creating LG Chem Global Human Rights Guidelines, the company Community involvement 47-51, 60-61 Technology Development and Access 52-55 Labor 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; protects human rights of executives and employees, prohibits forced and Development Wealth and Income Creation 52-55, Business Report 285 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and labor, child labor, and discrimination, and establishes mutually 47-51, 60-61 cooperative labor-management relations. Health 52-55 6. T  he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 47-51, 60-61, Social Investment 52-55 occupation. Business Report 267 7. B  usinesses should support a precautionary approach to LG Chem is conducting process-specific greenhouse gas reduction 34-41, 71-73 environmental challenges; activities in order to preemptively respond to emissions trading and 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ensures mid-to-long-term improvement by establishing mid-to-longEnvironment 34-41, 71-73 49 responsibility; and term reduction targets and reduction targets per energy intensity. Also, the company is creating eco-friendly value through developing 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmeneco-friendly technology and products. 26-29, 34-41, 71-73 tally friendly technologies. Having termed integrity management as its unique behavioral pattern, LG Chem operates integrity management implementation program and Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, reporting system. Also, the company prevents corruption in all its forms 60-61, Corruption including extortion and bribery. by strengthening internal subcontracting management system, reinforcHomepage ing regulatory compliance training for locally hired employees of its overseas operations, and operating fair trade voluntary compliance program. 84 LG Chem 2015 Sustainability Report Memberships Membership of Organizations and Associations Korean Customs Logistics Association Korea AEO Association Korea Listed Companies Association Korea Battery Industry Association Korea Association For Chief Financial Korea Petrochemical Industry Korea Fair Competition Federation Korea Information Display Society(KIDS) Officers Association Business Institute for Sustainable Korea Employers Federation Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Chlor Alkali Industry Association Development(BISD) of KCCI Korea Technical Association of The Pulp Korea Display Industry Association Korea Economic Research Institute Korea Smart Grid Association and Paper Industry Maekyung Safety&Environment Korea Chemicals Management Korea Institute for Firm Contribution Korea IR Service Leaders Club Association Seoul Chamber of Commerce & Industry Korea Management Association Korean Society of Automotive Engineers Korea Chemical Industry Council of KCCI International Institute of Synthetic Korean Environmental Management Korea Mecenat Association Korea Electronics Association Rubber Producers(IISRP) Association Korean Personnel Improvement Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Products Safety Association Korea PC/BPA Council Federation of Korean Industries Korea Vinyl Environmental Council Korea Power Exchange UNGC Korea Network Korea Business Council for Sustainable Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Electric Engineers Association Development Awards and Recognitions Awards Presented by Certified as World-class Korean Products Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) (‘Thermoplastic polyester elastomer’, ‘PBT for headlamp bezels’) LG Chem Quality Improver Award (Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy’s Award) The 40th National Quality Management Convention Year’s Award for Proud Alumnus of Seoul National University College Engineering Seoul National University College of Engineering 2015 National Green Business Grand Prize (Ochang Plant) Ministry of Environment, Green Company Council(GCC) 2015 Leading Resource-Circulating Business (Ochang Plant) Ministry of Environment The 24th Dasan Management Award (Vice Chairman Park Jin-soo) The Korea Economic Daily Sustainability Report King Sejong Award from Patented Technology Award for second half of 2015 2015 Korean Intellectual Property Office (KIPO) (for cable-style rechargeable battery) Certified as World-class Korean Product (‘SAP’) Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) Inquir on Sustainability Report Dow Jones Sustainability Indices(DJSI), Asia Pacific & Korea S&P Dow Jones Indices, Robeco SAM LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, National Quality Master Award The 41st National Quality Management Convention Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea (President’s Award), Quality Improver Award (Prime Minister’s Award) LG Chem CSR Team Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning, IR52 Jang Yeong-sil Award Korea Industrial Technology Association, Maeil Business Newspaper Tel 02-3773-0705 Fax 02-3773-7983 Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Awards : Sector Leader for Raw Materials CDP Korea E-mail csrteam@lgchem.com www.lgchem.com Participation Information Korea Oversea CSR Team Competency Management Strategy Team. LGCCI. Business Planning Team. SH&E Part LG BOTIAN. Production Team. E&S Part This report was printed using soy ink and Development Team IT&E Materials environmentally friendly paper certified by Planning & Corporate Culture Management Strategy LGCCI. Business Coordination Dept. LG DAGU. Management Dept. Forest Stewardship Council(FSCTM ) Coordination Team Transformation Team Department. Energy Solution HR Team. GA/PR Part HR GA Team. General Affairs Part Credit Management & Business Strategy Team. LGCCI. Business Coordination Dept. LGCE NJ. S&E Dept. S&E Team. Employee Relations Team Compliance Team Advanced Materials HR Team. Employee Relations Part Environment Part Procurement Strategy Team. LGCCI. Business Coordination Dept. LG YX. Administration Team. Investor Relations Team HR Service Team Basic Materials&Chemicals HR Team. HR Management Part Administration Part Procurement Strategy Team. LGCCI. Business Coordination Dept. Ethics Office Safety & Environment Team LGCE TP. General Affairs Team IT&E Materials HR Development Team. Leadership Part Procurement Strategy Team. LGCE BJ. Security & Facility Team. HR Planning Team Public Affairs team LGCMI. Accounting Team Energy Solution Environment & Admin Part Energy/ Talent Recruiting Team LGCC GZ. S&E Team. S&E Part LGVINA. General Affairs Department Climate Change Team Technology Global HR Team LGCC TJ. Operating Management. GA Part LGPI. HR Team Management Team Leadership Planning Team. LG BOHAI. Factory. Environment Part LGCE WR. Administration Team Development Team Basic Materials&Chemicals
