2015 Registration Document Annual ﬁnancial report Contents 1 4 Presentation of the Company Financial information 129 and its activities 5 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 6 Group consolidated results AFR 130 1.2 The Group’s activities 8 4.2 Consolidated ﬁ nancial statements AFR 136 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁ ed 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. organization chart 13 Financial Statements AFR 196 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 15 4.4 2015 ﬁ nancial statements AFR 199 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration 17 4.5 Other ﬁ nancial and accounting information AFR 223 1.6 Investment policy, ﬁ nancing policy and market risks AFR 25 1.7 Risk analysis AFR 26 5 2 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 225 Corporate governance 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital AFR 226 and Internal control 33 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market 231 5.3 Current ownership structure 235 2.1 Organization and activities 5.4 Share buyback program AFR 237 of the Board of Directors AFR 34 2.2 General organization of the Group AFR 56 2.3 Compensation of executive 2.4 corporate ofﬁ cers AFR Internal control and risk management procedures AFR 59 71 6 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance Report of the Board of Directors and with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial draft resolutions to be presented at Code on the report prepared by the Chairman the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of the Board of Directors AFR 80 of May 18, 2016 239 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 240 3 6.2 6.3 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Biographies of the candidates 252 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees for the Board of Directors 270 and Corporate Responsability 6.4 Glossary and summary table of ﬁ nancial authorizations 273 and Sustainability (CR&S) 81 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports 282 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 82 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 88 3.3 3.4 3.5 Environmental responsibility Engaging with stakeholders Independent external analysis 108 116 123 7 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 126 Additional Information 289 7.1 Legal information 290 7.2 Group Management structure 294 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 295 8 Cross-reference table 299 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 300 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 301 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 302 The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identiﬁed in the table of contents by the AFR symbol AFR 2015 Registration Document Annual ﬁnancial report The French version of this Registration Document (Document de 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2013: Reference) was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers • the management report, consolidated financial statements (AMF) on April 6, 2016, pursuant to Article 212-13 of the AMF’s and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a financial statements, set out in the registration document filed on April 3, transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (pages 276 to 277 and 118 to 185, approved by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer respectively); and engages the responsibility of its signatories. • the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation no. 809/2004 the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial of April 29, 2004, the following information is incorporated by statements set out in the registration document filed on April 3, reference in this registration document: 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (pages 186 to 209 and 210 to 211, 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2014: respectively); • the management report, consolidated financial statements • the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on statements, set out in the registration document filed on April 1, April 3, 2014 under no. D.14-0283 (page 212). 2015 under no. D.15-0276 (pages 270 to 271 and 130 to 194, Copies of the registration document are available from Cap Gemini respectively); S.A., 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate website at • the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. http:// investor.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company at www.amf-france.org. financial statements set out in the registration document filed on April 1, 2015 under no. D. 15-0276 (pages 195 to 216 and 217, respectively); • the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on April 1, 2015 under no. D. 15-0276 (page 218). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 1 For the fiscal year 2015 Board of Directors Statutory Auditors Serge KAMPF, Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman* PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Paul HERMELIN, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer Represented by Françoise GARNIER Daniel BERNARD, Lead Independent Director KPMG S.A. Represented by Frédéric QUELIN Anne BOUVEROT Yann DELABRIÈRE Laurence DORS Phil LASKAWY Xavier MUSCA Pierre PRINGUET Bruno ROGER Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Kevin MASTERS, Representative of the International Works Council – Non-voting guest. * Serge KAMPF passed away on March 15, 2016 2 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial highlights Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenues 9,693 10,264 10,092 10,573 11,915 Operating expenses (8,950) (9,435) (9,235) (9,603) (10,653) Operating margin * 743 829 857 970 1,262 % of revenues 7.7% 8.1% 8.5% 9.2% 10.6% Operating profit 600 606 720 853 1,022 % of revenues 6.2% 5.9% 7.1% 8.1% 8.6% (1) Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 394 353 442 580 1,124 % of revenues 4.1% 3.4% 4.4% 5.5% 9.4% Earnings Per Share Average number of shares during the year 153,595,650 155,795,618 158,147,868 157,855,433 168,452,917 Normalized earnings per share * (in euros) 3.30 3.29 3.41 4.22 4.84 (2) Dividend per share for the year (in euros) 1.00 1.00 1.10 1.20 1.35 GOODWILL AT DECEMBER 31 3,768 3,702 3,601 3,784 7,055 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 4,239 4,482 4,458 5,057 6,887 AT DECEMBER 31 (NET DEBT) / NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS * 454 872 678 1,218 (1,767) AT DECEMBER 31 (3) ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW * AT DECEMBER 31 164 496 455 668 815 Average number of employees 114,354 121,829 128,126 137,747 161,268 Number of employees at December 31 119,707 125,110 131,430 143,643 180,639 (1) Including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of €476 million; (2) Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016; (3) Before the €235 million exceptional contribution to a UK pension fund. * The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin, normalized earnings per share, net debt and organic free cash flow) are defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement, Note 10, Earnings per share, Note 20, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents and Note 21, Cash flows, respectively. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 3 4 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 1.5 Milestones in the Group’s history 2015: a year of development and its values 6 and acceleration 17 Seven values at the heart of the Group 7 Making the most of the IGATE acquisition 17 Rapid Digital growth 17 The Cloud provides a strong platform for growth 18 1.2 Capgemini leads the way in Business Services 19 Major contracts signed by Capgemini in 2015 19 The Group’s activities 8 Innovation: helping clients to speed up their integration of emerging technologies 20 IGATE: a strategic acquisition in Capgemini’s history 8 Setting up a Directorate of Competitiveness 21 Four major businesses offering global solutions for Our Talent brings more agility and expertise our clients 8 to the Group 21 Solutions for six major business sectors 9 Honors and Awards 22 An ecosystem of technological partners 9 Capgemini’s publications: a 360° view of our clients’ challenges 23 180,639 Men and Women Supporting Our Clients 10 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability: New Ambitions 10 A Functional Organization Adapted 1.6 to the Clients’ Needs 11 Revenue for 2015 (by business, sector and region) 12 Investment policy, financing policy and market risks 25 1.3 Investment policy 25 Financing policy and ﬁ nancial rating 25 Main Group subsidiaries and Market risks 25 simplified organization chart 13 1.7 1.4 Risk analysis 26 The market and Identiﬁ cation of risks 26 Risks relating to operations and the strategy 26 the competitive environment 15 Operational risks 27 Competition 15 Legal risks 28 Market trends 16 Financial risks 29 Insurance 30 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 5 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values Capgemini was deeply saddened to hear about the passing of its founder, Serge Kampf, on March 15, 2016 at the age of 81. In 1967, Serge Kampf was amongst the very first to understand the added value a services company would bring to a world where the IT market had barely emerged. He created Sogeti, which became Cap Gemini Sogeti, then Capgemini Ernst & Young, and finally Capgemini, based on several major principles that continue to guide us in everything we do today: first and foremost, an entrepreneurial spirit, followed by a passion for clients, an obsession with drawing out the best from people, a commitment to being ethically irreproachable at all times, and extremely high expectations with regards to performance. From the very beginning, he understood that our industry is based on the contribution of both men and women who work hand-in-hand and share common values that cannot be compromised upon. (See the Group’s Seven Values, page 7). Tribute is paid to Serge Kampf at the beginning of the 2015 Group Annual Report. 1967 Creation of SoGETI by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 SoGETI and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combine IT and consulting services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by SoGETI with the Cofradel group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 7th Seventh “SoGETI Rencontres” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last “Rencontres” gathering to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 SoGETI takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT services company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the official birth of the CAP GEMINI SoGETI group, which, with a headcount of 1,700, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th Ninth “Rencontres” in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves its headquarters to 17, avenue George V, Paris. The first Annual Report is published (financial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto the acquisition of a stake in the Group by EDS. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its first “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with SESA, the Group wins the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (€150 million) mark, only half of which is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s official language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris Stock Exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1987 The Group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a year-end after-tax profit of 7.4%, a record not yet broken. 1990 17th Seventeenth “Rencontres” in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decide on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in outsourcing activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) that will make up the Group’s consulting arm. The invasion of Kuwait triggers a global economic crisis, which lasts four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). GENESIS is launched at the 18th “Rencontres,” which brings together 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia). This is the Group’s first transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini – after 25 years of consecutive growth – announces the first losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and SOGETI within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from the Group’s share capital. Bossard Consultants (in which the Group has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years!) is integrated into the Group’s consulting arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris Stock Exchange’s CAC 40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993). 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rises to its highest ever level of €368.9 euros in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of €44.5 billion. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the SOGETI name. 6 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 2003 SOGETI acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens 1 its first offshore production center in Bombay (India). 2006 Launch of the I.Cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in financial services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of five global service lines (Business Information Management, Application Lifecycle Services, Testing Services, Infostructure Transformation Services, Smart Energy Services). 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis (5,500 employees) in Brazil. 23rd Twenty-third “Rencontres” in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme of “La Niaque” (fighting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line (Mobile Solutions). 2012 Serge Kampf passes the torch of Chairman to Paul Hermelin during the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. 2013 Passing away of Michel Jalabert, a Cap Gemini S.A. Board Member and one of the key figures in the Group’s history since 1976, and of Odette Bernard-Colombat, the Group’s longest-serving employee and Serge Kampf’s personal assistant for over fifty years. 24th Twenty-fourth “Rencontres” in San Francisco: the top 450 Capgemini managers gather, joined for the first time by some of the Group’s biggest technology partners, thereby confirming the Group’s position as a major player in the “Champions League” of its industry. Launch of Digital Customer Experience, a new global service line. 2014 Acquisition of Euriware in France and signing of a contract with AREVA. 2015 Acquisition of IGATE in the United States: North America becomes Capgemini’s largest market. 2016 Passing away of Serge Kampf on March 15, 2016, founder of the Group. Seven values at the heart of the Group Seven values permeate Capgemini’s corporate fabric, from the Freedom, which means independence in thought, judgment time of their inception by Mr. Serge Kampf, founder of the Group, and deeds, and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, tolerance, respect for others, for different cultures and customs: until he passed away on March 15, 2016. These values inspire an essential quality in an international group. and mould our corporate culture and professional conduct. They Team spirit, meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, motivate us as a Group and as individuals. Intangible by nature, fairness in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting they lie at the heart of all our actions as an ethical and responsible responsibilities and an instinctive willingness to support common company. They form the basis of Capgemini’s reputation. efforts when the storm is raging. Honesty signifies loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete Modesty, that is simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, refusal to use any underhanded method to help win business pretension, pomposity, arrogance and boastfulness. Simplicity or gain any kind of advantage. Neither growth nor profit nor does not imply naivety (‘simple does not mean simpleton!’); it is independence have any real worth unless they are won through more about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common complete honesty and probity. And everyone in the Group knows sense, being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be that any lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships, will be penalized at once. having a relaxed attitude, having a sense of humor. Boldness, which implies a flair for entrepreneurship and a desire Fun means feeling good about being part of the company or to take considered risks and show commitment (naturally linked one’s team, feeling proud of what one does, feeling a sense to a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This is of accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater the very soul of competitiveness: firmness in making decisions efficiency, feeling part of a challenging project. or in forcing their implementation, an acceptance periodically to challenge one’s orientations and the status quo. This boldness These values are embodied in Capgemini’s brand promise: also needs to be combined with a certain level of prudence and “People matter, results count”. We believe that our clients’ a particular clear-sightedness, without which a bold manager is, success does not depend on technology only, but also on the in reality, merely dangerously reckless. women and men who give that technology life and who make all the difference. Our approach thus enables companies and Trust, meaning the willingness to empower both individuals organizations to respond faster to market trends, to adapt and and teams; to have decisions made as close as possible to to improve their performance. the point where they will be put into practice. Trust also means giving priority, within the company, to real openness toward other Truly multicultural, Capgemini works on the basis of its trademark people and the widest possible sharing of ideas and information. “Collaborative Business Experience™”, which gives priority to the ability to listen, to be flexible, agile and creative — essential qualities to ensure the success of our clients. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 7 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities 1.2 The Group’s activities Since its foundation in 1967, the Capgemini Group has pursued The digital revolution has had such an impact on companies’ one ambition: to be the first port of call to help companies and activities that Capgemini has now become a strategic partner organizations in their development through a combination of for our clients. Together, with the support of the Group’s innovation and competitiveness. By directly concerning ourselves technological partners, we are working to ensure that the Cloud, with our clients’ changing needs and sector-specific challenges, big data and the Internet of Things serve as catalysts for agility, Capgemini continuously seek to improve our services and efficiency and productivity. Capgemini’s clients are increasingly enhance our expertise. This ensures that we stay at the forefront relying on us to radically transform all aspects of their business of new benefits offered to companies and organizations as a through digital means, even to the point of reinventing their result of frequent technological advances that mark the evolution business model. of the IT sector. A twofold strategy of acquisitions and organic growth means that Capgemini is now among our industry’s most multicultural and multidisciplinary players — with a presence in over 40 countries, four major businesses and a wide spectrum of expertise. IGATE: a strategic acquisition in Capgemini’s history The acquisition of US company IGATE in 2015 marked a pivotal key sectors — such as financial services and engineering moment in the Capgemini story. At the time of the takeover, — and offering solutions to new, high-profile clients, including IGATE had generated a turnover of $1.3 billion for 2014 and had General Electric or a large North American bank. 281 clients, mainly based in North America (79% of turnover). The acquisition of IGATE means that Capgemini can also offer The company had 30,000 employees in the United States, India our clients access to innovative solutions: one example is and — to a lesser extent — Europe, Australia and China. the case of ITOPS (Integrated Technology Operations), which The acquisition was strategically important for Capgemini in a combines business services with those linked to applications number of ways. It considerably strengthened the Group’s and infrastructure. Capgemini is also benefitting from IGATE’s presence in North America, which accounts for over 40% highly effective global production model. The Group now of the worldwide IT market. The region, which is a hotbed of enjoys access to a vast network of production centers with nearly innovation, has now become Capgemini’s largest market. With 98,000 employees, including 32 IGATE centers, most of which IGATE, the Group is improving its positioning in several are located in India. Four major businesses offering global solutions for our clients X Consulting Services (Capgemini Consulting), which help to solutions for: IT infrastructure, end-to-end management of IT enhance the performance of organizations, based on in-depth applications, outsourcing of IT systems for support functions, knowledge of client industries and processes; digital engineering to underpin R&D, management of customer X Local Professional Services (Sogeti), which provide relationships through IT systems, procurement, strategy and assistance and support to internal IT teams within client transformation consulting, etc. companies; Over the past few years, Capgemini has offered a portfolio X Application Services, which devise, develop, implement of innovative products and services to help our clients and maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system successfully make the jump into the digital age. In 2015, the integration and application maintenance activities; Group launched two worldwide services: one dedicated to X Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/ Cybersecurity, the other to Insights & Data. We also updated our or develop either fully or partially, clients’ IT Infrastructure spectrum of cloud services (Cloud Choice), which now provides systems (or that of a group of clients), transaction services access to the expertise of all our businesses. The Group created and on demand services and/or business activities (Business a new Business Services range, based on our traditional BPO Services). offerings, which includes cloud platforms covering various services (BPO, Applications, Infrastructure). Lastly, with added Through its four businesses, Capgemini offers a wide spectrum impetus from the rapid development of the Internet of Things, of expertise. This enables us to respond to the majority the Group is helping clients benefit from the connectivity of their of our clients’ business challenges, particularly through our products, production tools and infrastructure. 8 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities Ongoing technological and sectoral advances are increasingly imposing fundamental change on companies and organizations. application services, infrastructure) to develop digital transformation solutions for all or some of our clients’ 1 This is why Capgemini is capitalizing on the complementary activities by adopting a targeted sectoral approach. nature of our businesses (consulting, design, engineering, For further information, see section 1.5. page 17. Solutions for six major business sectors The Group’s sectoral expertise ensures that we are always up implement their programs and plans for modernization, with to speed with the challenges facing our clients and developing an ever-growing focus on digital; solutions tailored to their specific objectives. The Group has a X Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment: presence in six sectors: operators in this sector are faced with declining revenues from X Manufacturing, Automotive and Life Sciences: their traditional activities, competition from new players and the these activities may be fertile ground for innovation, but saturation of their networks due to the explosion of content. improving competitiveness is a constant challenge. Through Having supported the sector for over thirty years, Capgemini our outsourcing and Business Services, among others, offers access to in-depth knowledge of telecommunications Capgemini provides companies in these sectors with a wide and digital content, as well as our technological expertise with array of solutions. These solutions enable companies to make regard to networks. significant savings on IT systems management and support Capgemini has continued to consolidate a sectoral approach in functions; order to respond to the significant need for acceleration affecting X C o n s u m e r P ro d u c t s , R e t a i l , D i s t r i b u t i o n & our clients in the digital spheres. In particular, the Group has Transportation: companies in these sectors are facing created Expert Panels for each sector, comprising experienced new constraints linked to productivity and the ever-increasing managers representing all aspects of business and every region pace at which their customers’ expectations are changing. of the world. Our aim: to closely scrutinize sectoral developments Capgemini provides them with the technology and expertise so that we always stay one step ahead of the game. In terms they need to access e-commerce platforms that combine of our offering, Capgemini is also pursuing the development flexibility and speed; of comprehensive products and services covering all X Energy, Utilities & Chemicals: using the latest technology, business needs and the entire value chain in a given sector. the Group helps companies in these sectors to overcome the Thanks to the comprehensive products and services designed twofold challenge of constantly changing regulations and for the utilities and banking sectors, we offer entire platforms of increasingly stringent environmental standards. Capgemini is preassembled technological solutions ready to be configured and the world leader in IT systems for electricity meters known as adapted to the needs of each client. In this respect, the Group “smart meters”; is particularly reliant upon the ITOPS cloud services designed by IGATE, which combine business services with those linked to X Financial Services (Insurance and banking): the Group applications and infrastructure. supports the rationalization and simplification of financial institutions’ applications and infrastructure (particularly Lastly, at a time when clients have a pressing need to refocus within insurance and banking). Our main fields of expertise their businesses around the end user, Capgemini plans to offer are mobility, intelligent data management, client experience a more general set of tools that allow for the analysis of major improvement and regulation compliance; ongoing trends in various sectors. For example, the Group has launched “Connected Insight”: an invaluable database covering X Public Sector: Capgemini assists administrations, companies the expectations and behaviors of consumers in the automotive and public agencies, as well as major local authorities, to sector. An ecosystem of technological partners Capgemini has always forged strategic partnerships with ecosystem of technological partners working together on high-profile technological players and by now with start-ups with the Group’s new approach to innovation (Applied Innovation specialist skills. Within both long-term and recent partnerships, Exchange) is also a significant asset in terms of helping clients the Group retains independence from all partners so that we quickly turn innovation into valuable solutions for their business. are free to select those that offer the best response to the 2015 also saw the Group begin to explore new development expectations and challenges of Capgemini’s clients. models for the first time, with historic partners such as Microsoft, This year, the Group deliberately increased the pace at which we EMC2 and HP. For Capgemini and the partner, this means each forge partnerships with the most innovative players. This move becoming the client of the other, in addition to doing business saw Capgemini, for example, strengthen ties with Salesforce, with shared clients. NetSuite’s decision to select Capgemini as AWS and Google by appointing senior managers who are the sole reseller of its products in France is the most emblematic assigned solely to these partners. The Group also developed example of this new strategy. relationships with multiple start-ups. In this context, our global 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 9 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities Families of Partners: • Cloud: Amazon Web Services, Google, NetSuite, VMware, X Strategic Partners: EMC2, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP; • Insights & Data: Cloudera, Informatica, Intel, Pivotal, SAS, X Specialized New Champions: Teradata, • Digital Customer Experience: Adobe, Pega, Salesforce, • Cybersecurity: HP, RSA Security, • Testing: CA Technologies, HP. 180,639 Men and Women Supporting Our Clients “People Matter, Results Count.”: Capgemini’s approach is The other workforce is spread out across the five continents: perfectly embodied in the brand promise. The commitment and 63,628 in Europe, 3,970 in Asia-Pacific, 16,034 in North America, expertise Capgemini offers to our clients would not be possible 9,393 in Latin America and 80 in the Middle East. Capgemini without our talented team. On December 31, 2015, the Group represents over 120 nationalities in over 40 countries. The had 180,639 employees (including IGATE’s workforce of over number of offshore employees now accounts for 54% of 30,000 people at the time of the acquisition), compared to Capgemini’s total headcount, up 7 percentage points from last 143,643 at the end of 2014. We passed the symbolic mark of year. 80,000 employees in India, with 87,534 by the end of the year. For further information, see section 1.5 page 17. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability: New Ambitions Around the world, Capgemini and our employees are facing every section of the Group, the board defines long-term CR&S challenges head on in the regions where we live and work. These goals and policies with reference to the wider corporate context. fall into four main categories: Regarding the environment, the Group took an active role in at X Environmental Sustainability; the United Nations climate change conference (COP21), which X Community Engagement; took place in Paris. Paul Hermelin, Capgemini chairman and chief executive officer, joined roughly 100 other large companies X Value and Ethics; in signing the “Business Proposals for COP 21,” which aims to X People Culture. accelerate investment in “low carbon” solutions and increase 2015 was characterized by the announcement of new ambitions, research into these subjects. This year saw Capgemini particularly in terms of community engagement: the Group set receive ISO 14001 certification — testament to our effective itself the objective of improving daily life for a million environmental management system — for the entities Capgemini people by 2020. Actions implemented from 2016 will cover France, Sweden and North America, taking the number of education and improving individual skills. N.B.: education was certified countries to 11. The Group also created a Center of also a key tenet of the CSR policy for IGATE, the company Excellence for the Environment, based in India, to provide Capgemini acquired in 2015. professional support for all Group entities hoping to develop an environmental project, for internal use or for our clients. The creation of the “CR&S Board” is further proof of our new CR&S ambition. Comprising senior managers representing NO FUTURE WITHOUT ETHICS Ethical conduct has always been at the heart of Capgemini’s values. The acceleration of our geographical expansion, multiple challenges arising from new technology and our growing number of employees around the world constantly create new ethical challenges for us. For this reason, the Group has rolled out an ambitious program to raise awareness about these topics. In 2015 and 2016, 4,400 managers should follow this new, specialized training program — an important tool to help share best practices within teams and build upon Ethics Street, which is a series of e-learning modules that everyone must complete. Capgemini has thus been recognized for the fourth year running as one of the world’s most ethical companies (“2016 World’s Most Ethical Companies®” label, awarded by Ethisphere Institute). For further information, see section 3.1. page 82 and following. 10 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities A Functional Organization Adapted to the Clients’ Needs 1 The Group is constantly seeking to better serve our clients by • The “Cybersecurity” service allows us to ensure the security providing them with in-depth analyses of their market, cuttingof our clients’ digital transformation. We support them as edge technological solutions, reliable and high-quality services they define and implement their cybersecurity strategy, while and an innovative approach to the challenges facing their sector. protecting their IT and industrial systems and connected We deliver all of these services at competitive prices and within devices; the best possible timeframes, so that we can help our clients • The “Digital Customer Experience” service allows us to help improve their own competitiveness and agility. companies define their digital strategy and select the most To this end, the Group is organized at the global level into major appropriate platforms and solutions. The aim is to optimize operational units (Strategic Business Units, SBUs), and relies on the client experience. This service is often complemented by worldwide service lines. mobility solutions, which increase accessibility for end users across all mobile devices (smartphones, tablets, etc.); OPERATIONAL UNITS • The “Digital Manufacturing” service allows us to support clients in the industry and energy sectors as they transition toward the The Capgemini Group is structured into eight large operational complete digitization of their production tools and processes. units (Strategic Business Units, SBUs), in order to provide the Most notably, it relies on the Internet of Things, which offers best response to client expectations and market developments. the new advantage of being able to combine data from the IT X Capgemini Consulting is the brand that covers the Group’s system with data received in real time from the physical world. activities in the field of strategy and transformation consulting This service encompasses two major families of solutions: (particularly within digital transformation); the digitalization of the management and configuration of products, factories and infrastructure, and the digitalization of X Sogeti, present in around fifteen countries, which brings to the industrial operations. “Digital Manufacturing” also mobilizes the Group’s clients its network, infrastructure and local services Group’s capabilities in terms of digital strategy consulting, 3D experience and all of its technology services offer; simulations of complex systems and cybersecurity tailored to X Infrastructure Services handles the design, production, the industry; outsourcing and maintenance of clients’ IT infrastructure; • Cloud Choice is a complete portfolio of services from X Application Services One and Application Services Two are two Capgemini that deliver a cloud-first way of working for the SBUs that encompass, as two distinct geographic entities, our enterprise. With our combination of advisory, applications and systems integration and application maintenance capabilities infrastructure services, we overcome the constraints which (outside of Financial Services activities); limit cloud adoption, and enable a transformation from legacy X Financial Services: this entity encompasses systems integration to cloud technology. This increases our clients’ capacity to and application maintenance activities for clients in the financial absorb innovation, equipping them to adapt and stay relevant sector; in a fast-paced digital world. X Business Services is the new entity comprising business X Meanwhile, the “Testing” services combine the expertise of process outsourcing (BPO) services from Capgemini and Capgemini and Sogeti to offer industrialization solutions for IGATE, as well as ITOPS services from IGATE and multichannel software testing and quality control, particularly with regard to transactional flows from Prosodie-Capgemini; mobile and social applications. X LatAm (Latin America) encompasses the Group’s operations in Latin America covering Application Services and Infrastructure RIGHTSHORE ®: A GLOBALIZED PRODUCTION MODEL Services (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico). Capgemini’s Rightshore® industrial model is a unique asset, enabling us to provide clients with the right resources, in the GLOBAL SERVICE LINES right place, at the right time. It is also a powerful catalyst for Capgemini is constantly adapting and strengthening our catalog competitiveness, for both the Group and the solutions we sell of products and services across different sectors and businesses. to clients. The guiding principle is the ability to mobilize, at any 2015 brought particular changes in the following areas: moment, the most suitable teams and technical resources to meet the needs of our clients, no matter where they are in the X Cloud and D igital beco me the main drivers behind our world. This globalized production model is associated with innovation and growth, boosting our entire portfolio. increased standardization of processes, following CMMI rules X Our catalog was broken up into strategic service offerings to (the international reference model for software production). respond to clients’ needs: • The “Insights & Data” service allows companies and public or private institutions to use our tools to their full advantage, managing and analyzing vast quantities of data to facilitate decision-making processes; 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 11 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 The Group’s activities Revenue for 2015 (by business, sector and region) BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS 4% Consulting Services (Capgemini Consulting) 15% Local Professional Services (Sogeti) 59 % Application Services 22% Other Managed Services BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR 4% 7% Others Telecommunications, media & entertainment 18 % 13 % Public sector Energy, utilities and chemicals 16 % Consumer products & retail, distribution and transportation 24 % Financial services 18 % (insurance and banking) Manufacturing BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY COUNTRY OR REGION 8% 9% Asia-Paciﬁc Benelux and Latin America 20% 17% France Rest of Europe 28% 18% North America United Kingdom and Ireland 12 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart 1.3 1 Main Group subsidiaries and simpliﬁed organization chart The Group performs its business activities mainly through Cap Gemini S.A. holds: 123 consolidated subsidiaries as listed in Note 32, “List of the X the entire capital of an inter-company service company, main consolidated companies by country”, to the consolidated Capgemini Service S.A.S.; financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 (page 193) and is present in more than forty countries in eight X the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S., which geographic areas: operates the campus housing the Group’s international training center; X North America; as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via X France; regional holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries are X the United Kingdom and Ireland; presented in the simplified organization chart below. X Benelux; Finally, it is Group policy not to own its business premises, except X Nordic countries; in India where the significant growth and workforce concentration X Germany and Central European countries; justify real estate property. The other Group subsidiaries rent their business premises from third-party lessors. There is no X Southern Europe; relationship between these lessors and the Group and its senior X and finally the Asia-Pacific and Latin America region. executive management. The parent company, Cap Gemini S.A., defines the strategic The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are: objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures X a building owned by SCI Paris Etoile and housing Cap Gemini their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Cap Gemini S.A. S.A.’s headquarters, located at Place de l’Étoile, 75017 Paris; contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, either in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it makes the trademarks X the Group’s international training center in Gouvieux, located and methodologies it owns available to its subsidiaries, notably 40 km (25 miles) north of Paris, owned by a real estate limited “Deliver”, and receives royalties in this respect. liability company, “Immobilière Les Fontaines”; X and eight campus located in India. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 13 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The organization chart of the main operating subsidiaries (reporting revenues in excess of €50 million) and the Group’s support and resource subsidiaries, directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Cap Gemini S.A., with the exception of CPM Braxis group (held 75.72%) and IGATE Global Solutions Ltd. (held 99.49%) is presented below. CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini SCI Service S.A.S. Paris Etoile Capgemini Immobilière Gouvieux S.A.S. Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. NORTH AMERICA LATIN AMERICA EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC OTHER EUROPEAN UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE BENELUX COUNTRIES Capgemini Technology Capgemini Capgemini Deutschland Capgemini Australia Capgemini U.S. LLC CPM Braxis S.A. Capgemini UK plc Services S.A.S. Nederland B.V. GmbH Pty Ltd. Capgemini Financial CPM Braxis Capgemini Financial Capgemini Outsourcing Capgemini Outsourcing Capgemini India Sogeti Nederland B.V. Services USA Inc. Tecnologia, Ltda. Services UK Ltd. Services S.A.S. Services GmbH Pvt. Ltd. IGATE Capgemini Capgemini Belgium Capgemini Polska IGATE Global Capgemini America, Inc. Computers Systems Consulting S.A.S. N.V./S.A. Sp. z.o.o Solutions Ltd. (UK) Ltd. Capgemini Capgemini Sogeti France S.A.S. Sogeti Belgium S.A. Capgemini Sverige AB Technologies LLC (China) Co., Ltd. Sogeti USA LLC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. Sogeti Sverige AB IGATE Prosodie S.A.S. Capgemini Norge AS Technologies Inc. Capgemini Canada Inc. Capgemini Finland Oy IGATE Technologies (Canada), Capgemini España S.L. Inc. Inergi Inc. Capgemini Italia S.p.A. New Horizon System Solutions Inc. 14 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 1.4 1 The market and the competitive environment Capgemini group is active in the professional IT services market both development and maintenance activities and is at the as defined by Gartner, a US market analyst, which worth a global crossroads of two Group businesses (Application services and amount of about €670 billion in 2015. Capgemini is ranked Sogeti), as is IT infrastructures. seventh in this global market, excluding Japan where the Group The worldwide consulting market is worth nearly has only a marginal market share since 2012 following a targeted €110 billion in total. Capgemini is ranked tenth globally and has acquisition. strong market positions in Europe. Consulting is the most cyclical North America is the largest global market representing 46% segment. of worldwide activity. Western Europe is the second largest The worldwide development and integration market market representing approximately 30% of worldwide activity. is estimated to be worth around €220 billion. Here, the Group The Group is ranked second in this market and is the leader in ranks ninth in the world, and number two in Western Europe. The the Netherlands and France. Then comes Japan, with 10% of market is quite cyclical, especially for local professional services, the market, the Asia-Pacific area with 10% and Latin America which have short cycles (and contracts), while system integration with 4%. Capgemini now operates in all these regions and had a activities have somewhat longer timeframes. global market share of approximately 1.7% in 2015. The systems and business process management Gartner had segmented the market into consulting, development markets consist for the most part of longer-term maintenance and integration, systems management (outsourcing) and and operations contracts and cycles, which make them more business process management. This segmentation more or less resilient. The systems management market was worth an reflects the Group’s businesses, except that development and estimated €220 billion, and the Group is considered to be the integration activities and systems management activities have ninth largest global player in this field. The business process been grouped together in the Application Services business. management market is worth an estimated € 120 billion, however As these markets are extremely close there are a number of Capgemini does not have a leading position in this market. overlaps. For example, the applications market encompasses Competition The Capgemini Group’s competitors fall into four categories: Offshore players (primarily Indian) have until now enjoyed the global players, offshore players, regional players and specialists. strongest growth and the largest among them, such as TCS, Global players include two IT giants, IBM and HP. Their presence Infosys, Wipro, Cognizant and HCL, can claim to compete with in other similar technology markets, such as hardware and the global players. Having established themselves in Englishsoftware, provides them with a broader overall market base for speaking countries, they are now focusing on continental their customer relations. They are followed by pure IT services European markets. players, such as Accenture, Atos, CSC and CGI. This group of There are numerous regional players, as IT services present few players also includes competitors who are part of groups offering entry barriers. However, these players generally do not have a wider range of services encompassing audit and transaction the geographical coverage or product depth of global players. services, that is Deloitte, KPMG, PriceWaterhouseCoopers and The leading regional players in Europe are T-Systems, Indra and EY. Capgemini can claim membership in this select group of Steria, while North America has Lockheed Martin and SAIC. global players, making the others its most direct competitors. Finally, specialist players encompass a range of competitors, from Also included here are Japanese groups such as Fujitsu and consulting firms to companies specializing in business process NTT Data, which are primarily present in Japan but are starting outsourcing such as Genpact. to expand beyond their borders. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 15 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.4 The market and the competitive environment Market trends In addition to the major structural change in the IT services market The main players in this sector are also developing more and triggered by the spectacular development of offshore services more high value added offers based on solutions to which they (launched in the early 2000s by Indian service companies), own the intellectual property. This trend allows them to meet their we now have the rapid development of cloud computing, the customers’ needs better while limiting pressure on the pricing of emergence of new markets around Big Data and the accelerated the services they offer. The Capgemini Group has made a firm transformation of digital use, which went hand-in-hand with the commitment to the development of such solutions. explosion in mobility and the emergence of social media. The The Cloud computing phenomenon, which reflects the onindustrial sectors in particular have started using a potentially request shared use of services and infrastructures between revolutionary technology, the “internet of things”. Indian service several public users, was initiated by major players such as companies have attacked the North American market, supplying Amazon, Google and Microsoft. Thanks to its strong positioning a skilled and inexpensive offshore workforce, allowing them to in the infrastructure management field and its business process propose very low prices. Accordingly, they have rapidly gained expertise, the Capgemini Group is particularly well placed to market share, especially in the most accessible segments benefit from the transformation of the economic model brought (reengineering, maintenance and applications development) about by this new way of using IT resources. and in English-speaking countries (USA, UK, Canada and others). Today, they are steadily extending their expertise into The generation of data also continues to accelerate around more complex segments (software package installation) and the world, both as a result of consumers using various forms non-English-speaking countries (mainly the Nordic countries, of equipment (computers, smartphones, tablets) and due to and then the Netherlands, Germany and France). To counter the wide range of sensors used by many industries. Players this trend, all players and in particular those with global reach, in some sectors – the consumer goods sector, for example – such as Capgemini, have greatly increased their presence in are beginning to catch on to the potential value to be gained India and are adapting their production models to enable and from such data, and are plowing substantial resources into then increase the participation of their offshore teams in the ground-breaking projects designed to harness more of the development of client projects: this has allowed them to restore value represented by their consumers. 2015 saw an upsurge margins and reduce prices in order to stay competitive. Offshore in the general awareness of our clients of the challenges Big players have responded by strengthening their local presence. Data represents for their industries. We expect significant This has brought them closer to their customers and allowed growth in demand for these services, aimed at experimenting them to make headway in market segments that are difficult to and implementing new technology platforms capitalizing on new service at a distance, such as consulting. As announced for a client interaction models or developing innovative new services. number of years, it seems likely that offshoring will continue to grow while undergoing a sea change, from a cost-cutting model to one that enables offshore teams to provide an increased level of added value. Accordingly, the growth in offshore services might slow down in more mature regions, such as North America, while accelerating in continental Europe. 16 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration 1.5 1 2015: a year of development and acceleration In 2015, the IGATE acquisition and Capgemini’s two performance The end of the first phase of the IGATE integration process drivers (innovation and competitiveness) helped the Group on December 31, 2015 brought confirmation of the synergies exceed the objectives set during the year. Revenue increased by envisaged when the acquisition was announced. 12.7% to €11.9 billion — a solid performance in a difficult market. In 2015, Capgemini also accelerated the consolidation of two The operating margin also achieved significant growth, reaching powerful profit growth drivers: innovation and competitiveness. 10.6% (up 140 basis points over 2014). The concerted efforts we have made in recent years to develop The acquisition of IGATE (see p. 8 and below), finalized on July 1, an innovative range of services dedicated to our clients’ digital 2015 for €4 billion, marks a pivotal moment in Capgemini’s transformation are beginning to pay off. In this dynamic market history. Thanks to IGATE’s geographic positioning and expertise, context, we are becoming a partner of choice for companies: for this merger will allow us to strengthen our presence on several instance, our digital and cloud services business grew by 23% in strategic markets. The acquisition means that North America is 2015 and accounts for 22% of Group revenue. Investing in these now the Group’s largest market, with business accounting for fields will continue to be a priority for Capgemini in 2016. In terms 28% of the Group’s revenue in 2015 (31% in the second half of of competitiveness, IGATE employees have significantly boosted the year). In this region — which serves as the leading corporate the Group’s production capacities in India. Our global network of IT services market in terms of size and innovation — Capgemini’s production centers now has nearly 100,000 employees, ensuring business also saw organic growth of 7.8% over the year. Another that Capgemini is at the forefront of our industry. immediate benefit of this acquisition was the strengthening of our client portfolio in the financial services sector. Making the most of the IGATE acquisition (see also the presentation of IGATE on p. 8) Within six months, a new organization had been set up, top The first stage of the IGATE acquisition was carried out quickly IGATE managers had joined the Group’s management team, and smoothly using an Integration Management Office (IMO). The and the transition to a single entity was complete. An exclusively IMO worked across both companies’ business lines to develop a digital marketing campaign was launched to target decisionmethodology, a clear roadmap and a target-operating model. The makers in the US, Canada and India (as well as job seekers in the four priorities were: North America, India, financial services and latter). Entitled “New Ways”, the campaign highlights the benefits the ITOPS services line. Our focus was internal communications, of the IGATE acquisition for Capgemini clients in concrete terms. knowledge-sharing tools, and training sessions. After several significant commercial successes, the Group will fully complete the integration of IGATE by the end of 2016. Rapid Digital growth In 2015, Capgemini saw a sharp increase (+23%) in our business In fact, each year companies are increasingly viewing the Group activities in the cloud and digital fields, which accounted for 22% as the partner of choice for their digital transformation. In 2015, of our total revenue. We also announced that investing in the independent analyst ALM Intelligence* ranked Capgemini development of these services would continue to be a priority Consulting among the top four digital customer strategy and in 2016. In this area, clients expect a comprehensive range of experience consultants worldwide. Only companies with broad services and a quick return on investment. Capgemini has the and specialized expertise reach the forefront of the industry. perfect combination of business lines, particularly in consulting Since 2014, the Group has launched several global service lines and applications services. We have technology in our DNA, an in the digital sector. First, the “Digital Customer Experience” in-depth knowledge of our clients’ business challenges and service, which helps companies define their digital customer understand how to apply innovation. All of these factors mean strategy). Then in 2015, the “Insights & Data” service, which that we are in the perfect position to harness the potential of allows clients to make sense of vast amounts of data, simplifying digital. their decision-making processes. Finally, the “Cybersecurity” service — vital for any digital transformation — to protect IT and industrial systems, data, their integrity, and connected devices. * Classification of digital customer strategy and experience consultants, Competitive landscape analysis: Digital Customer Strategy & Experience Consulting report, ALM Intelligence (ex-Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory) September 2015 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 17 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration In 2016, Capgemini will accelerate the development of our digital a high-quality customer experience and turning it into a driver ranges by adding to their service lines and gradually consolidating for growth is complicated. It requires an extensive knowledge of the worldwide network of associated production centers. In the a company’s customer ecosystem, and necessitates a radical manufacturing industry, as well as in other heavily asset based transformation of the organization and its IT systems. The “Digital industries, such as telecommunications, the convergence of Customer Experience” service is fully equipped to handle this the digitalization of industrial processes with the Internet of complexity because it encompasses transformation consultancy, Things is creating exciting opportunities for optimization. Some customer experience design and the integration of IT systems, examples include: a shorter product development cycle and which are becoming increasingly intelligent and adaptive. The remote asset management, as well as preventive and proactive service also benefits from its ability to draw on the Group’s other maintenance. That is why the Group is also changing our “Digital fields of expertise (Digital Transformation, Insights & Data, Digital Manufacturing” service into a global service line. Manufacturing, Cybersecurity, Cloud) enabling companies to While Capgemini is helping our clients to stand out from the undergo an end-to-end transformation. crowd in the age of Digital and Cloud, the Group also aims In early 2016, Capgemini announced two acquisitions that to differentiate itself within our industry through our strengthened our “Digital Customer Experience” service. Based in methodologies, positioning, and assets: Munich, Oinio is one of the major European players in consulting and the implementation of cloud-based CRM solutions and digital Insights & Data marketing. This is thanks to Oinio’s partnership with Salesforce In a world where people and things are becoming more and (one of Capgemini’s technology partners and a leader in the more connected (via the Internet of Things), data is the heart customer relations market). The recent purchase of Fahrenheit of the digital revolution we are witnessing. Capgemini’s vision 212 — a strategy and innovation development consultancy is that the insights we draw from this data will act as the most — also helped to strengthen Capgemini Consulting in North effective driver of business competitiveness in the decades to America. come. In such a context, the role of the “Insights & Data” service is to provide our clients with relevant actionable insights to their Digital Manufacturing business and, in particular, ensure they are delivered at the right Digital is changing the game for manufacturers. Smart, time to the right decision centers. To this end, the Group uses connected products, assets and operations offer the potential three fields of expertise, making Capgemini an unconventional for productivity gains, cost savings, and improved revenue. player in our industry: data collection, in particular data from Transforming digitally, however, demands new thinking as sensors; conversion of the data into useful information, then into operations and information technology converge. Capgemini can insights in the relevant business activity for the client; and finally, help. Our Digital Manufacturing solutions focus on improving the the creation of IT platforms to manage insights and data. digital maturity of core manufacturing functions across Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), asset management, operations Digital Customer Experience management, system simulation, and industrial cybersecurity. We Customer experience is the catalyst for digital transformation. draw on deep expertise in consulting and technology services, In a world where new technologies drive new behaviours, combined with a network of global Applied Innovation Exchanges it’s no longer enough to rely on your products as the critical and a strong ecosystem of partners, to ensure our industrial differentiator; what counts nowadays is your ability to provide a clients gain sustainable competitive advantage from their digital compelling, engaging customer experience. Of course, creating investments. The Cloud provides a strong platform for growth 2015 brought growth of around 50% for Capgemini’s service of now called Cloud Choice. The aim is to turn Cloud Choice into migrating our clients’ existing software and applications to the a strong platform for growth by supporting clients throughout Cloud. The Cloud has now established itself as a permanent the migration of their workload to the Cloud. Choosing a cloud fixture in the IT services market, and the Group completed over solution means making a long-term assessment of our ability 3,500 projects related to the Cloud over the course of the year. to support the development of the client’s IT environment over In 2015, to support the rapid development of this market, the time. Moreover, not many clients are able to fully benefit from Group significantly extended our global cloud services offering, flexible “as-a-service” cloud models, in terms of productivity, commercial performance growth and innovation to create new 18 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration business models. So with Cloud Choice, Capgemini is providing our clients with all the services they need to speed up their existing applications to the Cloud, cybersecurity services and developing and managing native, private, public or hybrid cloud 1 digital transformation with the help of the Cloud: technology applications. solutions, consulting and assistance. Thanks to the combination Capgemini teams worked on several major cloud projects in of expertise in all of our business lines (consulting, proximity 2015. To help develop the e-commerce service offered by services, application services and infrastructure) — and the PostNord, the postal service in Sweden and Denmark, the addition of the Cybersecurity global line — the Group is perfectly Group designed a large-scale applications platform based on placed to become the partner of choice for companies looking IBM’s Bluemix Cloud solution. In partnership with Microsoft, the to adopt the Cloud. Group also migrated over 550,000 e-mail addresses to the Cloud The new spectrum of Cloud Choice services includes the using Office 365. following: implementing a cloud strategy, testing, migrating Capgemini leads the way in Business Services In 2015, through a combination of Capgemini’s and IGATE’s services, including BPO, applications and infrastructure. These capabilities, we created a new strategic business line dedicated to platforms integrate the management of IT and support-function business services, enabling companies to close the gap between operations in areas such as finance, procurement, human their IT function and business operations. In the past, these resources and customer relationship management. They can activities were managed in an aligned yet partitioned manner, as also handle operations that are specific to a company’s business IT was considered an efficiency driver for operations. The services sector, such as claims management in the insurance industry or related to these activities were most often purchased separately logistics in the consumer goods sector. under business process outsourcing (BPO) or IT outsourcing (ITO) Capgemini’s business services are underpinned by IGATE’s contracts. powerful Integrated Technology and Operations platform (ITOPS), The advent of the digital and cloud era has made it possible to presented on p. 8. The Group also offers Odigo, a full-fledged combine these two functions, resulting in substantial efficiency virtual contact center that supports clients’ multi-channel strategy. gains. These new cloud-based business services solutions also Odigo enables clients to handle customer requests across all meet rising demand for as-a-service models that reduce clients’ channels — voice, web and mobile — and processes several fixed costs in relation to IT infrastructure. factors: customer information saved in the system, available staff This new Capgemini business line offers conventional BPO with the skills required to fulfill the request, and preset routing solutions coupled with longstanding, proven expertise in the rules. Odigo is used by more than 120,000 customer service market. We are also developing platforms that comprise various professionals at 190 major corporations worldwide. Major contracts signed by Capgemini in 2015 In 2015, order intake rose to €11,538 million, compared to to consolidate and standardize newly integrated financial and €10,978 million in 2014. The renewal or strengthening of existing accounting practices; on the other, to outsource business partnerships show that our clients trust Capgemini to support processes for Office Depot Inc. and provide development, them in their digital transformation, the creation of a new business maintenance and testing services for its applications. To this model, or the consolidation of their operational efficiency and end, Capgemini has set up a dedicated test center for this client, capacity for innovation. These contracts also reflect Capgemini’s adhering to the best practices in IT migration. international reach, because they involve all of the Group’s business lines and brands (Capgemini Consulting, Sogeti, IT Services Manager for the State of Georgia (United Prosodie-Capgemini and IGATE). Here are some examples of States) contracts signed in 2015 (for a more comprehensive list, see Capgemini won the tender issued by the Georgia Technology 4.1.1 “General comments on the Group’s activity over the past Authority (GTA) for the outsourcing of its IT services providers. year”, page 132 and following). GTA currently manages the infrastructure and IT services of over 85 federal entities and 1,300 government agencies Office Depot Inc.: Global Provider of Office Products located in the state of Georgia. Under this seven-year contract, and Solutions Capgemini will integrate IT services supplied by multiple service Having been a Group client since 2011, Office Depot chose providers, particularly in the fields of invoicing, citizen services, Capgemini to help with their merger-acquisition with Office and management of requests, risks and security. The challenge Max, effective as of November 2013. The aim is to enable for GTA is to continue improving the quality and profitability of the US company to quickly achieve commercial synergies services provided to government entities and citizens, while also from the integration of the two IT systems, and to boost benefiting from IT services at the forefront of innovation. global performance. On the one hand, this agreement aims 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 19 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration Nokia: Global Telecommunications Player Eneco: Dutch Leader in Sustainable Energy The Finnish group Nokia has renewed its contract with Capgemini The Eneco group is already one of Capgemini’s clients in for the worldwide management of customer orders (preparing infrastructure services. Now this partnership is being extended to deliveries, distribution and invoicing) until 2020. This level of trust include innovation and digital transformation for its activities as an is a testament to Capgemini’s expertise in the telecommunications energy operator. To help Eneco transform its IT environment, the sector and in the business process outsourcing (BPO) of logistics new agreement includes joint innovations in research, intellectual and supply chain management. Since 2010, this partnership has property and commercial development. These innovations will already resulted in significant optimization in relation to the costs, require Capgemini’s expertise in insights and data and the quality, and standardization of order processes internationally. Internet of Things, among others, and will make use of our Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) (see page 20). This agreement Neste: Global Leader in Renewable Fuels is part of the Utility to Energy Services program (u2es) created by The Finnish oil company Neste has chosen Capgemini to Capgemini to help our utilities clients address their challenges. help secure its future growth. The Group has become the Both partners expect to make the energy services developed primary provider of ICT services for its business needs and from this available to other players. end customers. This five-year contract will particularly draw on Capgemini’s expertise in data analysis. By using the Group’s Nationwide: Global Leader in Real Estate Credit Intelligent Service Centre™, all IT service requests from Neste’s British company Nationwide has chosen Capgemini to update clients can be consolidated, and the data can be used to yield the IT experience offered to its clients and employees, thereby insights that will help to reduce the number of incidents and helping Nationwide to assert its position as the top financial improve processing times. services provider in the UK. For five years, Capgemini will deliver infrastructure services encompassing, in particular, the continual Crédit Agricole: Leading European Retail Bank improvement of business processes, and a solution enabling Crédit Agricole’s IT subsidiary, SILCA, has agreed a seven-year employees to access their work environment from any device in partnership with Capgemini to modernize the management of its complete security. Capgemini’s Business Services team will also infrastructure. The aim is to support the French bank in its digital help Nationwide optimize its ecosystem of IT providers. transformation and in securing its business activities. Capgemini has therefore been entrusted with two main tasks: providing TGI Fridays™: Global Restaurant Chain support and advice regarding innovation and security, and the The US group has entrusted Capgemini with developing its IT delegated management of part of SILCA’s IT infrastructure infrastructure and services to support the growth and profitability through the creation of a joint venture. This new entity will supply strategy of its portfolio of franchised restaurants. The chosen operations and monitoring services for SILCA’s IT infrastructure solution is a new integrated offer called “Finance & Accounting and that of its clients within the Crédit Agricole group. as a stack”, which includes management of the financial and accounting function of TGI Fridays™, as well as the management Munich Re: Global Player in Reinsurance of its applications and infrastructure. Under this agreement, The German group Munich Re has signed a five-year Business Capgemini will use the cloud solution provided by our partner Intelligence agreement with Capgemini. Our task is twofold: NetSuite, a global leader in cloud-based ERP (Enterprise firstly, providing maintenance and development for the Resource Planning) solutions. This large-scale project will allow insurer’s international database, and secondly, designing and TGI Fridays™ to analyze its operations in real time, making this implementing Munich Re’s new international reporting system. the first step towards transforming such data into a decisionWe are therefore planning to help the company migrate to an making tool. architecture that uses SAP® Data Services™ software and the SAP HANA® platform. By using Capgemini’s BI Service Center located in India, Munich Re will be able to optimize costs while also benefiting from dynamic and flexible services on a global scale. Innovation: helping clients to speed up their integration of emerging technologies In 2015, Capgemini created a comprehensive program called the organizations to adopt ever-shorter innovation cycles. This is why Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) to help our clients to speed the AIE aims to reduce the time between the emergence of the up their integration of technological innovations. This program innovation and its implementation as a concrete solution that will includes proven methodology and tools for innovation, as well support the clients’ business. as nine innovation centers spread over four different continents*, The Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) relies on Capgemini’s where clients can get to know, test out, and adopt solutions ability to both tackle the challenges of its clients’ sectors, and to developed jointly by Capgemini and our global ecosystem of pick out the emerging technologies that are most suited to each technology partners. The ongoing digital revolution is rendering specific need. In the AIE innovation centers, clients are given the most companies’ current R&D models inoperable. Technological opportunity to test out the most innovative technologies relating innovations are advancing at a rapid pace, and the competition to the Internet of Things, data analysis, the Cloud, cybersecurity, among players in the digital economy is forcing traditional and even cutting-edge computing that facilitates the digital 20 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration transformation of business IT services. The nine AIE innovation centers* are also networked, meaning that people in any region In 2015, many of the Group’s clients were able to benefit from the innovation services of the Applied Innovation Exchange. These 1 of the world can benefit from industry expertise developed in included the Dutch energy provider Eneco, the French railway any center. The Munich innovation center specializes in the transport and rail traffic management company SNCF, the US automotive industry, whereas the Lille center specializes in retail. network of extra-curricular activities for young people Boys & Girls The new San Francisco center, which opened in early 2016, Club of America, and the international financial services provider offers a unique capacity for joint innovation with well-known highEuroclear. tech brands and start-ups, in particular companies from Silicon Valley. Setting up a Competitiveness Department At the end of 2015, Capgemini set up a new central department The first performance driver is the integrated management of the in charge of managing the Group’s competitiveness. The Group’s human and material resources. In particular, this involves responsibilities of this new department include D elivery. ensuring that these resources are available at the right time and Industrialization, Procurement and India operations. the right price. This new central department shall be effective from January 1, The second performance driver is the implementation of ways of 2016. Its main tasks are reducing production costs — direct and automating the services and solutions we offer, particularly with indirect — and the creation of one or more industrial platforms. regard to managed services and testing. To this end, we must improve service quality and our ability to Lastly, the third performance driver is the integrated management differentiate ourselves from competitors. of the Group’s global production centers, namely the service, Capgemini can use three performance drivers with a view to data processing and innovation centers. The idea is to organize increasing our competitiveness. these production centers, located in India, Eastern Europe, Latin America, Asia and Morocco, so that our various areas of expertise can be best organized to meet the needs of each client. Our talent brings more agility and expertise to the Group The needs of Capgemini’s clients continued to change rapidly in Capgemini has also launched “Game Changers”, designed 2015. To meet these requirements, the Group is searching for to inspire change within the Group and accelerate the career individuals who understand complex technological challenges, progression of particularly dynamic candidates. Around forty grasp the bigger picture, and are able to coordinate international employees were chosen for their broad vision and their ability to teams. implement game-changing ideas. These “Game Changers” come from varied entities across 13 different countries — and 41% UNCOVERING FUTURE TALENT of them are women. Over the course of a year, they will attend trainings and dedicated mentoring sessions. In return they are Capgemini uses agile recruitment methods to identify people with working on projects that require creative solutions and helping these new and highly sought-after profiles. Today, over 170 Group to tackle Capgemini’s most important challenges. employees have the LinkedIn Recruiter Certification, making us The Group has valued geographic and operational mobility for the global leader across all sectors. Furthermore, the #Gradathon a long time, and from 2016 this will be a necessary step to project has given graduates the opportunity to share their progress to certain career levels. A set of mobility guidelines will experiences at the company via Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. be available to support this new change. Similarly, the #LifeAtCapgemini and #BeTheYou campaigns were based on the same idea, but open to all employees. CAPGEMINI UNIVERSITY: MAKING DIGITAL A PRIORITY The Group has also launched the “Innovators Race” — a new competition in which graduates from six different countries, Capgemini University is designed to address the Group’s strategic chosen from among the best schools and universities, present objectives. In particular, it ensures that employees have the their innovative ideas. To this end, they are set to work on a real expertise required to support our clients’ digital transformation. In business challenge faced by a major brand, and propose ideas 2015, the university delivered 3.3 million hours of training around via a one-minute video. The winners receive $25,000 and the the world. opportunity to visit the Capgemini’s Applied Innovation Exchange This training included several Business Priority Weeks (BPW) in San Francisco (see p. 9). organized to educate employees about particularly crucial client challenges. For example, a BPW organized in June at CREATING AGILE AND COMMITTED LEADERS Capgemini’s business campus — Les Fontaines, near Paris — and attended by several clients, was dedicated to DevOps. This Capgemini is developing a number of initiatives to foster the set of technologies and working methods uniting the design, talents our clients require among our existing staff. “Strategic development and operations teams help innovations to be talent reviews” were created in 2015 to identify the leaders of brought to market more quickly. This approach was put into tomorrow. The aim is to enable top management to review practice at a hackathon — an event in which developers work potential talent. together to create an application prototype in several hours. * In San Francisco, Mumbai, Melbourne, Munich, Utrecht, Paris, Lille, Toulouse and London (the latter to be launched shortly). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 21 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration The University also launched TechnoTrends in 2015; this build on their digital skills. The University also set up a beneficial application helps employees learn about the latest technology and intuitive new training platform using software from SkillSoft, trends. a leader in e-learning solutions. MyLearning, a country-specific The University has invested significantly to ensure that we provide training catalog, has benefited from a simpler and more flexible better support for new ways of working. One example of this was new interface. A new interactive catalog offering access to all the launch of a new MOOC (Massive Open Online Course), open the training offered by the Group has also been made available to all the junior software engineers in the Group who want to online. DIVERSITY IS A DRIVER TO BOOST THE GROUP’S AGILITY As a global company with multicultural teams and interconnected markets, it goes without saying that we promote diversity and welcome people from all backgrounds, origins, cultures and fields of expertise. Through the Women@Capgemini program, the Group has worked for several years to improve the representation of women among our employees. In 2015, the program launched the “Men Champions” project, in which 40 male employees, leaders or future leaders of Capgemini, became ambassadors for greater gender diversity by taking part in awareness-raising activities. But Capgemini has not stopped there, we have also committed to achieving targets. We aim to integrate one additional woman into each executive committee in the main business units by 2016, and in the strategic units by 2017. We have also committed to increasing the proportion of women in middle management positions from 18% to 25% by 2018. As part of our efforts to promote social diversity, Capgemini is partnering with the French association Passeport Avenir, which supports young people from underprivileged areas in their academic and professional endeavors. Around 300 Group employees are involved in mentoring programs. Honors and Awards 2015 saw Capgemini receive considerable recognition from Honors Awarded to Capgemini by Analysts independent bodies and analysts, and also from our technology X Leader in Application Modernization Services for Digital partners. Transformation(3) according to IDC MarketScape (organization for research into ICT companies and markets). Capgemini Consulting: One of the Leading Digital Transformation Consultants X Leader and Star Performer, along with IGATE, for global managed services for the insurance sector, according to In 2015, independent analyst ALM Intelligence (formerly Kennedy Everest Group(4) (organization for research into the players and Consulting Research & Advisory) ranked Capgemini Consulting delivery models related to ICT). among the top four digital customer strategy and experience consultants worldwide (1). Only companies with broad and X In the “Winners Circle” for Salesforce services for our specialized expertise reach the forefront of the industry. The excellence in innovation and execution, according to HfS analyst Source Consulting ranked the Group’s consulting branch Research (5) (organization for research into performance, among the top three providers worldwide for digital “Thought business activities, technology and related services); and Leadership”(2) for the quality of our studies and reports. Source one of the leading Salesforce partners according to Forrester Consulting commended the model implemented by Capgemini Research(6) (company specializing in market studies on the Consulting enabling its Digital Transformation Institute, created in business impact of technologies). 2012, to work alongside the Group’s experts. X In the “Winners Circle” for business mobility services, according to HfS Research(7). X One of the leading providers of mobile applications to businesses, according to Forrester Research(8). X One of the leading providers of managed services for global infrastructures, according to Forrester Research(9). (1) ALM Intelligence: “Digital Strategy Consulting,” ©ALM Media, LLC. “Competitive landscape analysis: Digital Customer Strategy & Experience Consulting” report, September 2015. (2) Source: “Quality Ratings of Thought Leadership” report, period from January-June 2015. (3) IDC: “IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Application Modernization Services for Digital Transformation 2015 Vendor Assessment,” Peter Marston, December 2015. (4) Everest Group: “IT Outsourcing in Global Insurance – Service Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2015: Driving Differentiation through Digital,” Jimit Arora, Ronak Doshi, Aaditya Jain, Archit Mishra, Ankur Seth, November 2015. (5) HfS Research: “HfS Blueprint Report: Salesforce Services 2015,” Khalda De Souza, Charles Sutherland, October 2015. (6) Forrester Research Inc.: “The Forrester Wave™: Salesforce Implementation Partners, Q2 2015,” Liz Herbert with Christopher Andrews, Arelai Ephraim, Ian McPherson, June 26, 2015. (7) HfS Research: “Enterprise Mobility Services Blueprint,” Ned May, April 15, 2015. (8) Forrester Research Inc.: “The Forrester Wave™: Enterprise Mobile App Services Providers — Large Providers, Q1 2015,” March 5, 2015. (9) Forrester Research Inc.: “The Forrester Wave™: Global Infrastructure Outsourcing, Q1 2015,” William Martorelli, Wolfgang Benkel, January 13, 2015. 22 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration Honors Awarded by Technology Partners In 2015, Capgemini received several awards from our technology Ethisphere Institute. This honor is a testament to Capgemini’s continued commitment to ethics and corporate social 1 partners. In particular, IBM recognized us as the “Partner of responsibility (see page 72). the Year” for our joint contract with the client PostNord. EMC Capgemini’s Training Praised by the EFMD awarded its Innovation award to Capgemini for the Group’s and Brandon Hall Business Data Lake service, which enables businesses to adopt their own approach to data management. US company Capgemini University has received renewed accreditation until Microsoft also commended several local Group subsidiaries for 2019 from the prestigious EFMD (European Foundation for their expertise in the fields of business intelligence and customer Management Development), which comprises over 800 members relationship management (CRM). from academia, business and public service across 81 countries. Capgemini University is one of 16 corporate universities chosen SAP, the German business applications provider, praised to receive this accreditation and is the only one in its sector. It has Capgemini University’s role in training 17,000 Group experts also received two prizes from Brandon Hall (a training analysis in SAP solutions. This effort has boosted our joint activities in and research company) for the quality of its training. innovative sectors such as cloud computing and mobility. SAP recognized this by awarding Capgemini with the title “Services Environmental Commitments that are Fit for Purpose Transformation Partner of the Year.” Reducing our environmental impact is one of the four priorities in Capgemini’s CR&S strategy. Aside from Group-level Capgemini Named “Most Influential French Brand” on initiatives, many of our employees are involved in the day-toLinkedIn day development of technological solutions that help with the For the second consecutive year, Capgemini has been named environmental challenges facing our clients. They are also the “most influential French brand” on LinkedIn, the online involved in initiatives designed to benefit local communities. professional social network that connects 364 million users Among the projects we carried out in 2015, Capgemini Brazil around the world. This ranking, created by LinkedIn in 2014, helped an industrial group to improve the management of its assesses brands’ involvement in the network, their traffic and the chemical and waste products In India, our teams supported an engagement generated by their content. association in the town of Salem in its efforts to inform citizens Capgemini is Ranked One of the Top 25 “Best about the need to conserve and recycle water. Companies to Work For” in India Paul Hermelin Named “French Chairman and CEO of For the first time, Business Today, one of the top economic the Year” by French Economic Journal Challenges journals in India, has ranked Capgemini among the country’s Paul Hermelin, Capgemini Chairman and CEO, has been named top 25 “best companies to work for”. The Group comes in at “Chairman and CEO of the year” in the category of companies in number 12. the CAC 40 index by Challenges, a weekly busines magazine in France. Every year for the last 18 years, the journal has evaluated Capgemini Named One of the “World’s Most Ethical the performance of France’s top business leaders by looking at Companies” their company’s revenue, profitability and share price on the stock For the fourth consecutive year, the Group has received the US market. title of “One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®,” from the Capgemini’s publications: a 360° view of our clients’ challenges Anticipating companies’ challenges, analyzing trends in their Big & Fast Data: The Rise of Insight-Driven Business markets and understanding the impact that new technologies This study on Big Data was conducted by EMC — one of will have on their business are just some of our missions at Capgemini’s major technology partners — on 1,000 decisionCapgemini. This is why the Group compiles several dozen reports makers in 10 countries. 64% of companies said that Big Data and thematic studies every year. Produced by Capgemini’s is transforming how their markets operate and encouraging the teams, often in collaboration with respected partners, these are emergence of new players. Despite this, only 43% of them had leading publications in their field. Here is a selection of the reports already restructured their business to tap into their potential. and studies published in 2015. European Energy Markets Observatory You can find full versions of all of the Group’s publications at: According to the 17th edition of the European Energy Markets capgemini.com/thought-leadership. Observatory, the gas and electricity markets remained very volatile in 2015. Moreover, energy transition has resulted in numerous changes in the economic model for utilities companies (smart meters, decentralized production, etc.). To adapt to these changes, companies must transform themselves to use digital to their full advantage. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 23 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 2015: a year of development and acceleration Fixing the Cracks: Reinventing Loyalty Programs for the World Quality Report Digital Age The budget that companies allocate to testing has seen a Loyalty programs with the big companies are not very attractive significant increase (+9%). The main explanations for this are the because these companies have not yet caught up with the digital speed of digital transformation and the number of applications age. 97% of such programs are based entirely on clients making that they must manage. At the time of the 7th edition of this purchases, rather than showing their commitment to the brand study, conducted jointly with SOGETI and HP (surveying (filling out surveys, making recommendations to friends, etc.). This 1,500 companies in 32 countries), safety was seen as the is the first insight learned from this study of 160 global companies primary aim of testing for 81% of the companies. Now, customer led by Capgemini Consulting. experience is nearly as important (79%). Rethinking the Value Chain: New Realities in Collaborative World Retail Banking Report Business This overview of retail banking is published each year in If they wish to ensure sustainable growth, retail and consumer conjunction with Efma. The study, which examines 16,000 clients goods companies should stop designing products that will be in 32 countries, reveals that their satisfaction rate has decreased distributed in a linear way from the producer to the consumer. by 1%. The challenge for the sector is to invest more in the Instead, they should create whole networks around their end middle and back office to improve processing times and boost clients, with a large variety of channels and interfaces. This was customer service. the conclusion of the report produced in conjunction with the “Consumer Goods Forum” (which includes the top managers of World Wealth Report 400 companies from these sectors). This is the 19th edition of the report on global wealth published by The Innovation Game: Why and How Businesses Are Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management. In 2014, the number Investing in Innovation Centers of high net worth individuals increased by nearly one million, Capgemini Consulting and Altimeter have conducted a study reaching 14.6 million, or a combined wealth of $56.4 trillion. of the 200 biggest companies in the world. 38% of them have Asia Pacific Wealth Report set up a dedicated innovation center to meet their increasing This report on the wealth of individuals in Asia-Pacific is an innovation needs. 29% chose the US for this, 29% chose Europe, excerpt from the World Wealth Report published by Capgemini and 25% chose Asia. and RBC Wealth Management. Asia-Pacific is now the region World Insurance Report with the largest number of high net worth individuals (4.7 million); Conducted in conjunction with Efma (an association the rate of growth is particularly high in India (+26%) and in China encompassing over 3,300 retail financial services companies from (+17%). over 130 countries) on 15,500 clients of insurers in 30 countries, this report shows further decline in the satisfaction rate, dropping from 32% to 28.9%. The path to progress is a standardized customer experience across all communication channels and more regular and personalized interaction via digital channels. 24 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 Investment policy, financing policy and market risks 1.6 1 Investment policy, ﬁnancing policy and market risks Investment policy In 2015, Capgemini acquired IGATE (33,000 employees and In 2016, the Group wishes to strengthen its presence outside revenues of $1.3 billion) for a total amount of $4 billions. With Europe and particularly in North America. The development of this major acquisition, North America becomes the first region the technology portfolio will also remain one of the priorities of of the Group. the Group’s external growth policy. At the end of 2015, the Group signed the acquisition of a These acquisitions will be made possible thanks to the Group’s company specialized on Salesforce (Oinio, 100 employees). very solid financial position, which they should not compromise. Financing policy and ﬁnancial rating The Cap Gemini S.A. financing policy is intended to provide X a good level of liquidity and durable financial resources, which the Group with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the means: following main criteria: • maintaining an adequate level of available funds (€2,066 million X a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years at December 31, 2015), supplemented by a €750 million Capgemini Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited multi-currency syndicated line of credit secured on July 30, level of net debt (and even a positive net cash position) 2014 and maturing on July 28, 2020, including in the manner in which it finances its external growth; • borrowings, with only a limited portion falling due within X diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial 12 months (contractual cash flows within less than one profile: Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank year; see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements) financing (including the syndicated credit line and the use of representing just 17% of total contractual cash flows at leasing to finance IT equipment) and market financing (euro December 31, 2015. bond issue performed in November 2011 for €500 million; issue of ORNANE bonds redeemable in cash and/or in FINANCIAL RATING new shares and/or in existing shares for €400 million in October 2013; three euro bond issues performed in July 2015 The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and for €1,750 million – see Note 20 to the consolidated financial the cost of accessing such markets depends at least in part statements); on the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s: in April 2015, following the announcement of IGATE acquisition, the latter downgraded Capgemini’s long-term credit rating to BBB (stable outlook), from its previous rating of BBB+ (stable outlook). Market risks Detailed information concerning currency risk, interest rate risk, equity risk, liquidity risk and credit risk is provided in Notes 11, 18, 20 and 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements in this Registration Document. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 25 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7 Risk analysis Identiﬁcation of risks This risk analysis section was drafted following a coordinated X the Internal audit function which independently assesses the process involving several Group stakeholders. Of particular effectiveness of these internal control procedures given that, note among the departments that play a key role in identifying irrespective of how well they are drafted and how stringently major risks are the Internal Audit, Ethics & Compliance, Finance, they are applied, these procedures can only provide reasonable Insurance, Legal, Human Resources and Security & Mobility assurance – and not an absolute guarantee – against all risks. departments. These rules and procedures are updated periodically to reflect More generally, the Group has implemented a risk control the development of the Group’s business activities and changes system involving various parties operating at different levels of in its environment. the organization, including: The overall risk management and internal control system is X Group Management, which discussed, drafted, approved described in the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and distributed a set of rules and procedures known as the (page 71 and seq.) of this Registration Document. The risk Blue Book. Compliance with the Blue Book is mandatory for management and control procedures presented below are all Group employees. The Blue Book restates and explains described in this context. Capgemini’s seven core values, sketches out the overall When updating the mapping of its major risks that has been security framework within which the Group’s activities must be initiated at the end of 2015, Capgemini group reviews the risks conducted, and, finally, describes the methods to be followed that could have a significant negative impact on its activity, in order to exercise the necessary degree of control over the financial position or results, in order to verify the absence at this risks identified in each of the Group’s main functions; time of any other major risks apart from those presented in this X individual business units which supplement and adapt the Blue report. Book by drawing up detailed internal control procedures which It is possible that some risks not currently referred to or identified comply with the relevant laws, regulations and customary could potentially impact the results of the Group, its objectives, practices in the country where they operate, in order to reputation or the share price. exercise control more effectively over risks specific to their local market and culture; Risks relating to operations and the strategy Capgemini is a service provider and consulting group, and as budgetary constraints, may weigh on our activities. A continued such, the main risks to which the Group is exposed are (i) failure slowdown in the activity of certain economic sectors in which to deliver the services to which it has committed; (ii) failure to our clients operate would also limit their ability to invest and deliver services within the contractual timeframe and to the accordingly impact the results of the Group in a certain number required level of quality; or (iii) infringement, notably through of segments. human error, of obligations liable to affect the operations of a Finally, and more generally, a major crisis impacting the financial client or third party. In the course of its consulting activities, the markets or unfavorable trends in macro-economic indicators Group has an obligation to provide information and could incur could, due to the extent of their impacts, restrict the Group’s liability should it fail to do so. Furthermore, in a rapidly changing ability to attain its objectives and continue its development. technology environment, the Group must constantly make sure to adapt to new client product and service expectations. COMPETITION ECONOMIC RISKS The IT consulting and services business is highly competitive. A large number of players, both French and international, operate The Group’s growth and financial results may be adversely with substantial resources, giving them significant scope for affected by a general downturn in the IT service sector or in action, both financial and operational. one of Capgemini’s other key business segments. A shake-up resulting in a change of ownership at one of Capgemini’s clients The Group’s inability to understand, satisfy or anticipate the or a decision not to renew a long-term contract may have a current and future needs of our clients and prospective clients negative effect on revenue streams and require cost-cutting or by launching relevant services on the market, could impact our headcount reduction measures in the business units affected. financial results. The general economic context and more precisely restrictions Furthermore, the concentration of players in this market could affecting public bodies in the various countries subject to offer opportunities or be prejudicial to the Group. 26 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis EXTERNAL GROWTH Group’s image and credibility in the eyes of its clients, and by extension, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities. 1 External growth transactions, one of the cornerstones of the Group’s development strategy, also contain an element of risk. When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of team Integrating any newly-acquired company or activity, particularly members may be inconsistent with our principles (values, work in the service sector, may prove to be a longer and more difficult methods, etc.) and could even present a danger to the company process than predicted. The success of an external growth if contrary to ethics or legislation. transaction largely depends on the extent to which the Group Finally, internet users could make negative comments on social is able to retain key managers and employees, maintain the media (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capgemini’s performance, client base intact, coordinate development strategy effectively, service offers or human resource policy, thereby tarnishing the especially from an operating and commercial perspective, Group’s reputation. and dovetail and/or integrate information systems and internal procedures. Unforeseen problems can generate higher integration costs and/or lower savings or synergies than initially forecast. CLIENTS If a material, unidentified liability subsequently comes to light, Capgemini serves a large client base, in a wide variety of sectors the value of the assets acquired may turn out to be lower than and countries, limiting the risk of dependency on a given sector their acquisition cost (see Note 14 to Capgemini’s consolidated and/or market. The Group’s biggest clients are multinationals financial statements, page 167). and public bodies (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, page 173). The detailed list of the Group’s biggest STRATEGIC ALLIANCES clients is strategic information and is not communicated. The Group enters into strategic alliances in order to accompany The contribution of the Group’s main clients to Group revenues its growth. Governance and management difficulties could arise (as a percentage of total revenues) is as follows: if strategic objectives were not aligned with our various partners, making the development of the Group’s businesses in some 2015 critical markets difficult or even leading to a loss in revenues. Top five clients 11% REPUTATION Top ten clients 17% Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, especially on large-scale or sensitive projects, could negatively impact the Operational risks PROJECT PERFORMANCE projects to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a strong reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair Despite the formal review and approval procedure for all appraisal and promotion procedures as well as the professional contractual commitments given by the Group to its clients, development of our employees. Due to the integration of IGATE suppliers and sub-contractors, in some cases, difficulties with and the changes to the Group’s structure and organization respect to project performance and/or project costs may have resulting from this acquisition, the survey initially scheduled for been underestimated at the outset. This may result in cost the second-half of 2015 was pushed back to 2016 and the overruns not covered by additional revenues, especially in the questionnaire will be updated. case of fixed-price contracts, or reduced revenues without any corresponding reduction in expense in the case of certain The Group could encounter difficulties attracting, developing or outsourcing contracts where there is a commitment to provide a retaining the key skills necessary to the exercise of its activities. certain level of service. The loss of talent or a team could also follow an acquisition or a change in Group or entity management. More generally, the Group could be unable to control changes in its cost base, materially impacting the overall profitability of its The Group pays close attention to internal communication, operations. diversity, equal opportunity and good working conditions. Group Management has published a Code of Business Ethics and Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies oversees its application. Nevertheless, in the event of an industrial in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee dispute or non-compliance with local regulations and/or ethical that all risks have been contained and eliminated. In particular, standards, the Group’s reputation and results could be adversely human error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external affected. regulations or legislation that are not, or cannot be identified in time, may cause damage for which the Company is held liable Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization and/or may tarnish its reputation. rate, changes in headcount (including in offshore countries), career management, the development of expertise, building EMPLOYEES employee loyalty and the level of employee commitment are presented in the Chapter “Capgemini, its values, employees The vast majority of the Group’s value is founded on its human and Corporate Social Responsibility (CR&S)”, Section 3.2 “Our capital and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with people, a key Group asset” (pages 88 and seq.). the technical expertise necessary to the performance of client 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 27 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis INFORMATION SYSTEMS sales model, such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT services, or a technical (fire or natural event) or human (error/negligence or New technologies (cloud computing, “Bring your own malicious act) incident could generate additional risks. device”, etc.) and new practices (social networks, mobility, Software-as-a-Service SaaS, etc.) inevitably expose the Group Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a to new risks. Risks relating to cyber criminality of all kind could third party, budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers lead to a loss of data, delays in the delivery of our projects, and purchases that do not comply with equipment strategic service interruptions at our clients, or additional costs that could decisions, can also generate risks. impact the reputation or financial health of the Group. The systems underlying the publication of the Group’s GEOPOLITICS consolidated financial statements also present a specific risk Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately in view of the strict reporting deadlines. The Group is aware of 40 countries. The bulk of its revenues are generated in Europe the importance of internal communication network security, and and North America, which are economically and politically stable. protects its networks via security rules and firewalls. It also has an established IT security policy. An increasing portion of its production is based in emerging countries, and primarily India, which now represents approximately 48% of the Group’s total headcount. Consequently, SERVICE CONTINUITY Capgemini is now more exposed to the risk of natural disasters Capgemini’s evolving production model, Rightshore®, involves in South East Asia and Latin America, political and social transferring a portion of the Group’s production of part of its instability in some regions of India and adjoining countries, and services to sites or countries other than those in which the even terrorist attacks. From an economic standpoint, the Group services are used or in which the Group’s clients are located is also exposed to risks stemming from the negative effects of and particularly India, Poland, China and other Asian and Latin insufficiently controlled growth (industrial disputes and strikes, America countries. The development of this model has made the wage inflation, which is particularly rife in the IT sector, inadequate Group more reliant on telecommunications networks, which may domestic infrastructure and higher taxes). increase the risk of business interruption at a given production Sending employees to countries which are geopolitically site due to an incident or a natural disaster, in so far as several unstable may expose the Group to risks regarding the physical operational units could be affected simultaneously. The use safety of these employees. Economic instability and poorly of a large number of production sites increases the range of controlled growth can also be a source of risk for the company’s contingency options available to the Group. performance and reputation. The risk of natural disasters in certain countries where we are established, political instability SUPPLIERS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS and even terrorist attacks and similar risks in countries where we may be called on to work in response to client requirements, Capgemini is dependent upon certain suppliers, especially in its could impact the physical safety of our employees. Economic Technology Services and networks businesses. While alternative uncertainty in an unstable environment generates many other solutions exist for most software and networks, the failure of a risks (galloping inflation and its impact on wages, poorly adapted supplier to deliver specific technology or expertise could have infrastructures, unstable fiscal and social environment, etc.), prejudicial consequences for certain projects (see section 3.4 which could impact our economic performance. “Engaging with stakeholders”, “Our suppliers and business partners”, page 116 and seq.). Finally, a dedicated international insurance program has been setup to provide assistance to all employees covering their The bankruptcy of a supplier, its takeover by a competitor (and a security, healthcare and potential repatriation (for more information change in its current service offer/product range), a change in its please refer to the Insurance section of this document). Legal risks Capgemini Group provides a range of services to its clients CONTRACTS who in turn operate in a variety of business sectors. All services The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited relating to a given project are covered by contracts signed with liability in certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual our clients as well as our suppliers and sub-contractors (software, risks may notably arise when the Group’s liability for failing to fulfill IT hardware, host sites, etc.) when implementing tailored certain obligations is unlimited, on the acceptance of financial solutions. Each contract is governed by specific regulations that guarantees, when there is no liability protection clause in relation could negatively impact our activities. Other factors such as the to services affecting health and safety or the environment, and size and geographical locations of the Group also expose it to when the rights of third parties are not respected. legal and tax risks. 28 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION require us to comply with regulations imposed on them, or in rare cases, make us comply with other regulations. 1 The Group is a multinational company operating in several countries and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate Due to the nature of its activities, the Group must comply around the world and are subject to numerous and constantly with various international and local regulations regarding data changing laws and regulations. These mainly include, for privacy protection. The Group could be held liable in the event example, anti-corruption laws, import and export controls, of voluntary or involuntary disclosure of all or part of client or sanctions, immigration rules, safety obligations and employment third-party data. legislation. Even if measures are taken to limit any negative impact on our The sheer diversity of local laws and regulations applicable and activities or our reputation of non-compliance with regulations the constant changes therein, exposes the Group to a risk of governing our activities, failure to take account of regulations or infringement of such laws and regulations by under-informed an error in interpreting such regulations, would expose the Group employees especially those working in countries that have a to financial and reputation risks. different culture to their own – and to the risk of indiscretion or fraud committed by employees. As stringent as they may be, the LITIGATION legal precautions taken by the Group both at a contractual and an operational level to protect its activities or to ensure adherence Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, the by employees to internal rules can only provide reasonable Group is not immune from litigation and legal action. assurance and never an absolute guarantee against such risks. Nonetheless, at the date of this report, there are no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, including any proceedings of FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR which the Group is aware, that are pending or liable to arise, ACTIVITIES which are likely to have or have had in the last 12 months a While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain of material impact on the Group’s financial position or profitability our clients’ activities, particularly in the financial sector, sometimes other than those that are recognized in the financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Note 24 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements page 188). Financial risks The Group Finance Department is responsible for the control, with financial institutions pursuant to its policy for managing monitoring and supervision of financial risks and is present in currency and interest rate risks also expose the Group to credit each country and each business unit. and counterparty risk (see Note 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated The variety of its activities and geographic locations exposes the financial statements). Group to a number of financial risks, described below, which, depending on their materiality, can have a significant impact on LIQUIDITY RISK the results and reputation of the Group. Liquidity risk for the Group could correspond to a temporary or permanent inability to fulfill all or part of its commitments in EQUITY RISK respect of its financial liabilities (including in particular borrowings For the Group, equity risk would consist of unfavorable and accounts and notes payable) and the inability to find new movements in the stock market value of listed companies in sources of financing in order to maintain the balance between which the Group holds investments. revenue and expenditure. Such a risk would also limit the Group’s ability to finance its activities and the investment necessary for However, the Group does not hold any shares for financial its development. investment purposes, and does not have any interests in listed companies. It does, however, hold treasury shares acquired The financial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the under its share buyback program as well as call options on its Group to liquidity risk correspond mainly to the bonds issued own shares and enters into derivatives in its own shares (see respectively in July 2015, November 2011 and 2013 (ORNANE). Note 11 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). In this context, the Company undertook a specific review of its liquidity risk and considers it is able to meet future scheduled COUNTERPARTY AND CREDIT RISK payments (see Note 20 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). Capgemini Group would be exposed to credit and counterparty risk in respect of its asset financial instruments if the relevant INTEREST RATE RISK debtor was unable to fulfill all or part of its commitments (see Note 18 and Note 20 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial The Group’s Income Statement could be impacted by interest statements). rate risk if unfavorable movements in interest rates had a negative impact on future net finance costs and financial flows of the Financial assets which could expose the Group to credit or Group. counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and accounts receivable. The hedging agreements entered into 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 29 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk must also be RISKS RELATING TO EMPLOYEE LIABILITIES considered in light of its cash position. The liquidity at its disposal Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements may be impacted is generally invested at floating rates, while the Group’s debt – by provisions for pensions covering funded defined benefit plans, primarily comprising bond issues – is mainly at fixed rates (see which are also subject to volatility. Furthermore, the Group could Note 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). be faced with calls for funds from trustees to make-up pension fund shortfalls, over a short or long time period, potentially FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK deteriorating its financial position. The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk that could The main risk factors are fluctuations in interest rates and more impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the generally the financial markets, as well as inflation rates and life consolidation process on the translation of the foreign currency expectancy. The value of pension obligations is calculated based accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency on actuarial assumptions and particularly interest rates, inflation is not the euro, and currency risks arising on operating and rates and life expectancy. Pension plan assets, which are invested financial cash flows which are not denominated in the entities’ in different categories of assets (including equities), are managed functional currency. by the trustees of each fund and are subject to market risk, as well as the performance of the management policy defined by The growing use of offshore production centers in India, but also the trustees, implementation of which can in certain cases by in Poland and Latin America, exposes Capgemini to currency risk delegated. Under these conditions, plan assets may be less with respect to some of its production costs. Capgemini is also than pension obligations, reflecting a funding shortfall or deficit. exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in respect of Changes over time in assets and/or liabilities are not necessarily inter-company financing transactions and fees paid to the Group in the same direction and are eminently volatile and can increase by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro (see or decrease the funding asset/liability or the resulting deficit. Note 22 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). Nonetheless, the potential economic impact of these changes must be assessed over the midand long-term in line with the timeframe of the Group’s pension commitments (see Note 23 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). Insurance The Group Insurance Department reports to the Group Finance business activities, everywhere in the world. This insurance Department and is responsible for the design, placement and program is structured in layers contracted with highly reputable monitoring of all non-life insurance policies. The management leading insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this and coordination of employee benefits insurance is overseen by program, including coverage limits, are periodically reviewed and a joint governance body representing the Finance Department adjusted to reflect changes in risk exposure, due particularly to and the Group Human Resources Department. legislation, the Group’s activities, new countries where Capgemini The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses operates and changes in client contracts, as well as the evolution the assessment, prevention and transfer of all or part of the risks of the worldwide insurance and reinsurance markets. relating to individuals, its assets and equipment under Group’s The €20 million primary layer of this program is reinsured through responsibility. The Group’s insurance policy for transferring risks a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary and has been in to the insurance and reinsurance market is to adjust insurance operation for several years. coverage to the maximum replacement value of assets to be insured, or in the case of liability insurance, to an estimate of PROPERTY DAMAGE AND BUSINESS INTERRUPTION its own risks and reasonably foreseeable third party risks in its business sector, taking account of legislation and specific risks in The Group has set-up an integrated property damage and each country and the emergence of new risks, as well as changes business interruption insurance program covering all of its in major exposure under contacts signed with clients. Deductibles subsidiaries worldwide. Its real estate policy is to rent rather are set so as to encourage operational unit managers to commit than to buy its business premises, and consequently it owns to risk prevention and out-of-court settlement of claims, without little property. exposing the Group as a whole to significant financial risk. Capgemini’s business premises are located in a wide variety of countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY AND PROFESSIONAL them. The Group has slightly over 500 sites with an average INDEMNITY surface area of 3,500 square meters. Some of the Group’s This insurance program, which is key for clients, is designed, consultants work off-site at client premises. This geographical taken out and managed centrally at Group level. Any entity in dispersion limits risk, in particular the risk of loss due to business which Cap Gemini SA has 50% or more ownership (direct or interruption that might arise from an incident at a site. The indirect control), is insured by a worldwide integrated Group Group’s largest site, which is located in India, employs nearly insurance program covering the financial consequences of their 10,000 people in a number of different buildings. Client and commercial general liability and professional indemnity, i.e., any supply shortage risk is assessed and insured to the extent damage caused to third parties within the course of our usual possible, based on knowledge of the materiality of the risk and the available offering in the insurance market. 30 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 Risk analysis EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND MOBILITY INSURANCE OTHER RISKS 1 The Group uses specialist companies to train and assist its Crime and fidelity coverage (especially for information systems) is employees throughout the world. Risks concerning medical managed centrally at Group level via a global insurance program. emergencies, personal security, assistance and repatriation of All other risks – including motor vehicle, transport of goods, and employees working outside their home countries, is managed employer liability for accidents at work – are insured locally using centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. insurance policies that reflect local regulations. Employee benefits insurance programs (death and disability, Pollution risks are low in an intellectual services business, and healthcare, medical costs, pensions, etc.) are tied to the different Capgemini is not specifically insured against these risks in any benefits received by employees and are generally managed by country in which it operates. The Group has also decided that, the human resources departments in each country. The Group unless coverage is compulsory and readily available, it is not Insurance and Human Resources Departments are jointly necessary to systematically insure against terrorism-related risks. responsible for the management and international coordination Some risks are excluded from coverage or restricted under the of these programs. The main objectives are to ensure the general conditions imposed by the insurance and reinsurance compliance of current schemes and develop, standardize and market. improve them in accordance with the different legal systems in the countries concerned and to optimize traditional and alternative risk transfer/financing mechanisms. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 31 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 32 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 2.3 Organization and activities Compensation of executive of the Board of Directors 34 corporate officers 59 2.1.1 History and composition of the Board of Directors 34 2.3.1. Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 2.1.2 Other ofﬁ ces and duties exercised by compensation policy 59 members of the Board of Directors 2.3.2. 2015 Compensation of Paul Hermelin, (composition as of December 31, 2015) 40 Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 61 2.1.3 Role, meetings, operating rules and 2.3.3 2016 Compensation of the Chairman self-assessment procedure 45 and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 66 2.1.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized 2.3.4 Attendance fees and other compensation Board Committees 49 received by Corporate Ofﬁ cers 66 2.1.5 Rights and obligations of Directors – Compensation 52 2.3.5 Stock subscription options, stock purchase 2.1.6 Declarations concerning the group’s corporate options and performance shares 67 ofﬁ cers 54 2.1.7 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 55 2.1.8 Transactions carried out by members of the board of directors and other senior managers involving 2.4 cap gemini shares 55 Internal control and risk management procedures 71 2.2 General organization 2.5 of the Group 56 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 80 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 33 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Paul Hermelin prepared the report of the Chairman of the Board business associations) in December 2008 (recommendations of Directors on the composition of the Board and the preparation immediately adopted by our Board of Directors as a and organization of its activities and on internal control and benchmark) as revised in June 2013 and November 2015; risk management procedures implemented by the Company X as well as the rules of good governance, adopted, applied and pursuant to: complied with continuously by the Capgemini Group since the X the provisions of Article L.225-37, paragraph 6 of the French closing of its first fiscal year on December 31, 1968 (i.e. for Commercial Code (Code de commerce); more than 45 years!). X the recommendations set out in the “Corporate Governance Code” issued jointly by AFEP and MEDEF (French private 2.1.1 History and composition of the Board of Directors 2016 was marked by the death, on March 15, of Serge Kampf, shareholders (CGIP, a partner since 1988 and Daimler Benz, founder, Vice-Chairman of the Board and Honorary Chairman shareholder since 1991): of the Capgemini Group. The Group is therefore at a turning • to propose to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, point in its history as these words are being written. Capgemini 1996 the merger-absorption within Cap Gemini of the two was shaped by Serge Kampf’s extraordinary qualities. He was holding companies that had until then enabled him to retain an exceptional entrepreneur and a captain of industry the likes majority control, of which are rarely seen. In 1967, he was among the first to understand the role of an IT services company. He had taken • to participate (personally in the amount of FRF 300 million) in the Group to the top of its sector when he handed Paul Hermelin a share capital increase of FRF 2.1 billion, with the balance the Executive Management of the Group in 2002, followed by subscribed in equal parts (FRF 900 million) by Daimler and the Chair of the Board in 2012. He built the Group based on CGIP, principles that still apply today: a spirit of enterprise, a passion for • and finally, to transfer the head office from Grenoble to Paris. clients, an obsession to help employees grow, ethical conduct at In May 1996, at the end of this initial period, the Group had all times and performance at its best. 25,000 employees (7,000 in France, nearly 4,000 in the United Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and author States, some 12,000 in the triangle formed by the UK, Benelux of this report wrote the following words to Group employees: and the Nordic countries and around 2,000 across approximately 10 other countries) – a 625-fold increase on its initial headcount! “I have lost a mentor and a friend. But let us treasure the – and reported annual revenues of approximately FRF 13 billion memories of his teachings and prepare to take Capgemini, his (€2 billion), i.e. “per capita” revenues of around FRF 520,000 Group, even further. In this way, let us show that we are worthy (€80,000). successors”. X period two (1996-2002): a changing shareholding Serge Kampf was particularly attentive to the drafting of the structure Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control. The text which follows largely sets out the history of the Group On May 24, 1996, as announced in January to key Group as he wrote it. managers, Serge Kampf presented his proposals to the Shareholders’ Meeting which adopted them with a large The story of this (nearly) half-century is a relatively simple one, and majority. Just after, a two-tier structure – more familiar to the can be split into four major periods: German shareholder than the French société anonyme – was X period one (1967-1996): 29 years of independence introduced for a four-year period, with Serge Kampf as Chairman Sogeti – the parent and several times grand-parent company of of the Management Board and Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) the current Group – was created in Grenoble in October 1967 as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. One year later, following as a “traditional” limited liability company, managed nearly Daimler-Benz’s decision to refocus on its core businesses (a 30 years by the same Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, decision confirmed soon after by the spectacular takeover of Serge Kampf, its founder and the uncontested leader of a Chrysler), this latter was replaced by Ernest-Antoine Seillière, brilliant team of managers that he formed around him and never Chairman of CGIP (now the principal shareholder of the Group, ceased to promote. Fully conscious that the Group – if it were with 30% of the share capital). At the end of this four-year period, to attain the increasingly ambitious objectives that he set each the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2000 held to year – could not restrict much longer its financial capacities to approve the 1999 financial statements decided not to renew this those of its founding Chairman, Serge Kampf finally accepted in two-tier governance structure and to reinstate Serge Kampf in January 1996 under friendly pressure from the two other “main” his duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to create at his request a position of General Manager, which had never really existed within the Group. The first holder of this position was Geoff Unwin, already considered to be the Group’s number two within the Management Board. 34 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors In December 2001, after a difficult year whose disappointing manage an increasingly international and decentralized group, results only confirmed the threat of recession hanging over the while removing the risk of conflict between the holders of these global economy, the Group had 55,000 employees and reported two functions when they are separated.The Board of Directors annual revenues of around €7 billion, i.e. “per capita” revenues also considered that a satisfactory balance of power existed of approximately €125,000, more than 50% above that of the within the Board of Directors, ensuring balanced and efficient first period but merely the reflection of the incorporation in our governance. The Board noted in particular: headcount in May 2000 of 16,643 consultants from Ernst & – the presence of a majority of independent directors on the Young. Taking note of the decision made – and confirmed – by Board, Geoff Unwin to retire in the near future, the Board of Directors decided, at the recommendation of its Chairman, to appoint as – the existence of four Specialized Board Committees with different remits encompassing Audit, Compensation, Ethics 2 his replacement Paul Hermelin, who became Group General and Governance and Strategy, and Manager alongside Serge Kampf, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on January 1, 2002. – the restrictions introduced by the Board of Directors’ Charter on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer by requiring the X period three (2002-2012): a well-prepared transfer prior approval by the Board of Directors of major strategic of power decisions and decisions likely to have a material impact on • On July 24, 2002, Serge Kampf took the initiative to the Company. recommend to the Board of Directors – which accepted – to At its meeting of April 4, 2012, the Board solemnly conferred on split the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Serge Kampf the title of “Honorary Chairman” and function of as recently made possible by the New Economic Regulations Vice-Chairman. The Board informed the Combined Shareholders’ Law (NRE). He considered that after creating, expanding, Meeting of May 24, 2012 of this change, which gave a standing leading and managing the Group for 35 years, the time had ovation in honor of the immense contribution of Serge Kampf to come for him to give more power and visibility to the person the development and reputation of the Company. he considered the best qualified to succeed him one day (he also informed CGIP of this choice in a planning letter dated X period four (2012 to this day): a new dimension for December 1999, “just in case”). This two-man team operated the Group efficiently and in harmony for 10 years, although this was Since 2012, Paul Hermelin carries out the duties of Chairman due more to the relationship of trust, friendship and mutual of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of respect between the two individuals than what the NRE says the Company with the dual aim of facilitating the collective regarding the respective roles, powers and responsibilities performance of the Board of Directors’ activities and satisfying of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. Certain the corporate governance expectations of shareholders and their directors even observed that the very general drafting of representatives. Accordingly, in recent years the Charters of the this law could one day – for example should one or other no Board of Directors and its Committees have been overhauled, longer be part of this two-man team – become a source of not only to reflect the consequences of the regrouping of these ambiguity, confusion and possibly even conflict. Despite the duties but also to take account of the new recommendations heavy storm which battered the Group during the first four of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. In particular, the position of Lead years of this period, the Group invested considerable sums in Independent Director was created from 2014 and the Chair of the major restructuring operations (accepted and even encouraged Ethics & Governance Committee was entrusted to this director. by a Board of Directors, once again very active), the most The Lead Independent Director chairs the executive sessions obvious outcome of which was the reinvigoration of all Group held at least twice a year, which bring together the directors not companies: for example, at the end of 2011, the Group had tied to the Company. He also performs the annual assessment of 120,000 employees (compared with 55,000 employees the activities of the Board of Directors. Therefore, while the duties 10 years previously) and reported revenues of €10 billion of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors compared with €7 billion in 2001, i.e. a fall in “per capita” have been regrouped, these duties are now exercised under the revenues to €81,000 – practically the same as 15 years close and vigilant supervision of the Lead Independent Director. previously – but a reflection of the international spread of the This observation that the Company enjoys balanced and efficient Group’s activities and employees since 2013, accelerated governance was reiterated during the latest assessment of the by the acquisition in October 2006 of KANBAY, with its Board’s activities performed in 2015. 5,000 Indian employees. • On April 4, 2012, as he had already implied two years previously Further information on the roles and duties of the Lead on the renewal of his term of office, Serge Kampf informed Independent Director and the restrictions on the powers of the directors that “after having enjoyed the benefits of separation Chief Executive Officer is presented in Section 2.1.5 (Rights for 10 years” he had decided to place this office back in and Obligations of Directors). The roles and composition of the the hands of the Board of Directors while recommending a Specialized Board Committees are presented in Section 2.1.4. return at this time to the “standard” method of governance The creation of a Group Executive Board (GEB) to assist Paul (that of a company in which the duties of Chairman and Chief Hermelin also contributes on an operating level to ensuring the Executive Officer are exercised by the same individual) and collective management of the Company. The GEB is chaired the appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of by Paul Hermelin and comprises a limited number of Executive the current Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin, who had Committee members, and particularly the heads of the main widely demonstrated, throughout a “probationary period” of a group businesses, the Chief Financial Officer, the People rather exceptional length, his ability to hold this role. The Board, Management and Transformation Director and the Director in which followed these recommendations, considered that this charge of production. method of governance regrouping the duties of Chairman of The directors meet regularly with members of the Group the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer seemed the Management Board during Committee meetings (Audit, best able to allow Paul Hermelin to succeed Serge Kampf and Compensation and Strategy & Investment), periodic business 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 35 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors reviews and the annual residential Board meeting focusing on X and finally Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, elected as a Board member the Group’s strategy, which includes key Group managers in the by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 to discussions of the Board of Directors. represent employee shareholders, and whose four-year term of office will therefore expire in the Spring of 2016, the day of the It is in this Governance context that the number of Group Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. employees increased 50% between 2012 and 2015 to reach 180,639 at the end of 2015 and that various acquisitions were The Board of Directors regularly assesses its composition and performed, first among which the acquisition of IGATE in 2015. the various areas of expertise and experience contributed by each of its members and identifies the direction to be taken to Serge Kampf passed away on March 15, 2016. ensure the best possible balance with regards to the international development and human diversity of the Group’s employees. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS At the proposal of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the While giving the impression of great stability, the composition Board of Directors agreed, during its meeting of March 23, 2016, of the Board has changed significantly over time. For example, the need to increase the financial expertise of the Board and in 2002, at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting, it comprised strengthen the Audit Committee. In addition, the Board confirmed 11 directors and 2 non-voting directors, all of whom were men. the need to continue decreasing the average age of directors, as Only three members of this team remain today: Bruno Roger, well as increasing the number of female directors and the diversity Paul Hermelin and Phil Laskawy (in order of length of service). The of profiles and cultures represented. directors who have left the Board include Christian Blanc, ErnestThe appointment of two new female directors whose profiles Antoine Seillière (who was Vice-Chairman), Chris van Breugel, and experience satisfy these various objectives will therefore be Guy de Wouters, Pierre Hessler, Geoff Unwin and especially proposed to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, Serge Kampf and Michel Jalabert, his long-term companion and 2016. These appointments will also allow the independence of “boss” at Bull in the 1960s and a shareholder in Sogeti from the Board of Directors to be strengthened, increasing to 69%, its creation. Michel Jalabert joined the Group in 1976 and was following the confirmation by the Board of Directors’ meeting of for nearly 30 years a member (with Daniel Setbon and a few March 23 that these two candidates are considered independent others) of the Chairman’s inner circle and was elected director with respect to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting in May 2000. Michel Jalabert died in 2013. In the meantime, a number of individuals The two candidates proposed for appointment are: have joined and left the Board: Marcel Roulet (non-voting director X Mrs. Sîan Herbert-Jones, previously Chief Financial Officer of from 2005 to 2009), Thierry de Montbrial (2005-2013), Bernard the Sodexo group from 2001 to March 1, 2016. Mrs. HerbertLiautaud (2009-2013), Ruud van Ommeren (2000-2014) and Jones brings considerable financial expertise to the Board of Terry Ozan (2000-2014). Directors acquired with PricewaterhouseCoopers and then At the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, the Sodexo. She is also Chairwoman of the Audit and Accounts Board comprised 12 directors, four of whom women (there are Committee of the L’Air Liquide Board of Directors since 2011. no non-voting directors since the decision by the Combined Of British nationality but with an excellent command of the Shareholders’ Meeting in May 2012 not to renew the terms of French language, Mrs. Herbert-Jones contributes to the office of Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin as non-voting directors): internationalization of the Board of Directors. X eight directors were appointed or reappointed by this X Mrs. Carole Ferrand, Financing Operations Director Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years; their terms of the Artemis Group. After a career in audit with of office should therefore expire the day of the Combined PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Mrs. Ferrand joined the Artemis Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2017 financial Group in 2013. She is also a director of FNAC and a member statements: of its Audit Committee. • Laurence Dors, Serge Kampf, Bruno Roger, Paul Hermelin, Phil The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 will also Laskawy and Yann Delabrière were reappointed for a period of be asked to renew the term of office of the director representing four years; Serge Kampf’s term of office ended on March 15, employee shareholders and to amend the bylaws of the 2016 on his death, Company to enable the appointment of employee directors in accordance with the regulations now applicable to Cap Gemini. • Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle and Xavier Musca were appointed These directors, who must be appointed before the end of 2016, directors for the first time; will contribute new expertise to the Board of Directors. The total X Daniel Bernard and Pierre Pringuet, Board members since number of directors would therefore increase from 11 to 15. 2005 and 2009, respectively, whose terms of office were Throughout recent years, the Board of Directors’ composition has renewed for four years by the Combined Shareholders’ changed on converging fronts: reduction of the total membership Meeting of May 23, 2013 and which will therefore expire in (the number of members including non-voting directors having the Spring of 2017, the day of the Combined Shareholders’ been reduced from sixteen to twelve, while pursuant to Meeting held to approve the 2016 financial statements; Article L.225-23 of the French Commercial Code, the Board X Anne Bouverot, coopted by the Board of Directors’ meeting of added an employee shareholder representative), rejuvenation October 8, 2013 to replace Bernard Liautaud (who resigned) (average age lowered to 65) and increased female presence for the remaining term of office of the latter, that is until the (proportion of women increased to 33%(1)). The total number of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2016 Board members will increase in 2016 due to the implementation financial statements, whose cooption was ratified by this same of legislative provisions regarding employee representation, as Shareholders’ Meeting; well as the recruitment of female directors in anticipation of the Copé-Zimmermann Law deadline. The expiry of terms of office (1) Rates after the 2015 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and until Serge Kampf passed away on March 15, 2016. 36 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors in 2017 and 2018 will offer the opportunity, if it is considered recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the change the necessary, to reduce the total number of Board members. percentage of directors of foreign nationality or dual nationality or The continued representation on the Board of a range of conducting their main activity outside France to 31%. nationalities is confirmed with 33% of directors of foreign Since July 2014, the Secretary of the International Works Council, nationality or dual nationality or conducting their main activity Kevin Masters, has attended meetings of the Board of Directors outside France. The appointment of a further two women, at as a permanent guest. His participation contributes to the least one of foreign nationality, would increase the percentage diversity of experiences and viewpoints expressed. of female directors on the Board to 46% in accordance with the 2 Composition Composition Composition after the 2014 after the 2015 after the 2016 Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting Meeting Meeting Percentage of independent directors 58% 58% 69% Percentage of female directors 33% 33% 46% Average age of directors 64 65 62 Average term of office 7 8 6 Percentage of directors of foreign nationality, dual nationality or residing outside France 33% 33% 31% 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 37 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors EXAMINATION OF THE PERSONAL SITUATION OF DIRECTORS WITH RESPECT TO THE INDEPENDENCE CRITERIA LAID DOWN BY THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE (REVIEWED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ MEETING OF MARCH 23, 2016) Is not an executive corporate officer of a company in which the Company holds directly Is not a customer, supplier, Is not and has not been within or indirectly a directorship corporate bank or financing the last 5 years, an employee or or in which an employee bank: executive corporate officer of designated as such or an ■ material for the company the Company or an employee executive corporate officer or its group; or director of its parent of the Company (currently or ■ or for which the company company or a company that it within the last 5 years) holds a or the group represents a consolidates directorship material share of activity Paul Hermelin X Daniel Bernard X X X Anne Bouverot X X X Yann Delabrière X X X Laurence Dors X X X Phil Laskawy X X X Xavier Musca X X X Pierre Pringuet X X X Bruno Roger X X Lucia Sinapi-Thomas X X Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle X X X (1) Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, a director only loses his/her status as independent as a result of this criterion on expiry of the term of office during which he/she exceeds the 12-year threshold. NI: not independent I: independent 38 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Has not been the Has not been a director of the Company for more Does not represent a shareholder participating 2 Does not have close Statutory Auditor of the than 12 years at the in the control of the family ties with a Company in the last end of the current term Company or its parent corporate officer 5 years of office(1) company Directors’ position X X X NI X X X X I X X X X I X X X X I X X X X I X X X NI X X X X I X X X X I X X X NI X X X X NI X X X X I 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 39 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.2 Other ofﬁces and duties exercised by members of the Board of Directors (composition as of December 31, 2015) † SERGE KAMPF(1) Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 October 13, 1934 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces in Capgemini Group Nationality: French Honorary Chairman Chairman of: Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. First appointment: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A.* ■ CAPGEMINI SUISSE S.A. 2000 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Director of: ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) 2018 Number of shares held at Sole manager of: Dec. 31, 2015: ■ S.C.I. PARIS ÉTOILE 3,670,000 * Listed company. (1) Passed away on March 15, 2016. PAUL HERMELIN Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES April 30, 1952 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Director of: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A.* ■ AXA* First appointment: 2000 Other ofﬁces in Capgemini Group Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: 2018 ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) Number of shares held at Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Dec. 31, 2015: ■ CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) 247,048 ■ CAPGEMINI US LLC (U.S.A.) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ■ CAP GEMINI N.V. (THE NETHERLANDS) Chairman of: ■ CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S. ■ SOGETI FRANCE 2005 S.A.S. ■ CAPGEMINI 2015 S.A.S. ■ CAPGEMINI 2010 (UNTIL 09/24/2015) Chief Executive Officer of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. Director of: ■ CGS HOLDINGS LTD (UK) ■ CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL SERVICES INTERNATIONAL, INC. (U.S.A.) ■ IGATE CORPORATION (SINCE 10/16/2015) * Listed company. 40 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors DANIEL BERNARD Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES February 18, 1946 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman of: Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ PROVESTIS ■ KINGFISHER PLC* First appointment: ■ MAF RETAIL GROUP (UNTIL DECEMBER 2015) 2005 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2017 Honorary Chairman of: ■ LA FONDATION HEC 2 Number of shares held at Senior Advisor of: Dec. 31, 2015: ■ TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P 1,000 Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Director of: ■ ALCATEL LUCENT* (UNTIL 2014) Chairman of: ■ LA FONDATION HEC (UNTIL 2014) * Listed company. ANNE BOUVEROT Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES March 21, 1966 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman of: Director of: ■ MORPHO S.A.S. ■ EDENRED* First appointment: 2013 Other ofﬁces in Morpho Group Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Chairman and Managing Director of: 2017 ■ MORPHO TRAK, LLC (UNITED STATES) Number of shares held at President of: Dec. 31, 2015: ■ MORPHO USA, INC. (UNITED STATES) 1,000 Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ MORPHO DETECTION INTERNATIONAL, LLC (UNITED STATES) Member of the Supervisory Board of: ■ MORPHO CARDS GMBH (GERMANY) Director of: ■ MORPHO DETECTION, LLC (UNITED STATES) Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Chief Executive Officer of: ■ GSMA SV (SWITZERLAND) Chairman of: ■ FRANCE TELECOM NORTH AMERICA Member of the Scientific Committee of: ■ FRANCE TELECOM ORANGE S.A.* Director of: ■ GROUPAMA S.A.* (UNTIL 2013) ■ ORANGE S.A.* ■ GSMA LTD (U.S.A.) Member of the Board as Permanent Representative of France Telecom Orange S.A.: ■ GSMA (INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MOBILE OPERATORS) * Listed company. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 41 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors YANN DELABRIERE Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES December 19, 1950 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Director of: ■ FAURECIA* ■ SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE* First appointment: 2004 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2015: 2,550 * Listed company. LAURENCE DORS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES March 16, 1956 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Senior Partner of: Director of: ■ THEANO ADVISORS ■ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* First appointment: ■ EGIS SA 2010 ■ INHESJ (FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR Expiry of term of ofﬁce: ADVANCED STUDIES IN SECURITY AND 2018 JUSTICE) Number of shares held at ■ IFA (FRENCH INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS) Dec. 31, 2015: Member of: 1,000 ■ IHEAL (INSTITUTE OF LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES) STRATEGIC POLICY COMMITTEE Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Corporate Secretary Member of the Executive Committee of: ■ RENAULT* (UNTIL 2011) * Listed company. PHIL LASKAWY Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES March 31, 1941 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: American Director of: N/A ■ HENRY SCHEIN, INC.* First appointment: ■ LAZARD LTD* 2002 ■ LOEWS CORPORATION* Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Number of shares held at Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Dec. 31, 2015: Chairman (non-executive) of: 1,000 ■ FANNIE MAE* (USA) (UNTIL 2014) Director of: ■ GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION* (USA) (UNTIL 2013) * Listed company. 42 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors XAVIER MUSCA Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES February 23, 1960 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces in Groupe Crédit Agricole: Nationality: French Deputy Chief Executive Officer of: Member of the Management Committee – ■ CREDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* Member of the Executive Committee of: First appointment: ■ CREDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* 2014 Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 Chairman of: ■ CA CONSUMER FINANCE Director – Vice-Chairman of: 2 Number of shares held at ■ PREDICA Dec. 31, 2015: 1,000 Director of: ■ AMUNDI S.A.* ■ CA ASSURANCES ■ CACI Director – Member of the Compensation Committee of: ■ CARIPARMA (ITALY) Permanent representative of Crédit Agricole S.A. on the Board of: ■ PACIFICA Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Deputy Secretary General and then Secretary General of the French President’s Office Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ■ CREDIT DU MAROC* (UNTIL 2015) Vice-Chairman of: ■ UBAF (UNTIL 2015) Member of the Executive Committee of: ■ CARIPARMA (ITALY) (UNTIL 2015) Director – Vice-Chairman of: ■ CREDIT AGRICOLE EGYPT S.A.E.* (UNTIL 2015) Director of: ■ BESPAR (UNTIL 05/15/2014) ■ BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (UNTIL 12/31/2014) ■ CACEIS (UNTIL 2015) * Listed company. PIERRE PRINGUET Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES January 31, 1950 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors Director of: Until 02/11/2015: Chief Executive Officer ■ ILIAD S.A.* First appointment: of: ■ AVRIL GESTION S.A.S. (AVRIL GROUP) 2009 ■ PERNOD RICARD* Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2017 Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2015: 1,700 * Listed company. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 43 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors BRUNO ROGER Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES August 6, 1933 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces in Lazard Group: Nationality: French Chairman of: Chairman of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES S.A.S. ■ GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING OF LAZARD First appointment: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE FRERES GROUP 2000 ■ COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE LAZARD Managing partner of: Expiry of term of ofﬁce: FRÈRES S.A.S ■ LAZARD FRÈRES 2018 ■ MAISON LAZARD ET CIE Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2015: Member of the Deputy Chairman Committee of: 1,100 ■ LAZARD FRÈRES GROUP Honorary Chairman of: ■ EURAZEO* Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE Non-voting member of: ■ EURAZEO* * Listed company. LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES January 19, 1964 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: French Executive Director Business Platforms Director of: Until 12/31/2015: Deputy Chief Financial ■ BUREAU VERITAS* First appointment: Officer of: ■ DASSAULT AVIATION* 2012 ■ CAP GEMINI S.A.* Other ofﬁces in Capgemini Group: Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2016 Chairman of: Number of shares held at ■ CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE S.A.S. Dec. 31, 2015: (FRANCE) 19,114 Director of: ■ CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL S.A. (LUXEMBOURG) ■ CAPGEMINI SOGETI DANMARK A/S (DENMARK) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE AB (SWEDEN) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (SWEDEN) ■ SOGETI NORGE A/S (NORWAY) ■ EURIWARE S.A. (UNTIL 07/23/2015) * Listed company. CAROLINE WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES February 24, 1952 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Nationality: American Chief Technology Officer of: Advisory Committee of: ■ WARBURG-PINCUS (U.S.A.) ■ BLUE YONDER First appointment: 2014 Director of: ■ NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2018 (NYIT) Number of shares held at Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years outside the Group Dec. 31, 2015: 1,000 Global Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of: ■ BUSINESS INFORMATION SOLUTIONS, PEPSICO Advisory Committees of: ■ HP PRINTING MANAGED SERVICES BOARD OF ADVISORY COUNCIL ■ INTEL CAPITAL ■ ACORIO ■ OCULUS360 44 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors PERMANENT GUEST OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS: REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INTERNATIONAL WORKS COUNCIL KEVIN MASTERS Date of birth: OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES May 27, 1956 Kevin Masters joined the Capgemini Group in 1973. Nationality: Experience gained within Capgemini mainly revolves around managing large groups of people in an British Operations or Support environment. Mr. Masters has been engaged in the Employee Consultation process as the Chairman of both the 2 Outsourcing Forum and National Works Council Groups since 2001. He was elected as the UK representative for the International Works Council, then as a member of the IWC Office, and more recently as the Secretary of this body. In July 2014, Kevin Masters was invited in such capacity to become a non-voting member of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors. He is also a permanent guest of the Compensation Committee. 2.1.3 Role, meetings, operating rules and self-assessment procedure THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETINGS The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened key strategies of Cap Gemini and the group it controls, to ensure by the Chairman in accordance with a schedule decided that these strategies are implemented, to validate the legal and by the Board before the end of the prior year. This schedule operational structure of the Group and the appointment of key may be amended during the year in response to unforeseen managers and, more generally, to address any issues that arise circumstances or at the request of more than one director. In in respect of the day-to-day operation of the Group. The Board 2015, the Board met ten times (six times during the first six pays particular attention to the management of the Group’s months and four times during the second six months), with an 180,639 employees(1) and thousands of managers across the average attendance rate of 91%. In 2015, the Board retained globe, given Capgemini’s business as a service provider. The the principle of an “off-premises” meeting at the Fontaines site Board makes decisions collectively and seeks to comply with and in Gouvieux, focusing entirely on Group strategy. This meeting ensure compliance with all rules of good governance together was held on June 17 and 18, 2015. The directors also attended with a certain number of values which each Board member has the “Rencontres” gathering, a two-yearly event bringing together, solemnly undertaken to respect. A “Code of Business Ethics” was over three days, 400 of the Group’s key managers and emerging drafted at its initiative and distributed to all Group employees (and talent. is signed by all new recruits) with the following main objectives: 2015 was therefore an exceptional and particularly intense year X ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of for the Board of Directors with the acquisition of the IGATE group rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity in and the “Rencontres” gathering in October. The attendance rate the conduct of business and the management of employees; for Board of Directors’ meetings nonetheless remained at the X implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning nonsame level, bearing witness to the involvement and availability of compliance with the core values of the Group, or prevailing directors throughout the year. laws and regulations in the relevant country; The following table presents individual attendance rates X provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls at meetings of the Board of Directors and the Specialized and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems Committees on which the directors sit. These rates do not take identified by these measures. account of participation at the “Rencontres” gathering, which the The minutes of the work of the Ethics & Governance Committee majority of directors attended. (see below) describe in detail the corporate actions undertaken in 2015 by the Ethics & Compliance Department and the implementation of the Code of Business Ethics. Each of the directors signed this Code, evidencing their commitment and support (both individual and collective) for all the measures contained therein. (1) At December 31, 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 45 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OF THE SPECIALIZED COMMITTEES HELD IN 2015 AND INDIVIDUAL ATTENDANCE RATES Ethics & Strategy & Board of Governance Investment Audit Compensation Name Directors % Committee % Committee % Committee % Committee % Number of meetings 10 4 4 6 4 Serge Kampf 7 70% 0 0% Paul Hermelin 10 100% 4 100% Daniel Bernard 10 100% 4 100% 4 100% Anne Bouverot 9 90% 3 75% Yann Delabrière 8 80% 6 100% Laurence Dors 10 100% 4 100% 6 100% Phil Laskawy 10 100% 3 50% Xavier Musca 6 60% 4 67% Pierre Pringuet 9 90% 4 100% 4 100% Bruno Roger 10 100% 4 100% 4 100% Lucia Sinapi-Thomas 10 100% 4 100% Caroline WatteeuwCarlisle 10 100% 3 75% 4 100% Kevin Masters, Secretary of the International Works Council, The agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings is defined not only attended all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the to provide directors with an overview of the Group’s position, Compensation Committee. but also with regard to Group governance principles, which, The Notice of Meeting, sent to directors two weeks before the pursuant to prevailing texts and to the Board of Directors’ meeting date, contains the agenda set after the Chairman and Charter, presuppose that Board members will make decisions Chief Executive Officer has consulted with the Vice-Chairman, on specific topics. the Lead Independent Director and any directors who proposed Accordingly, in addition to approving the 2014 annual financial specific points to be discussed by the Board. statements and the financial statements for the first-half of 2015 In accordance with the Board of Directors’ Charter, preparatory and convening the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, documentation is sent to directors a week before the meeting. 2015, the Board of Directors was also required to make decisions on the following issues during the year: Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing the share price of the Cap Gemini share to that of various general 1. various external growth opportunities; the Board examined and and sector indexes and to its main competitors, as well as the approved the acquisition of the IGATE group, a leading US IT technology and services company of Indian origin, as well as last known consensus. In addition, important press releases financing transactions relating to this acquisition: negotiation of (signature of major contracts, alliances, etc.) issued by the a bridge loan with a bank syndicate, refinancing of the project Company together with financial analysts’ studies of Cap Gemini through a share capital increase and several bond issues; or the sector are regularly brought to the attention of directors. 2. the active management of the Group’s balance sheet and liquid Documents relating to the Board of Directors as well as the assets: a €75 million share buyback program was authorized above-mentioned information are communicated by a secure by the Board of Directors on October 7, 2015; platform accessible solely by Board members using an individual password. This platform is hosted on a server located in France. 3. issues regarding Group governance: In 2015, this platform, which is used for Board of Directors’ • the overhaul of the Charters of the Board of Directors, the and Committee meetings, was reviewed and modernized in Compensation Committee (previously the Selection & response to the wishes expressed by directors during the 2014 Compensation Committee) and the Ethics & Governance Board assessment, to make it more mobile, accessible from any Committee, location and even more secure. • the assessment of the Board of Directors by the Lead Independent Director (see page 48 below); 46 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 4. issues regarding the compensation of Paul Hermelin, Chairman X periodically reviewed the personal situation of each director and Chief Executive Officer: in light of the definition of independence adopted by the • in February 2015, the setting of his compensation for 2014 AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code (“a director is and the assessment of the attainment of 2014 variable independent when he/she has no relationship of any sort compensation objectives and the setting of his fixed with the Company, the Group or its Management, that is likely compensation and objectives for 2015, to impair his/her judgment”). Based on the aforementioned reviews, the Board considered on March 23, 2016 that 7 of its • in December 2015, an initial assessment of the attainment 11 members (Daniel Bernard, Anne Bouverot, Yann Delabrière, of his 2015 objectives with a view to the setting of his 2015 variable compensation by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 17, 2016; Laurence Dors, Xavier Musca, Pierre Pringuet and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle) may be considered independent directors. 2 The Board of Directors also examined the independence 5. the grant, on July 29, 2015, of performance shares to of director candidates with regards to the same criteria and 637 managers of the Group, including Paul Hermelin; decided that Sîan Herbert Jones and Carole Ferrand could 6. the freezing of the executive supplementary defined benefit also be considered independent, increasing the total number of pension plan and its replacement by a long-term incentive plan; independent directors from 7 out of 11 to 9 out of 13. 7. the recapitalization of Capgemini Latin America, particularly Article 7.1 of the Cap Gemini Board of Directors’ Charter requires to finance the buyout of minority interests in its brazilian directors to comply with recommendation no. 20 of the AFEPsubsidiary; MEDEF Code: 8. during the two-day strategic seminar in June, the Board of “Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors Directors was informed of and debated the following issues: represent all the shareholders and are required to act in all • the challenges facing the Group in the digital, cybersecurity circumstances in the Company’s interest. They are required to and “Cloud” sectors, notify the Board of Directors of any one-off conflict of interest • the change in the geographic presence of the Group, or potential conflict of interest and to refrain from voting on the particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, related decision. Any director who has a permanent conflict of • the development of talent to accompany the transformation interests is required to resign from the Board.” of the Group, In light of the recommendations of the AMF and the Corporate • initiatives and changes aimed at aligning the Group with client Governance High Committee, the Board of Directors needs; implemented an appraisal procedure to assess the absence of conflict of interest for independent directors. 9. the Board of Directors was also involved in the preparation of the “Rencontres” gathering in Rome in September 2015, To this end, a statement of business flows between Capgemini particularly with regard to its organization and appointments. Group and entities that are suppliers and/or clients of Capgemini Group applying a materiality threshold of 1% of consolidated OPERATING RULES revenue for each group and which have directors in common with Cap Gemini was prepared and communicated to Daniel For many years, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has Bernard, Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics applied the best governance practices now aligned with the & Governance Committee. In addition, each year directors are recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance required to issue a statement to the Company regarding the Code to which Cap Gemini refers. Accordingly, the Committee: existence or absence, to their knowledge, of any conflicts of X prepared, adopted, applied and amended where useful or interest. necessary the Board of Directors’ Charter (see 2.1.5); Taking account of these results, the Lead Independent Director X set up four specialized Board Committees – the Audit confirmed the absence of any conflicts of interest. Committee, the Compensation Committee (formerly the These conflict of interest prevention measures supplement one of Selection & Compensation Committee), the Ethics & the general duties of the Ethics & Governance Committee which Governance Committee, and finally the Strategy & Investment is to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Board of Directors Committee – and given each a clearly defined role (see to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has identified Section 2.1.4); between a director and the Company or its Group or between X adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby the directors. majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board and Committee meetings (see Section 2.1.5); 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 47 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in Article 25.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies revised in November 2015, the Company considers that its practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, the Company has deviated from certain provisions for the reasons explained in the following table or will ensure compliance therewith in 2016. Duration of directors’ terms of office Article 14: “Terms should be staggered so as to After having deliberated and at the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee avoid replacement of the entire body and to favor the Board of Directors will propose to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, a smooth replacement of directors.” an amendment to the bylaws that will enable the implementation of a system of staggered terms of office. Audit Committee Article 16.2.1: “The time available for reviewing Capgemini Group practice is to provide directors with the information required for the the accounts should be sufficient (no less than preparation of the Board or Committee meetings four to five days prior to such meetings. two days before review by the Board).” Audit Committee meetings are convened two days prior to the Board meeting, unless members are clearly unavailable. Where one of its members is unavailable, the Committee meeting is postponed to the eve of the Board meeting. Stock options and performance shares Article 23.2.4: “It is necessary to ensure that Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The Board of Directors decided to grant grants (shares and stock options) are made at the performance shares each year at the same calendar period at the Board meeting held at the same calendar periods, e.g. after the publication end of July or in October, despite the fact that they are a different type of financial instrument of the financial statements for the previous whose value is not linked to the grant date. financial year, and probably each year, in order to Exceptionally, following the acquisition of the IGATE group in 2015, Cap Gemini decided to limit any windfall effects.” grant free shares to certain of these employees in February 2016. The performance shares granted to executive Cap Gemini does not consider this measure to be necessary as Paul Hermelin already holds corporate officers are conditional upon the a number of shares representing around three years’ salary (at the end of 2015). acquisition of a defined quantity of shares once the shares granted are available. It is noted that, in accordance with Article 22 of the AFEPA questionnaire was sent to all directors at the beginning of MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, the employment contract 2016 covering the activities of the Board of Directors and those of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was terminated on Committees on which they sit. February 18, 2015. The Lead Independent Director also met individually with each member of the Board. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE These procedures showed that the changes introduced were Again within the framework of these best governance practices, considered an improvement and appreciated by directors. the Board has performed on four occasions (in 2005, 2008, Directors express their satisfaction on the content of meeting 2011 and 2013), an external assessment of its operations and agendas and the organization and operating conditions of the the impact of its decisions. Board of Directors and the Committees. The performance of the Board of Directors and its Committees The coordination of work between the Board and the Committee in 2015, as in 2014, was reviewed by the Lead Independent was also examined and it was largely considered that the Director. A formal assessment of performance in 2016 will be respective roles of the Board and the Committees are clear and undertaken by an external service provider, in accordance with appropriate. A number of observations were nonetheless made the three-year plan recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. concerning the role of the Audit Committee with regard to risks and the coordination of work between the Strategy & Investment Following the assessment performed in 2014, the Board of Committee and the Board of Directors. Directors reviewed the respective roles of the Compensation Committee and the Ethics & Governance Committee. The role For the first time this year, a self-assessment questionnaire on of the Compensation Committee is to set the compensation their contribution to the Board of Directors and the Committees of executive corporate officers; it must be kept informed of the was proposed to directors, with a resulting average satisfaction compensation policies adopted by Capgemini Group companies rate of 94%. in the management of senior executive careers and the With regards to the composition of the Board, directors are application of these policies with respect to the Group’s medium favorable to increasing the international profile of the Board, in and long-term strategy presented to the Board of Directors. The particular by recruiting directors from outside France. Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible for recruiting directors and executive corporate officers and their succession All the directors considered the criteria set for determining plan. material business relations to be satisfactory (see page 47). The Lead Independent Director’s internal assessment of The directors are extremely satisfied with the role played by the performance in 2015 focused particularly on the composition of Lead Independent Director. The number of executive sessions the Board of Directors and its activities. to be held without the presence of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and internal directors was actively debated. 48 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The majority of directors are favorable to holding at least two Duties and activities of the Committees executive sessions a year and to programming them in advance X Improve the programming of Strategy & Investment Committee with set agendas. meetings and the coordination of the work of this Committee Finally, directors were questioned on the quality of the with that of the Board. assessment process itself, producing a 90% satisfaction X Improve the coordination of risk monitoring activities by rate. Directors were asked if they wished the introduction of a associating the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. measure of their individual contribution to the work of the Board Identification of talent and preparation of succession plans and its Committees and what form this should take: individual questionnaire, meeting with the Lead Independent Director or an independent director. This question will be followed up in 2016. X X Meet even more regularly with operating managers. Be informed of succession plans, in particular for Group 2 Executive Board members. The following priorities were identified: Organization and activities of the Board Organization of governance X Organize one Board meeting each half-year outside France. X Provide for at least two executive sessions a year: to be prepared by the Lead Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Committees, with the ability to hold more sessions at the request of a director. 2.1.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, this Committee has four directors: Yann Delabrière (Chairman), In accordance with the provisions of Article L.823-19 of the Laurence Dors, Phil Laskawy and Xavier Musca. Through French Commercial Code and the AMF recommendations of their professional careers, Audit Committee members have July 22, 2010, the role of the Cap Gemini Audit Committee amassed the necessary accounting and financial expertise to is to control the processes governing the preparation and perform their duties. For example, the Chairman, an independent distribution of accounting and financial information, to assess director, was Chief Financial Officer of PSA Peugeot Citroën the appropriateness and the consistency of the accounting from 1990 to 2007 and Phil Laskawy was the Chairman and policies and methods used to prepare the annual and halfChief Executive Officer of Ernst & Young from 1994 to 2001. year consolidated and company financial statements, to check Xavier Musca acquired considerable expertise in the French and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management international financial and banking sectors throughout his career procedures and particularly their ability to identify those risks in the French civil service, ministerial offices and the private sector. requiring an accounting entry in the balance sheet or off-balance Finally, Laurence Dors’ career in executive management positions sheet commitments, and to ensure by all means the quality of and the Economy and Finance Ministry allows her to contribute information presented to the Board and finally to present to the both financial expertise and a transversal view of organizations. Board its assessment of the various engagements carried out by the Statutory Auditors and give its opinion on whether their audit The Committee met six times in 2015, with an average engagement should be renewed. Where it considers it useful attendance rate of 79%. or necessary, the Audit Committee may be assisted by experts appointed for this purpose. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Audit Committee was as follows: Yann Delabrière 100% Laurence Dors 100% Phil Laskawy 50% Xavier Musca 67% The Committee reviewed the company and consolidated In addition, the Committee examined the situation in Brazil and financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 and its impact on performance. the consolidated financial statements for the half-year ended The Committee also interviewed: June 30, 2015. X Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning It focused in particular on the accounting treatment of events with him on working methods, planning, areas of intervention, a material impact on the annual or half-year financial statements. the findings of audits carried out during the year and more With respect to the annual financial statements, it reviewed in specifically on the compliance with Group procedures of newly particular the remeasurement of goodwill and deferred tax assets, acquired entities; notably in the United States. The Committee similarly reviewed X André Cichowlas, Delivery Director (Production/Methods the change in Group commitments, including pension obligations, and Support) and S upport S ervices, questioning him in focusing in particular on the analysis of the research tax credit in particular on the impact on the operating accounts of major France and the monitoring of changes therein. contracts that are separately monitored and the development and roll-out of shared access and industrial procedures; 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 49 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors X finally Jean-Baptiste Massignon, Group General Secretary to shareholders for the vote on executive corporate officer also in charge of pre-sales risk management, questioning him compensation (so-called “Say on Pay”) and is consulted on on the activities of the Group Review Board during the period financial terms and conditions in the event of the appointment or and the terms and conditions of major commercial proposals. departure of an executive corporate officer. The Statutory Auditors reported to the Board on the quality of The Compensation Committee must be informed of the the accounting monitoring of projects and the good control of compensation policies adopted by Capgemini Group the accounts closing process. companies in the management of senior executive careers and the application of these policies with respect to the Group’s THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE medium and long-term strategy presented to the Board of Directors. The Committee must also be informed annually by On October 8, 2014, the Selection & Compensation Committee Group Management of the (fixed and variable) compensation of changed its name to the “Compensation Committee” and Executive Committee members. now concentrates exclusively on setting the compensation of executive corporate officers and defining compensation policies Finally, the Committee reviews the various schemes enabling for Group executives. This Committee has several duties set senior executives to better share in the Group’s profits (longout in its Charter recently amended by the Board of Directors term incentive instruments and particularly performance share on June 17, 2015. Firstly, it must present proposals to the grants, Group savings schemes, etc.) and proposes to the Board Board of Directors on the fixed and variable compensation of of Directors the incentive instruments it considers appropriate executive corporate officers and, with regards to the variable and capable of being implemented in all (or certain) Capgemini portion and where appropriate, propose a detailed list of Group companies. individual objectives (quantitative and qualitative), enabling an Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, this assessment of performance and the calculation of the variable Committee has three directors: Pierre Pringuet, Chairman, compensation component(s). To this end, the Committee meets Lucia Sinapi-Thomas and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle. in the final quarter of each year (Y) to propose to the Board of The Secretary of the International Works Council, Kevin Directors executive corporate officer objectives for the following Masters, was granted a permanent invitation in this capacity to year (Y+1) and at least once at the beginning of Y+1 to prepare attend meetings of this Committee and the Board of Directors. the assessment by the Board of Directors of performance in the The Committee met four times in 2015, with an average previous year. The Committee reviews the information presented attendance rate of 100%. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Compensation Committee was as follows: Pierre Pringuet 100% Lucia Sinapi-Thomas 100% Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle 100% Kevin Masters also attended all Committee meetings. communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed individual In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured allocation of these performance shares to the Board of Directors throughout 2015 the consistency of the Group’s senior for agreement on July 29, 2015. executive management compensation policy. Its Chairman The Committee reviewed the conditions under which the regularly reported on the Committee’s work and presented supplementary defined benefits and contingent rights pension recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the plan set-up in 2007 was closed to new entrants and the terms following areas: under which rights under the complementary pension plan were X the consistency of the general compensation policy of the frozen in favor of beneficiaries, decided in the second half of Group and its subsidiaries; 2015. For these individuals (non-corporate officer employees and members of Group Management), it is planned to introduce X the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer a long-term compensation program, subject to performance and that of members of the Executive Committee and the conditions, enabling the progressive acquisition of precautionary Group’s key managers. These recommendations focused at savings. Paul Hermelin is not concerned by this measure. the beginning of the year on: • an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these THE ETHICS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE managers compared with objectives set at the beginning of the year, Since October 8, 2014, the roles of the Ethics & Governance • calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in the Committee now include not only executive corporate officer first quarter of the next year, selection and succession plans and the proposal of new directors to ensure the balanced composition of the Board but also Group • adjustment of the fixed compensation and theoretical variable senior executive selection and succession plans. portion for the following year, The main remit of this Committee (created in July 2006 by • setting objectives to be used for the current year as a basis decision of the Board) is to verify that the Group’s seven core for defining the calculation of the actual variable portions due. values (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Modesty The Committee studied the principle and means of granting and Fun) are correctly applied and adhered to, defended and performance shares to certain managers. It drafted and promoted by the Group’s corporate officers, senior management 50 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors and employees in all of its businesses and in all subsidiaries selection and succession plans for key operating and functional under its control, in all internal and external communications – managers of the Group and the identification, development and including advertising – and in all other acts undertaken in the retention of high potential executives. The Chairman and Chief Group’s name. Executive Officer is involved in this work. The Committee must It is also tasked more generally with overseeing the application be consulted by Group Management prior to any appointment of best corporate governance practice within Cap Gemini and its to the Executive Committee. subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible Since the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, for all matters relating to the selection, appraisal, annual independence review and compensation of the Company’s directors. It draws the attention of the Chairman of the Board of this Committee has five directors: Daniel Bernard was appointed Chairman of the Committee on March 5, 2014 to replace Serge Kampf, who remained a Committee member 2 Directors to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has until he passed away on March 15, 2016. As Chairman of the identified between a director and the Company or its Group or Ethics & Governance Committee, Daniel Bernard is also the between directors. It must be ready to implement the measures Lead Independent Director since May 7, 2014, as the Board necessary should the question of replacing the Chairman and of Directors’ Charter confers the duties of Lead Independent Chief Executive Officer suddenly arise. It must handle and Director on the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, propose to the Board any changes it considers appropriate or elected by the Board of Directors from among its independent relevant to the Board’s operation and composition (co-opting members. This is the case for Daniel Bernard who is a member a new director or replacing a resigning director, increasing the of the Board since 2005. proportion of female directors, diversity of profiles and expertise The other members of the Committee are Laurence Dors, of directors, etc.) or to the governance structure currently in place Pierre Pringuet and Bruno Roger. This Committee met four within the Group, etc. The Committee is also involved in the times in 2015, with an average attendance rate of 80%. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Bruno Roger 100% (1) Serge Kampf 0% Daniel Bernard 100% Laurence Dors 100% Pierre Pringuet 100% (1) In 2015, Serge Kampf discussed the meeting agendas with the Lead Independent Director and the Committee Chairman. He confirmed his intentions with respect to the direction of its work. In 2015, the Ethics & Governance Committee: the term of office of the employee representing shareholder X prepared the amendments to the Charters of the Board of employees; Directors and the Ethics & Governance and Compensation X was involved in the definition of the profile and the choice of Committees: it is the role of the Ethics & Governance two new female directors and recommended the candidacy Committee to examine the Group’s “talent pool” for individuals of Mrs. Sîan Herbert-Jones and Mrs. Carole Ferrand to the capable of becoming executive corporate officers and Board of Directors, which proposes their appointment to the particularly members of the Executive Committee, without Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016; considering their compensation, the key area of responsibility X was informed by Hubert Giraud, Director of People of the Compensation Committee; Management and Talent Developement, of the Group’s talent X under the aegis of its Chairman, the Lead Independent pool and recommended that the pool of potential employees Director, was informed of and deliberated the annual review of for promotion to the Group Executive Board and the Executive the activities of the Board; Committee be widened and include more women and X deliberated the independence of directors in preparation for international employees as well as former IGATE employees. the Registration Document; The Ethics & Governance Committee interviewed the Ethics, X prepared the governance issues presented to the Board of Compliance and Internal Audit Director (Philippe Christelle), Directors followed by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of these two functions being held by the same person since May 6, 2015, particularly with regards to the issue of double September 2015. Philippe Christelle submitted his report to the voting rights likely to be created pursuant to the Florange Law Committee presenting: in France; X in the first section an overview of the foundations of the X deliberated on several occasions the possibility of renewing Group’s ethics program which is based on four documents the Board of Directors on a rolling basis and recommended available in eight languages – the Code of Business Ethics its adoption to the Board of Directors which proposes an (signed by all new recruits), the anti-corruption policy, the amendment to the bylaws to this end to the Combined anti-trust policy and the Blue Book (manual of principles and Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016; procedures applicable within the Group) – and presented to all new recruits. New recruits must also follow an e-learning X was informed of changes in legislative provisions regarding program aimed at establishing and strengthening throughout employee representation on boards of directors and their the Group perfect integrity in the conduct of business and consequences for Cap Gemini and of the renewal process for awareness of the importance of adopting at all times a behavior in accordance with Cap Gemini ethics. This report 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 51 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors also highlighted the Group’s major efforts in e-learning (more THE STRATEGY & INVESTMENT COMMITTEE than 80% of employees have followed the ethics charter The role of this Committee is to: course, the anti-corruption course and the anti-trust course). Over the last three years, to facilitate the assimilation of the X study in-depth the strategic options open to the Group to ethics program by local management, more than 50 Business ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and Ethics Workshops were held in most of the countries where maintain its independence to enrich Board discussions; Capgemini is present. The report also refers to the progressive X determine the amount of investment required to implement implementation in all countries of the employee advice and each of these possible strategies; professional warning procedure (known as the “Raising X identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would Concern Procedure”). Finally, it highlights that Capgemini was appear able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of recognized as “One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies” these strategies; in 2013, 2014 and 2015 by the American Institute, Ethisphere, thereby affirming our ethical responsibility culture towards our X finally, recommend a choice to the Board of Directors, by clients; presenting an opinion and/or recommendations (or at least establish an order of priority). X in the second section of the report, an audit report concluding that the ethical framework within which the Group has decided More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on to operate, is, overall, correctly understood and followed any direction or issue considered relevant to the Group’s throughout the Group. The report contains recommendations future, provided it does not compromise the smooth running of to help further improve compliance with Group ethical rules operations and guarantees operating and financial stability. and principles. Since May 7, 2014, this Committee has five members: Bruno Roger, Chairman, Daniel Bernard, Paul Hermelin, Anne Bouverot and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle. The Committee met four times in 2015, with an average attendance rate of 90%. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Bruno Roger 100% Paul Hermelin 100% Daniel Bernard 100% Anne Bouverot 75% Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle 75% The Committee carried out an in-depth review of several The other major issues discussed by the Committee to prepare opportunities before presenting them to the Board of Directors. the work of the Board were: In particular, it reviewed the advisability and strategic interest of X the strategic plan transformation projects; the IGATE acquisition, its terms and conditions and its impact on the Capgemini Group in the event of integration. X the follow-up of the integration of recent acquisitions; X the study of the impact of major technology waves on all service businesses (Digital, Cloud, Cybersecurity); X the consequences of digitalization of the client relationship. 2.1.5 Rights and obligations of Directors – Compensation BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ CHARTER in the Company’s shares within five trading days of the execution of such transactions. When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a traditional limited liability company (société anonyme) in This Charter sets out or clarifies the scope of (and bases for May 2000, a new Charter was debated and adopted by the exercising) the various powers entrusted to the Board of Board of Directors. This Charter has since been amended several Directors, the four Specialized Board Committees, the Chairman times and most recently on June 17, 2015. and Chief Executive Officer, the Vice-Chairman and the Lead Independent Director. The Board of Directors’ Charter sets out the main obligations of the Code of Business Ethics that Cap Gemini directors undertake The Board of Directors represents shareholders. With the to comply with throughout their term of office, and in particular the exception of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the rules governing share trading and the obligation for each director directors have no individual power and actions and decisions to communicate to the French Financial markets Authority (AMF) must therefore be taken on a collective basis. and to the Company any transactions they may have carried out 52 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to study X specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, and document the issues that the Board has scheduled for security and guarantees, other than the delegation of authority discussion and to present recommendations on the subjects granted annually to the Chief Executive Officer to grant and sectors within their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. pledges, security and guarantees up to the maximum amount The Committees are consultation bodies and therefore hold no set by the Board of Directors. decision-making powers. Their members (and the Chairman) are When the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and appointed by the Board of Directors and are selected exclusively Chief Executive Officer are exercised by the same person, the from among Cap Gemini directors. They are appointed in Board of Directors appoints a Lead Independent Director. The a personal capacity and may under no circumstances be represented at the meetings of the Committee(s) to which they duties of the Lead Independent Director are entrusted by the Board to the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 2 belong. The Board reserves the right to amend at any time elected by the Board of Directors from among its members the number and/or make-up of these Committees, as well as classified as independent. the scope of their duties. Finally, the Charters of each of the four Committees – and any amendments thereto which the The Lead Independent Director exercises his duties for as long Committee may later propose – must be formally approved by as he satisfies the independence criteria and chairs the Ethics & the Board. Governance Committee. The duties of Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee may be As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief revoked at any time by the Board of Directors. Executive Officer prepares, organizes and leads its work. He sets the agenda of meetings, ensures that directors are able to As for any other director, the Lead Independent Director may carry out their duties and have all information necessary for this be a member of one or more Specialized Board Committees purpose, and oversees the proper operation of the Company’s in addition to the Ethics & Governance Committee that he bodies, the correct implementation of Board decisions and chairs. He may also attend the meetings of Specialized Board compliance with the rules of good conduct adopted by Cap Committees of which he is not a member. Gemini. He chairs Combined Shareholders’ Meetings to which Roles of the Lead Independent Director: he reports on the activities and decisions of the Board. X he is consulted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on The Vice-Chairman: in the absence of the Chairman, the the proposed Board meeting schedule subject to the approval Vice-Chairman chairs meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Board and on the draft agenda for each meeting of the Shareholders’ Meetings. Board of Directors; As Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and Chief Executive X he can propose to the Chairman the inclusion of items on the Officer has the most extensive powers to act in all circumstances agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings at his own initiative or in the name of the Company. at the request of one of more Board members; The Charter stipulates nonetheless that he must seek and obtain X he can bring together Board members in the absence of prior approval from the Board of Directors for any decision executive corporate officers in so-called “executive sessions”, which is of major strategic importance or which is liable to have at his own initiative or at the request of one of more Board a material impact, either directly or indirectly, on the financial members, to discuss a specific agenda; he chairs any such position or commitments of the Company or those of one or meetings; more of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to: X he chairs the annual meeting of the Board of Directors X the draft annual budget prepared in accordance with the threeconvened to assess the performance of the Chairman and year plan; Chief Executive Officer and any Deputy Chief Executive Officers; X the approval of the annual investment and divestment budget; X he holds regular discussions with the other directors to ensure X the conclusion of material strategic alliances; they have the means necessary to perform their duties in a X acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not recorded satisfactory manner and in particular that they receive sufficient in the annual investment budget, individually worth more information prior to the Board meetings; than €100 million, or for smaller investments, resulting in the X he reports on his actions to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. €300 million cumulative annual ceiling being exceeded; The Lead Independent Director is assisted by the General X financial transactions with a material impact on the Company Secretary in the exercise of his duties. He will report to the 2016 financial statements or the consolidated financial statements of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on his assessment of the the Group and particularly issues of securities granting access performance of the Board of Directors in 2015. to the Company’s share capital or market debt instruments; X the grant to employees of incentive instruments granting COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS access to the Company’s share capital and particularly performance shares; In compensation for the time spent participating in Board X material internal reorganization transactions; and Committee meetings, the Company was authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 to pay X material changes to the scope or range of businesses; attendance fees to directors of up to €1,000,000 per year. X increases or decreases in the share capital of a direct subsidiary of Cap Gemini, concerning an amount in excess Attendance fees include for each director a fixed portion of of €50 million; €15,000, and an amount of €4,000 for each attendance at a Board meeting. Attendance fees for the Specialized Board Committees were set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive exclusively a fixed annual payment of €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 53 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors €35,000 for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and €25,000 the increase to be focused both on directors not resident in for the Chairmen of the Compensation Committee and the France and on directors particularly involved in the work of the Strategy & Investment Committee. Committees (as Chair or as members of several Committee), A fixed annual fee of €45,000 is allotted to the Vice-President. while retaining the international outlook of the Board consistent Serge Kampf had waived his right to collect such fee in respect with the international development and global presence of the of 2015, like all other attendance fees since 2009 (see below). Group. The members of the Committees receive fees of €2,500 for each As the Board of Directors aims to continue increasing the attendance at a meeting. diversity of its composition, which must reflect its international outlook and the human diversity of its employees, the Combined It was also decided to take account of the travel time of directors Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 will be asked to appoint by awarding them additional attendance fees of €5,000 per two new female directors in order to satisfy this objective. Board or Committee meeting for directors resident outside Furthermore, in addition to renewing the term of office of the Europe and of €2,000 for directors resident in Europe but outside director representing employee shareholders, the Board of France. Attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end Directors will ask the 2016 Combined Shareholders Meeting of the first six months and at the end of the year. These amounts to apply, from this year, new legislative measures regarding could be reduced if circumstances require the Company to employee representation on the Board, which would result in hold a greater than scheduled number of meetings, resulting in the appointment of two employee directors by the end of 2016. aggregate attendance fees exceeding the threshold authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting were these “rates” to Accordingly, assuming the approval of these various resolutions be maintained. by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, the Board of Directors would increase from 11 to 15 directors by Attendance fees calculated and paid to directors in respect of the end of the year. In order to take account of this expansion fiscal year 2015 totaled €843,500, representing 84% of the ceiling of the composition of the Board of Directors, while continuing to authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. It should involve directors of high quality who are strongly committed, the be noted that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin have waived their 2016 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting will be asked to increase right to collect attendance fees since 2009; these attendance the total amount of attendance fees by 20%, representing a fees would have totaled €65,000 for Paul Hermelin and €88,000 maximum amount of attendance fees allocated annually by the for Serge Kampf in respect of 2015. Board of Directors of €1.2 million. The authorization given by the Combined Shareholders Meeting A breakdown of compensation paid in respect of fiscal year of May 6, 2015 to increase the total maximum amount of 2015 to the executive corporate officer, Paul Hermelin, Chairman attendance fees allows the strategic objectives set by the Board and Chief Executive Officer, is presented in section 2.3.2. Paul of Directors to be attained. Despite the significant increase in the Hermelin’s 2016 compensation is presented on page 66 of this number of Board meetings during 2015 and the large number of Registration Document. meetings held by each of the Committees, the participation rate remained high, including for directors residing outside France. A breakdown of attendance fees paid to other directors in respect This increase in the total amount of attendance fees allowed of 2015 is presented in the section entitled “Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers” on page 66. 2.1.6 Declarations concerning the group’s corporate ofﬁcers As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members X has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of of the Board of Directors: the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an X has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last five issuer or from participating in the management or conduct of years; the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last five years. X has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation As far as the Company is aware, there are no: at any time during the last five years; X conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of X has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/or Directors between their duties towards Cap Gemini and their criminal liability, pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority private interests and/or any other duties; (including designated professional bodies) provided that: X arrangements or agreements with the principal shareholders, In a decision dated December 18, 2014, the Sanctions customers or suppliers pursuant to which one of the members Commission of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) of the Board of Directors was selected; considered that Faurecia S.A and Mr. Yann Delabrière, in his X restrictions accepted by the members of the Board of Directors capacity of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia on the sale of their investment in the share capital of Cap SA, had failed to comply with certain obligations set out in Gemini (other than the obligation for Paul Hermelin to hold his Articles 223-1, 223-2 and 223-10-1 of the AMF General performance shares detailed in Section 2.3.1); Regulations with respect to disclosures concerning the X service contracts between the members of the Board of company’s objectives for 2012. Concerning Mr. Yann Delabrière, Directors and Cap Gemini or any of its subsidiaries that provide based on Articles L.621-15 (paragraphs II (c) and III (c) of the for the granting of benefits upon termination thereof. French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et As far as the Company is aware, there are no family ties between financier), financial penalties of €100,000, were handed down by members of the Board of Directors. the AMF against him; Mr. Yann Delabrière filed an appeal together with Faurecia against this decision with the Paris Court of Appeal on February 26; 54 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors REGULATED AGREEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES LOANS AND GUARANTEES GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY Several agreements governed by Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code were authorized by the Board of None. Directors during the year ended December 31, 2015. These agreements are presented in the Board of Directors’ report on the 3rd resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2015 (see pages 241 to 242) and in the Statutory Auditors’ special report for the year ended December 31, 2015 (see page 220). 2 2.1.7 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid No factors are subject to the provisions of Article L.225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code (factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering). 2.1.8 Transactions carried out by members of the board of directors and other senior managers involving cap gemini shares Transactions carried out in 2015 by directors and senior • sale of 100,000 shares on February 24, 2015 at a unit price of managers involving the Company’s shares, based on AMF €70.18 (declaration 2015DD354697); disclosures, Article 223-26 of the AMF’s General Regulations and • sale of 100,000 shares on June 24, 2015 at a unit price of information communicated to the Company for the preparation €81.22 (declaration 2015DD376740); of the Registration Document pursuant to European Commission • sale of 100,000 shares on November 10, 2015 at a unit price Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, may be summarized of €80.32 (declaration 2016DD422395; as follows: X Aiman Ezzat, Chief Financial Officer, sold 10,000 shares on X Serge Kampf (Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors), or March 24, 2015 at a unit price of €76.08. persons related to him, performed the following transactions: 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 55 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group 2.2 General organization of the Group Cap Gemini is the parent company of what is generally known as • Financial Services, which develops and promotes the Group “the Capgemini Group” comprising 136 companies. financial services application offerings (systems integration, applicative maintenance and testing) and, in close conjunction OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE with the Business Services and Infrastructures Services entities, leads the Group’s commercial efforts in these areas The operational structure of the Group combines the key with major clients in this sector; principles that have guided its development since its creation. X two systems integration and applicative maintenance strategic The first principle, decentralization of the operating conduct business units (Application Services) in the following regions of business, seeks to ensure that operating managers act as and countries: entrepreneurs, taking each year the risk to commit to a budget and personal and collective objectives. The second principle • AppsOne: North America, the United Kingdom and the Asiais the collective ambition to develop internationally and to lead Pacific region, the markets in which the Group operates. The Company must • AppsTwo: Continental Europe; therefore set operating managers ambitious commercial and X the Group’s operations in Latin America (including the joint financial performance objectives and provide them with the venture in Brazil) encompassing the Application Services and necessary means to react rapidly to market requirements, to Infrastructure Services businesses. provide consistent responses to changes in demand and to These basic units – grouped, depending on their number, implement the new opportunities offered by particularly rapid into larger business units – reflect the Group’s presence in and abundant technological innovation. The third principle is around forty countries, which are in turn grouped into eight performance, which enables the financing of external growth and geographic areas(1), useful for reporting purposes and comparing development, which ensures the independence of the Group. performance year-on-year: The new organizational structure of the Group announced during X North America; the “Rencontres” gathering in Rome in October 2015 combines these principles. It came into effect on January 1, 2016. X the United Kingdom and Ireland; It comprises basic business units (BUs) of a size that allows their X France; manager to remain in close contact with clients and technology X Benelux; partners, to know employees well and to tightly manage the X Nordic countries; projects he entrusts to them. X Germany and Central European countries; These basic units are grouped by business covering a given X Southern Europe; market corresponding to either a geographic area or a sector or offering. This grouping by business ensures consistent X and finally the Asia-Pacific and Latin America (LatAm) region. economic models, the sharing of experience, the industrialization The migration of the delivery system towards a distributed model of distributed delivery processes and methods enabling the combining resources located in different countries contributing demands of international clients to be served efficiently and together to project performance or the maintenance of client consistently. information systems led, in parallel to this organization by business and geographic area, to the creation of the following There are eight strategic business units (SBUs): three departments able to mobilize technology or functional X five global strategic business units: resources making them available to all Group business units and • Consulting Services, their clients: • Infrastructure Services, i.e., the design, installation and X a Cloud Foundation Services department, mobilizing expertise maintenance of client IT infrastructures, in the shift to Cloud computing and particularly consulting, • Business Services, grouping together B.P.O. (Business information systems architecture and transformation expertise; Process Outsourcing), operating solutions, inherited primarily X a Digital department, mobilizing competent technology from IGATE and Prosodie, which operates the customer resources across three key digital transformation pillars: relationship platforms, (i) Insights and Data, i.e. data analysis and processing • Sogeti, present in around fifteen countries, which brings to the offerings (Big Data), (ii) Digital Customer Experience offerings Group’s clients its network, infrastructure and local services allowing Group clients to constantly optimize their customer experience and all of its technology services offer, relationships and finally (ii) Digital Manufacturing offerings, grouping together the Group’s know-how in the digitalization of industrial processes, the optimization of production assets and connected things; (1) See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, page 146. 56 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group X a third department was created to steer improvements in the The Executive Committee comprises a total of 22 persons. Group’s competitiveness on a cross-functional basis. It brings Four special-purpose Committees assist Group Management: together in a streamlined management team, the delivery and quality department, the distributed and industrialized delivery X the Group Review Board, chaired by the Chairman and centers department – to which the operations department Chief Executive Officer, which examines the major business in India reports – the procurement department and a new proposals in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national production department tasked with implementing productivity or multi-business framework agreements entered into with gains to reduce Group direct production costs. clients or suppliers, major contracts involving guarantees given GROUP MANAGEMENT X by the Group; the Merger & Acquisitions Committee which examines 2 acquisition and divestment projects in the course of Group Management, led by Paul Hermelin, is structured around identification, selection, assessment or negotiation; two bodies: X the Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial X the Group Executive Board (GEB), whose role is to facilitate Officer, which reviews and provides advice with respect to the carrying out of Group operations and implementing the projects requiring investment, including those involving real necessary steps with respect thereto. The GEB defines the estate or investment in technologies; broad strategies and actions to be submitted to the Executive X the Intellectual Property Committee which decides Group Committee for approval and ensures their implementation priorities and investments in this area and in particular the by the major business units. As of December 31, 2015, the global roll-out of innovations resulting from local initiatives. GEB was comprised of Paul Hermelin and the following six individuals presented in alphabetical order: Finally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered useful or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main • Global functions: countries), a Coordination Committee was appointed bringing – Aiman Ezzat, Chief Financial Officer, together local managers of the different Group businesses – Hubert Giraud, Director of People Management and Talent and tasked with ensuring improved cooperation (particularly Development, with respect to actions carried out individually by one or other – Patrick Nicolet, Director of Group Competitiveness, with the business for the major clients appearing in a list drawn up at the roles described above; beginning of the year). • Operations: THE CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS – Thierry Delaporte, Financial Services Strategic Business Unit CEO and Latin America Strategic Business Unit operating Group Management is assisted by the following central control, departments: – Salil Parekh, AppsOne Strategic Business Unit CEO, Sogeti The Finance Department and Infrastructure Services Strategic Business Units and «Cloud Foundation Services» operating control, The Finance Department is headed by Aiman Ezzat, who is responsible for: – Olivier Sevillia, AppsTwo Strategic Business Unit CEO, Capgemini Consulting and Business Services Strategic X Group operating management control, comprising the Business Units and «Digital» operating control; preparation of budgets, monthly forecasts and performance minoring as well as operational reporting and financial X the Executive Committee, whose role is to assist Group consolidation; Management define broad strategies concerning the Group’s operating structure, the choice of priorities, production rules X financing and treasury; and organization and the implementation conditions for human X accounting books and records and accounting standards; resources management. It assesses the performance of Group X taxation and insurance; managers and prepares succession plans for major positions within the organization. The Executive Committee meets once X financial information systems and the transformation of finance; a month with, in addition to the Chairman and Chief Executive X financial communication and investor relations; Officer and GEB members: X real estate and real estate transformation projects. • the Global Sales Director, He also heads the Information Systems department and the • the Delivery Director (Production/Methods and Support), Group’s global risk management process. • the General Secretary, People Management and Talent Development • the Marketing and Communications Director, Department • the Strategy and Development Director, The People Management and Talent Development Department • the Technologies and Intellectual Property Director, is headed by Hubert Giraud. Mr. Giraud is in charge of managing the Group’s Human Resources policy with the principal aim of • the Global Head «Digital», developing the skills and productivity of the Group’s employees. • the CEOs of the above-mentioned Strategic Business Units, His role is to lead local initiatives so that they reflect our on-going • the Application Services North America Business Unit CEO, commitment to performance, encourage a new generation of • the AppsTwo Strategic Business Unit Deputy CEO, managers and set up diversified and complementary career paths. He is responsible for modernizing and simplifying employee • the India Operations Director, management tools as well as the policies rolled out in this area • the Asia-Pacific Business Unit Executive Chairman. by the Group’s subsidiaries, particularly with respect to the retention of high potential managers and their career orientation. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 57 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group He is assisted by the Group Talent Management Director, who Development and Strategy Department is responsible for talent management, developing leadership This department, managed by Pierre-Yves Cros, deals with and succession plans for our main executive managers. The all issues related to Strategy, as well as acquisitions and Group Compensation and Benefits Director is responsible for divestments. It is primarily tasked with fostering deliberations on the management of compensation policies applied in the Group, strategic issues by Group Management, the Board of Directors, those of Group managers and related share capital incentive its Chairman and the Strategy & Investment Committee. As such, programs. it summarizes and develops the Group’s internal and external strategy. To this end, it maintains close relations with leading The General Secretary firms specializing in analyzing the market and trends therein. This position is occupied by Jean-Baptiste Massignon who is The department oversees compliance with the Group’s internal responsible for: transformation program and monitors, in conjunction with the X legal affairs, which encompasses governance of the listed Technologies Department, the emergence of innovative potential company Cap Gemini S.A., the management of subsidiary partners that could contribute to the Group’s organic growth. It legal affairs and legal support to operating activities; examines acquisitions and divestments in close conjunction with X the management of the control process for risks presented the Finance Department. by certain business proposals. In this respect, he prepares Mr. Cros is also responsible for relations with the Group’s major the decisions presented to the aforementioned Group Review strategic and technology partners. Board; The Production/Methods and Support Department X the IT Security and Data Protection department which seeks to ensure the Group’s compliance with the highest IT security Headed by André Cichowlas, this department is tasked with standards, through the implementation of appropriate tools, designing and disseminating prevailing methodologies within the training and controls; Group, certifying certain categories of employee (project leaders, architects, etc.) and performing audits of risk-sensitive projects X corporate secretarial services for Capgemini Service, the entity conducted by specialized teams known as “flying squads”. It which provides operating and support services to Cap Gemini leads and supervises the various production industrialization S.A. programs undertaken by the strategic business units and The Global Sales Department particularly the “Lean” program for continuous improvement in Headed by Srikanth Iyengar, this department encompasses: productivity and quality. X the management of client offerings and the launch of growth The Marketing and Communications Department initiatives; Virginie Régis heads this department since January 1, 2016. It is X the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the responsible for the Group’s internal and external communication following sectors: Utilities / Distribution & Consumer Goods and is tasked with coordinating actions implemented in this area / Automobile Industry / initiatives managed centrally but by operating subsidiaries as well as their marketing deliberations entrusted, in the name and on behalf of the whole Group, to and initiatives. operating entities; The Ethics & Compliance and Internal Audit X the definition and standardization of sales support processes. Department Capgemini India Headed by Philippe Christelle, the Internal Audit department Srinivas Kandula is CEO of Capgemini India. He is responsible reports directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and for the development and performance of delivery centers based is tasked with controlling the correct application by business units in India that employ some 90,000 people at December 31, 2015 of Group principles and rules, particularly with respect to risk to serve the Group’s various businesses and countries. management and control. The implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the relevant business units is systematically Previously Human Resources director of IGATE, Mr. Kandula’s monitored. main task is to steer the integration of IGATE and Capgemini’s activities in India and to bring operating performance to the levels Philippe Christelle also heads the Ethics & Compliance achieved by best-in-sector companies in India. department of the Group, reporting directly to Paul Hermelin. Technology and Intellectual Property Department Advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer This department, run by Lanny Cohen, manages technology Philippe Grangeon, Marketing and Communications Director directors for all of the Group’s businesses and coordinates until December 31, 2015, occupies the position of Advisor to the the work for all proprietary solutions making up the Group’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2016. He intellectual property. It conducts and develops the technological serves as Chairman of Capgemini Université and of Capgemini dialogue with the Group’s major strategic partners and is Gouvieux, the company which operates the Fontaines site, place committed to placing their innovations and the Group’s solutions of training and meeting for the Group employees and which also at the core of the Group’s offering and service portfolio. hosts events for non-Group clients. Philippe Grangeon also chairs the Board of Directors of Capgemini Technology Services Maroc. 58 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate ofﬁcers 2.3.1. Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer compensation policy 2 The procedures for setting the compensation of the Chairman proportions of fixed and variable components and share grants and Chief Executive Officer comply with the recommendations valued in accordance with IFRS are balanced and in line of the revised AFEP-MEDEF code issued in November 2015. with market practices. The fixed component is determined in Compensation components were determined in accordance accordance with a major philosophy specific to the Group, with the recommendations of this code, whether fixed or variable which aligns the compensation structure of the Chief Executive compensation, the grant of equity instruments or supplementary Officer with that of key operating managers. One of the pension benefits. historical rules of the Group is that the remuneration of executive In addition to complying with “market” rules and in line with past management comprises a fixed component equal to 60% of the Group practice, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is not target theoretical compensation and a variable component equal entitled to termination benefits, is not covered by a non-compete to 40% of this amount subject to the attainment of pre-defined clause and receives no benefits in kind. In addition, he has waived collective and individual objectives. his right to receive attendance fees since fiscal year 2009. The Compensation Committee also monitors the main practices These principles are regularly reviewed and discussed by the of its international competitors. Compensation practices in North Compensation Committee which submits a report on its work America and India are structurally and culturally different from and its resulting proposals to the Board of Directors for approval. those applied in European companies. Observing their practices nonetheless provides relevant information on the nature of the The Compensation Committee refers in particular to market and compensation levels. In American companies such comparative studies to ensure the consistency and as CSC, Accenture and IBM, total compensation includes a competiveness of both the compensation level and structure substantial proportion of long-term share-based compensation. and calculation methods with market practice. The Committee’s recommendations take account of executive management PROCEDURES FOR SETTING FIXED AND VARIABLE compensation levels and components in CAC 40 companies COMPENSATION as well as observed practice in leading French and foreign Group competitors in the IT services and consulting sector. The procedures for setting Paul Hermelin’s compensation in Compensation publication practice varies significantly between respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the Board of Directors’ the countries and legal structures of competitors, in particular meeting in Y held to approve the financial statements of fiscal in the case of partnerships. CAC 40 companies are therefore year Y-1. As indicated above, this compensation comprises – as the most relevant benchmark and the most transparent, does that of all key executive managers of the Group – fixed but additional analyses take account of the international compensation paid in 12 monthly installments equal to 60% of and competitive aspects of the sector in which the company the total theoretical amount if objectives are achieved and variable operates. compensation equal to 40% of this total theoretical amount, closely correlated to the company’s performance. The Compensation Committee took due note of the observations issued to Cap Gemini in July 2014 by the High Committee The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning of the for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de Gouvernement year for the year in progress: d’Entreprise, HCGE) and of its 2014 and 2015 activity reports, X the theoretical fixed and variable compensation components. as well as of the AMF 2014 and 2015 reports on corporate The theoretical variable component is in turn split into governance and executive management compensation in listed two parts: V1 tied to Group performance indicators and companies. These observations were taken into account and consolidated results and V2 based on the attainment of integrated into the items detailed below. No observations were individual objectives, where possible quantified, set by the made in 2015. Board of Directors. Each of these components can vary When performing comparisons with French companies of between 0% and a ceiling equal to 200% of the theoretical comparable size and ambition, the Compensation Committee amount. Therefore, as a result of this system, fixed plus ensures that Cap Gemini’s practices are in line with the best variable compensation may vary between 60% and 140% practices of CAC 40 companies in terms of both the clarity and of annual theoretical/target compensation. The variable consistency of methods applied. As in previous years, the Group component and the total compensation are therefore participated in 2015 in comparative studies of the main French both capped and the variable component may not companies carried out by specialist firms. These comparisons represent more than 133% of fixed compensation as show that Paul Hermelin’s global compensation is close to the indicated in the summary table below; median compensation for CAC 40 companies, and is of an X the fixed component is not reviewed annually, but after adequate level compared with comparable sector compensation several years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. in France and abroad. The Group also ensures that the respective Paul Hermelin’s fixed compensation was increased in 2008 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 59 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers and was only reviewed in 2013 (+10%) following an extension The V1 component varies in line with a formula applied for many of his responsibilities and to reflect the strong growth and decades within the Group, that accelerates actual performance international expansion of the Group and has remained upwards and downwards such that: unchanged since; X the V1 component is nil if the weighted performance of financial X the internal performance indicators included in the calculation indicators is less than or equal to 70%; of the V1 component and the weighting applied to each X the V1 component can reach twice the theoretical amount if indicator. The level of attainment of these indicators is the weighted performance is greater than or equal to 130%; determined based on a comparison of actual audited and varying on a straight-line basis between these two limits. budgeted Group consolidated results. The indicators adopted are tied to growth, operating profitability, net profit and cash The level of attainment of objectives and the amount of the generation in line with the key indicators presented regularly variable compensation component are decided pursuant to to the market; the recommendation of the Compensation Committee by the Board of Directors’ meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial X the individual performance objectives underlying V2 statements of fiscal year Y. The Committee meets on several compensation. The strategic and operating objectives for 2015 occasions before the Board of Directors’ meeting to appraise fall into four main categories, “Acquisitions”, “Industrialization”, the percentage attainment by Paul Hermelin of his objectives. Reinforcement of an account centric culture and “Talent An executive session of the board was held in December 2015 enrichment”. The Board of Directors ensured the objectives and another one in February 2016 to assess such performance were based on directly measurable items so that overall 70% before the February Board of Directors which decided the level of the total variable compensation is based on quantitative of attainment by Paul Hermelin of his objectives. data and, that objectives are clearly tied to the roll out of the Group’s strategy priorities approved by the Board of Directors The variable compensation is paid after the Board of Directors’ as conditions to deliver the 3-year strategic plan. meeting that approves the financial statements for fiscal year Y underlying the calculation of the various variable compensation components and that decides the percentage attainment of individual objectives set. Payment generally takes place in March of fiscal year Y+1. Summary table of the theoretical structure of fixed and variable compensation: Theoretical compensation structure, base 100 Target Min Max Gross fixed compensation 60 60 60 Annual variable compensation V1 20 0 40 Annual variable compensation V2 20 0 40 Multi-year variable compensation 0 0 0 THEORETICAL TOTAL IF OBJECTIVES ARE ATTAINED 100 60 140 % variable / fixed 67% 0% 133% CAP GEMINI SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE POLICY PROCEDURES Meeting for the corresponding period and 4.1% of the total amount granted to all beneficiaries. These percentages were The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and now 3.1% and 3.6% respectively for 2014, and 2.3% and 3.7% grants performance shares in accordance with the following respectively for 2015. Since 2009 and over 6 performance principles: share grants, the average percentages are 2.1% and 3.2% X performance shares are granted subject to the same conditions respectively; of presence and performance as applicable to other Group X in addition, IFRS value of shares granted targets to represent beneficiaries and all shares are subject to performance around one years’ fixed compensation in average. The IFRS conditions. Paul Hermelin received performance shares in value of shares granted over the last 4 years is at 96% of the 2009, 2012, 2013,2014 and 2015 but was not granted any corresponding fixed compensation (and only at 65% over the shares in 2010 or 2011; last 7 years); X the performance conditions are ambitious, as demonstrated by X Paul Hermelin is required to hold all vested performance shares the first two share grants in 2009 and 2010 where the vesting received under the 2009, 2012 and 2013 plans until the later rates were only 50% and 68.5%, respectively, of the number of: of shares initially granted; • the end of the mandatory two-year holding period (2009 plan), X the conditions include internal and external performance extended to four years (2012 and 2013 plan), and conditions in accordance with the AMF recommendation; • the expiry of his term as corporate officer. X the number of shares granted to executive corporate officers pursuant to the resolutions presented to shareholder vote is In addition, and in accordance with the recommendation of the limited (maximum of 10% of shares available for grant set in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors decided that vested last resolution voted on May 6, 2015). The performance shares performance shares representing at least 50% of shares must be granted to Paul Hermelin in 2012 and 2013 represented 2.1% retained, where the amount of shares held represents less than of the total amount authorized by the Combined Shareholders twice the theoretical annual salary (fixed and variable). Once this 60 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers threshold is reached, the obligation to retain performance shares X Share hedging transactions are prohibited before the end of only applies to one third of shares vested. the mandatory holding period. This prohibition is included in the grant plan rules and applies to all beneficiaries. It applies since As this threshold had been attained at the time of the July 2014 the first performance share grant plan in 2009. grant and similarly as of the July 2015 grant, the obligation to hold shares that vest as a result of this grant was set at one-third of X In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF shares vested for these two grants. Code, performance share grants will be performed from now on at the same calendar periods and will be decided by either Given the significant number of shares held by Paul Hermelin, he the Board of Directors’ meeting at the end of July or the was not required to buy a set number of shares on the delivery of the vested shares. following meeting. This was the case in 2015 as the grant was made in July 2015. 2 2.3.2. 2015 Compensation of Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (gross amounts) Compensation in respect of 2014 Compensation in respect of 2015 Paul Hermelin: Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Total 2013 Paid in Paid in Paid in Paid in Chief Executive Officer thereafter (Reminder) 2014 2015 Total 2014 2015 2016 Total 2015 Gross fixed compensation 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 Annual variable compensation 1,150,900 1,168,652 1,168,652 24,200 1,085,279 1,109,479 Multi-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind* 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,652 3,652 TOTAL 2,606,500 1,455,600 1,168,652 2,624,252 1,479,852 1,085,279 2,565,131 Value of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted during the year 905,785 1,466,026 1,466,026 2,266,678 2,266,678 TOTAL 3,512,285 2,921,626 1,168,652 4,090,278 3,746,530 1,085,279 4,831,810 * Paul Hermelin did not receive any benefits in kind in 2015, withe the sole exception of contribution paid by the Company for his unemployment insurance underwritten by the “Garantie Sociale des Chefs d’Entreprise” for 3,652€. Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in June 2013 to the Shareholders’ Meeting for an advisory vote. The following with which Capgemini complies, the compensation of executive table summarizes the compensation components subject to corporate officers due or awarded in respect of the year then shareholder advisory vote pursuant to the “say on pay” policy. ended of each executive corporate officer must be presented 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 61 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers COMPENSATION COMPONENTS DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF 2015 TO PAUL HERMELIN CEO AND SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDER ADVISORY VOTE Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2015 was approved by the Board of Directors compensation (paid in 2015) on February 18, 2015 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged on 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and changes in and the internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.4% per annum. This compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives. Annual variable €1,109,479 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 17, 2016, the Board, based on the audited and compensation (paid in 2016) approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2015, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results: 1) % attainment of the revenue objective: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2015 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the budgeted objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015. They didn’t include the impact of the IGATE acquisition and therefore the achievements indicated below have been established accordingly i.e. excluding as well the impact of this acquisition effective July 1, 2015. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 99.77%, 97.38%, 112.41% and 111.71% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 103.97%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 70%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 130%, the V1 component will be equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 3.33%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 103.97% in 2015 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 113.23%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*1.1312 = €548,039. V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into four categories: “Acquisitions” for 30%, “Industrialization” for 25%, “Reinforcement of the account centricity culture” for 25% and “Talent enrichment” for 20%. For the first category (Acquisitions-30%), the Board highlighted the successful acquisition of IGATE realized in a very short time frame with operational merger effective as of January 1, 2016. This acquisition the biggest realized by the Group in the last 15 years, strengthens its North American operations and brings strong assets such as new logos and a highly leveraged, talented and industrialized organization. Given the size of the operation, its strong matching to Group strategy and its fast and successful closing, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been exceeded. For the second category (Industrialization-25%), the Board based its recommendations on objective items and particularly on the margin improvement, through different measures (gross margin, contribution margin % evolution and production costs evolution) which all evolved positively year on year by +0.6pt (101.3%), +0.32pt (101.7%) and minus 0,4pt respectively. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 96%. For the third category (account centricity-25%), the Board took into consideration the transition from a significant part of the business to a new accounting model going forward announced during the Group “Rencontres” last October and supported by a transformation program. In addition, the Board considered from a quantitative side the growth performance realized by the strategic accounts in absolute terms vs. the Group actual growth. Considering the sales growth of strategic accounts by 10.4% and of the corresponding revenue of 5.9% compared to Group growth the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 120%. 62 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote For the fourth category (Talent-20%), the Board took into several indicators such as the movements recorded within TeamOne, the Group transformation body, with 49 movements recorded in 2015 (vs. 43 in 2014) excluding any impact from the IGATE acquisition. This, as well as several external recruits of “Vice-Presidents” (78), the promotion of 120 new Vice-Presidents vs. 112 in 2014 (excluding IGATE promotions), the increase in executive manager turnover and mobility reflected by numerous job transfers in the course of 2015 (which have more than doubled) and the further increase by 4.4 points in the percentage 2 of women promoted VP, following a 5 points improvement the previous year, led the Board to consider that the Talent objectives set have been reached at 100%. The Board approved a weighted performance of 116%, as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative Industrialisation 15 10 15 9 Account Centricity 15 10 20 10 Acquisitions 30 42 Talents 10 10 11.5 8.5 TOTAL 40 60 46.5 69.5 Target 100 Proposed 116 leading to a variable V2 calculation of €561.440. Accordingly, variable compensation of €1,109.479 was approved by the Board for 2015, i.e. 76.4% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 114.6% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2015 is therefore €2,561.479, i.e. 105.8% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2015 Variable compensation calculation for Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets % of Indicators Weight achievement Weighted Total Revenue 30% 99.77% 29.93% Operational Margin % 30% 97.38% 29.22% Net results before tax 20% 112.41% 22.48% Organic Free Cash Flow 20% 111.71% 22.34% Total weighted R/B before flex 103.97% Total weighted after 70/130 flex (10/3*weighted R/B-7/3) 113.2% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 548 039 V2: qualitative part based on 2015 personal objectives Categories Weight Weighted total Acquisitions 30% Industrialisation 25% 116% Account centricity 25% Talent enrichment 20% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 561,440 TOTAL 2015 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1,109,479 As a % of the total variable on target 114.6% As a % of fixed compensation 76.4% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid at the end of the first quarter of Y+1, or in the present case in March 2016. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 63 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock options, Performance 40,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance shares or any €2,266,678 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% other form (accounting of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2015 to 2017. of long-term value) The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €1750 million. Above this threshold, shares vest compensation progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of €2 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 60% of the initial grant vests. A portion of this allocation has been granted in reward of the successful IGATE acquisition. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.02% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. (Ninth resolution) Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on July 29, 2015. Stock options No stock options or other items were granted. = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect attendance fees waiver fees as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2015 (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last six years). Valuation of €3,652 Unemployment insurance contributions paid on behalf of Paul Hermelin benefits in kind Contributions paid 64 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers OTHER COMPENSATION COMPONENTS COMPENSATION COMPONENTS DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF 2015 THAT WERE PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING FOR VOTE PURSUANT TO THE REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PROCEDURE Amount subject to vote Presentation 2 Termination €0 No entitlement to termination payments. payments Non-compete N/A No non-compete indemnities. indemnities Supplementary €0 No amount due in respect of the year. pension benefits Mr. Paul Hermelin is a member of the supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan (Article 39) setup in 2006 in Capgemini Service, under the same conditions applicable to other employee members. This plan was reviewed by an external firm which confirmed that it complies with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations of October 6, 2009, as it complies with the revised AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code issued in June 2013 and lastly in November 2015. The plan was closed to new beneficiaries in 2015 and rights of existing members have been frozen as of October 31, 2015. In order to receive benefits under this plan it is necessary to be with the Group at the time of retirement, to have at least 10 years of seniority, to have been a Group Executive Member for at least 5 years and to have a compensation level above 8 PASS (French annual social security ceiling) during 5 years at least. Benefits are based on reference earnings equal to the average of the three best years (fixed and variable part) from among the ten years preceding retirement. In addition, this supplementary pension is subject to three cumulative limits such that the pension amount cannot exceed: ■ 40% of reference earnings; ■ 50% of reference earnings, including pensions received under all other pension plans; and ■ reference earnings are capped at 60 times the French annual social security ceiling. Benefits are proportional to length of service (minimum of 10 years required and a maximum of 30 years), reflecting the required progressive acquisition of entitlement, which remains well below the threshold set by the AFEP-MEDEF code and the recent legal ceiling of 3% per annum. Entitlement is acquired at a rate of 1.5% per year for the first 10 years of seniority and for subsequent years only at rates of: 1% up to 20 PASS 2% between 20 and 40 PASS 3% between 40 and 60 PASS Therefore, the maximum possible annual entitlement is equal to 1.83% before potential impact of the cumulative limits. Due to the long seniority of our CEO (23 years) the value of the annual pension is estimated at a net amount after income tax and employee social contribution of 300k€, corresponding to a gross amount of 901k€ or 37% of his 2015 theoretical compensation. The plan is financed through an external insurance company and as such the required funds to pay the pension support a contribution of 24%. Also as the pension is higher than 8 PASS the pension supports a contribution estimated at 30% as in previous years. 21 members have benefited from this regime since its launch with 11 presently active as of 31/12/2015. Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007 Fourth resolution in respect of regulated agreements. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT OF EXECUTIVE CORPORATE officer his entitlement to pension benefits, given his seniority in OFFICERS the Group (23) and the services he has rendered to the Company With regards to Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers that and was in no way motivated by a desire to maintain for his his employment contract has been suspended in its entirety benefit any entitlement to a severance pay provision stipulated since May 24, 1996 (date from which he exercised his first term in his employment contract (his contract does not contain any of office as a member of the Management Board), but that it such provision). In keeping with this measure, Paul Hermelin was decided in 2009, pursuant to a recommendation by the following his commitment to the Board of Directors to waive Selection & Compensation Committee, to maintain jointly his term his employment contract on reaching the age at which he may as corporate officer and his employment contract. This decision legally exercise his right to retire, informed the Board of Directors’ was based on the desire to maintain for this executive corporate meeting of February 18, 2015 that he waived his employment contract as from that date. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 65 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Indemnities or benefits Supplementary following appointment, Indemnities in Executive corporate officers: employment contracts and Employment pension plan termination or change in respect of non deferred compensation contract (see before) function compete clause Paul Hermelin Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter No Yes No No 2.3.3 2016 Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer The Board decided, pursuant to the recommendation of the X free cash flow: 20% weighting. Compensation Committee, to leave Mr. Hermelin’s theoretical The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2016 V2 variable compensation unchanged for 2016 at €2,420,000. The Board compensation have been assigned an individual specific weight. also set the procedure for calculating the variable component They relate to the operational transformation of the Group in 2016 of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s compensation, defining the performance in line with the strategic plan and related indicators, the successful indicators underlying the V1 calculation, as well as the personal integration of IGATE, the effectiveness of the acquisition strategy strategic objectives adopted for the V2 component for fiscal year and to the HR strategy around talent management and mobility. 2016. The Compensation Committee has formalized these objectives in Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for 2016 V1 such a way as they can be clearly assessed on objective grounds compensation will remain as follows: at the end of 2016 with a minimum weight of 50% based on quantified objectives and the Board shared the same imperative X revenue growth: 30% weighting; when finalizing the objectives. Therefore 75% at least of the X operating margin rate: 30% weighting; variable part will be subject to a quantitative evaluation in 2016. X pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 2.3.4 Attendance fees and other compensation received by Corporate Ofﬁcers In compensation for the time spent participating actively in Board • €25,000 for the Chairmen of the Compensation Committee meetings and in consideration for the growing responsibilities and the Strategy & Investment Committee; of directors, the Company was authorized by the Combined X payment of a fixed amount of €2,500 for each attendance at Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 to pay attendance a meeting of one of the four specialized Board Committees fees to directors of up to €1,000,000 per year. The method of (excluding the Committee Chairmen); allocating attendance fees between directors defined at this X payment of additional attendance fees of €5,000 per Board time was reviewed on May 7, 2014, the date of the Combined or Committee meeting to take account of the travel time of Shareholders’ Meeting. This overhaul was decided following the directors resident outside Europe and of €2,000 for directors external assessment of the Board of Directors performed in 2013 resident outside France but in Europe; and sought to take better account of the increasing workload of Committee Chairmen and encourage good attendance at X attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the meetings as well as of the travel time of Directors resident outside first six months and at the end of the year, and are paid in two France. Accordingly, attendance fees are now allocated on the installments; following basis: X these fixed amounts could be reduced if circumstances require X payment of a fixed amount of €15,000 per year to each the Company to hold a greater than scheduled number of director; meetings, resulting in aggregate attendance fees exceeding the threshold authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ X payment of a fixed amount of €4,000 for each attendance at Meeting. an official meeting of the Board; It is recalled that Mr. Hermelin and Mr. Kampf voluntarily waived X attendance fees for the specialized Board Committees were their right to collect the attendance fees that should have been set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the paid to them as director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2015 ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive a fixed (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last six years). annual payment of: In application of the above principles, total attendance fees of • €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of €843.500 were paid to directors in respect of 2015, representing the Ethics and Governance Committee and €45,000 for the 84% of the maximum amount authorized by the Combined Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, Shareholders’ Meeting. After deduction of French and foreign • €35,000 for the Chairman of the Audit Committee, withholding tax, a net amount of €548.948 was paid in respect of 2015. 66 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Attendance fees due in respect of one fiscal year and paid during another fiscal year are detailed below: Amount due in Amount due in Gross amount Gross amount (in euros) respect of 2014 respect of 2015 paid in 2014 paid in 2015 Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Daniel Bernard 99,383 110,000 80,000 110,883 Anne Bouverot Yann Delabriere 64,500 78,288 76,500 82,000 41,250 69,000 76,500 84,288 2 Laurence Dors 58,000 80,000 51,000 70,500 Paul Hermelin (nil) (nil) 0 0 Phil Laskawy* 65,500 92,500 51,000 85,500 Bernard Liautaud* (nil) (nil) 6,750 (nil) Xavier Musca 28,500 49,000 8,500 51,000 Ruud van Ommeren* 31,000 (nil) 61,000 (nil) Terry Ozan* 23,000 (nil) 45,500 (nil) Pierre Pringuet 77,777 86,000 62,500 83,277 Bruno Roger 77,777 90,000 59,500 84,277 Lucia Sinapi 53,000 65,000 51,000 61,000 Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle* 62,500 112,500 8,500 115,500 TOTAL 719,225 843,500 595,500 822,725 * As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these non-resident beneficiaries. A 36.5% deduction at source for income tax and CSG/CRDS social security contributions was also applied to amounts paid to beneficiaries resident in France. The non-executive directors did not receive any compensation Group: accordingly he was Chairman (since its creation in 1993) other than attendance fees, with the exception of Serge Kampf, of Capgemini Service S.A.S., an intercompany service company founder and executive corporate officer of the Group for 46 years which groups together and manages a large part of Group and Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, the director representing employee top management and whose role is to provide services and shareholders, who holds an employment contract in respect of assistance to all operating companies of the Group (commercial her functions in the Group Finance Department and receives development, financial and legal assistance, external growth, compensation in this respect that is unrelated to her corporate human resource management, consistency in commercial office in the Company. relations with major clients, communication, etc.), as well as With regard to Serge Kampf, readers are reminded that he has Chairman of Capgemini Switzerland for over 47 years (i.e. since long exercised – in addition to his duties as Chairman of Cap the creation in 1968 of this company, the Group’s first subsidiary), Gemini S.A. until May 24, 2012– and still exercised, until he Director of Capgemini North America Inc. (USA) and sole partner passed away on March 15, 2016 several other duties within the of SCI Paris Étoile. He received a total unchanged compensation of €960,000 in respect of these duties in 2015. 2.3.5 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares The following tables present a breakdown of stock options Performance shares have vested to Paul Hermelin in 2015 for and performance shares granted to, exercised by or vested a total of 100,000 shares corresponding to the vesting of the to executive corporate officers during 2015 and historical grant of performance shares of 2012 (50,000) and 2013 (50,000), information on stock options and performance shares granted: which both vested in 2015, as in both cases the performance It should be noted that: conditions have been fully met. Mr. Serge Kampf has never been awarded (and has never In regard to the external performance condition, due to the strong requested) any stock options or performance shares. share price performance over the calculation period, the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share price vs. the basket Stock options have not been granted to group executives and of comparable companies has been for both grants above 110%, managers since 2009. target enabling to definitely grant 100% of shares related to the external condition. In regard to the internal condition, the free cash flow generation over the period 2012 to 2014 has been above the ceiling of 1 billion euros which was initially set to enable the maximum grant allocation associated to the internal performance condition. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 67 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers Therefore the two set conditions have exceeded the maximum grant proposal, associated in their case of a minimum holding limits, enabling full allocation and the French fiscal residents period of 4 years, Mr Hermelin being in addition subject to beneficiaries have therefore been granted 100% of their initial specific rules described before. Value of Number and options using type (purchase the method or subscription) adopted in the Stock options granted during the year to each of options consolidated executive corporate officer by Cap Gemini S.A. Plan date and granted during financial and/or any other Group company number the year statements Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Number of options Stock options exercised during the year by Plan date and exercised during each executive corporate officer number the year Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Value of shares calculated using the Theoretical method Performance shares granted during maximum adopted in the the year to each executive corporate number of consolidated Potential officer by Cap Gemini S.A. and/or any Plan date and shares granted financial Potential availability Performance other Group company number during the year statements vesting date date conditions Paul HERMELIN 6th plan of 40,000 2,266,678 03/01/2018 Later of the A detailed 07/29/2015 end of his term description of of office and the conditions 03/01/2021 is presented in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 155 et seq. of this Registration Document Performance shares vested to each Plan date Number of Vesting Year of grant executive corporate officer and number shares vested conditions during the year Paul HERMELIN 3rd plan 2012 50,000 n/a 2012 th 4 plan 2013 50,000 n/a 2013 68 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO CORPORATE OFFICERS The Group has not granted any stock options since 2008 and the last grant performed on June 1, 2008 expired in 2013. Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 10/01/2005 10/01/2006 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 Plan number 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted o/w granted to Serge Kampf 1,915,500 (nil) 2,067,000 (nil) 400,000 (nil) 1,932,500 (nil) 219,000 (nil) 2 o/w granted to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 50,000 (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to the ten employees receiving 109,000 200,000 86,000 114,000 60,000 Start of exercise period 10/01/2006 10/01/2007 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 Expiry date 09/30/2010 09/30/2011 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 30 43 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years * Complete historical information on stock options granted is provided on page 67 of the Registration Document. HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PERFORMANCE SHARES Plan number 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan 2013 Plan 2014 Plan 2015 Plan Grant date 03/05/2009 10/01/2010 12/12/2012 02/20/2013 07/30/2014 07/29/2015 Number of performance shares initially granted 1,148,250 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500 1,068,550 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 50,000 40,000 Number of shares vested 485,750 881,048 383,000 355,600 1,000 n/a o/w to Paul Hermelin* 25,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 n/a n/a Cumulative number of shares cancelled or expired 662,500 673,952 99,000 140,000 57,000 3,900 Number of shares potentially available for grant at the end of 2015 521,500 713,500 1,232,500 1,064,650 o/w to Paul Hermelin* Expired Expired 0 0 50,000 40,000 Vesting date-France 03/05/2011 10/01/2012 01/01/2015 03/01/2015 08/01/2016 03/01/2018 Vesting date-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 End of holding period-France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2019 03/01/2019 08/01/2020 03/01/2021 End of holding period-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 Share price at grant date (in €) 23.3 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 87.6 * Complete historical information on performance shares granted is provided on pages 155 to 159 of the Registration Document 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 69 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.3 Compensation of executive corporate officers HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO THE TEN EMPLOYEES (NON-CORPORATE OFFICERS) Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows: Total number of Stock options granted to/exerciced by the ten employees (nonstock options Weighted average corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares granted/exercised price Plan number Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees (non corporate officers) having Total number of shares received the greatest number of shares vested/granted Plan number th Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all 6 Performance eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares 109,500 share plan 3rd & 4th Performance shares (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) to the ten Group employees Performance share holding the greatest number of vested shares 190,000 plans 70 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures 2 Pursuant to Article L. 225-35 of the French Commercial Code, DEFINITION OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK the Chairman of the Board of Directors prepared his report on MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS the internal control and risk management procedures defined and Framework implemented by Capgemini Group. The French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) has defined an This report is based on the contributions of several departments internal control framework, which recommends all French and, in particular, the Group departments responsible for sales, companies, subject to the requirements of the Financial Security production, IT, finance, insurance, legal affairs, human resources, Law (Loi de Sécurité Financière), use and apply within their as well as ethics, compliance and internal audit. In accordance subsidiaries. with the Law of July 3, 2008, this report was reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors’ on March 23, 2016. The Group builds on this reference framework and the application guidance published initially in January 2007 and updated on During 2015, the Group implemented a number of measures July 22, 2010 by the AMF. aimed at rolling-out and standardizing processes and procedures within the Group and thereby strengthening the Group’s internal The risk management and internal control systems contribute in control environment. Among these measures, the following may a complementary manner to controlling the activities of the Group be highlighted: and satisfy objectives that are also complementary. X the integration of the Latin America region into the automated Objectives of the internal control and risk reporting of project risks; management systems X the systematic follow-up of Group Review Board The Group’s internal control and risk management systems seek recommendations in project reviews and during independent to create and preserve the Group’s value, assets and reputation, technical reviews (“flying squads”) of project teams performed and identify and measure the major risks to which the Group is by the Production/Methods and Support Department; exposed, anticipate and foresee changes in these risks and finally X the increased use of contract management in operational implement risk prevention and transfer measures. project management; In this context, Capgemini Group has defined and implemented X the selection and roll-out of a sales and marketing management a control system that seeks to ensure: platform (THOR), that will be operational in 2016; X compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and X the adoption of a unified procedure and the introduction of regulations; models for the global management of client accounts; X compliance with the Group’s seven core values and guidelines X the introduction of a global procedure and policy for salesset by the Board of Directors and/or Group Management; based compensation, integrating a three-year plan beginning X application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; in 2015, aimed at aligning all business units around the world; X the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control X the accelerated roll-out of a global application for personnel processes safeguarding assets; and management and the implementation of a performance management information system, now covering 98% of the X the reliability of accounting and financial information. Group; Scope of the internal control and risk management X the definition of a People Safety global governance system; systems X the overhaul of the management process for international Capgemini Group ensures the implementation of risk travel; management and internal control systems within its subsidiaries. X a strategic review of talent with the identification of actions In 2015, such systems covered all consolidated subsidiaries and focusing on management teams of the main units and the Group businesses. formal documentation of succession plans; Measures for the progressive integration of newly acquired X the update of the three-year People plan to anticipate future companies into the internal control and risk management employee and management requirements in the coming years system are in the course of implementation. All material Group and define strategic actions. subsidiaries are currently integrated into the general system presented in this report. Limitations While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk control, this system does not however offer an absolute 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 71 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures guarantee of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more • authorization processes, than it can – irrespective of the skills of the employees performing • sales and production rules and guidelines, the controls – guarantee alone the realization by the Group of all • risk management, pricing, contracting and legal rules, objectives set. • financial management, merger, acquisition, and insurance rules and guidelines, ORGANIZATION OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS • human resources policies, • marketing and communications, knowledge management and Group values Group IT, Since its creation, Capgemini has placed significant importance • procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier on compliance with the values and principles which guide and selection, inspire its actions and, in particular, our business practices. These seven core values, defined by the Group’s founder Serge Kampf, • environmental and community policies. are: honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, team spirit, modesty and This set of rules and procedures, which has force of law within fun. They represent the Group’s fundamental DNA and justify its the Group, reminds employees of their obligations in this area reputation as an ethical and responsible company. In this respect, and inventories the tools and methods which help them avoid Capgemini has, for several years, been rated one of the “World’s identified risks in the exercise of the Group’s businesses. Most Ethical companies” by the Ethisphere Institute. Control The ethics system founded on the Group’s values and the Code For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central of Business Ethics has been supplemented by several policies. Internal Audit function. Its Director reports directly to the Chairman This system seeks to: and Chief Executive Officer, guaranteeing the independence X develop within new recruits an ethical culture guaranteeing of the internal audit function with respect to the functions and integrity of behavior; Business Units audited. The internal audit team comprises X raise awareness of compliance with international and national 25 auditors, representing 13 different nationalities and covering laws; 91% of the languages spoken locally in the Group. This significant internationalization of the internal audit team reflects the desire to X highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of the prevent and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence world; the Internal Audit Department also has a Bombay desk in these areas. with twelve auditors including three technical experts specializing General internal control and risk management in the review of IT projects. Internal Audit is tasked with: principles X reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the The aim of the general internal control principles is to ensure Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to efficient and traceable decision-making. They concern: ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules X delegation of decision-making powers and authorization; the laid down by the Group and with certain specific procedures decision-making process applied within the Group is based enabling the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which they on rules governing the delegation of powers. These rules are are exposed locally; regularly updated, comply with the principle of subsidiarity and X auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present define three levels of decision-making depending on the issues significant risk; Internal Audit uses one or more technical involved, corresponding to the three levels of Capgemini’s experts (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from organization: among a list of Group accredited professionals according to 1. the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit, their skills (and also their complete independence from the unit being audited). 2. the Strategic Business Unit (SBU) for all issues concerning several Business Units under their authority, Each Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual program covering the entire Group: the Chairman and Chief Executive 3. the Group (Group Management, Executive Committee, Officer has the power to modify this program in the event of central functions, etc.) for all decisions outside the scope of an emergency (delays and irregularities, major divergence from responsibility of a Strategic Business Unit or region and all budgetary commitments, etc.). At the request of the Chairman transactions that must be decided at Group level due to their and Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Department may nature (acquisitions, divestments, etc.) and/or whose financial also perform special assignments to review specific situations. impacts exceed well-defined materiality thresholds. The Ethics & Compliance Department and the Internal Audit This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix which Department form a single department since September 2015. requires both prior consultation and the provision of sufficient This department is directly responsible for the ethics and information to the parties involved. Recommendations submitted compliance programs and the ethics phase of due diligence to the final decision-maker must include the views of all interested assignments on companies that the Group is considering parties as well as an objective assessment of the advantages and acquiring. These reviews involve an examination, from an ethical drawbacks of each of the possible solutions. stance, of all the activities of the target company in order to X the framework of general policies and procedures; the ensure, in particular, their compatibility with Capgemini Group Blue Book defines the main principles and basic guidelines expectations. underpinning the Group’s internal control procedures, and covers specific issues relating to the following areas: • Group governance and organization, 72 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures During 2015, the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit External growth Department performed: Capgemini has a wealth of experience in acquisitions, having X 52 audits of units belonging to all Group Strategic Business carried out around 50 external growth transactions since the Units. Each audit involved an average of 36 man-days in 1970s. Entrepreneurial spirit, managerial autonomy, and the the field and concluded with the issue of an action plan that principle of subsidiarity are crucial factors in the successful management of the unit audited undertook to implement as integration of newly-acquired businesses. The successful quickly as possible in order to improve or correct the points integration of new businesses is also facilitated by the Group’s organization along geographic regions and business lines. The identified by the audit. Internal Audit uses a tool covering the entire Group and enabling it to monitor real-time the implementation of recommendations following the audit, Group’s Legal Affairs Department is involved in the negotiation of the legal aspects of merger/acquisition projects. 2 focusing particularly on priority actions; An integration manager is appointed for all acquisitions. He/she X 3 special assignments at the request of the Chairman and is involved from early on in the acquisition process and generally Chief Executive Officer; from the due diligence stage and, in all events, prior to signature X 3 ethical due diligence assignments. of the contract. He/she has substantial technical experience and the necessary authority and asserts his role as manager The Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Director presents: responsible for the implementation of appraisal systems and X twice annually to the Audit Committee, a comprehensive report the regular review of management reports used to monitor the on the department’s work during the half-year (particularly integration process and avoid any mismatch. regarding internal control efficiency and risk management in This integration process was implemented in July 2015 on the the preparation and processing of financial and accounting acquisition of IGATE. information); X once annually to the Ethics & Governance Committee a Strategic alliances specific report on measures implemented under the ethics Today, the Group has extensive experience with strategic program and the result of compliance audits of the Group’s alliances, enabling it to identify major risks and reduce then to an Code of Business Ethics. acceptable level for the Group. Finally, the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Department Reputation may at any moment draw up a special report for presentation to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on any matter that Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly it considers should be brought to his attention and informs the embedded in Capgemini’s culture. On its creation in 1967, the Audit Committee and/or the Ethics & Governance Committee Group through its founder, Serge Kampf, identified seven core where significant deviations have been identified. values which form the keystone of its identity (honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, team spirit, modesty and fun). Today, each of its The main risks faced by the Group are set out in the Risk Analysis managers and employees continue to refer to these values and section of this Registration Document. Risk management and have committed to applying them personally on a daily basis control systems are presented below. and ensuring their compliance by individuals in their Business Unit or who participate on joint projects. From this point of view, BUSINESS AND STRATEGY RISK MANAGEMENT AND the Code of Business Ethics distributed in 2010 represents the CONTROL PROCEDURES continuation and formal documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly embedded in Capgemini. A specific policy dealing with the Economic risks prevention of corruption was distributed within the Group in 2011, The Group monitors and anticipates, as far as possible, followed by a second in 2012 covering anti-trust legislation. All macroeconomic developments at global level, by closely new recruits are asked to undertake to comply with the principles monitoring the quality of the clients in the markets where it explained in these two policies and follow an e-learning training operates, as well as the potential impacts of these developments course thereon. In 2015, the Ethics, Compliance and Internal on its own businesses and those of its clients. Audit Director presented around the world, over 23 threeWhile a substantial proportion of the Group’s operations depends hour workshops on business ethics, raising the awareness of on its clients’ investment capacity, the fact that the Group is more than 617 executive officers and senior managers. These organized around medium-sized Business Units close to their workshops, which were partly based on case studies, illustrate target market allows for rapid responsiveness to changes in the the importance of the “tone at the top” in terms of ethics and business environment. insist on the exemplary behavior required of each manager. An organizational structure rolled-out in each country by an Ethics Competition and Compliance Officer, monitors the implementation of the The Group monitors strategy in its various markets in order Ethics & Compliance Program covering all Group entities. to assess the weight, strengths and weaknesses of the The Group decided many years ago to only employ individuals main players. To monitor the competitive environment, the and have commercial relations in those countries satisfying Development Department (mergers and acquisitions); regularly a certain number of criteria concerning work ethics and legal assesses potential targets that could integrate the Group in the and physical security in the conduct of business, as well as tax future. compliance. The Group is also committed to ensuring client satisfaction in Since 2011, the Group has implemented a solution for measuring order to build long-term relationships. A satisfaction measure is and monitoring conversations on Group brands on social kept up-to-date throughout all contract phases (see below). media. Internal social media are also monitored in order to best respond to employee comments. Finally, in order to strengthen 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 73 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures governance rules covering the activities of Group employees acceptance and payment by the client of the last invoice for the on internal and external social media, a social media code of project. This process differentiates between: conduct was also drafted and is freely available on the Group’s X pre-sale risk controls; website. X production and quality controls during the project performance Listed on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader in its phase; business sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the X business control. media and the financial community to provide information on its activities. Therefore, to control and limit risks to its reputation, only 1. Pre-sale risk control persons duly authorized by Group Management are permitted to Projects are increasingly complex, both in terms of size and speak on behalf of the Group. technical specifications, especially in Outsourcing (long-term commitments, sometimes involving transfers of assets, staff and Clients the related obligations). As a result, identifying and measuring The management of client risk is facilitated by the fact that the the risks involved is essential at all stages of the selling process, Group controls the international development of its activity by not only for new contracts but also for extensions or renewals focusing on countries offering sufficient guarantees in terms of of existing contracts. This risk analysis is based in particular on: work ethic, the safety and security of individuals and legal security in the conduct of business. X a reporting tool consolidating all commercial opportunities at Group level. Data concerning commercial opportunities is In addition, for existing clients, the Group is exposed to standard entered as and when identified, and updated throughout the client risks which are closely monitored: sale process; X the risk of excessive dependence on a single client or group X validation, at the various organizational levels of the Group’s of clients or a single market sector; the Group has several operational structure and at the different stages of the selling thousand clients, which to a certain extent enables it to process (from identification of an opportunity as investmentresist market turbulence and reduce its exposure to volatility worthy from a Group perspective and the submission of in certain sectors. The client portfolio consists of both a service proposals, often in several stages, to the signature of large number of entities from the public sector and a large a contract) of the main characteristics of the opportunity, in number of entities from the private sector, from a wide spread particular as regards technical, financial and legal matters. of diversified markets. Exposure to risks of commercial The decision to commit the Group to commercial opportunities dependency is therefore limited; meeting pre-defined criteria concerning size and complexity is X client insolvency; client solvency analysis upstream of the sales the sole reponsibility of the Group Review Board. For particularly process helps minimize client credit risk. The solvency of these complex projects, a review of solutions may be carried out during major clients, combined with the wide diversity of other smaller the final pre-sale phase in order to bring to the Group Review clients, helps reduce credit risk; Board’s attention any potential risks relating to the performance X the risk of dissatisfaction; Capgemini pays particular attention of these projects. to assessing client satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous 2. Production and quality control client relationship management process that it carries out The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper throughout the project, known as OTACE (On Time and Above performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life of Client Expectations). This is a key pillar of the Group’s client the project to ensure that it runs smoothly. The key features of loyalty policy, particularly for major client accounts. these policies include: OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL X clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of each PROCEDURES individual regarding performance and supervision throughout the entire production process, in particular as regards the Projects, their performance and risk control choice of project leader, client relationship management, billing, The Group has developed a range of methods, organized and estimation of costs to completion, joint oversight arrangements documented in its DELIVER methodology, in order to ensure with the client, etc.; the high quality performance of client projects. Project X use of proprietary production methodologies in all of the managers receive specific training to develop their expertise Business Units; and obtain certification levels consistent with the complexity of X global access to the expertise available through Capgemini’s projects entrusted to them. The Group continues its active policy Applications Development Centers; of external certification of its Business Units (CMM, ISO, etc.). X monthly Group-wide identification of all risk-sensitive projects Project performance monitoring satisfies the management and in the performance phase, and the implementation of action control procedures defined by the Group, with projects classified plans aimed at eliminating or containing such risks; as “complex” subject to more specific controls. Internal Audit X commissioning independent technical audits of the teams in also verifies the application of project management and control charge of a given project to identify additional risks in cases procedures. At the initiative of the Production/Methods and where actual performance appears to diverge from forecasts Support Department, specialist teams of experts audit projects or from commitments undertaken. These engagements considered high-risk or facing performance difficulties. are carried out by the Production/Methods and Support The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control Department, and complement the upstream independent risks associated with the delivery of information technical audits carried out by the Business Units as a systems projects ordered by clients, from pre-sale to preventative measure for operational risks. 74 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures 3. Business control management, information system control and steering and Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more strengthening infrastructures). The CySIP community includes project financial controllers whose role is to: cyber risk specialists in the following areas: X monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily X CySIP Officers in the business units, for client project the related production costs compared to the budget initially monitoring; approved. Progress reports and management indicators are X Data Protection Officers responsible for the protection of built into the monitoring process, which relies mainly on the personal data and compliance; periodic analysis of estimated costs to completion and their accounting impact; X Chief Information Security Officers responsible for the protection of internal information systems. 2 X permanently control compliance with contractual commitments The aim of this program is to become a benchmark presented – particularly billing and payment milestones. to our clients which helps strengthen the credibility of the Group Employees on digital and cybercrime issues. The Group pays very close attention to the quality of its human Service continuity resource management and employee commitment. Accordingly, Production systems and services provided by the Group to its an internal survey is conducted very regularly aimed at measuring subsidiaries are duplicated and covered by back-up plans that commitment and expectations among the Group’s employees. are tested periodically. This survey is an appraisal tool and action plans are established based on identified results. Telecommunications networks used by the Group are automatically duplicated in cases where “Rightshored” production Furthermore, a human resources management information resources are deployed. In the event of a breakdown in the system is being rolled-out globally by the Group Human preferred (fastest) communications network between Europe Resources Department to ensure the comprehensive and India, service continuity is ensured by tried and tested management of all processes concerning the management of alternative routes. The Group’s Indian subsidiary has set up a high-performing individuals and enabling a uniform approach to Business Continuity Management (BCM) structure to ensure monitoring performance, the career plans of our employees, the service continuity in line with the Good Practice Guidelines of the management of international mobility and succession plans, in a Business Continuity Institute (BCI). These measures take account manner consistent with the strategic objectives of the Group and of various degrees of hypothetical threats along with the related the interests of our clients. damages considering the situation and impacts on the site, The Capgemini Group International Works Council covers not urban agglomeration and possibly the country. Communication only European countries but also includes representatives of the (e-mail) and collaborative systems are covered by a redundant main countries outside Europe (India, United States and Brazil). architecture at two data centers ensuring service continuity. The Group’s key managers regularly attend meetings to present Business continuity and resumption plans in the event of a changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and disruption to the specific IT infrastructures of a given center, client discuss them with employee representatives in an open manner or contact, are the responsibility of the Group subsidiaries. and an environment of mutual understanding. Where required by specific contracts, a business continuity plan Finally, as part of our “People Matter, Results Count” policy, we is prepared by selecting appropriate measures according to the take account of: criticality of the service. Reviews and simulations are performed in X the motivation and career path of our employees; the subsidiary entities to test the efficiency of these plans. Certain X the implementation of varied and attractive career plans; of these entities have heightened security requirements reflecting certain clients’ imperatives and they are consequently certified X the development of our employees through development and ISO 27001 compliant by an independent agency. training programs; X the respect and promotion of a good work-life balance. Suppliers and sub-contractors Information systems The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts with its suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained The Group has implemented business continuity procedures in in contracts signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the the event of a disruption to IT services. The Group has drawn up management of contractual risks and acceptance risks. These an IT infrastructure security policy and the main management IT framework agreements and contracts clearly stipulate obligations systems are covered by a back-up plan at a second data center. with respect to delivery deadlines, service level and operating The security policy and the back-up plans are verified periodically. tests as well as penalties for non-compliance. The Group policy For some projects or clients, enhanced systems and network defines in great detail the supplier and sub-contractor selection protection are provided on a contractually agreed basis. process and method. Over recent years, the Group has signed strategic partnership contracts with a diversified group of major The Group also has a program that seeks to control the cyber suppliers in order to preserve its independence and guarantee the risks for its main systems. This dedicated structure is headed by sustainability of its services. Furthermore, the Group has signed the Cyber Security and Information Protection Director (CySIP). a certain number of strategic contracts with major and financially This program related to cyber risks comprises three subgroups sound suppliers. Finally, the related risks represented by smaller dealing with governance related issues (organization, policy and suppliers and/or start-ups are analyzed and back-up plans are communication and awareness-raising) and five operational established in order to remedy the failures, if any. projects (data protection, mobility management, access 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 75 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for Compliance with legislation worldwide procurement management and monitoring. This tool, The Group has a Legal Department with an established presence known as GPS (Global Procurement System), is used for the in the main geographic areas. Its role is to monitor changes in issue and approval of purchase orders. The procurement tool legislation relevant to the Group’s activities and provide training contains an approval chain that ensures the correct allocation of in the main legal issues. The Group has also adopted a Code costs to projects and permits their control and provides specific of Business Ethics, an anti-corruption policy and an anti-trust methods for financial approval. The centralized management of policy and calls on a network of Legal Counsels who doubledata in this procurement base enables us to control and better up as Ethics & Compliance Officers and participate in identifying manage Group expenditure and supplier selection. Suppliers are risks and train and monitor employees in order to guarantee selected by a specialized team based on rigorous procedures compliance. using multiple criteria, several of which concern ethical standards and sustainable development. Failure to comply with regulations governing our activities Geopolitics While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain The Capgemini Group restricts operations to countries able of our clients sometimes require us to comply with regulations to offer satisfactory guarantees in terms of individual security. imposed on them, or in exceptional cases, make us comply with Work on client engagements in certain countries classified as “at other regulations. The Group analyses these obligations, which risk” is subject to approval by the Group Review Board. Rules are then monitored by teams in the Production/Methods and and procedures have been drawn up for “at risk” territories in Support Department. This analysis also enables the identification which the Group conducts engagements in order to satisfy of regulated activities and, where appropriate, any necessary the demands of its major clients. Specific contracts have been authorizations to be obtained. agreed with organizations specialized in managing these risks to assess independently the risk exposure in each country. With regards to the various international and local regulations Accordingly, some countries are subject to strict travel bans. governing the protection of personal data, the Group rolled-out The risk is reassessed continuously based on the geopolitical across European as early as 2007 a Group Legal Data Privacy position and warning systems are used to inform employees of program (encompassing information, training and legal advice) for country risks. Furthermore, these organizations also help resolve operating teams. Furthermore, in February 2016, 28 European any potential difficulties encountered by employees assigned countries approved the Capgemini Binding Corporate Rules to work in these countries and provide risk prevention training (BCR) defining the processing of personal data by the Group courses prior to their departure. throughout the world, on its behalf and for its clients. Strict approval criteria must be met before employees are sent to Finally, during acquisitions or on the launch of a new business line, work in countries where there are no existing Group operations, the Group performs a focused due diligence review of the target and even stricter criteria apply in the event that employees are or an analysis of the activity as well as applicable regulations. sent to countries considered “at risk”. Every employee required Litigation to work abroad receives specific training. A procedure has been implemented for reporting information to In addition, following the terrorist attacks in France in 2015, the the Group Legal Department on actual and potential litigation Group strengthened its security policy and its crisis management and other disputes and government inquiries. The local Legal committee. Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal Department of any threats of this nature. LEGAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL PROCEDURES Compliance with rules governing share trading Legal risks are identified, analyzed and managed by the Group The Group requires all employees to refrain from carrying out Legal Affairs Department, which is comprised of central, regional any transactions involving the Company’s shares during certain and local teams in each of the main geographic areas in which periods of the year. All Group employees are reminded of these Capgemini has operations. restrictions in writing before the start of each such period. Contracts The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating Guide, FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL PROCEDURES which identifies clauses exposing the Group to risk and requires The Group has drafted formal rules and processes to identify, information to be reported to the Group Legal Affairs Department control and manage financial risks through a prudent financing in the event of derogation from accepted standard positions. policy founded, in particular, on the prior authorization by the Criteria determining when it is necessary to report to the Group Board of Directors of all major financing decisions, prudent use Review Board have also been defined for contracts identified by of debt and maintaining a high level of available funds. the Group as presenting a high level of risk due to their size or complexity. 76 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Equity risk Foreign currency risk The Cash surplus investment policy defined by the Group Finance The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and managing Department and documented in the internal manual (TransForm), foreign currency risk: prohibits all equity investments. The proper application of this X production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with India policy is regularly controlled by internal and external auditors. and Poland; a hedging policy is defined by the Group and its With a few exceptions, the Group holds the entire share capital of implementation which is mainly centralized at Cap Gemini level its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity investments. primarily involves forward purchases and sales of currency; Cap Gemini has a share buyback program authorized by its Shareholders’ Meeting. Within such framework, the Board of X financial flows exchanged as part of inter-company financing activities are primarily centralized within Cap Gemini and are 2 Directors decides share buyback programs (outside the liquidity mainly hedged (primarily using forward purchases and sales agreement, implementation of which is delegated and subject of currency); to a resource ceiling) and equity derivatives. The value of these X royalty flows payable to Cap Gemini by subsidiaries whose shares is deducted directly from Group equity and fluctuations in functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. the Cap Gemini share price do not impact its results. Employee-related liabilities Counterparty and credit risk In conjunction with the Trustees, the Group strives to strengthen The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash the governance and management resources of its main pension surpluses in money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) funds. The investment strategy of its main pension funds, satisfying the “monetary” classification criteria defined by the encompassing the management of assets and liabilities, is French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) and other types reviewed annually and monitored periodically with the aim of investment (negotiable debt securities, term deposits, of reducing volatility, as much as economically possible and capitalization contracts) immediately available or with investments reasonable to do so. Increased life expectancy is taken into periods, potentially renewable, not exceeding 3 months, issued account as and when it is recognized by actuaries. by companies or financial institutions with a good credit rating Group commitments in respect of pension shortfalls depend (minimum A2/P2 or equivalent). The Group also applies maximum on local regulations. They are reviewed and negotiated with the concentration per counterparty rules. Trustees approximately once every three years and give rise to The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and payments spread over periods of 5 to 10 years. diversification rules when selecting counterparties for foreign currency and interest rate management hedging contracts. CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF FINANCIAL AND Liquidity risk ACCOUNTING INFORMATION The majority of Group financing is borne by the parent company These procedures ensure the application of and compliance and, as such, implementation of the finance policy is largely with accounting and financial rules defined by the Group relating centralized. The Group adopts a prudent finance policy based to budgets and forecasts, operational reporting, consolidation, primarily on: financial control and financial communications. X prudent use of debt leverage, combined with limiting the grant a. Financial and accounting structure of contractual provisions that could trigger the early repayment of borrowings; The Group’s financial functions are integrated into the operating structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have X the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity at all times; access to common resources encompassing accounting rules X the active management of financial liability maturities, aimed at and procedures, information and management systems and limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities; shared service centers. X the diversification of financing sources, to limit dependence on Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting certain categories of lenders. to the corresponding Strategic Business Unit’s financial controller) Interest rate risk who is responsible for ensuring that the results of its activities are As part of its financing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest accurately reported in the accounts in accordance with Group rate risk by generally opting for either fixed rates or capped accounting rules and methods. The financial controller verifies floating rates. that services are correctly billed and paid, checks profit estimates for ongoing projects and assesses their accounting impact, and The Group favors investments offering a high level of security attests to the quality of the information contained in the financial and generally floating-rates and as such accepts – in the event reports and accounting packages used as the basis for preparing of a fall in interest rates – the risk of a drop in returns from the the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The Strategic investment of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the Business Unit financial controllers, whose main responsibility is finance cost differential). to ensure that high-quality financial and accounting information is reported to the parent company on a timely basis, report to the Group Chief Financial Officer in order to safeguard the independence required when preparing accounting results. Operational control is, therefore, decentralized. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 77 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial by each Business Unit manager. Variances from budget are Director, whose duties and responsibilities include rollinganalyzed so that any corrective action plans that may be out Group systems and procedures in the country, helping needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible; maintain an effective internal control environment, ensuring that X operational reporting process; information reporting is all financial staff in the country or region are well-versed in the structured by geographic area and business. This allows Group’s accounting policies and methods, checking compliance revenues and costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by with local taxation and statutory reporting requirements, liaising type and function, and performance indicators to be updated with shared service centers and the Statutory Auditors, setting and measured against budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) accounts closing and financial reporting timetables, signing off and prior-year figures (A/A). Balance sheet items are analyzed on the consolidation packages of the subsidiaries under his or on a quarterly basis. A monthly management report is prepared her authority, signing the representation letter and bringing any for each Strategic Business Unit jointly by the manager and and all matters that he or she sees fit to the attention of the Chief financial controller, and is submitted to Group Management Financial Officer. for review. This report gives a detailed breakdown of actual All financial staff is required to apply the Group’s accounting performance, forecasts for the following six months and actions procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, taken in the event of material variances between actual and which sets out: budget figures. Reconciliations are performed systematically to ensure that financial information derived from the operational X the fundamental rules of internal control; reporting system is consistent with the consolidated financial X what information must be reported, when, and how often; information provided by the legal entities within the Group; X management rules and procedures; X consolidation process; at each yearly or half-yearly closing, X accounting policies, rules and methods; the scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by X performance indicators. the Finance Department and validated by the Legal Affairs Department. Written instructions are issued providing the In addition, the Group has a single integrated management schedule for period-end tasks (particularly the reconciliation system (GFS). The application as a whole migrated to the of inter-company transaction balances), highlighting current publisher’s latest version on January 1, 2015 and its roll-out in accounting issues requiring specific attention, and describing the Group’s subsidiaries continued during 2015. The desired the control procedures applied during the preparation of the uniformity of management systems is therefore a step closer, consolidated financial statements. The consolidation process strengthening the control environment. is based on accounting packages by geographic area, which Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting processing must be signed off by the person responsible for preparing resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main centers are them. Income statements, balance sheets and other key located in Cracow (Poland) and Calcutta (India). These various management indicators required for subsequent analysis are centers are now consolidated within a globalized structure. stored in a single database maintained at Group level. Access to this information system is strictly controlled. b. Budgets, forecasts, reporting and consolidation During each accounts closing period, the Finance Department In order to exercise effective control over their operations, the sends out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries covering the Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, application of general internal control principles and procedures quarterly, half-yearly and annual reports of all budget, forecast, relating to the processing of reported financial and accounting operational and accounting information required for the general information. These questionnaires are analyzed for any management of the Group as follows: irregularities and corrective measures devised where appropriate. X budget and forecasting process; budgets form the basic c. Financial information building blocks in the management control process. They are debated and negotiated at length between the different Financial information and its communication are subject to Group Business Unit managers and their superiors, with each specific controls at half-year and annual period ends. These budgetary item decided based on past performance, the include: Group’s chosen strategic priorities and available information X a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the concerning expected market trends. Group Management Legal Department of all material operations and transactions sets quantified targets for each geographic area, Strategic occurring during the period; Business Unit and their component Business Units. The X a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet budget preparation process is a key moment in the relationship commitments and any other information liable to have between the different levels of the Group’s management and significant repercussions on the financial position of the Group makes it possible to substantially link the variable portion of or one of its subsidiaries at the period-end; the compensation paid to Business Unit managers to the attainment of the budgetary targets of their Business Unit X a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal entities; and the next level Business Unit to which they belong. A X a review of the value of intangible assets; forecast operating income statement (for the current month, X a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows. the following six months and the full year) is prepared monthly 78 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Corporate governance and Internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures The controls described above carried out by the Finance The Annual Report has been a key component of the Group’s Department are supplemented by the work of two independent financial communications strategy for the past 40 years (the bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control first edition concerned the 1975 fiscal year). The preparation of environment and verifying the quality of the financial statements: the report, its content, illustrations, design and distribution are the internal auditors and the Statutory Auditors: therefore subject to particular attention on the part of Group X the Internal Audit; based on a program covering the Group’s Management. All the sections of the Group’s Annual Report Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman are written by employees and managers of the Group who are each responsible for designing and setting out a chapter and Chief Executive Officer (to who it reports directly), Internal Audit is responsible for carrying out controls to ensure that procedures relating to the safeguarding of assets, the on their area of competence, within the general framework proposed by the Communications Department. The Registration 2 valuation of work-in-progress, the actual amount of trade Document, which is integrated in the Annual Report, combines accounts receivable, and the proper recognition of liabilities, all the information that must be provided pursuant to legal and are applied in each Business Unit in accordance with the rules regulatory requirements and is drawn up under the responsibility and methods established by the Group. In particular, Internal of the Finance Department. Audit is required to pay special attention to revenue recognition Financial press releases are only published further to formal methods and to controlling the percentage of completion of validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman and projects, so as to ensure that these are accounted for on the Chief Executive Officer. Financial press releases are published basis of rigorous, up-to-date technical assessments. The outside the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in Internal Audit brief also includes a review of the procedures exceptional circumstances. and controls in place within the Business Unit to ensure the Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, security and validity of transactions and accounting entries; and their content is presented to the Board of Directors prior X the Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, to such meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a carry out an ongoing review of internal control procedures framework for comments and explanations provided by the with an impact on the preparation and quality of the financial Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, statements as part of their audit engagement. or employees in charge of investor relations during the meetings. Communicating financial information is subject to rigorous internal control, with a particular focus on three key media used to report financial information: X the half-year financial report and annual report; X financial press releases; X analyst and investor meetings. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 79 2 Corporate governance and Internal control 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-235 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board on the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and the relevant professional standards applicable in France. Year ended December 31, 2015 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in accordance with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the year ended December 31, 2015. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report describing the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and providing the other information required by Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code in particular relating to corporate governance. It is our responsibility: X to report to you on the information set out in the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information; and X to attest that this report sets out the other information required by Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being specified that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness of this information. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. INFORMATION CONCERNING THE INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION The professional standards require that we perform procedures to assess the fairness of the information on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information set out in the Chairman’s report. These procedures mainly consisted of: X obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information on which the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based, and of the existing documentation; X obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the report and of the existing documentation; X determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information that we may have identified in the course of our work are properly described in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of our work, we have no matters to report on the information given on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information, set out in the Chairman of the Board’s report, prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Other information We attest that the Chairman of the Board’s report sets out the other information required by Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris La Défense, March 31, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 80 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 3.4 Our approach to CR&S 82 Engaging with stakeholders 116 3.1.1 Our key priorities 82 3.4.1 Community engagement 116 3.1.2 CR&S: governance 82 3.4.2 Client services 120 3.1.3 Materiality and scope 83 3.4.3 Our suppliers and business partners 121 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance program 84 3.1.5 Cybersecurity and information protection 85 3.1.6 Commitments, awards and recognitions 86 3.5 Independent external analysis 123 3.2 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party on the consolidated labour, Human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 123 a key Group asset 88 3.2.1 Methodology scope and themes 88 3.2.2 A changing labor environment 88 3.6 3.2.3 Compensation and beneﬁ ts 92 3.2.4 Work organization, health and safety 93 Grenelle correlation table 126 3.2.5 International mobility and risk management 96 3.2.6 Investing in training and professional development 96 3.2.7 The certiﬁ cation process 99 3.2.8 Diversity and inclusion 99 3.2.9 Dialog and information process 105 3.3 Environmental responsibility 108 3.3.1 Group environmental policy 108 3.3.2 Group environmental management approach 108 3.3.3 Environmental performance 109 3.3.4 Key performance indicators and methodology 110 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 81 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1.1 Our key priorities Underpinned by our Values and Ethics, our commitment People Culture: We are committed to being an employer to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability has endured of choice for people who wish to develop in a creative throughout our history as we have grown to become Europe’s and diverse environment. largest IT services company. As a provider of consultancy, Our priority is to promote the professional development and technology and outsourcing services, together with professional well-being of our employees by ensuring that both our business services through our Sogeti business, Capgemini Group’s practices and our facilities empower excellence. We have a Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) program culture whereby we respect and value the diversity and creativity covers reducing our environmental impacts, contributing to the of all our people. communities in which we operate, as well as creating a diverse and inclusive working environment to enable our people to both Community Commitment: We strive to have a positive develop and serve our clients. Our management approach impact on the communities in which we live and work. also supports all national laws and regulations, in particular the As a major global employer, we work locally, nationally and fundamental conventions on labor standards of the International internationally with local authorities, non-governmental Labor Organization, the principles of the 1948 Universal organizations (NGOs) and charities on two priorities: education Declaration of Human Rights (where we refuse the use of forced and development. The Group encourages the active involvement and child labor), and the OECD guidelines for Multinational of each of our team members in our communities. Enterprises. Environmental Sustainability: We are committed During 2014 we have extended and enhanced our range of to understanding, measuring and reducing our initiatives within the key focus areas of Values and Ethics, environmental impacts. Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement and People Culture. In parallel, we continue to innovate, striving to We recognize that, even though we do not manufacture identify opportunities to embed sustainability into the services we products, the business services we provide have an impact on provide our clients, helping them to adapt to our changing world. the environment. We work hard to reduce this impact by saving energy and reducing waste, as well as by reducing business Values & Ethics: It is about who we are and the way we travel. We also work to raise our employee awareness of the do business. critical issues related to the environment. Built on a foundation of our seven core values (Honesty, Client Services: Our clients benefit from our Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit/Solidarity, Modesty and understanding of the environment and our worldFun), our Code of Ethics supports our corporate culture and renowned business transformation capabilities. permeates all our business practices, procurement behaviors and employee welfare policies. We deliver long-lasting added-value with tangible results. We take time to talk to our clients and ensure that their views are taken into account, and we look to embed CR&S considerations into our service offerings. 3.1.2 CR&S: governance With an enhanced focus on strategic planning and governance, The Board is comprised of senior executives from around 2015 has been a pivotal year for our program across the key the Group including the Group Corporate Responsibility and areas Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement Sustainability Director. This Board maintains consistency and and People Culture which are underpinned by our Values ensures the uniform implementation of our CR&S policies and and Ethics. January 2015 saw the inaugural meeting of the initiatives across our Group, led locally by our global network of Group’s CR&S Board under the co-chairmanship of Hubert CR&S professionals. Giraud (Group Management Board Member and Director of People Management and Talent Development) and Christine Hodgson (Chairman, Capgemini UK Plc). Throughout the year, the Group CR&S Board have worked to advance Capgemini’s strategic approach, further embedding corporate responsibility and sustainability principles into our business operations and practices. 82 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S Extract from the CR&S Board Charter Several networks established in different countries ensure The Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Board consistency worldwide and in particular will provide the executive level governance for CR&S within X the Ethics & Compliance Officers’ network, reporting to the Capgemini. The CR&S Board will review, debate and ultimately Group Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer; approve CR&S policies and practices for the Group. X the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Leadership For Capgemini, CR&S means taking a long term view – it is network, comprising CR&S professionals from within the our approach to business that reduces our impact on the Group. environment, contributes to the communities in which we operate Additionally, all interested employees can join the global and ensures that we remain a diverse and inclusive company. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability community or work Hubert Giraud, co-chairman of the CR&S Board, provides the with the global Sustainability network, focusing on embedding linkage to Capgemini’s Group Management Board (chaired by sustainability into client service offerings. Capgemini’s Group CEO) ensuring the input of the CEO and the alignment of Capgemini’s approach to CR&S with the Group We have also set up country specific governance structures in overall business strategy. a number of our largest countries. For example, Capgemini has specific executive CR&S committees in Germany, India, and the The overall program continues to focus on the three key areas of Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement and People Culture. A number of interactive multi-national working UK, while in other countries, such as France and North America, CR&S issues are discussed at local Executive Committee meetings. 3 groups continue to drive the program forward under the direction of the Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Director. 3.1.3 Materiality and scope In order to ensure our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability issues was undertaken during 2014. This analysis, or materiality program remains aligned with stakeholder expectations, an assessment, is the result of a range of internal and external analysis of the relative importance of sustainability aspects and stakeholder interviews together with desk research. MATERIALITY MATRIX (CAPGEMINI ONLY) Highest Q Reduction of carbon footprint Q Information security and Data protection Q Human Rights Materiality of issues to ourstakenholders Q Climatique change Q Ethicals behaviors Q Talent engagement and retention Q Supporting clients with CR&S challenges Q Energy Security Q Client satisfaction Q Digital inclusion Q Talents and skills Q Women’s empowerment Q Training and development Q Diversity and inclusion Q Education in communities Materiality to Capgemini Highest Confidence in the alignment of Capgemini’s CR&S approach remains. All Grenelle II (legislation: article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code) indicators are listed in the table in section 3.6, including explanations for indicators which are not reported. As a result of our materiality assessment and on-going analysis, 15 indicators are considered to be the most relevant to our business. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 83 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance program The Group Board of Directors launched our Ethics & Compliance X financial management, merger, acquisition, disposal and Program in 2009 to further strengthen the ethical culture that insurance rules and guidelines; has been the Group’s ever since its creation in 1967. As part X human resources policies; of this program, the Group set up a global network of Ethics X marketing, communications, Group knowledge and IT & Compliance Officers and launched a Code of Business management guidelines; Ethics, Group Anti-Corruption Policy and Group Competition Laws Policy, to reassert our Values in every country in which X procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier we operate. All employees are expected to comply with the selection; and principles embedded in these three fundamental documents, X environmental and community policies. and to complete an online training course (e-learning) on each These policies, procedures and guidelines comprise the reference of them. standards that all entities are required to implement, while In addition to demonstrating the Group’s deep-rooted Values and complying with national legal requirements and specificities. strong ethical culture, the Ethics & Compliance Program helps Assessment of compliance with these guidelines is an integral to attract, develop and retain employees. The company-wide part of our Internal Audit process. The Group Blue Book is Group Employee Survey shows that our employees’ commitment updated regularly and is available to all employees on the Group’s is strongly linked to belonging to a Group with an ethical culture. intranet. Creating an ethical environment also strengthens our reputation, helps us win new business and allows us to take our place in OUR BUSINESS ETHICS the “Champions League”, i.e. among the leaders in our industry. Grounded in our seven core Values, Capgemini’s CR&S (Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability) principles guide our ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION AND NETWORK relationships with partners and the communities in which we The managers of the Group’s operating units (SBUs/BUs) are operate, and our behavior with regard to the environment. accountable for ethics and compliance in their respective units. Our Values and ethics rank amongst the most important of all They are also responsible for driving the Ethics & Compliance our strategic dimensions. Our longstanding commitment to our program in compliance with the local laws, regulations and Values has shaped the Capgemini Group’s reputation in the procedures. market, and today, this reputation is an essential asset to our The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for economic performance. the Ethics & Compliance program across the entire Group. The The Group launched our Ethics & Compliance program to Ethics and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors protect and maintain this reputation and, in so doing, to further reviews the Ethics & Compliance program and its achievements strengthen our competitive advantage. annually. The objectives of the program are to: General Counsels also serve as Ethics & Compliance Officers (GC-ECO) for their jurisdictions. They ensure implementation of X develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces integrity the Ethics & Compliance program within their geographic regions and fosters ethical behavior; and liaise with the CECO. X strengthen knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, as well as internal policies applicable in Group companies; and GROUP FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES, GUIDELINES AND X implement initiatives aimed at reinforcing prevention and POLICIES: THE BLUE BOOK avoiding ethics and compliance breaches. In our largely decentralized and entrepreneurial organization, it is essential to have a set of common guidelines, procedures ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM IN 2015 and policies that govern our daily operations. The company confidential Blue Book, so-called because of its color, was Our Code of Business Ethics created in 1989. It provides a common reference tool, enabling Our Code of Business Ethics, which encapsulates the Group’s each employee and company service or department to work ethical culture, is now available in 14 languages. It has the effectively and maintain unity across operations worldwide. collective and individual support of the members of the Board of The Blue Book contains: Directors, the Group Executive Committee and the Vice-President community. X Group fundamental principles: its mission, expertise, main objectives, Values, Code of Business Ethics and collaboration Capgemini expects all Group employees to adhere to the seven principles; core Values and to the principles expressed in this Code. In particular, employees are expected to commit to: X Group governance and organization; X respecting applicable laws and regulations; X authorization and approval processes; X applying health and safety rules and contributing to the creation X sales and production rules and guidelines; of a safe, inclusive work environment; X risk management, pricing and contracting rules; 84 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S X acting responsibly in the marketplace, complying with New employees are expected to undertake to comply with the applicable competition laws and regulations and anti-corruption principles set out in the Competition Laws Policy and to complete provisions, avoiding conflicts of interest and insider trading, and the related e-learning module. providing accurate commercial and financial information; X building honest, clear relationships with clients, suppliers and RAISING CONCERN PROCEDURE: A DEDICATED PROCEDURE business partners; FOR REQUESTING ADVICE AND RAISING CONCERNS X maintaining the security and integrity of the assets of the Group The Code of Business Ethics provides that an employee faced and of any third parties with whom we work; with a question or issue involving ethics or compliance should X supporting the communities and respecting the environments discuss it first with his/her local manager. If the issue is not in which we operate; and resolved by the manager, or if the employee is not comfortable X refusing the use of forced labor and child labor. discussing the matter with his/her manager or if other procedures for dealing with individual grievances are not applicable, the At the end of 2015, more than 126,000 employees had followed employee may use the employees’ dedicated Raising Concern the Code of Business Ethics e-learning module, which is available Procedure (RCP). Employees may in this way seek advice and in five languages. This represented more than 82% of the Group’s guidance on appropriate action from the local GC-ECO, or even employees at year-end 2015. All new hires are expected to undertake to comply with the directly from the CECO in Paris. In operation since late 2013, the RCP is applied on a case-by-case basis in 39 countries where 3 principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and to complete the Group operates, in accordance with applicable legislation. the e-learning module on the Code. BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING FOR MANAGEMENT SPECIFIC POLICIES In 2015, six three-hour business ethics workshops were held Group Anti-Corruption Policy around the world, covering more than 100 managers and top executives (mainly Grade F, i.e. the top of the managerial In 2011, the Group released a policy, in eleven languages, pyramid). These sessions, based on case studies, aimed to give outlining its commitment to zero tolerance for any form of practical advice on how to deal with Ethics and Compliance corruption. At the end of 2015, more than 132,000 employees issues and to highlight management’s role in setting an example. had followed the related e-learning module, available in six They also helped develop local action plans to cascade these languages. This represented more than 87% of the Group’s messages to lower management levels, with the help of the employees. Ethics & Compliance Officers. New employees are expected to undertake to comply with the Additionally in 2015, a new initiative was developed for more principles set out in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy and to than 4,300 Grade E managers (i.e. the grade just below top complete the related e-learning module. management or Grade F), based on a “Train the Trainers” Group Competition Laws Policy methodology. More than 65 top managers have been trained to deliver more than 200 sessions of a three-hour business In 2012, the Group released a policy, in eight languages, to help ethics workshop. At the end of 2015, more than 1,500 Grade employees to identify and avoid situations that could violate E managers had followed one of the sessions. This represented competition laws. At the end of 2015, more than 121,000 more than 35% of the target population at this date. employees had followed the related e-learning module, available in five languages. This represented more than 79% of the Group’s employees at this date. 3.1.5 Cybersecurity and information protection In July 2014, Capgemini Group Management Board decided to are working together under the Group CySIP Officer steering: transform its IT security approach to better take into account its the CySIP Officers in Strategic Business Units (focused on clients requirements and issues of data protection. The CySIP the requirements and security of projects delivered to clients), (Cybersecurity & Information Protection) Program was launched the Data Protection Officers (DPO, focused on personal data in November 2014 through risks and compliance management protection and sensitive data privacy) and the Chief Information aimed at reinforcing Group competitiveness. Security Officers (CISO, focused on internal IT). Sponsored by the Group General Secretary, the CySIP Program The three CySIP communities met altogether during 2 days in published in March 2015 a CySIP Strategy (stakes, objectives September for the first CySIP Seminar to prepare the 2016 work and governance) and a CySIP Baseline (minimum and mandatory plan. By the end of 2015, corporate governance is in place, practices), a data privacy strategy and a personal data protection policies and standards are harmonized. A global acculturation policy. These documents must be implemented before end 2017. plan has also been launched during the 1st CySIP week on The CySIP program is composed of three communities that November 2nd. It includes new e-learning modules and other 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 85 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S innovative multimedia. Finally, a first maturity assessment related The Group DPO relies on a local DPOs network to ensure the to the CySIP Baseline implementation level, Data protection implementation of BCRs in each country and each local entity. practices and Acculturation was performed in April 2015. This At last, in 2015, the CySIP operational projects focused on assessment is made each year and aimed at developing annual 3 major topics: Identity and Access Management (to reinforce remediation plan for each entity. access controls to applications and data) and Security Data protection and data privacy were a major priority in 2015 Information and Event Management (to reinforce detection/ agenda. Capgemini Binding Corporate Rules on personal data reaction capacities). The Capgemini Security Operation Centers protection (BCRs) have been approved by the French data in Europe and India will provide new monitoring services. A BYOD protection authority, the CNIL, on March 2, 2016 for the Group. (Bring Your Own Device) policy and tool have been defined and They are aimed at covering Group activities acting as data are being implemented in 2016 to secure access and data while controller and data processor. A Group DPO, member of the using personal devices for professional purpose. Legal Department, has been appointed on September 23, 2015. 3.1.6 Commitments, awards and recognitions For Capgemini, the principles of CR&S extend beyond strict legal X Capgemini France has been signatory to the “Charte de la compliance: we commit to comply with international, national and parentalité” in 2011; local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. X Capgemini France has been signatory to the “Charte de We have also stated our commitment to Corporate Responsibility l’apprentissage” in 2011; & Sustainability in a number of areas: X Capgemini UK is also a signatory of a series of five X Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact communiqués on Climate Change organized by the Prince of since 2004. The member companies of this program support/ Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group on Climate Change. They comply with ten principles in the areas of the environment, are the Climate Change (2012), Cancun (2010), Copenhagen human rights, labor rights, and the fight against corruption; (2009), Poznan (2008), and Bali (2007) communiqués; X Capgemini supports the principles of the 1948 Universal X Capgemini UK has registered its support for the “Think Act Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental conventions Report” initiative, a voluntary framework developed by the UK of the International Labour Organization (ILO) refusing the use Government with the aim of promoting gender equality within of forced labor or child labor; the workplace; X Capgemini supports the OECD guidelines for multinational X Capgemini UK awarded with the Positive About Disabled enterprises; People Two Ticks Accreditation from “Business in the Community” for the seventh year running; X Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007; X Capgemini Germany signed the “Charta der Vielfalt” (the Diversity Charter) http://www.charta-der-vielfalt.de/en/ X Capgemini has been a signatory to the Women’s diversity-charter.html in October 2014; Empowerment Principles since their inception in 2011; X Capgemini NL is signatory of the Talent to the Top Charter X Capgemini is a signatory of the 2010 Guadalajara ICT (gender diversity) since 2009; Declaration on Transformative Low-carbon Solutions. This document urged governments at the 2010 Cancun Summit X Capgemini NL committed to a m ultiple y ear a greement to use the power of ICT to make the transition to low a carbon program in 2009. This is public/private collaboration program economy; aiming for more effective and efficient energy use; X in partnership with the GoodPlanet foundation, Capgemini X Capgemini NL committed to the Lean & Green Personal translated the 2011 Worldwatch Institute Report into French; Mobility Program in 2013; and and X Capgemini NL committed to the CO2 Performance ladder in X in 2015, Capgemini CEO Paul Hermelin signed the Business 2011 (level 4). Proposals for COP 21 in support of the 21st session of the As a result of its on-going commitment to Corporate Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention Responsibility & Sustainability, in 2015 Capgemini has: on Climate Change. X once again been recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical A number of actions have also been taken in certain countries, Companies in 2015 by the Ethisphere Institute, a leading including: international think tank specializing in research on ethical X Capgemini France became a signatory of the “Charte de la business practices; diversité” in 2006 and the “Charte de la banlieue 2.0” in 2010; X continued its inclusion in the FTSE4Good and index; X Capgemini France has been signatory to the Charter “entreprises et quartiers” in 2013; 86 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.1 Our approach to CR&S X been reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability X for the fourth consecutive year, been included in The Times Top Index (ESI) Excellence Europe since March 23, 2015; 50 Employers for Women in Capgemini UK; X been recognized in the European Economic Congress’ 2015 X been named as amongst Canada’s Best Diversity Employers; Responsible Companies Ranking for its quality management X achieved ISO 14001 certification covering Capgemini North of CR&S, e arning 36 th place overall and 2 nd place in the America, Sweden and Capgemini France (extending coverage Telecommunications, technology, media and entertainment to include operations in eleven countries); and sector; X become a Rated Supplier on the Chartered Institute of X been named within the annual Corporate 101 list by MBN USA Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) Sustainability Index (CSI). Magazine (Minority Business Network), as representing the ‘Most Admired Companies’ in Supplier Diversity in Capgemini Rating agencies North America; Capgemini continues to work with a number of independent X been named as a winner in the Golden Peacock Awards for corporate responsibility and sustainability analysts and financial Sustainability, for managing natural resources and conserving rating agencies. We take external analysis of our performance electricity and water in Capgemini India; seriously and welcome assessment by reputable third parties as this gives us a clear reference position for our performance. X been awarded the Eco Corporate of the Year Award (Services category) in the Yes Bank Natural capital Awards which reward and showcase organizations dedicated to environmental Capgemini works with several analysts including CDP, Ethibel, Ethifinance, Ethisphere, FTSE4Good, Gartner, Oekom, Verdantix, 3 stewardship. The award was in recognition of Capgemini and Vigeo. India’s Smart Energy Management Solution which was Capgemini continues to be listed in the FTSE4Good and has deployed across major Capgemini India locations in 2014; been reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe since March 23, 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 87 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Being a responsible employer with a wealth of diversity, whom our employees. Our priority is to ensure their well-being and people choose to work for and which provides an environment professional development, ensuring that we empower delivery in which employees can deliver their best, is the mark of our excellence. We have a culture whereby we respect and value business culture concerned with our most important asset – diversity. 3.2.1 Methodology scope and themes Three sources of information are available to provide the Group’s seniority, age range, gender and grading, whenever legal. 99% HR and labor data. These sources are also used in this report: of Group employees (without IGATE) are consolidated within X the Group financial reporting tool, which provides data this tool; and reported monthly or quarterly using common indicators, such X a questionnaire collecting labor and societal indicators, which as total permanent headcount (permanent and fixed-term are either qualitative or only needed annually. contracts including non actively working, excluding temporary Consistency checks and trend analyses are performed to agencies staff, individual freelancers, independent workers, ensure the quality of data and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, subcontractors, trainees) and movements (hires/acquisitions/ corresponding data are excluded. The coverage rate indicated for departures/turnover rate) as of 31th December 2015. The each indicator reported below only includes data deemed relevant scope of this data is Group-wide; and appropriate. All labor aspects of Article R225-105-1 of the X an internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced French Commercial Code are covered in this report as, based on with most local HR systems. It provides monthly statistics on our analysis, they are declared relevant for our business. 3.2.2 A changing labor environment STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS AND RISK FACTORS X Recruitment Our Group Human Resources (HR) priority is to build a collective • Every new recruit is carefully assessed in terms of skills and workforce to support our clients in solutioning their ever changing cultural fit with group values; technology and consulting needs. In HR terms, this means that • Overall, we monitor gender mix of our external recruits and we need to appraise, develop, and promote our people to internal promotes. In 2013, we asked our internal and external obtain personal growth and engagement and to recruit the skills recruiters to sign the group diversity charter to gain their which we are not able to develop quickly enough or which are commitment to improve diversity; needed to fuel the growth. The Human Resources Department • We continue our policy regarding the employment of people continuously improves its contribution by: with a disability; • supporting Managers with appropriate means to manage • Nearly 1 out of 2 recruits are “college hires”. We therefore the career of the team members and understand their have significantly strengthened our partnerships with major diverse workforce profile and trends; schools and universities to make Capgemini an employer of • providing Team Members with means to develop and choice; and maintain personal employability to perform over time; • Capgemini is now strongly leveraging digital channels like • providing Team Members with better support in mobility, LinkedIn to recruit suitable talents in the labor market. virtual working and learning; and • maintaining employee safety in particular during business trips. 88 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset X Development X Talent management Capgemini believes in offering an opportunity for a successful Capgemini is favouring mobility at local and global levels. In 2015, and rewarding career – not just a job. Each employee has our employees were given the opportunity to deliver 35,000 his or her own personal aspirations, motivations and career international assignments; and preferences. The Career & Competency Framework has been Capgemini provides visibility on job vacancies through the www. designed to help employees to develop in a wide variety of capgemini.com website, and internally through MyMobility different roles, with the clarity required to support employees’ system, allowing a “promote 1st; hire 2nd” approach. career progression, and the flexibility to let them take charge of their own career. X Leadership As a global organization, our clients expect consistency of • Our Leadership community, essentially the 1,400 Vice services and uniform excellence, regardless of where we deliver. Presidents world-wide are recruited, measured, rewarded, As individuals, we expect clarity in the career options available to and promoted through global policies. They are assessed us. The Career & Competency Framework defines and describes against the 6 attributes of the “Group Leader Profile” (business a standard set of roles for our businesses, regardless of your pioneer, profit shaper, people leader, la Niaque, collaboration, region, business unit (BU), project, account, sector or technology and transformation strength), a fundamental tool that is being specialization. At a glance, you should be able to understand the breadth of options available to you. For each role, there are a adapted to our new challenges; and • Capgemini focuses on Leadership Development by identifying 3 number of core attributes; professional competencies that apply and developing the right leaders through dedicated leadership to everyone in Capgemini and are independent of where you programs and an aligned Learning & Development. sit in the business; and role-specific competencies, tailored to Capgemini businesses. STRONG HEADCOUNT GROWTH, MOSTLY EXTERNAL BUT ALSO ORGANIC Therefore: • every employee fits into a transparent “Career & Competency The Group workforce was just below 60,000 people ten years Framework” linked to his or her profession, where personal ago, passed the bar of 100,000 employees in September 2010 ambition is equally important to make a career discussion open and grew again by more than 25% in 2015 to reach 180,639 and fair; employees as of December 31, 2015, thanks mostly to the acquisition of the company IGATE (31,323 as of December 31, • every employee has access to a wide range of training to 2015) enable their professional development through the group University. It delivers over 5 million hours per year of training The average headcount is calculated by adding the average of to over 140,000 employees (excluding IGATE). All training opening headcount and the 12 monthly headcount divided by 13. programs are designed to incorporate new technological methodologies, client requirements and skilling needs; and • today, 47% of training is virtual and our objective is to continuously optimize its impact. Average headcount End-of-year headcount Year Number Change Number Change 2005 (reminder) 59,734 4.1% 61,036 2.9% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 2011 114,354 17.2% 119,707 10.1% 2012 121,829 6.5% 125,110 4.5% 2013 128,126 5.2% 131,430 5.1% 2014 137,747 7.5% 143,643 9.3% 2015 177,722 29.0% 180,639 25.8% 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 89 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset The recent acquisition of IGATE, strong organic growth, notably in Asia-Pacific, and the most recent economic crisis that affected continental Europe to a greater extent, continued to significantly impact the geographical distribution of Group employees. This development is summarized in the following table: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 Numbers % Numbers % Numbers % North America 9,173 7.0% 9,874 6.9% 16,034 8.9% United Kingdom & Ireland 9,130 6.9% 8,766 6.1% 8,656 4.8% Nordic countries 4,277 3.3% 4,145 2.9% 4,007 2.2% Benelux 8,775 6.7% 8,547 6.0% 8,307 4.6% Germany and Central Europe 10,095 7.7% 10,596 7.4% 11,342 6.3% France 21,863 16.6% 23,637 16.5% 23,882 13.2% Southern Europe 7,187 5.5% 7,446 5.2% 7,434 4.1% Asia-Pacific (incl. Middle East) 50,888 38.7% 59,854 41.7% 91,584 50.7% Latin America 10,042 7.6% 10,778 7.5% 9,393 5.2% TOTAL 131,430 100% 143,643 100% 180,639 100% As a result of IGATE acquisition, which was mostly present in BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE: India, the share of APAC region increased by 9pts and exceeded 2013-2015 CHANGES in December the bar of 91 ,000 employees. However, the The coverage rate for the data below is 99.5% of year-end share of this region should have increased by 2.7pts without headcount (including IGATE data). Changes for average length of the acquisition thanks to an organic growth in India of 11.7%. service reflect the Group’s recruitment dynamics over the last five North America region has increased by 62% also thanks to the years, with an average of more than 33,000 recruits each year. acquisition of IGATE as it was the 2nd biggest region of this The high percentage of employees with less than three years’ company, but it also reported a strong organic growth of 7%. service (53,7% of our headcount) is clearly due to the high level of On the contrary, Latam decreased by 12.8%, especially in Brazil. recruitment. However, the average length of service in the Group Moreover, India saw very strong growth in recent years with stands at 4.4 years in 2015, a small decrease of 0.1 years versus headcount rising from slightly under 2,000 people in 2004 to 2014 due in particular to the integration of IGATE employees who more than 87,000 in 2015 and represents 48.5% of the total had an average length of service of 3.5. At constant perimeter, Group workforce. Growth in Central Europe is notably due to the the average seniority should have increased by 0.1year. This development of the BPO business in Poland, which went from varies according to the geographical area, ranging from 2.3 years less than 500 employees in 2004 to slightly below 6,500 at year in India or 2.6 in Asia-Pacific and Latin America (where lies the end. UK and Benelux were the main regions to see its headcount majority of recruitments) to 10.2 years in the Benelux countries fall for the third year in a row, due to a difficult economic situation, (stable), 8 years in France (in progression by 0.6 years due to with Scandinavia also in decline, albeit to a lesser extent. In the integration of Euriware employees) or 7 years in the UK. For France and Southern Europe, the headcount is quite stable in the purpose of calculating length of service, it should be noted 2015 but the share is mechanicaly lower in 2015. that it is the date of recruitment by the acquired company, and not the date of integration into Capgemini, which is taken into consideration. 30.7% 31.0% 27.6% 25.0% 22.7% 22.7% 20.5% 17.8% 17.3% 16.1% 15.0% 14.0% 13.8% 13.5% 12.3% < 1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + december 2013 december 2014 december 2015 90 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE: 2013-2015 CHANGES Acquisitions/ The coverage rate for the data below is 99.3% of year-end External hires transfers headcount (including IGATE). The average age of employees 2005 (reminder) 14,453 712 decreased in 2015 to 33.6 years (-0.8 year vs 2014), mostly due to the acquisition of IGATE which has an average age lower 2010 30,139 7,579 than Capgemini (30.6 years) and thanks to the hiring of young 2011 32,713 3,158 graduates (42% of total recruits). At constant scope, it still would 2012 31,100 769 have decreased but slightly at 34.2 years. The average age is stable in most of countries, excepted in North America (-1.9 years 2013 32,369 193 at 38.5 years thanks to IGATE but also -0.6 years without), UK 2014 39,925 2,110 (-0.6 years at 40.6 years) and India (-0.8 years at 29.6 years with IGATE but also -0.2 years without). The percentage of employees 2015 46,181 30,265 aged less than 35 years increased by 2.9 pts over the previous year to 63.3%, while the share of employees in the over 45 This increase was not felt in the same way across all geographic group decreased by 2.1 pts, due mostly to the acquisition of regions and countries, with offshore countries contributing IGATE. Average age is lowest, below 30 years, in Guatemala, India, China, Morocco, Romania and Poland, while the United Kingdom, Sweden, Canada, Denmark and the Netherlands are strongly to this recruitment dynamic, with nearly two thirds of all recruitment in 2015 (excluding IGATE). India, where 55% of recruitment took place, saw headcount grow organically by more 3 the only countries with an average age at just over 40 years. than 6,500 people in 2015, representing more than 100% of Group organic net headcount growth. On the contrary, Latam 48.3% 48.0% and in particular Brazil, is showing a massive decrease of 47.2% headcount by -15.2% due to a restructuring plan. In a still volatile and uncertain economic environment, the employee turnover rate (the percentage of voluntary departures) increased by 1.5pt to 19.3% (excluding IGATE), being higher in APAC, Poland and India (where the IT Services market is more dynamic) than in Continental Europe or North America. This rate is still, however, below the peak rate of the last ten years, which 23.6% reached 19.7% in 2007. 23.2% 22.9% 15.3% Turnover rate 13.2% 13.2% 11.5% 2005 (reminder) 15.4% 11.2% 9.9% 2010 16.3% 4.4% 4.0% 3.9% 2011 18.1% 2012 17.0% < 20 24 years 25 34 years 35 44 years 45 54 years 55 years et + 2013 16.8% 2014 17.8% december 2013 december 2014 december 2015 2015 (w/o IGATE data) 19.3% Against a still uncertain economic backdrop for 2015, the Group hired more than 46,000 employees (including IGATE for 6 month) Hires are people on-boarded into Capgemini payroll through or 41,000 excluding IGATE, the highest number in the Group’s the usual recruiting cycle during the period and accounted in history and a significant increase over the average number of headcount (it excludes recruits made through acquisition/big hires over the past decade. deals). The number of voluntary departures was at the highest level of the last past 10 years at around 28,000 (w/o IGATE and 31,580 with IGATE). This rate is constantly monitored to ensure that it remains in line with industry norms, using appropriate response initiatives according to the needs of each business line and geographical region. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 91 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.3 Compensation and beneﬁts The Group’s remuneration policy is based on shared principles, The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock applied in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market options to 2,298 beneficiaries under the sixth plan and to conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: 2,743 beneficiaries under the performance shares plans. The X attract and retain talent; Management Report, presented at each Cap Gemini S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown of X reward individual and collective performance with a the performance share allocations. remuneration model that is motivating yet flexible; Concurrently, stock options granted to Executive Corporate X be fair and consistent with the Group’s financial and operational Officers form a very low percentage of the total options targets. distributed. Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total Where local rules permit, employees can select the components number of options allocated was awarded to Executive of their remuneration package from a predefined package. This Corporate Officers, and no options are exercisable as all plans provides employees with additional flexibility, enabling them are now closed. Regarding performance shares, resolutions set to reconcile their financial and personal situations in the best a limit of 5% or 10% to be allocated to Directors and the volume possible way. effectively allocated represented 3.2% of the total grants of the Profit-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local 6 performance share plans since 2009. Moreover, share based regulations applicable in the country. instruments are not allocated on an automatic and/or annual basis. Vice-President and senior executive compensation schemes are reviewed and authorized at the Group level for both fixed salaries Detailed information regarding performance shares allocated by and variable components. The principles of compensation Cap Gemini S.A. to directors and to the ten main beneficiaries schemes for other employees, which are locally designed and (non-directors), the options exercised by the latter, and details of managed, are subject to Group approval with the intent to these plans are provided on page 67 to 70 of this Registration progressively better align schemes to favor mobility and ensure Document. consistency and fairness. In addition, following a negotiation with French employee The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country representatives, instead of paying a bonus in cash for the “profit always exceed or are equal to the legal minimum salaries in sharing bonus” implemented in 2011, the Board decided to pay force in the country concerned, and are sometimes higher by a this incentive through shares subject to a presence condition very significant proportion. Salary increases guidelines are also of 2 years and with a compulsory holding period of another reviewed and approved at Group level. 2 years in two occasions (2012 and 2014). As a result, more than 16,000 employees became shareholders in July 2014 and The evolution of compensation (which can be found in the Note 6 again more than 20,000 employees have been granted the to the consolidated financial statements of the Registration opportunity to become shareholders in October 2016 subject to Document) is subject to regular analysis as compensation costs their presence on this date. represent 61% of the group revenue. A quarterly analysis is made of the average compensation cost across SBUs/countries EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO STOCK HOLDING to evaluate the impact of staff movements (recruits, leavers, promotions, transfers...) on the evolution of the key indicator. In 2009, Capgemini launched its first international employee The Compensation Committee of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board stock ownership plan, covering 19 countries. This plan was of Directors is in charge of supervising compensation of very successful, with more than 14,000 employees applying for the Company’s executive corporate officers and to review shares. After authorization was granted by shareholders, a new compensation policies related to the Group senior managers in international plan was launched in 2012 covering all employees particular equity based incentives subject to Board approval. of the 19 countries, which was again very successful, with 12,000 employees subscribing. As the 2009 plan was ending in December 2014, a new international plan has been launched in ALLOCATION OF SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE SCHEMES 2014 and was again a success with close to 17,000 subscribers Cap Gemini S.A. has allocated share-based instruments joining this new plan. As a result of these two active plans (previously stock options and performance shares since 2009) our employees, as a whole, are amongst the Group’s main on a regular basis in line with its corporate governance rules. shareholders with close to 5.6% of the share capital. These allocations are made selectively with the aim of rewarding Lastly, in 2009, Capgemini launched a product whose employee loyalty, namely for those who have made exceptional performance is related to its share price: the BSAAR. This contributions to company sales, production, innovation or to product was made available to Group managers at the price of reward those who have been acknowledged for specific initiatives €3.22 (at fair value and in accordance with a valuation carried out or who are seen as transformation agents. Any employee in the by an external expert) and was accompanied by an information Group may be selected to receive them. They are an exceptional memorandum approved by the French Financial Markets reward and do not form part of the general remuneration policy. Authority (AMF) (see 5.1.3 p. 228). BSAARs represented an opportunity for managers who wanted to make a long-term investment in the Company (from 4 to 7 years) while being fully exposed to fluctuations in the share price. 92 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.4 Work organization, health and safety BREAKDOWN OF PART-TIME WORKFORCE IN 2013-2015 17.7% 14.5% 14.4% 9.7% 9.2% 8.1% 7.4% 7.2% 7.3% 6.4% 5.8% 5.2% 6.2% 6.0% 5.2% 5.4% 5.6% 5.0% 4.5% 4.8% 4.2% 3.9% 3.0% 3.1% 3 0.5% 0.3% 0.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% North America Kingdom & Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc and India Total United Ireland countries Central Europe Europe Latina America december 2013 december 2014 december 2015 Part-time staff is defined as any resource working less than the BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY FIXED WORKING HOURS normal/legal working hours schedule of each country of payroll. IN 2014-2015 The coverage rate for the above data is 96.6% of year-end 52% headcount including IGATE. The percentage of part-time employees in the Group decreased 42% at 3.1% of the total headcount in 2015 due to Indian headcount 36% increase through the IGATE acquisition mostly, as India reports zero part-time staff. Overall, the number of employees working 29% part-time is slightly decreasing (-74 people) while in most European countries, the percentage of part-time staff is increasing (Poland +2.3pts, Germany +0.8pts, France +0.2pts). The figures show significant variation between regions: part-time working is 15% most widespread in the Benelux countries with 14.5%, followed 13% by the United Kingdom and Ireland with 9.2%. Conversely, Asia7% Pacific, North America and Latin America (excepted Brazil), part5% time working is not widespread. In France (and Morocco), 5.4%, 0% 0% or approximately 1,300 people, work on a part-time basis and the percentage has remained stable over the last three years. 35h 36h=>39h 40h 41h=>45h 48h december 2014 december 2015 A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide variation between the regions. This study covered 94.4% of the workforce at year end including IGATE. France, representing 13% of the total workforce, was singled out, with a 35-hour working week. 29% of our employees have a 40-hour working week but is the collective timetable of most of the countries in which we operate (the % is mechanically decreasing due to the acquisition of IGATE mostly in India with a collective timetable of 45 hours per week). The 40-hour working week concerns in particular Europe (excluding the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally 37.5 hours) and North America. Guatemala, Chile and Morocco are on a 44-hour working week, Mexico is on a 48-hour working week and India is on a 45-hour working week. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 93 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset RATE OF ABSENTEEISM IN 2013-2015 5.2% 4,9% 4,3% 3.8% 3,2% 3.3% 3,2% 3,0% 3.0% 2.6% 2.7% 2,6% 2,3% 2,3% 2,4% 2.3% 2,3% 2.4% 2,0% 2.1% 1,9% 1.6% 1,7% 1,2% 1,3% 1.0% 1.1% 0,0% 0,0% 0.0% North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc and India Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe Latina America 2013 2014 2015 The rate of absenteeism is expressed as the number of sickness are not yet consolidated. In UK, the Occupational Health referral days excluding maternity (sickness covers all absence declared activity is referenced in a high level disease codes (also known as such by employees which can cover anything from headache as ICD10 codes). The diseases are splitted by Mental Health, to surgery) versus the number of total working days less holidays Musculoskeletal, Work related conditions and those covered and vacation for the average headcount. by the Equality act. Employees who take a period of sick leave The coverage rate for this study is 43.5% of the year-end complete a sickness form confirming reason for sickness. These headcount including IGATE. This low percentage is due to the are the Company’s standard diagnostic tools for assessing the fact that some countries such as India (which represents 48.5% general health situation of our population groups. In France, of our workforce) do not collect data on the number of days of we identified two types of professional diseases: mental health sick leave as such. In 2015, the rate of absenteeism for sickness and musculoskeletal disease. Therefore, they intensified the in the sample was 2.4%, a decrease ratio of 0.2pt mostly due to prevention of these risks by developing sensitization-training Latam (-0.8pt), in particular in Brazil. It was highest in Germany to all employees and more specifically to managers on these and Central Europe, driven by Poland at 5.3%, followed by diseases. Through this training, we give them the means to better Scandinavia at 3.8%. France and Morocco at 2.3% are just understand what is a psycho-social risk, identify signal loss health below the Group average rate of absenteeism. of their employees and, thereby, to be able to anticipate more changes in behaviour. Identification and likely occurence of professional diseases is implemented in some countries, however, these quantified data NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS/HEADCOUNT IN 2013-2015 0.98% 0.80% 0.77% 0.72% 0.64% 0.63% 0.58% 0.55% 0.49% 0.46% 0.38 % 0.39% 0.38% 0.39% 0.38 % 0.31% 0.33% 0.29% 0.28% 0.26% 0.16% 0.18% 0.15% 0.14% 0.11% 0.08% 0.08% 0.03% 0.05% 0.05% North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc and India Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe Latina America 2013 2014 2015 94 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset A work-related accident is defined as a non-fatal injury resulting New training and development modules provide work-life balance in incapacity for work at least three consecutive days, excluding programs covering issues such as “stress and vitality”, “conflict the day of accident. prevention” and health. The coverage rate for the above data is 58.5% of the year-end In France, Health and Safety Committees (HSC) are set up headcount including IGATE. In 2015, the Group recorded 414 by location or business unit. Their main objective is to analyze work-related accidents which is stable, of which 56% were in situations that might have an impact on the workforce: mobility France on account of the regulations in force relating to the projects, on-site working, safety in the workplace or stress at reporting of information. This corresponds to a ratio of accidents/ work. Actions are reviewed and decisions taken in quarterly employee of 0.39%, an increase of 0,01pt versus 2015. The meetings and whenever needed, extraordinary meetings majority of these work-related accidents were accidents during may be called. HSCs may decide to commission surveys or the home/workplace journey. The group recorded also 8 victims studies if deemed necessary, to help the management improve of accidents resulting in death in 2015, 2 in France, 4 in India, 2 working conditions and safety. A new agreement was signed in in Netherlands. Most of them were linked to accidents during the November 2013 aimed at strengthening actions in Capgemini home/workplace journey. France related to Health and Safety at work, informing employees about the nature of professional risks and developing necessary Health and safety in the workplace Health and Safety in the workplace is an important feature of actions to avoid them, and safeguarding the health of every employee. 3 human resources and facilities management. The Group’s In North America, the safety and well being of employees is fully businesses do not involve high-risk activities. Health and Safety integrated in the way in which they carry out their daily jobs. The responsibilities are nevertheless taken very seriously and the aim is to maintain the lowest possible accident and professional company has established specific processes and measures. At health and safety incident rates. Incident and trend assessments a minimum, across the Group we comply with all local Health may, where appropriate, lead to tighter workplace safety checks. and Safety legal requirements. Our Health and Safety policies Our workforce is actively involved in the development of a positive are focused on information, instruction and training, covering: health and safety culture through on-going training as part of our X accidents, first aid and work related health issues; Cigna EAP Program, which includes training in wellness, stress X disability; management, prevention of harassment and violence, etc. X safe handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances and As in North America, other countries have an Employee PPE; Assistance Program (including India). Audits on the health and safety environment are regularly carried out within the Group X emergency procedures; and (India, UK, etc.). X guidelines for Capgemini employees working on client sites. Capgemini India has a Health Safety & Environment policy signed Numerous modules are available on line to employees on Health this year by our India CEO which outlines our commitment to and Safety matters and as part of our catalog we have a module the health & safety of employees and the need to protect the called Well Being Essentials, addressing a variety of topics environment. We are also OHSAS 18001 Pan India certified including health challenges, work-life balance, healthy eating, for all sites. Initiatives that we have in place from this year are fitness, grief and loss, etc. standardized medical services across India. Our offices around the world have introduced initiatives to In Poland (as in some countries such as the UK or the promote employee wellbeing, including: Netherlands), conditions of Health and Safety at work are X work-life balance programs, including remote working (as regulated by applicable labor law and are incorporated into in France with a new agreement signed in 2015 for remote their internal regulation procedures available on the intranet. working and for professional equality between men and In addition, new hires must also sign a special document women, and parenthood); (declaration) stating that they are familiar with the content of the X stress management; document. For example, in Poland, new employees are required to undergo a medical check-up before employment and to X improvement of employee-manager relationships; and undergo periodic medical check-ups during employment. New X better working conditions. employees must also attend a preliminary workplace Health and Safety training session organized on their first day. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 95 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.5 International mobility and risk management The total volume of cross-border assignments across the globe X Specific training courses and advice are provided by for a short or longer term duration is increasing each year; the Capgemini international assignment network and this is one of the results of globalization, our Group’s delivery Capgemini’s service provider. In 2010, an e-learning training model as well as a strong will to offer to our employees exciting course on business travel safety was launched and in 2015, international career opportunities to enhance their employability 11,900 employees have been trained through this e-learning. in a global organization. X A geo-localization tool has also been set up to identify where International assignments are therefore an important aspect of our employees are when they are travelling. our business, whether the assignment is voluntary initiated by X Capgemini has set up a repatriation procedure and specific the employee for career development or personal reasons, or insurance coverage, to limit, as far as possible, the risks faced required by the company to fulfill a business need. by its employees if trouble breaks out in a country where they One of our Group’s main challenges is to ensure an environment are present. which meets our standards as well as the physical safety of our X Lastly, there is an information system which provides travel employees on assignment in potentially high-risk countries. alerts when necessary, as well as practical advice on local culture and customs in the countries our employees visit. The Capgemini international assignment network, comprising For employees involved in overseas assignments, useful nearly 100 people, supports employees with legal, immigration, information is provided on the Group intranet sites, together and tax & labor regulation procedures in the 100 countries to with relevant rules and procedures. which they may be assigned. In 2015, 18,572 employees from the Group (excluding IGATE) The Group International Assignment policy sets the general have been proposed with around 35,000 assignments abroad to conditions applying during any stay abroad. 118 different countries. The main countries of origin were India, Through our Risk Management Policy & Procedures, the Group the US, the UK, Germany and Poland. The main destinations has a selective policy on the countries/locations in which our were the US, France, UK, Germany and India. employees can work. Assignments in countries assessed as “at Moreover, in H2 2015, 1,646 IGATE’s employees have been risk” by our specialist external safety service provider are subject proposed with around 2,200 assignments. to strict rules and must be approved in advance. 3.2.6 Investing in training and professional development TRAINING POLICY The fundamental strategy of competency development draws on standard training programs as well as various approaches General training policy such as virtual classrooms, facilitated virtual learning journeys The value of a consulting and IT services company lies in the and MOOCs (massive online open courses), online books and quality of its intellectual capital. In an industry characterized videos, easily accessible databases and KM 2.0 communities, by rapid technological change and shifting patterns of work, it team rooms, collaborative learning portals, mobile applications, is essential for employees to keep their knowledge and skills on-the-job training, mentoring systems. We also organize up-to-date and in line with client and market needs. Likewise, learning and mobilization events that can include skill boosters, new staff joining the Group is keen to leverage and build on co-creation challenges and hackathons. The learning program their knowledge and to gain rewarding professional experience. offering available to employees is broadened continuously. In Personalized development plans are therefore designed during 2015, Capgemini University released 77 new courses and 124 annual performance interviews and reviewed at least once a year. new virtual classroom sessions, in addition to new content coming from the Group’s alliance partners as well as Skillsoft. Furthermore, operating units undertake a systematic and iterative review of the capabilities required for their businesses and their A sustained focus on training and competency portfolios of training offerings in order to keep pace with current development based on a Career & Competency and future market needs. Framework Capgemini is committed to the continuing development of all Employees’ professional development is supported by a Career & employees, professionally and personally, with the aim of creating Competency Framework which forms the basis for performance and maintaining a fully competent and motivated workforce with appraisals and personal career advancement. Rooted in shared core skills aligned to its present and future business requirements. values, the Career & Competency Framework is tailored to take In providing such development opportunities, we enhance our into account the specific needs of each of the Group’s businesses ability to achieve individual, team, business unit and corporate and functions. Common frameworks allow today’s employees to goals. understand competencies across businesses to facilitate mobility. 96 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Capgemini believes in offering an opportunity for a successful and Group Training & Development figures (without IGATE) rewarding career – not just a job. Each employee has his or her Overall, more than 143,000 employees were trained in 2015, up own personal aspirations, motivations and career preferences. 7.6% compared with the previous year taking the total volume of The Career & Competency Framework has been designed to training hours to 5.19 million. help employees to develop in a wide variety of different roles, 149,315 with the clarity required to support clear career progression, and 143,643 the flexibility to let our employees take charge of their own career. 131,430 125,110 119,707 As a global organization, our clients expect consistency of 108,608 services and uniform excellence, regardless of where we deliver. 96% As individuals, we expect clarity in the career options available to 95% us. The Career & Competency Framework defines and describes 91% a standard set of roles for our businesses, regardless of the 88% region, business unit (BU), project, account, sector or technology 85% specialization. At a glance, our employees should be able to 78% understand the breadth of options available to them. The Career & Competency Framework allows employees to understand and measure the competencies they need to be 3 successful in each role/level, and to be clear about what they 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 need to achieve to be ready for the next step up the career ladder. Headcount Total % Unique Employee Trend For each role, there are a number of core attributes; professional competencies that apply to everyone in Capgemini, independent The Group continued to develop its virtual training courses, of where employees sit in the business; and role-specific increasing by 19% over the year, or 2.45 million hours. This competencies, tailored to the Capgemini businesses. channel now represents 47% of total training hours. Learning maps allow employees to find the best ways to develop In H2 2015, more than 25,600 employees from IGATE have been their skills for each role, based on their current competencie trained which represent nearly 1.2 million hours (and a total of levels. 1.6 million training hours full year). 5.19 4.69 4.78 LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT 4.25 3.87 3.52 The quality of services provided to our clients depends on the excellence and motivation of our teams. We therefore invest in the development of our employees – our most precious asset – from 47% their hiring and at every stage of their career. 43% 39% 33% 15% 19% Our Learning & Development teams provide our employees with a broad range of learning assets for them to develop their 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 capabilities. Classroom learning (in Hours in million) Virtual learning % Capgemini University’s Global Curriculum provides our employees with cutting-edge content to support their professional and The Group’s on-line learning management system, MyLearning, personal skills development. Learning is available in several is open to all employees for informal, just-in-time learning and for e-learning modes, from 24/7 e-book, through MOOCs, to mobile structured learning events. MyLearning contains all the Group applications and dedicated collaborative learning platforms. programs and, for many regions, local curricula. In 2015, to These virtual solutions are often coupled with physical classrooms deliver a modern digital-age learning experience for all Capgemini whether they are at the client’s site, an office, or a local venue. We Group employees, we invested in a content and user experience also organize international learning events for key talent, within enhancement upgrade of the MyLearning core platform. In key communities, at our Group’s world-class campus recognized addition, we implemented a Google-like interactive search and for its high quality service, in Les Fontaines, France. filtering across the entire offering of the global curriculum. Our learning content can now be found and accessed anywhere and anytime, also through mobile devices. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 97 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Focus on Capgemini University X learning interventions focused on bringing cross discipline To really make a difference as a tool for alignment and teams together to sell and deliver on key market trends in acceleration of Capgemini Group’s ambitions, the University Digital, Social, Mobile, Analytics, Cloud, Cybersecurity and brings our people together to develop their capabilities the Internet of Things; and and achieve the full potential of our Group for our X strengthening leadership capabilities to better enable our clients. To achieve this, the University: people to respond successfully to the fast pace of technology X focuses on key populations to build their capabilities with and market evolutions. speed and agility, and challenges and supports all our In addition to these cross Strategic Business Unit (SBU) employees in their skill development, as it connects them to interventions, the University also worked with each of the our Group and to their communities. It brings to life our Group’s SBUs to deliver specific learning and mobilization events at values and multicultural approach in the way it engages our the Group’s physical Campus in Les Fontaines. These events teams – whether virtually, locally, or on site at our world class delivered content that was both targeted at each specific SBU, campus, Les Fontaines; strengthened key communities with Capgemini, and supported X formalizes, packages and deploys cutting edge content the Group’s overall target. through a range of learning interventions, also adapted to External Awards and Recognition the digital world, using our Next Generation Learning (NGL) As well as focusing on building Capgemini members capabilities, approach on Capgemini specific hot-content topics aligned the University continued to focus on ensuring it was building its with Capgemini Group’s strategic business objectives, knowlearning expertise. It challenged itself by submitting and winning how as well as industry standards, ensuring our teams are kept awards through recognized organizations that included: up to date and aligned with our strategy and responding to our clients’ demands. It is delivered by our best practitioners and X Brandon Hall Gold Medal for Software Engineers MOOC external experts; (Massive Online Open Course) of the Future as the Best X leverages its rich history and its European Foundation for Innovative Learning and Development Program; Management Development (E.F.M.D). accreditation among X Brandon Hall Silver Medal for Engagement Manager best-in-class learning organizations to guarantee demonstrated Certification Program as the Best Learning Program supporting excellence. a Change Transformation Business Strategy; and Capgemini University is working to deliver a participant X 2nd place on theconsultantlounge.com’s ranking of corporate experience that leverages digital technologies and innovative universities best supporting IT consulting careers. learner engagement principles. To make it more meaningful for In 2015 the University officially received its second, five-year the business and to support the end-to-end development of our re-accreditation from the EFMD (European Foundation for key populations, the University is focused on ensuring alignment Management Development). Capgemini University received its between competence, certification, community and curriculum. initial EFMD accreditation in 2009 and is the only Corporate University from the IT industry to have it. The accreditation is Learning Business Partnering a mechanism for quality benchmarking, mutual learning and The Global Learning Business Partner Team is composed of sharing of good practices where internal self-assessment is the Learning & Development (L&D) Executives of all Strategic combined with an external review from experienced peers against Business Units (SBUs) and of the main countries – led by the a comprehensive set of rigorous criteria. Business-to-Learning Department of the University. Also in 2015, Capgemini University extended the relationship The University worked together and closely with the business to between Capgemini and the MaRS Innovation Network to strengthen the capabilities of our people to respond to our clients develop digital and social learning interventions with business demand through: impact, and reinforce our capabilities in Digital Age Learning. X focus on new content linked to hot market topics such as Key University L&D figures training on disruptive technologies, global service offers and sector trends to create business value; In 2015, 143,415 Capgemini employees (96% of our workforce without IGATE) took part in training schemes as part of the X building professional capabilities in key roles such as architects, training path defined by the Group, using various channels. The engagement managers, management consultants, intellectual volume of training provided by the University was 3.3 million property product managers, sales professionals or software hours, representing 64% of total learning hours taken in the engineers; Group. Close to 38,900 employees (+11% compared to 2014) were trained at our Global Campus, Les Fontaines, in France or locally in countries in which the Group is present, representing 1.17 million hours of training. 98 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 3.2.7 The certiﬁcation process INTERNAL CERTIFICATION EXTERNAL CERTIFICATION This in-house peer review process enables skills to be assessed The Group has a longstanding external certification policy on the basis of precise and clearly identified criteria such as enhanced by on-line learning programs that enable study for experience gained, knowledge sharing, use of in-house tools external certification, including on-line mentoring. Employees and methods, mentoring and leadership. may apply for the following external certification: Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Cisco, Linus Professional Institute, The process has three objectives, namely: Six Sigma (Green and Black Belts), Project Management Institute X to create strong and recognized professional-interest groups (PMI), and ITIL. by sharing information, knowledge and skills in specific areas; X to ensure blended distribution and graduated progression of CENTER CERTIFICATION skills, both for in-house and client service requirements; and Centers of excellence around the world continue to develop X to create, in the process, a competitive edge for both the Group and strengthen the Group’s ability to support a global delivery and its employees, thereby increasing their “employability”. For a number of years the Group has run internal certification programs, primarily for project managers, architects, software service model. External certification combined with our internal certification programs supports these objectives. More than 3 110 Capgemini centers, including Accelerated Delivery Centers, engineers and network engineers. Application Management Services Centers, Infrastructure More than 4,600 project managers, an improvement of 12% Management Service Centers, Business Process Outsourcing over last year especially in India (+49%) and in Latam (from Centers, and Technical Excellence Centers now have some only 7 in 2014 to 158 in 2015), 954 architects, 3,298 software form of certification. Centers in 27 countries (India, the United engineers and 362 network engineers had either obtained or States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, the reconfirmed this internal certification during 2015. We also have Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Poland, Spain, Portugal, an SAP certification program focusing on new joiners in our Brazil, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Romania, the Czech SAP practices, on mass certification programs and on specific republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Sweden, Australia, Argentina, initiatives, with on line access to learning material. Lastly, training Vietnam, Chile and China) have ISO certifications including programs are developed jointly with the University to support a ISO 9001/ISO 9001-2008. Many centers also have CMM/ consistent deployment of methods and content within the Group, CMMI® (Capability Maturity Model Integration) certification, which around these different topics. is specific to the applications development business. In India, the centers of Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai and Bangalore have achieved the highest level CMM and CMMI® certification (level 5). All BPO centers are ISO 9000 certified and IIP accredited, a measure of the global production capability, economies of scale and adaptability to changes in demand. All centers in India in IGATE have also ISO 9001 and CMMI level 5. 3.2.8 Diversity and inclusion With over 180,000 people in more than 40 countries, Capgemini GLOBAL DIVERSITY & INCLUSION CHARTER is proud to represent nearly 110 nationalities. As such, we Capgemini’s success, brand identity and client experience are are committed to creating an inclusive workplace culture that determined by the talented people who work for us. We believe provides our people with the opportunity for a successful and that people perform better when they are empowered to be their rewarding career and ensures their well-being. We believe authentic self at work and feel included in the way we approach these are is the factors which make people different, which how we work to deliver services to our clients. Cultivating an offer valuable sources of innovation and creativity, enabling us inclusive environment and ensuring that every voice of Capgemini to generate new ideas, anticipate market trends and be thought is heard and considered, maximizes our capability to win and leaders in our chosen markets. deliver business and makes Capgemini a great place to work. Diversity and inclusion have always been an important part of Our Group Global Charter for Diversity and Inclusion sets out the our corporate culture, shaping how we operate and work with Group’s commitment to: our stakeholders, suppliers, clients and our colleagues around the world. This diversity and inclusion has many facets including X engage with our clients, partners and suppliers to ensure there gender, disability, ethnicity, age and lifestyle. At Capgemini we is understanding and alignment to our values, diversity and also include broader dimensions of diversity such as experience, inclusion commitments and clear expectations; personality, communication and working styles – together known X recruit and retain a talented and diverse workforce to deliver as “diversity of thought”. innovative, world-class solutions for our clients; Our commitment is enshrined within our Group Diversity and X foster an inclusive workplace environment that offers every Inclusion Charter which was refreshed in 2014. employee the opportunity for a successful career; X engage employees in the diversity and inclusion agenda through communication, awareness, education to build cultural competencies, and career development opportunities; 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 99 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset X continually review and integrate employee feedback to UNCONSCIOUS BIAS implement programs that provide employee engagement Exposing unconscious bias, the tendency for individuals to favor opportunities and drive leadership accountability; people like themselves, is critical to the promotion of diversity and X design, implement and regularly review and update policies to inclusion within an organization. Consequently, together with an ensure that we, as an organization, are embracing diversity, external expert from the Southern Methodist University in Dallas, cultivating inclusion, and responding to our employees’ needs; Capgemini has developed an Unconscious Bias training module X support and leverage local and global networks across which has been deployed across North America and which was the Group business operations for employees and led by attended by approximately 200 of the Group’s top executives employees building communities to drive inclusion across from around the globe in November 2014. culture, commerce, career, and community; During 2015, Capgemini North America, Inc. reported a 12% gain X encourage and support our employees to consider diversity in retention among team members who completed unconscious and inclusion in our everyday business decisions (e.g. bias training in the first half of the year. procurement, building a team, initiative sponsorship); X integrate diversity and inclusion principles into Capgemini’s MEASURES TAKEN IN FAVOR OF GENDER DIVERSITY business systems and activities based on five key drivers: workplace, workforce, marketplace, community, and executive For Capgemini, gender diversity is also an issue of competitive engagement across the Group; advantage. Being an employer of choice for talented men and women is vital if we are to unleash the full potential of our Group X comply with all applicable laws concerning diversity and and deliver the best results for our clients. inclusion supported through enabling employees to obtain guidance or report concerns on compliance and misconduct; Breakdown of workforce by gender: X report our progress, best practices and results across the 2013-2015 changes Group both internally and externally based on our inclusion The coverage rate for the data below is 99.5% of year-end and diversity success measures; and headcount including IGATE data. The percentage of females in X enhance Capgemini’s external employer brand through the the workforce continued to rise in 2015, increasing by 0.7 point promotion of our diversity and inclusion achievements. over 2014 to reach 29.5% at year end. This percentage would have been the same excluding IGATE integration as the Our differences are a source of creativity, innovation and percentage of women in IGATE is at 29.3%. This increase in the inspiration. Embracing diversity and inclusion equips us to reflect female workforce was mainly due to strong growth in recent years today’s global marketplace in the communities where we operate, of BPO (a business sector in which the proportion of females can enables us to generate new ideas or anticipate market trends reach 50%), an activity which attracts more females, and despite as thought leaders in our chosen markets and supports us in its recent expansion in countries and business sectors (Services better understanding the challenges of our clients, partners and Infrastructure) where females are less present in the workforce. suppliers. We believe this will enhance the employee experience Nevertheless, in several geographic regions the percentage around the Group, create greater opportunities for sustainable of females is increasing like in India (+1.8pt at 29.4%) which business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a global employer of improves largely the overall percentage of females in the Group choice. due to the high number of employees in this country or in Poland These commitments reflect Capgemini’s vision for diversity and which was already above 55% last year (+2.1pts at 58.7%). inclusion in the Group. We are determined to take the necessary The countries with strong BPO development, and therefore a steps to put this approach into action, drawing on the best high proportion of women joining the Group, include Poland, of each and every employee’s talents, and celebrating our China (+1.9pt) and Brazil (+1.1pt) in all of which the percentage multicultural and diverse workforce. We know this will enhance of women in the workforce exceeds 50%. Conversely, the the employee experience around the Group, create greater percentage of women is less than 25% in twelve countries opportunities for our business and affirm Capgemini’s status as covering 31% of the workforce analyzed, including mainly France, a preferred global employer. Benelux, the UK and the USA. This overall gender breakdown is a We make every effort to adapt to the needs of our people with a reflection of the information technology sector as a whole, which wide range of personal circumstances and to provide them with tends to attract engineering graduates who are predominantly a work environment which encourages their development. In a male. Consulting Services, however, is a more diversified market, number of countries, where allowed, employee data is monitored with a more balanced male/female ratio (i.e. 61/39). according to criteria such as socio-cultural group, age group and disability, etc. Diversity performance indicators are also included in the annual HR audit. 100 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset 71.6% 71.2% Following the launch of a gender stereotypes campaign in 70.5% April 2013, Capgemini France has created, in 2014, 2 mandatory e-learning on diversity and recruitment to explain how to include the gender diversity stakes in our recruitment. France also signed a new partnership of mentoring with the University “Pierre and Marie Curie”. 25 women students have benefited in 2015 from a support of 25 Capgemini women in the search and the follow28.4% 28.8% 29.5% up of internship and the definition of their all year round school professional project, to prepare their insertion in the professional world. Capgemini and Sogeti France signed the “Charte de la Diversité dans l’Entreprise” (French corporate diversity charter) in 2006, and continue to actively participate in “IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité”, an organization responsible for promoting the Male Female charter to increase diversity in France. Thus, the company wishes to accompany the employees with young children not yet in december 2013 december 2014 december 2015 school age in seeking emergency or occasional care solution Gender diversity is a specific priority for the Group and in close to their home or their workplace. In this context, it is now possible to request, via a dedicated platform, a network of inter3 order to ensure a balanced gender workforce, Capgemini has company nursery and home child care network determined by implemented a number of initiatives intended to promote the role the UES. In terms of recruitment and beyond the view shared by of women within the organization, including: the poor women young graduates from engineering schools or university corresponding to our target profiles, Capgemini France X the creation of local women’s networks in Australia, Belgium, will pursue actions to both internally, with our higher education France, India, Italy, the Netherlands, North America, Spain and partners, and also upstream of guidance for future students. On the UK; equal pay, Capgemini France is committed to ensure compliance X the development of the India Women’s Council to address with equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between the challenges women face in the workplace, to tap into the women and men. This implies a progressive wage plan over next female talent pool, and to serve as a knowledge-sharing and 6 between women and men. The UES shall aim to achieve this networking forum; goal in the coming six years. Thus, a budget of 1.5 million euros X the re-launch in 2013 of the Women’s Leadership Development for the triennium 2015-2017 will focus on wage gap. They will program in North America to provide specific training, also apply a percentage of women target, in particular concerning mentoring, and on-the-job coaching to develop the future promotion rates, so that the share of women in top jobs reflects leaders of Capgemini; the one at the UES level. X asking all our recruiters to ensure they provide the same In India, Women@capgemini found its voice in Winspire, a number of female and male candidates, wherever possible; forum created four years ago. The focus of Winspire is to and increase gender diversity in the workplace, so we can realize the X the scheduling of networking events and workshops to advantages of having a greater balance of women employees coincide with lunch time, rather than after work. at all levels. This program operates under four pillars, each driving a specific agenda: recruit, retain, develop and institutional During November 2015, the Group General Counsel hosted a awareness. Annual Women in Leadership Conference by the Women@Capgemini workshop to further the initiative launched forum for Women (WILL forum) in Leadership recognized our in 2012, as a global program focussed on gender balance across efforts through the award “WILL Best employer for Women the Capgemini Group. During this workshop, in order to add in 2014”. In 2015, Capgemini India underwent voluntary value across the initiative, a number of male champions were benchmarking to evaluate its diversity effort, by the not for profit welcomed from different parts of the Group. The Women@ organization WILL, which focusses on building gender balance Capgemini team proceeded to set objectives and scope for at leadership level. “Data is a remarkable way of bringing facts to the 4 pillars of Recruit, Retain, Develop and Change the table,” says Gayathri Ramamurthy, Diversity Lead, Capgemini Corporate Mentality. Short and long-term plans were India, who went on to say that “the benchmarking exercise presented with an ability to modify across Capgemini to cater for showed us that we were heading in the right direction, but also local implementations. identified that there was a lot more to be done.” 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 101 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset In April 2015, Capgemini UK was named in the Top 50 Employers Capgemini Canada has been recognized by Canada’s Best for Women for fourth year running, demonstrating our Diversity Employers for our exceptional workplace diversity and ongoing commitment and efforts to achieve gender equality inclusiveness program. This competition recognizes successful in the workplace. The unranked alphabetical list names the diversity initiatives in a variety of areas, including programs for organisations that are leading in workplace gender equality. It is employees from five groups: (a) Women; (b) Members of visible published in partnership with Opportunity Now, the Workplace minorities; (c) Persons with disabilities; (d) Aboriginal peoples; Gender Campaign by Business in the Community (BITC) and (e) Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgendered/Transsexual launched during BITC Responsible Business Week. Capgemini’s (LGBT) peoples. Of particular note was Capgemini’s Unconcious workplace policies met the expectations of the Opportunity Bias training. NowDiversity Change Model Motivate, Act, Impact: Our Monitoring is carried out to better assess and understand School’s Outreach Programme exemplifies our commitment: the position of women within the Group, in compliance with X Motivate: In an industry heavily reliant upon recruiting applicable legislation, i.e. the percentage of females recruited, graduates, we have created a school leavers programme leaving and promoted. to offer career and development opportunities to the next This showed that females represented 32.1% of total recruitments generation of female talent. Our apprentices join us straight (excluding IGATE ) in 2015 (rate of coverage of 99.5%), an from school and work towards a university degree. increase ratio versus 2014 by 1.5% mostly due to India (where X Act: We develop future talent through the “Girls in IT” stream the bulk of recruitment is) with a ratio improving by 1.9pt at 32% within our school’s programme. and France (+1.4pt at 24%). The percentage of women recruited X Impact: Ultimately, we hope to engage as many young women is higher than the female ratio of the Group, which contributed as possible and to inspire these young women to choose a to the rise in the percentage of women in the workforce at endtechnology career, particularly with us. 2015. The Benelux region has improved its ratio by more than Capgemini UK have set some ambitious new diversity targets: 6pts till 2013 but remains well below the Group level. X to increase the proportion of women from 26.6% in 2013 to Nevertheless, the turnover rate total (voluntary and involuntary 30% by 2020; leavers included) for females was marginally higher (at equivalent scope to hires) than for the total population. X to increase the proportion of senior women from 16.9% in 2013 to 20% by 2020; and X to ensure that 50% of our apprentice intake are female by 2025. 2015 Attrition Women attrition Total attrition North America 25.4% 25.2% United Kingdom & Ireland 19.3% 19.5% Nordic countries 19.8% 19.5% Benelux 13.7% 13.2% Germany and Central Europe 22.2% 21.7% France 12.5% 13.0% Southern Europe 14.8% 16.8% Asia-Pacific (incl. Middle East) 26.9% 26.6% Latin America 30.6% 31.6% TOTAL 22.8% 22.3% 102 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Proportion of women in top executive positions of 2018. These measures are financed by an annual budget of by operating unit about € 3.5 million. The agreement covers five key orientations: The proportion of women in the highest levels of responsibility X a commitment to improving the employability rate of disabled had increased at December 31, 2015: people through a specific recruiting and on-boarding policy. 24.7 % The objective is to increase their employability rate from 2.4% 24.2 % to 2.9% in 2016. The recruiting staff will expand their sourcing by participating in forums, through consultation of specialized 20.5 % sites and close collaboration with associations; 19.2 % 18.0 % X the development of apprenticeships for disabled people, 16.7 % 16.8 % which will represent 15% of the total budget: in addition to 15.1 % 15.5 % 15.3 % welcoming trainees and apprentices, the Group has developed 14.2 % partnerships with Centers of Professional Reintegration and 11.8 % specialised schools. Inside the company, these apprentices are 10.3 % supported by voluntary and certified tutors. Furthermore, within the framework of the HEducap project, Capgemini assists Bac +2/3 level disabled students by financing their studies to enable them to acquire a master’s degree; 3 X sustainable employment. As 80% of disabilities arise in the course of life, Capgemini is commited to supporting employees in such a situation. Permanently disabled employees can benefit from adapted working conditions or from financial No rth Am Ind 015 014 013 assistance for the acquisition or the customization of a vehicle ited erica Kin & I gdo ia No r rdi eland m al 2 al 2 al 2 Ge cc Ce rma ux oun Be trie nel s Tot or for specific equipment (prostheses); ntr ny al E a uro nd pe Tot Tot So uth ern Asi Fra Eur nce ope X facilitating indirect employment for disabled people through Un a-P aci Lat ina Am eri ﬁc ca sub-contractors, with in particular, a partnership with the GESAT network which handles the electronic management of The proportion of females in the highest executive grades in 2015 all our personnel files; continues to grow with an increase of 1.3pt, but nevertheless X raising awareness through broader communication, to reduce remains lower than the total percentage of females, all grades stereotypes and improve understanding. combined, within the company. The continuing growth of Group The new agreement also includes some notable new dispositions, headcount in countries with a low percentage of female engineers such as 3 more payed days off for employees who have a weights on the overall percentage (although Capgemini’s disabled child, or upgrading from 4 to 8 days off for disabled proportion of women in these countries is higher than the people who need medical care. generally seen in the market). Capgemini France also supports several initiatives/partners At the end of 2015, 23.2% of employees who had been facilitating the occupational integration of disabled employees, promoted to the role of “Vice-President” were female, a higher or helping to break handicap-related stereotypes: percentage than last year (+4.4pts). We have a clear picture of our female talent pool thanks to talent reviews which are undertaken X Tadeo and sign language for deaf or hearing impaired people; throughout the Group and which range from interviews with the X Accede to support access to the internet for visually impaired Group CEO of the most talented employees to reviews which people; take place at the Business Unit level. All Business Units are asked X Capgemini is a founding member of Hanploi, which to ensure that they build a female management talent pool. We developed the Hanploi.com website dedicated to disabled are also leveraging leadership through local management training people; and courses, mentoring by senior executives, and, lastly, increased X Arpejeh, which aims to improve and promote the training, visibility of female talents in order to improve the gender-balanced qualification and employment of young disabled people. of the Vice-President community. In 2015, Capgemini France also greatly increased our purchases The largest countries where the Group is present have women’s from the Sheltered Workshops, with an expenditure of about councils and networks in place with a focus on recruitment, 1.6 million euros and a remarkable expansion of the indirect retention, leadership and communication. employment. Among the areas of progress, we can cite the subcontracting of computing services to sheltered workshops MEASURES TAKEN TO FAVOR SOCIAL INCLUSION OF such as Talaron Services or Arche SI (200 k€ in 2015). DISABLED PEOPLE A framework agreement with the Companies Elise and Nodixia In France an active employment policy towards people with resulted in the recycling of paper, tumblers, D3E on all the French disabilities has been in place since 1996. In 2006, this approach sites. was enhanced via the creation of the “mission handicap”, a The articles published in Economic Times on December 12, specific program promoting the inclusion of disabled people. 2014 and in Hindu on August 14, 2014 considered Capgemini On October 28th, 2015 a new agreement aiming to increase the as a role model company for inclusive practices. Capgemini’s employability rate of disabled people was signed with The Trade Disability Inclusion practice’s case study featured in a research Unions. This three year agreement will be in force until the end report conducted by Community Business on “Tapping a Pool 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 103 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset of Disabled Talent in India”. The report positions Capgemini as Poland now offers the necessary technology adaptations an employer of choice for students with disabilities. The program (e.g. enlarging visual software, adapted keyboards), extensive continues to gain momentum year on year with over 200 People assistance at the first stage of work and equal treatment with in with Disabilities availing reasonable adjustments on rolls and with the workplace. Capgemini teams are supported with disability the training and recruitment of 12 new candidates with hearing awareness training (around 100 of our people were trained on disability in partnership with iPRIMED (Training organization). disability awareness in 2015). In addition, Capgemini Poland is In 2015 Capgemini Poland continued to create a working working with The Managers of the Future Foundation to drive environment adopted for people with disabilities by creating forward this agenda within the Polish Business Services Sector a model for recruitment, training and inclusion of those with through the organization of a special event in 2016 called the disabilities. Following a successful pilot in 2014, Capgemini “Come CloSeR Show”. NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WITH A DISABILITY IN 2013-2015 578 563 535 416 428 338 177 156 120 129 123 107 82 90 89 101 95 74 28 17 0 1 0 3 4 3 13 North America Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc and India United & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe Latina America december 2013 december 2014 december 2015 A disability is defined as anything preventing or limiting someone X individuals are shown respect and treated fairly; to participate to corporate, social life due to a long term or X our working environment is free from all forms of harassment definitive reduction of his/her mental or physical capabilities. This or abuse; is both voluntary and legal declarations depending on the country. X our people are encouraged and helped to keep a good The coverage rate for the data above is 74.7% of year-end balance between work and private life; headcount including IGATE. In 2015, figures indicated that the X the health and well being of our employees is supported and Group employed 1,468 disabled people, of whom 36.4% are in encouraged; and the United Kingdom and 29.2% are in France, but a new program has been launched in 2012 in India and now 177 disabled people X a sound and fair working environment is provided, where our have been identified (in constant progression). Group-wide, there people can develop and flourish. were 422 more employees than in 2011, as a result of these new Capgemini will not tolerate any form of discrimination in the programs in India, as well as of the programs described above. workplace on any grounds. Discrimination can take two forms, direct and indirect. Direct discrimination occurs when someone MEASURES AGAINST DISCRIMINATION is treated less favorably, for example on grounds of their gender, race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. Indirect In all countries of operation, the Group not only complies with discrimination occurs when a condition or rule is applied which local labor legislation and international labor regulations but also disqualifies a large proportion of one group from an activity with our own charter championing diversity and inclusion. In and there is no genuine reason for imposing that condition. In line with our commitment to the principles of the fundamental all countries where the Group is present, if any of our people conventions on the labor standards of the International Labour feel discriminated against in any form the “grievance escalation organization and the Principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration process” enables the escalation of any complaint. Each claim of Human Rights including the UN Guiding Principles on Business is investigated fully and disciplinary action can be taken if and Human Rights, we ensure that: discrimination is proven. X talented individuals from different backgrounds are recruited Personal development and appraisals and retained; A key challenge for a services company such as Capgemini is to guarantee a consistent and transparent process of individual 104 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset performance assessment based on a set of clearly-defined Workforce – percentage of employees who had a and explained criteria. By establishing such a framework, performance and career review between 2013 and the company can ensure the professional development and 2015 promotion of all employees and respect for equal opportunities. The coverage rate for the data below is 96.6% of year-end The performance and development process is driven by regular headcount including IGATE. meetings between the employee and the evaluator, generally In 2015, 89.9% of the workforce concerned had undergone an conducted in relation to assignments. The mentoring system annual performance review, the ratio is stable in the past three has been set up to allow employees to benefit from an outside years. Some regions are further ahead than others in this area, view and career management advice from more experienced such as Europe, where the figure is close to 100% (with the colleagues throughout their careers. Expectations and skills exception of the Benelux countries where coverage is weaker, at descriptions are set out for each grade, and are used for setting 91.5% but improved by 8.5pts especially in Netherlands). Latin objectives, evaluation and preparing for promotion. Priority America increased the ratio especially in Brazil. North America is given to different dimensions of skills development for each is decreasing due to a recent acquisition in Canada where the grade, drawing attention to areas on which employees should employees are not yet in the same process of performance focus. evaluation. WORKFORCE – PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO HAD A PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEW BETWEEN 2013 AND 2015 3 100% 99% 99% 98.7% 97% 97% 99% 96.1% 98% 97.8% 97% 98% 97.5% 94.3% 91.4% 92% 91.5% 90.4% 91% 91% 90% 89.9% 84.8% 87% 88% 85% 87% 85.8% 83% 72% North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Europe India Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Asia-Paciﬁc and Latina America 2013 2014 2015 3.2.9 Dialog and information process DIALOG AND COMMUNICATION AT THE HEART technology savvy. Amongst other features, Talent enables OF OUR RELATIONSHIPS personalization through the MyDesk feature and connects with Capgemini believes employee involvement and commitment team members through daily and weekly digests. is a precondition to an open culture and facilitates this The Talent intranet, through its news portal and information store, through effective and timely communication. With more than connects team members across the world, creating a Capgemini 180,000 employees, spread across more than 40 countries, without borders. and within four businesses, Group Internal Communications (GIC) plays a vital role in sharing information, co-ordinating and In 2015, Talent became fully responsive, offering a better mobilizing our people around the Group’s priorities. experience to those team members using the site via mobile devices. Efforts were also made to make Talent accessible to Building one Capgemini differently-abled colleagues who suffer from audio or visual Our global intranet, Talent, is home to all global and local Group impairment – and an assessment made by Atalan (consulting sites and provides a consistent user experience and increased agency specialized in web accessibility for people with disabilities; connectivity across the company. Talent, through written http://www.atalan.fr/) confirmed that the Global Talent homepage and rich-media forms (videos, animations, infographics, etc.) was 96% compliant with WCAG (Web Content Accessibility and integrated with the internal social media tool, Yammer, Guidelines) 2.0 AA+, while the rest of the tested sample reached encourages our employees to be active, social, mobile, and an equally impressive rate of 90%, quite an achievement given the complexity of the site. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 105 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset In 2015, Talent registered over 50 million connections, almost facilitated through Lync Big Events (a service provided by ITICS) a 20% growth over 2014; the daily Talent News Alerts reached gathered hundreds of participants, mixing voice, presentations 63,000 subscribers and the weekly digest reached all employees and live chat interactions. globally every Friday. Yammer, with almost 90,000 members and TeamPark, Sogeti’s social network with over 23,000 profiles, have Engaging and recognizing through communication become internal digital cybercafés, connecting people, fostering campaigns discussions and debates, hatching new ideas and being a source To resonate with our tag line “People matter, Results count”, of innovation. a second phase of the “People & Results” internal multimedia campaign showcased the solutions that the Group brings to its The Talent eCards platform is also a service much in demand. clients, and highlighted the tangible results Capgemini teams More than 110,000 eCards were sent over the course of the year. bring to clients and society. In total, the campaign unearthed A complementary extranet, called TalentXtra, was developed 200 projects across all SBUs and 21 countries and the dedicated for those team members without access to the Capgemini website attracted over 90,000 visits. network. TalentXtra provides a combination of local and global In addition to the annual campaign that connects employees with non-confidential content that can reside outside of the Capgemini results, a number of “One Week Focus” mini-campaigns were firewalls. held to put the spotlight on topics of importance to our business Also in 2015, a network of plasmas screens, TalentTV, was and society (cloud, innovation, mobility, diversity, environment, launched to broadcast global and local content in open areas community engagement, values & ethics and information – receptions, cafeterias, open spaces… Content broadcast security), and to raise awareness and encourage the involvement on these screens is shared with the Internal Communications of our employees with these issues. In 2015, a regular feature of Network to enable reuse by those entities not directly connected these campaigns was the gamification element that encouraged to the TalentTV network. even more people to take part. The Executive Corner on Talent is home to our ~1,400 Gamification also was at the heart of the Cricket and Rugby Vice-Presidents. To supplement their need for real-time business internal competitions organized on the occasion of the World information and equip them with information to carry out their Cups. They combined quizzes testing knowledge of team client-facing responsibilities, GIC also shares press releases as members on these sports and on the Group’s key facts and soon as they are published and provides updates through regular prediction games showcasing the business analytics skills of key message documents. The Executive series, comprising a talented team members from Capgemini Consulting UK. monthly newsletter (The Executive Summary) and ad-hoc communications (The Executive Link), is also sent regularly to Growing trust through communications our Vice-Presidents. To continue to engage and grow trust within the key community The ‘Builders’ continued to be very popular in 2015. The assets of employee shareholders (those members who invested in the created via this application, which enables team members to company through one of the Employee Share Ownership Plans create templated communications (messages, newsletters, – ESOP), a number of communications took place in 2015: quizzes, surveys), enjoyed over 30 million impressions. a newsletter in February; regular electronic communications (notably to provide members with the annual Shareholders’ Enabling face-to-face connection newsletter and H1 ESOP performance); a discussion group on To improve the culture of oral communications and allow Yammer; a dedicated contact at headquarter level; and a live managers to share the Group story directly with their teams, broadcast meeting (WebEvent) in September that enjoyed 1,000 GIC provided regular TeamTime communications packs (in live connections and 2,500 replays. The dedicated hub on Talent January, August and Post-Rencontres in October) comprising of recorded 40,000 page views and the calculator allowing team a video animation, slides and voice-over documents available in members to follow their investment live was used almost 60,000 8 languages. Feedback (from online survey) indicated that 50% times. of managers held their sessions via face-to-face meetings, while Constantly striving to improve video conferences and conference calls were held with teams spread across geographies. In an effort to ensure consistency and improve industrialization and efficiency across the marketing and communication GIC also continued to deploy new solutions to enable more community, GIC designs and shares applications tools and frequent connection through virtual events, bringing top templates. Some 8,000 team members from Sydney to San executives closer to their teams. These WebEvents offer a Francisco used these in-house applications to communicate in rich mix of contributions with live broadcast combined with 2014. To further improve the quality of internal communications, direct interaction between speakers and audiences. The PostGIC organized in 2015 a number of virtual sessions and Rencontres WebEvent held in October was notably a success workshops (live and available for replay) to share best practices in sharing content from the 25th Rencontres with all VPs and (notably with regards to improved accessibility) and editorial aligning them with the Group ambition, with 800+ concurrent techniques for journalism. connections and 1,500 replays. In many other cases, discussions 106 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.2 Human resources, a key Group asset Winning hearts and minds their views and were challenged by the IWC during 25 full days Maintaining the motivation and satisfaction of existing employees meetings covering 43 strategic topics related to information or is only a part of our communication challenges. The other part consultation, while locally countries drove their own employee comes from winning the hearts and minds of the many people relations with formal representative bodies. who join the company each year, as new recruits, or as part Early 2015, another key decision was taken by the Group head of an outsourcing agreement or an acquisition. GIC facilitates of HR to appoint an Employee Relations director, thus marking the rapid integration of new arrivals by providing them with the willingness to improve it, encourage dialog in each business necessary tools and communication channels, and helping build unit and support accordingly the key players when necessary ‘One Capgemini’ across all continents. or upon request. That strategic move reinforces the declared will to continue to drive a mature and global dialog beyond the Employee commitment: innovation, continuous legislation in force. Employee relations are today one of the key improvement and acceleration assets of Capgemini when our team members are constantly In 2015, due to the acquisition of IGATE, the group decided not at the very front of any strategic, organizational or processes to launch an employee survey. The next one will be launched in changes. More than ever, in a complex world led by innovation, 2016 including the IGATE employees. globalization and acceleration, there is no doubt that working EMPLOYEE RELATIONS AND DIALOG and thinking collectively helps building confidence and ultimately shapes our ability to move fast and safely. 3 Employee dialog has been early considered as a strategic In 2015, 71 agreements were signed by trade unions topic for the Group which set up, ahead of large European organizations in 10 countries, mostly European countries (10 companies and in advance to the European Union regulations, its in France, and 25 in Netherlands, out of which one on health International Works Council enlarged since more than ten years and safety process) and Brazil (24 agreements signed mostly on to non-European countries. It evolved constantly to cope with salary and benefits adjustments). the evolution of the business strategy. In 2014, the chairman Maintaining transparent dialogue with employee representatives and CEO of the Company has proposed to the Board to invite is particularly important in difficult economic environments. In the IWC Secretary to become a guest to the Board of Directors. 2015, the group has not conducted any significant collective As of December 2015, 22 countries are represented at the redundancy plans apart from a transformation plan launched in International Works Council which counts 47 primary members Spain in June 2015 resulting in 375 reductions in force. However, and substitutes covering for 94% of our employees. This in a business based on the strengths of our workforce, we must year, the IWC met four times once per quarter during two ensure the proper matching of our workforce skills to clients and general meetings led by management in Les Fontaines and two market needs. As a consequence, and also in liaison with our Employee Meetings that took place in Krakow and Malmö and very significant level of hiring (close to 46,000 people in 2015), allowed exchanges with local management. The IWC enjoyed we are doing layoffs for a large part linked to the improper having the possibility to exchange with IGATE leadership, being matching to our bussinesses of a part of our new recruits as informed on the AppsTwo strategic journey, sharing with Paul well as due to insufficient individual performance, terminations for Hermelin who physically joined the two general meetings in June cause or layoffs as part of a reduction in force. This represents and November. The Bureau of the IWC, which is the standing 4.2% of total headcount, an increase of 1.4pts mostly due to body of the employees’ delegation, continued to gather on a Brazil who reduced the workforcein Infrastructure activities due monthly basis to directly discuss with Group Management Board to discontinuation of some low profitability contracts and to (GMB) and Group Executive Committee (GEC) members and Chile further to the termination of our activities in this country in other top leaders. In total, throughout 2015, 92 leaders shared June 2016. The coverage of this study is 95% of total headcount including IGATE. PERCENTAGE OF LAYOFFS/HEADCOUNT 7.2 % 7.0 % 5.7 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.1 % 4.2 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.5 % 2.9 % 2.1 % 2.1 % 1.8 % 1.0 % 0.8 % North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany and France Southern Asia-Paciﬁc and Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe Latina America 2014 2015 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 107 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility 3.3 Environmental responsibility As an IT outsourcer, service provider and consultancy identified as our largest source of carbon and biggest challenge organization, Capgemini does not engage in manufacturing. in a reduction of our footprint. We do, however, recognize that the services we provide and We are also committed to identifying and complying with all local business activities in which we are engaged, can still impact the and international legislation and other relevant requirements environment. relating to this impact in the various geographies in which we As a Group, Capgemini also remains cognizant of the importance operate. Our belief that environmental responsibility drives of climate change including the responsibility of the business shareholder value provides the impetus to go beyond simple to do our part in limiting global temperatures to below a 2 environmental compliance. It allows us to provide clients with degree celsius rise. Our on-going assessment of environmental new services and help them with their own challenges, while impacts (as part of our wider materiality assessment, detailed enabling us to improve our own efficiency and reduce operational in section 3.1.3) highlights the importance of climate change costs. The implications of climate change present risk and also and its possible implications to our business, including energy opportunity throughout our business. For example, we are security. Our efforts to reduce and minimize impacts through our aware and mitigate against the risk posed by extreme weather energy use, waste management and business travel continue events at our data centers ensuring our clients have continuous across our Group countries through our maturing Environmental service no matter the weather conditions. We also recognize the Sustainability program. During 2015, business travel was opportunities, both current and potential, to use technology to assist our clients with their own climate change challenges. 3.3.1 Group environmental policy The Group Environmental Policy, endorsed by Chaiman and operations, specifically in the areas of energy, business travel CEO Paul Hermelin, sets out the measures that all countries are and waste management. Water is an increasing expectation and expected to take in terms of the environment. It reinforces our as such related data is gathered and logged wherever possible. commitment to respecting the environmental and the continual The Policy can be found at: improvement of environmental performance across our global https://www.capgemini.com/resources/group-environmental-policy 3.3.2 Group environmental management approach Throughout 2015, Capgemini continued to extend the scope of of business related travel and from the disposal of office waste. its environmental management systems with Capgemini France, These impacts, together with smaller impacts such as from Sweden and North America added in 2015 to the list of countries water consumption and fugitive air-conditioning emissions, are with certification under ISO 14001. This certification increases measured and reported as part of our sustainability accounting the percentage of operations covered by the standard to 76% and reporting processes. Other environmental impacts, such measured by headcount (excluding IGATE). as those on bio-diversity and noise pollution, while regularly Germany, Finland, Italy, Poland and Sogeti Sweden will start their reviewed, are not currently considered significantly material to certification journey in 2016. our operations and consequently are not discussed further in this report. Capgemini’s most material environmental impacts result from our use of energy (in both offices and data centers), as a result 108 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility While certain local variations may exist, the Group’s main environmental impacts (for which data is collected) are shown in the table below. Main Environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Business travel The international and domestic business travel we undertake, by road, rail, air, and from staying in hotels, all consume (approx 52% of our fossil fuels which contribute to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. emissions) Tackling this remains a major challenge for our industry, which is reliant on the mobility of its people in order to best utilize their skills and experience in serving customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of opportunities created by remote technology solutions such as video conferencing. We have also improved remote collaboration tools to facilitate remote working and allow greater flexibility, along with plans to roll-out globally our travel program “TravelWell” with its holistic view on travel and traveler well-being. Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity, gas and oil to light, heat and power our offices consumption and data centers. (approx. 47% Data centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. of our emissions) F-gas (approx. 0.4% The man made gases from our use of air conditioning units are known as F-gases and carry a significant global warming 3 potential. The associated emissions from a number of these gases are included in our overall emissions (as per the Kyoto of our emissions) Protocol), with the remaining identified gases (outside the Protocol) also identified and reported separately within the data tables at the end of this section. The material impact of our usage is low in comparison with emissions from travel and energy. Water Not considered a material issue across the Group – however, within India and Brazil this issue is more prevalent. Where (approx. 0.3% possible we are gathering water data from across the Group countries of our emissions) Waste Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated by office consumables and packaging. Capgemini aims to Management minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by promoting the development of recycling facilities. (approx. 0.1% We also work with our people and key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste generated on our premises by our of our emissions) daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recycled in accordance with local legislation. 3.3.3 Environmental performance During 2015, our carbon accounting and management service Locally set targets are in place in a number of our countries coverage remained static covering operations in 28 countries including (but not limited to): representing around 99% of our global average headcount X Capgemini India: (excluding IGATE). • 30% reduction in emissions per employee by 2020, Our managed approach to environmental data collection and • 20% reduction in water consumption per employee by 2017, reporting is essential for meeting corporate reporting obligations, and such as the French Grenelle II legislation, at Group level, and the Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation for Capgemini UK. • zero waste to landfill by 2017; Capgemini’s Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting X Capgemini France: service is also available to clients. • in support of the COP21, Capgemini France announced a target of a 20% reduction in overall carbon from our French GROUP TARGETS operations by 2020; Following the standardization of data collection and carbon X Capgemini Netherlands: management, our baseline of data became stable during 2014. • 30% reduction in emissions by 2016 compared to 2011, and Throughout 2015, the Group CR&S team formulated a series • to be CO2 neutral by 2020; of global environmental targets in order to drive performance across the Group. These targets will be set to assist countries X Capgemini UK: in adhering to Group Environment Policy and to also provide a • In the UK a number of targets were refreshed in 2015 including framework within which to drive their own agendas at the local an overall ambition to deliver annualized emissions reductions level. In 2016 these targets will be presented to the Group CR&S in our ecosystem of three times our own emissions by 2017, Board for final approval before publication. through the engagement of our services and programs with clients, suppliers and our people; X Capgemini North America: • Capgemini USA has committed to a reduction of 20% in the number of non chargeable flights in 2016, and • Capgemini Canada has set a target of a 20% reduction in the number of taxi journeys undertaken in 2016. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 109 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility ISO 14001 PROGRAM CASE STUDY Capgemini France, Sweden followed that example with North America completing during December 2015, bringing the total Since 2009 a growing number of countries have implemented number of certified countries to 11. Other countries, like France, an Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance extended the scope of their existing certificate to further Strategic with ISO 14001. We have seen how this structured approach Business Units which, in total, brought the Capgemini coverage towards continuous environmental improvement helps countries by headcount to approximately 76% across the Group (without in driving results. By streamlining our internal capabilities IGATE). Work on an implementation in Germany also commenced concerning environmental management, we are able to move in 2015. By 2017 we strive to have all of our 10 major countries more of our operations in an increasing number of countries (by headcount) ISO 14001 certified. At the end of 2020 we towards certification. We designed a Group EMS platform with have a target to ensure all countries with a headcount of over all the necessary corporate and local processes and tools that 1000 employees are ISO 14001 certified. We recognize that there make it possible to implement ISO 14001 in a very efficient and will be new challenges along the way, such as organizational effective way, from the perspective of both time and budget. changes as demonstrated by the recent iGATE acquisition. We are regularly complimented for the robustness of our EMS However, we remain confident in our approach. platform by external auditors. In 2014 Capgemini India, as a whole entity, was added to the group of ISO 14001 certified countries, in 2015 3.3.4 Key performance indicators and methodology The environmental data presented in this 2015 Annual Report The 2014 data against which the latest 2015 data is compared have been taken from the Carbon Accounting and Sustainability have been restated since our 2014 Registration Document, Reporting system and covers 28 countries (Australia, Belgium, Annual Financial Report. The rationale for this change is included Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, in the following sections. France, Germany, Guatemala, India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, OVERALL EMISSIONS Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, the USA and Vietnam) representing 97% of Group headcount In 2015, Capgemini’s carbon emissions from operations (excluding IGATE). We have estimated the data for the remaining representing 100% of the Group’s headcount (excluding IGATE) operations by headcount, by applying a relevant uplift to each were 346,254 tCO2e as calculated using the emission factors emission source accounting for operations where we do not yet and methodology recommended by the UK Government’s have data collection processes in place. This estimated data is Department of Environment Farming and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). provided within the environmental data tables labeled as ‘non Comparison with the 2014 data shows that total emissions reported countries’ and further explanations are given in the table across the group have decreased by nearly 4%. Within the footnotes. same period, the emissions of our largest operations (India, Even where data is available for a particular country, it has Netherlands, UK, France and North America) have decreased sometimes been necessary to make a number of assumptions: by nearly 3% (from 285,085 tCO2e to 276,945 tCO2e) despite thus, where only partial data are available, extrapolation has been an average headcount raise of nearly 6%. employed to estimate total annual impact. In general, fourth Within this report, the 2014 emission figures have been restated quarter data for 2015 was not available at the time of reporting from a reported 328,500 tCO2e to 360,191 tCO2e (a difference and therefore has been extrapolated based on available data for of 31,691 tCO 2e). This is due to a number of significant 2015. Other extrapolations have included: improvements to the 2014 data, such as the inclusion of Scope X estimating unavailable 2015 data based upon available 2014 3 electricity transmission and distribution losses; the replacement data (according to documented methodologies related to of estimated Q4 2014 data with the now available actual data differing circumstances and covering all aspects of energy, and the inclusion of an estimate for those non reporting countries travel, water and waste management); where our operations are too small to be included in our formal X estimating emissions data based on available cost data reporting processes. (employing metrics such as the cost per kWh for electricity and This non reporting country estimate accounts for just over 28% of gas; and cost per liter of diesel or per kilometer of travel); or the difference between the 2014 figures presented in this report X estimating emissions data for a facility based on data available and those published in our 2015 Report. Travel makes up 18% of for other facilities (estimating electricity usage based on area the difference and the majority with around 53% of the difference of the facility, estimating waste disposal & water consumption is energy which includes transmission losses. based on headcount of the facility). For the purposes of carbon accounting per head, an average Further disclosure about the scope of data available and headcount over the year has been calculated for both 2014 extrapolations employed is presented in footnotes under the and 2015, which represents a more accurate per headcount data tables. calculation than using the December 2014 head count as 110 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility compared to the December 2015 headcount. As a consequence, System controls air flow and cooling. Emissions from energy the headcount stats here may vary slightly from the absolute use are showing a significant 11% decrease compared to figures quoted in other sections of this report. 2014, partly due to the 5.2% decrease in the DEFRA grid Following the restatement of 2014 data, emissions per head average electricity emission factor for the UK; were calculated as 2.51 tCO2e (against an average headcount X the significant reduction in energy use (15%) and associated of 143,471). In 2015, a reduction of 6.5% to 2.35 TCO2e per emissions (around 13%) in The Netherlands is largely as a head (against an average headcount of 147,524) has resulted result of the closure of offices in Voorburg and Amersfoort and from our continued efforts to reduce our carbon footprint around a the move from our large Amsterdam facility to a much smaller the Group. facility within the city. This has in turn resulted in reductions in the emissions associated with district heating (22% reduction), natural gas (67%) and office electricity (17%) since 2014; and ENERGY CONSUMPTION X in North America, overall energy use decreased by nearly 3% Across the Group, total reported energy use has reduced a little with an associated reduction in emissions. under 2% from 370,425 MWh in 2014 to 363,658 MWh in 2015 Several countries including Netherlands, France and the UK which, when you consider our headcount average rose just purchased a significant portion of their electricity from renewable under 3% within the period, is an achievement attributed to the increasing focus on environmental management in an expanding number of our operations. energy sources in 2015. This is not yet reflected in the Scope 2 emission calculations as location-based emission factors have 3 been applied to all the data (rather than a supplier-specific one). Emissions associated with our use of energy have fallen a little Work has begun to engage with our energy suppliers across the over 6% in the same period due to a decrease in the use of Group to ensure The Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s s revised Scope diesel (31% reduction in associated emissions) and electricity (3% 2 emission guidelines can be followed from 2016 onwards. reduction in office electricity) across the Group and a change in the emission factor for electricity as compared to 2014 across BUSINESS TRAVEL France, India, Netherlands, North America and the UK. This is reflected in the decrease of just over 6% (from 143,567 tCO2e to Our business model of collaborative working alongside our clients 134,537 tCO2e) in emissions related to energy use for our largest necessitates travel within our globalized markets. Business Travel operating countries. has therefore been identified as one of Capgemini’s significant At the country level: environmental impacts. However, we continue to invest in providing our people with alternatives to travel and initiatives X in India, energy related emissions have reduced by around 5% to assist our colleagues in making informed decisions when which is largely attributable to the reduction in 2015 emission travelling. factors and also a reduction in the use of diesel (gas oil) leading to a 30% reduction in associated emissions; Our award-winning UK TravelWell program began its global deployment in 2015 and is focused on ensuring that the right X in France, the total energy consumption increased by 10% tools are in place to support client delivery, while reducing travel between 2014 and 2015 as a result of the addition of 29 impacts. In the UK, TravelWell won the Sustainable Transport facilities (23 following the acquisition of Euriware in 2014). and Travel category of the Sustainability Leaders Awards in Accordingly, the associated emissions from energy have risen November 2014. by 11% (due also to additional data available from Euriware facilities in 2015); As previously highlighted, the restatement of 2014 data showed an increase in travel emissions when converting the estimated X within the UK, total reported energy use in MWh has reduced Q4 travel available in the 2014 report, to actual data, which by a little over 4%, primarily due to the rationalization of our accounted for 5,850 tCO2e. A comparison of the restated 2014 facilities, with three offices and a section of one data center data with the available 2015 data indicates that our business closing during 2015. We also completed the final phase of a travel emissions of 180,227 tCO2e (which make up over half of sustainability flagship project at our Aston office, installing solar our global carbon footprint) is just under a 2% decrease over the photovoltaic panels on the roof, which complement the small 2014 figure of 183,347 tCO2e. This is a particular achievement solar thermal system already in place. During 2015, the panels considering the overall average headcount rise of 3% in the same saved over £5,700 in electricity costs and generated over period. 58,000 kWh electricity. In addition, at our Merlin data centre in Swindon we improved the way the Building Management 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 111 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility At the country level, the main results were: OTHER SOURCES X in India, emissions from travel increased by nearly 6% with a F-gas emissions, waste tonnage (including general, recycled corresponding increase in average headcount of 8% within and e-waste) and water usage (consumption primarily for use the same period; in sanitary areas, kitchen facilities and some data center cooling) X business travel emissions have increased by just under 7% are also provided in the table below. Water data continues to be in France, which is also proportionate to the 7.5% increase in collected as available, with no assessment done to date regarding average headcount over the period; potential scarcity of supply across our global locations. Across several locations, we have invested in technology to reduce water X in the UK, business travel emissions have reduced by 17% use, including rainwater harvesting equipment at an office in the since 2014, due to a continued focus on reducing business UK and an office in India and improvements to tap fittings and travel. A genuine trend toward the use of smaller vehicles has flush controls in several locations. been identified with a reduction in the use of medium and large petrol and diesel cars, especially within the company car fleet, Total waste tonnage (including general, recycled and e-waste) and an increase in use of smaller vehicle types. Reductions for 2015 was 3,281 tons, which represents a 9% decrease in flights and hotels throughout the year have been observed compared to 2014, due to a significant drive to reduce waste in with a reduction in long haul flights of over 20% (which has had our largest operations. the effect of countering an increase in short haul and domestic The volume of measured water (used and recycled) is flights); 851,316 m3. X a sustained focus on reducing emissions from business F-Gas emissions for 2014 have been restated to 754 tCO2e. travel in The Netherlands has contributed to a reduction of During 2015 it was identified that a number of F-gases which 13% since 2014. This has been achieved by encouraging are not covered by the Kyoto Protocol had been included in the use of public transport and implementing a new car lease the totals in error. The data was therefore recalculated. When arrangement to encourage people to switch to low emission compared against the 2015 figure (1,456 tCO2e) this represents company cars; and a 93% increase which we believe to be due to improvements in X business travel for North America has increased by 10% reporting as well as increases to the DEFRA emission factors for since 2014. During the period there has been a 4% rise in refrigerant gases. average headcount, however, the data collection has also been improved with data taken from the expense system in 2015, Further country-level detail is provided in the tables and in the which more accurately captures business travel across the US footnotes below. and Canada. 112 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL DATA BY COUNTRY Total Scope 3 Energy Energy Use Scope 1 Emissions Emissions Emissions Scope and Metric (MWh)√ (t CO2e) Scope 2 Emissions (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e)√ Electricity Total Energy Diesel/ Data Center Office Urban Electricity Energy Country (All sources) Gas Gas Oil Electricity Electricity Office Cooling Heating T&D Losses Emissions India – Capgemini & Sogeti 76,993 N/A 2,131 N/A 56,811 N/A N/A 12,594 71,536 France – Capgemini, Sogeti & Prosodie 87,730 250 40 2,776 2,264 N/A 64 442 5,835 UK – Capgemini, incl FS &Sogeti Netherlands 67,201 21,309 890 124 16 7 22,016 5,999 6,802 2,183 N/A N/A N/A 14 2,379 345 32,094 8,681 3 North America 35,348 11 88 7,820 7,358 N/A N/A 1,113 16,390 Canada 6,690 N/A N/A 667 430 N/A N/A 98 1,195 USA – Capgemini & Sogeti 28,658 11 88 7,152 6,927 N/A N/A 1,015 15,195 Total Largest operations 288,581 1,275 2,282 38,611 75,418 N/A 78 16,873 134,537 Belgium – Capgemini & Sogeti 554 40 N/A N/A 63 N/A N/A 3 107 Czech Republic 232 N/A N/A N/A 21 N/A 44 2 67 Denmark – Capgemini 123 N/A N/A N/A 36 N/A N/A 3 39 Finland – Capgemini 9,949 N/A 27 1,400 231 N/A 294 59 2,012 Germany – Capgemini & Sogeti 13,052 330 N/A 3,091 1,663 N/A 266 222 5,572 Ireland – Sogeti 78 N/A N/A N/A 33 N/A N/A 3 36 Italy 3,543 200 N/A 661 319 N/A N/A 69 1,250 Luxembourg Sogeti 196 N/A N/A N/A 77 N/A N/A 1 78 Norway Capgemini 1,053 N/A N/A N/A 11 N/A 53 1 65 Poland 11,946 237 N/A N/A 6,938 N/A 380 616 8,170 Romania 881 32 N/A N/A 159 17 59 27 294 Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti 5,665 27 N/A N/A 1,596 N/A N/A 170 1,793 Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti 3,520 N/A N/A 4 36 34 189 3 266 Switzerland – Not Capgemini & Sogeti 270 Available N/A 6 3 N/A N/A 1 9 Other Europe 51,062 866 27 5,161 11,187 51 1,284 1,180 19,756 Brazil 10,328 1 13 137 575 N/A N/A 142 868 Guatemala 1,205 N/A N/A N/A 222 N/A N/A 42 264 Mexico 199 N/A N/A 6 83 N/A N/A 17 106 Total Latin America 11,733 1 13 143 880 N/A N/A 201 1,238 China Capgemini (including FS and BPO) 4,607 N/A N/A 505 2,961 N/A N/A 243 3,710 Philippines 531 N/A N/A N/A 264 N/A N/A 37 302 Vietnam 199 N/A N/A N/A 94 N/A N/A 14 108 Australia Capgemini (including BPO) 551 N/A N/A N/A 448 N/A N/A 27 475 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 113 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Total Scope 3 Energy Energy Use Scope 1 Emissions Emissions Emissions Scope and Metric (MWh)√ (t CO2e) Scope 2 Emissions (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e)√ Electricity Total Energy Diesel/ Data Center Office Urban Electricity Energy Country (All sources) Gas Gas Oil Electricity Electricity Office Cooling Heating T&D Losses Emissions Morocco 2,072 N/A N/A N/A 1,206 N/A N/A 175 1,380 Total Other Regions 7,960 N/A N/A 505 4,973 N/A N/A 496 5,975 Total Reported Countries 359,335 2,141 2,322 44,421 92,459 51 1,362 18,750 161,506 Total Non Reported Countries 4,323 26 28 534 1,112 1 16 226 1,943 GRAND TOTAL 363,658 2,167 2,350 44,955 93,571 52 1,378 18,976 163,449 Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Scope 3 Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions Water Use Emissions Total Emissions Scope and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) √ (in Tons) (t CO2e) (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) Total Total Business F-Gas Travel Total Total Waste Total Water 2015 Total 2014 Total % Change Country Emissions Emissions Waste Emissions Water Use Emissions Emissions Emissions from 2014 India – Capgemini & Sogeti 645 38,904 682 55 511,863 539 111,679 113,025 -1.19% France – Capgemini, Not Sogeti & Prosodie Available 26,846 290 6 70,682 74 32,762 30,443 7.62% UK – Capgemini, Aspire, FS, Sogeti 352 13,309 256 7 65,116 69 45,831 52,315 -12.39% Not Netherlands Available 26,308 189 7 20,725 22 35,018 40,179 -12.84% North America N/A 35,207 472 43 14,686 15 51,656 49,123 5.15% Canada N/A 1,339 90 8 2,027 2 2,545 2,623 -2.97% USA – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 33,868 382 35 12,659 13 49,110 46,500 5.61% Total Largest operations 996 140,575 1,890 119 683,072 719 276,945 285,085 -2.86% Belgium – Capgemini Not & Sogeti Available 5,573 19 1 851 1 5,682 5,704 -0.38% Czech Republic 50 82 12 1 6 0 200 215 -6.89% Denmark – Not Not Capgemini N/A 219 42 1 Available Available 259 368 -29.70% Finland – Capgemini N/A 406 54 3 210 0 2,421 2,576 -6.03% Germany – Not Capgemini & Sogeti Available 9,322 211 20 6,731 7 14,920 14,529 2.69% Not Not Ireland – Sogeti N/A 22 0 0 Available Available 58 81 -28.57% Not Italy Available 3,050 75 7 52,838 56 4,363 4,609 -5.35% Not Not Luxembourg Sogeti N/A 2,748 7 1 Available Available 2,827 2,920 -3.18% Norway Capgemini N/A 499 33 2 902 1 568 661 -14.06% Poland N/A 2,674 386 30 27,462 29 10,902 10,229 6.59% Not Romania Available 105 0 0 2,190 2 401 317 26.55% Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 1,899 226 18 14,707 15 3,725 3,104 20.02% 114 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.3 Environmental responsibility Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Scope 3 Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions Water Use Emissions Total Emissions Scope and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) √ (in Tons) (t CO2e) (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) Total Total Business F-Gas Travel Total Total Waste Total Water 2015 Total 2014 Total % Change Country Emissions Emissions Waste Emissions Water Use Emissions Emissions Emissions from 2014 Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti 372 2,554 110 8 890 1 3,201 3,884 -17.57% Switzerland – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 243 5 0 3 0 253 173 46.37% Total Other Europe 422 29,397 1,181 92 106,791 112 49,779 49,368 0.83% Brazil Guatemala 20 N/A 2,762 380 36 51 1 5 10,470 21 11 0 3,651 660 4,089 609 -10.72% 8.35% 3 Mexico N/A 393 9 1 612 1 501 328 52.54% Total Latin America 20 3,535 96 6 11,104 12 4,811 5,026 -4.28% China – Capgemini, FS & BPO N/A 3,593 52 5 19,552 21 7,328 7,622 -3.85% Philippines N/A 57 11 0 1,631 2 361 404 -10.59% Vietnam N/A 83 1 0 63 0 191 195 -2.27% Australia Capgemini Not Not (including BPO) N/A 736 Available Available 12,048 13 1,224 2,408 -49.16% Morocco N/A 108 12 1 6,936 7 1,497 1,156 29.56% Total Other Regions N/A 4,578 76 6 40,230 42 10,602 11,785 -10.04% Reported Countries 1,438 178,084 3,242 223 841,196 885 342,138 351,264 -2.60% Total Non Reported Countries 17 2,142 39 3 10,120 11 4,116 8,928 -53.89% GRAND TOTAL 1,456 180,227 3,281 226 851,316 896 346,254 360,191 -3.87% – Data included in the tables is for the reporting period January to December 2015 (unless otherwise indicated) – Data included in the tables does not include IGATE. – The non reporting country emissions have been estimated based on the average tons of carbon per person (based on average headcount). The headcount associated with the non reporting countries has been calculated by deducting the total average headcount of the listed reporting countries from the Group total average headcount for both 2014 and 2015. The 50% reduction in non reporting country emissions in 2015 when compared to 2014 is as a direct result of a 51% fall in the average headcount associated with the same. – Table key: N/A = Not Applicable where data sources are not applicable and Not Available, which denotes areas where data is assumed to exist but was not available for the purposes of this report. – “Scope” is a reporting term from Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which is used in carbon accounting to categorize emissions reported according to the level of control a company has over an emissions source. – All emission sources: With the exception of hotel nights (mentioned below), emissions have been calculated using the conversion factors and methodology recommended by the DEFRA: https://www.gov.uk/measuring-and-reporting-environmental-impacts-guidance-forbusinesses. – Energy: For all countries, a location-based emission factor has been applied to Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. – Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to be data centers but their presence should be taken into consideration when comparing the energy usage of our offices against those in other sectors. – Energy: T&D losses refers to electricity transmission and distribution grid losses (the energy loss that occurs in getting the electricity from the power plant to our facilities). During 2015, the scope of our carbon accounting was improved to include a calculation of emissions from T&D Losses for all countries. – Energy: For the UK, electricity data for two offices has been estimated, one based on available data for that site from 2014 and the other based on 2013 electricity usage at a similar site in a similar location. – Energy: For Canada, electricity usage is calculated based on the amount paid at the start of each year. – Energy: Diesel for India in 2014 was updated following a correction received in 2015. – F-Gas: F-gas emissions reported for 2014 were overestimated for some entities due to the inclusion of F-gases not covered by the Kyoto Protocol. 2014 F-gas emissions have therefore been restated. Although they are not included in the reported data, the emissions relating to the gases not covered by the protocol are still captured with a value of just under 607 tCO2e. – Travel: Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external Grenelle II audit in 2012, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission factors could not be obtained at the time, the figures have been reported as calculated. However, new lower factors have been developed to be applied during 2016. – Travel: In the Netherlands and Belgium, emissions data associated with travel include personal car use as well as business mileage as it cannot be separated. – Travel: 2014 Car and Rail data for Canada has been restated using the expense system in place, rather than the travel agent data which was found to be a more accurate repository of data – Waste: For the US and Canada, 2015 waste data is estimated based on 2012 invoices (received in 2013), with data adjusted to take into account “Actual number of people in office” in 2015. – Water: As recommended by DEFRA we calculate both emissions associated with water supply and emissions associated with water treatment. As the volume of water being sent for treatment is unmetered it is assumed that the volume is the same as that being supplied. – Water: For the US and Canada, 2015 water data for all facilities is estimated based on two invoices from 2015, with data adjusted to take into account the”area of office”. The same is done for 2014 data. (Water is charged based on office area irrespective of headcount). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 115 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.1 Community engagement Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as we can Naandi for our people so that they can engage in activities for which Since 2005, Capgemini has been working with the Naandi they have passion and commitment. We embed our community Foundation on the “Nanhi Kali” program, which focuses service program within our business lines and client assignments. on supporting the education of girls across India. In 2015, We measure and share this commitment with our people, our Capgemini people from 12 countries contributed to the support partners and our clients through various communication channels of 5,502 school girls. Capgemini support the education of such as our externally published Corporate Responsibility and young ladies (girls from the age of 5 upwards) through Project Sustainability Report, our internet site and our internal Talent Nanhi Kali. In both their formative years and also, through the intranet and Global Employee Survey. Through the energy and Foundation’s Last Lap Program (last lap was just a trial and has creativity of our people, communities have been impacted on now completed), the support of girls studying in the 9th and every continent. 10th grades through extra tutorial support, stationery and career During 2015, the Group CR&S Board approved a challenging guidance support remains high. However the fall in numbers ambition to reach out to 1 million people by 2020 through supported since 2013 as shown in the table reflects the increase our education and skills program. This ambition will utilize the in support for our own internal programs such as Enlight in India. structure and resources of our Group program whilst also allowing local implementations. Number of Nanhi Kali girls sponsored 2013 7,881 3.4.1.1 OUR GLOBAL INITIATIVES 2014 6,765 PlaNet Finance initiative 2015 5,502 Our professional services business, Sogeti, continues to practical IT assistance to PlaNet Finance, and has done since their creation in 1998. PlaNet Finance is an international non-profit organization 3.4.1.2 NATIONAL INITIATIVES focused on enabling those in poverty to access financial services in order to bring about sustained improvements to their living In 2014 we launched the Global Community Engagement standards. Sogeti’s assistance, comprising of technical expertise Awards to champion, recognize and celebrate the success of and critical IT systems support, has enabled PlaNet Finance to our people who go above and beyond to make a difference to focus on their core business of providing financial inclusion. the communities in which we live and operate – adding value to Sogeti manages PlaNet Finance’s computer systems by hosting our brand and to our business. The awards operate under five computer applications including intranet, electronic messaging, categories: and online training, and provides services related to human X Volunteer Initiative of the Year; resources. X Best Fundraising Award; In addition, in late 2011, Capgemini and Sogeti launched X Community Innovation Award; a dedicated website, in association with PlaNet Finance’s X Client Collaboration Award; microcredit platform, MicroWorld, to promote the growth of micro-credit in the most disadvantaged countries. This site X The People’s Choice Award. provides a secure platform that enables our people to finance In 2015, 131 entries were received from 19 of our Group micro-credit projects around the world in the form of online loans countries (including, for the first time, 21 entries from our IGATE to projects that have been validated from a socially responsible colleagues), with over 9,000 of our people voting for their choice perspective. in the ‘People’s Choice’ award. The following section highlights In 2012, we launched the MicroWorld platform in France, some of those entries along with other noteable initiatives from Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and around the Group. Germany. More countries joined the initiative and we launched In Capgemini France around 300 of our people are engaged in the platform in North America in 2014. Since the beginning of the project Passeport Avenir which provides voluntary mentorship our involvement, a total of 1,662 micro entrepreneurs’ projects through associations with engineering or management schools have been co-funded, with loans amounting to €133,790 from and universities for individual student coaching. Over 300 young more than 1,400 members. We are currently working with people have been supported since the scheme’s launch, to MicroWorld to enlarge the scope of support that our people can develop their professional skills and employability offer through the platform, via skills sharing, tutoring, mentoring Capgemini UK have been patrons of the Prince’s Trust since and volunteering opportunities and as a result, hope to increase 2008, helping the UK’s most disadvantaged young people the number of potential beneficiaries. into employment. Our people continue to deliver a wide range 116 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders of activities in support of the Trust including holding the annual effective interface between politics/politicians, administration, Capgemini Golf Day, hosting a Million Makers Challenge and NGOs and IT companies. This project links with other members cycling the Palace to Palace bike ride. In 2015 we announced of Initiative D21 which is Germany’s largest partnership between a new Digital Partnership with the Trust to change the lives of policy-makers and businesses, working to shape and develop 600 young people over four years by teaching the skills that they the digital-society. In addition, we are participating in recruitment need to develop a career in today’s digital economy. activities on platforms such as www.workeer.de, which offers Capgemini India has developed a comprehensive program of opportunities for employment to refugees. All projects are work to touch lives in the communities in which we operate. intended to support the welcome and integration of refugees, The program covers the areas of Education, Environment, by helping them gain access to education, internships or Employment and Emergency response. The program includes employment. initiatives such as: India: IGATE: Summer camp with ICARE (Sumit Babu) X Education: ICARE has been running within our IGATE function since 2013, • “Enlight”, a Capgemini scholarship program for girl child before the US-listed organization was aquired by Capgemini education focussed on disadvantaged backgrounds, in 2015. The initiative conducts summer camps in urban India. These summer camps are for children with extreme low • Capgemini scholarship for technical and medical education for 90 young people pursuing a career in engineering and medicine, income backgrounds, from working class families and studying in Government schools where extra-curricular activities are 3 not given their due importance. The summer camps utilize the • school adoption projects across 90 schools in 9 locations, and children’s vacation time by providing a fun and innovative way • digital literacy centers (12) set up to empower and educate of learning, instilling values and creating an awareness of social communities including awareness of relevant governmental issues. In 2015, ICARE volunteers and IGATE CR&S teams entitlements; conducted these camps across seven of our locations across India where IGATE operate. X Environment: • partnering with a municipal co-operation to start 2 waste India: The Joy of Reading recycling units in Mumbai and Bangalore, and In October 2015, around 2017 IGATE colleagues across, • partnering with WWF to set up a digital resource center 7 locations in India came together, to collect and contribute providing a platform for environmental education awareness 7771 books, for setting up libraries and reading spaces for 3910 and knowledge sharing; children at 11 government schools. In the following months, our people also went on to host interactive and fun reading sessions, X Employment: at the schools, to motivate students to read and introduce them • initiating employability centers across 9 locations providing to the world of books, stories, information and inspire them to skills based training aligned to market requirements, and dream. • initiating 5 centers for young people with disabilities providing training towards economic empowerment; Finland: Clean Baltic Sea: Tanker Safety Program, Enhanced Navigation Support System (ENSI) X Emergency Response: to Oil Tankers (Ilkka Kankare) • providing immediate relief following flooding in Jammu Kashmir, Since 2008, volunteers from Capgemini Finland have given the earthquake in Nepal and flooding in Chennai where many their time and expertis e to an initiative to save the Baltic of our people were affected. Sea: The Tanker Safety Program spearheaded by the John Annually since 2012, colleagues from over 20 locations Nurminen Foundation. The scope of our volunteers’ work includes across Capgemini North America unite and serve in their planning, facilitation and documentation of several significant local communities. Branded ‘Capgemini Cares’, these events workshops, drawing up the requirement specifications for two and projects are identified by local teams and have included digital services, and offering help with expert reports, service everything from supporting local food banks and cleaning up demonstrations, as well as the renewal of the Foundation’s parks to assisting local homeless shelters. In North America, customer register. In 2014, the Foundation highlighted in their Capgemini Consulting completed a pro bono assignment for the annual report the invaluable partnership with Capgemini and our international cleft palate charity, Smile Train, focused on improving pro bono work which has continued into 2015 with the facilitation the efficiency of their worldwide operations. The impact of the of strategy workshops for the organization. assignment, supporting Smile Train’s goal of delivering one million Poland: RoboCap Computer Science and robotics cleft lip and palate surgeries, was recognized by Consulting workshops for children (Piotr Smyk) Magazine with the project receiving their Excellence in Social & A group of IT engineers from Capgemini Software Solutions Community Investment Award. Center Wroclaw in Poland arranged science and robotics Capgemini Germany is actively involved in several projects workshops for children. These workshops were called RoboCap. to support the refugees within this region. Activities include The workshops were held in Capgemini offices, a hospital, school collecting clothes and donations for refugees living in emergency and an orphanage too. The volunteers delivered these workshops accommodation, making Christmas gifts for underage refugees to educate not only children but also adults (as tutors) in order living in a children’s home in Berlin and offering internships for to make IT more accessible to all. In an attempt to readdress students of Kiron University, which is an open university for the gender imbalance in STEM subjects (science, technology, refugees. Capgemini Germany is currently leading an initiative engineering and maths), 50% of seats in each workshop were which leverages our digital expertise and aims to create a more reserved for young women. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 117 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders Australia: Sociable Charitable People Brazil: We make children’s dreams come true (Irene Capgemini colleague, Anthony Woods developed “Sociable Barella) Charitable People”, a group for people who enjoy volunteering Every year, post offices in several cities in Brazil receive letters in a social atmosphere. The group endeavors to provide a single from children with wishes for Christmas gifts. The post offices channel in which potential volunteers may browse, select and in turn make these letters available to people who want to help plan the time they wish to donate. Anthony came up with the and fulfill these wishes. In Capgemini Brazil we participated in idea of using an extisting Meetup platform to help provide a the initiative for one month. Volunteers collected letters which non-invasive and public forum in which volunteers, like him, can contained many different wishes – varying from wanting a doll find and participate in fun volunteer opportunities. The group to one that had a child wishing for a job for their father. One currently has over 190 members and provides volunteers to volunteer from each Capgemini business unit, across all over 30 charitable organizations. http://www.meetup.com/ Capgemini offices in Brazil, collected letters from post office every SociableCharitablePeople/ day for one month. 3.4.1.3 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND DONATIONS SUMMARY OF DONATIONS MADE Countries Donations Programs India 1,293,819€ Hope fondation (99k€), Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir Trust (67k€), Saahas (61k€), Foundation for Excellence India Trust (81k€), Naasscom foundation(68k€), Anirban rural welfare Society (52k€), 432k€ from IGATE. France 260,715€ Passeport Avenir (50k€), Emmaus connect (50k€), Programme Booster (20k€), Mission Handicap (120k€) UK & Ireland 164,847€ The Princes Trust Membership (83,5k€), CIA’s awarded (35k€), Naandi 18k€ North America 159,502€ Columbus Citizens Foundation (19k€), American India Foundation (19k€), IICF Insurance Industry Charitable Foundation (11k€), TM Charity Classic by Vail Place (11k€), United Way (21k€) Benelux 58,048€ St. Opkikker (47,5k€) Largest operations sub-total 1,936,932€ Nordics countries 117,891€ Naandi 110k€ Latam 49,293€ Fondo Unido (33k€), Fundación Inclúyeme (13K€) South Europe 126,925€ Fundation Adecco (67k€), Save the children (20K€), Cadin (24k€), Germany and central Europe 11,126€ Managers of the Future Foundation (6k€), Jasiek Mela Foundation “Poza Horozyonty” (“Beyond Horizons”) (3k€) Asia Pacific 8,579€ Smile Foundation: Reindeer Park Fund Raising (3k€), Naandi (2k€) TOTAL 2,250,746€ The high increase in donations in 2015 is mostly due to India where the government rules changed and asked to all companies to spend 2% of their profit for CSR activity every year. 3.4.1.4 SPONSORING AND PARTNERSHIP APPROACH Regarding sponsorship, the Group has established a longstanding partnership with the rugby world, especially in Group company sponsorship of sports, cultural, social, France, for a number of reasons: educational or business events, either occasional or recurring, forms part of Capgemini’s communication and marketing X the team spirit which characterizes this sport fits with our own activities with customers and other stakeholders. Sponsorship values; is different from charitable donations, as its purpose is to promote X the quality of the relationship which can be developed with and strengthen the Group brands and impact. To ensure that clients around this theme; it serves its intended purpose, each sponsorship must be preX the strong local nature of rugby teams reinforces the link with approved and it should also comply with applicable laws and be regional communities. aligned with Group’s “Seven Values”, internal policies and Code of Business Ethics. It is the Group’s policy not to make, directly or indirectly, any cash or in-kind contribution to any political organization. 118 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders Under certain circumstances, the Group wishes to have a positive In India, two of our largest campuses are situated in semi-urban impact on the communities in which it operates or where its special economic zones identified by the Government of India. employees live. As a major global player, it works with national These campuses, located near Chennai and Pune, contribute to and international charities on community projects: the development of the local economy by providing commercial X the goals are compatible with its “Seven Values”, its Code and employment opportunities to the local population. In this of Business Ethics and its Corporate Responsibility and country, Capgemini is also growing its presence by setting up Sustainability policy; operations in smaller cities, such as Trichy and Trivandrum. X the organization is a legitimate charitable organization. Lastly, still in India, as part of the “Train & Hire Program”, we cover training costs for students in certain cutting-edge technologies before hiring them when they have finished their 3.4.1.5 SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT OF OUR BUSINESS REGARDING EMPLOYMENT training. This program creates a talent pool of candidates with niche skills and generates employment. In 2015, with more than 46,000 recruits a record high number in the Group history (even without IGATE with 41,046 recruits), the From early secondary education to post university Capgemini UK Capgemini Group has an important social and economic impact work with students, teachers and education providers to enhance employability skills and offer sustainable careers. The focus in in most of the countries in which it operates and is a key local employer. 2015 has remained and will remain in 2016 on recruiting high numbers of young people. In 2015 Capgemini UK have hired 230 3 Nearly 42% of total new recruits are young graduates from highlyindividuals who have joined our Advanced Apprentice, Higher reputed technology schools and business schools, thus creating Apprentice, Graduates and Placement programmes, and have employment or replacing positions for more than 19,000 new taken on 982 young people since 2012. Our new talent has been graduates annually. Furthermore, we participate in many actions spread throughout the UK with just over 43% based in the West and job fairs, organized in management and engineering schools, Midlands, Wales, Northern England and the remainder in the notably in France (ESEO, Telecom Paris, INSA Rennes), India, South. In 2015 Capgemini UK built upon the work they did with North America, and the UK. In Latin American countries, such Aston University the previous year by collaborating with other as Brazil, Guatemala and Argentina, where access to education employers and universities to create the Degree Apprenticeship is one of the biggest problems, Capgemini plays a major role Programme. This offering allows students to gain a BSc in Digital in the labor market, recruiting employees with little or no work and Technology Solutions whilst also gaining practical experience experience, thereby offering young people the opportunity to of the industry through employment, and the Aston university obtain their first job and acquire experience in a global company. offering is founded upon the work that Capgemini did with them In France, many job fairs are set up with major universities to the previous year. The key difference in this programme is that it present professions and career paths within the Group. We have is a government recognised, UK-wide programme and so other a number of ongoing projects, following the 2012 signature of employers with the UK are now able to offer this programme to three academic conventions and the creation of a university their students and thus provide this opportunity to more young degree, enabling students to be integrated and trained, and people than before. to join Capgemini Associations such as “Passeport Avenir” In Asia-Pacific, the Capgemini Group has an impressive regional and “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” enable our Group to work footprint with a presence in Singapore, Hong-Kong, Malaysia, with engineering or management schools and universities for Taiwan, the Philippines, China, Vietnam and Japan. In line with individual student coaching. Each student is followed by one of our strategy of local development, the majority of employees our employees – called tutor (190 in 2015)– during the school and management teams are locals and are recruited locally in year to develop their professional orientation and orient their job most of these countries. Capgemini thus contributes to building search. employability and, in some of them, has demonstrated its longIn North America, India or Asia-Pacific, Capgemini creates term commitment (present in Taiwan for more than 15 years). employment mainly in certain selected development areas. Thus For all these employment programs, Capgemini received in North America, recruiting practice is to hire at our principal several awards in 2015, such as in Poland awarded with ABSL sites as much as possible, as well as sites involved in large Diamonds in 2 categories: Business Leader in Employer Branding projects (as opposed to more remote sites where there are fewer and Business Leader in Business Innovation and recognized as opportunities to hire). an Employer Branding Excellence Awards 2015 Doskonała kampania rekrutacyjna offline 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 119 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.2 Client services Capgemini works in collaboration with its clients to deliver Capgemini has an established global network of Smart Energy services which underpin their own sustainability goals and Centers of Excellence (COE). These COE’s provide leading aspirations. innovation, content, process, and tools support for our smart energy programs. Our centers also provide leading industrialized 3.4.2.1 ENABLING CLIENT TRANSFORMATION services for integration, deployment, meter operations, network operations and solution architecture across multiple clients. Clients are increasingly expecting their service providers to help http://www.capgemini.com/utilities/smart-energy-services them address their own sustainability challenges, for example, not only providing the most efficient business solutions but minimizing and avoiding detrimental impacts to the environment, 3.4.2.3 SMART CITIES communities and society in the process. As a provider of Capgemini recognizes that technology – properly scoped and business transformation and consultancy services for our implemented – is an enabler to the adoption of new approaches clients, we believe that we are well positioned to help with such to delivering smarter citizen services. challenges. As urban populations increase at a faster rate than ever before, Specifically, as an IT service provider and consultancy we have they contribute disproportionately to carbon emissions and the opportunity to help clients reduce their own carbon footprint climate change, and our largest cities are now home to millions of and wider sustainability impacts through the advice that we offer people. New types of urban infrastructure are required to support and the solutions that we design and deliver. Capgemini also sustainable growth, and maintain the efficiency of cities. recognizes that operational efficiency is a key driver in ensuring longevity for our clients, a driver that is often complemented by Capgemini is acknowledged as a thought leader in the use of reduced carbon emissions. information and communications technologies as a tool to provide energy, transport and public services with the explicit aims of reducing costs, delivering better outcomes, and respecting the 3.4.2.2 SMART ENERGY SERVICES environment. Capgemini’s Smart Energy Services provides the full spectrum of More information is available at http://www.capgemini.com/ smart metering and smart grid solutions through leveraging best resources/creating-sustainable-cities-for-the-21st-century. practices developed over the last 12 years working alongside the world’s leading utilities. As a result of following this strategy, investing and focusing in SES, Capgemini has established itself 3.4.2.4 SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANCY SERVICES as one of the leaders among global consulting and technology Capgemini provides consulting services for climate change firms in the advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) market. Our management, as well as operational efficiency and industry commitment is strong with more than 10,000 utility specialists operations. Our global network of sustainability experts integrates worldwide. Our team has extensive utilities industry experience complex business issues with sustainability goals. with an unequalled track record for successful innovation and delivery. We also deliver specialized services for smart verticals, such as utility (energy and water), transportation, consumer products, As evidence of success of this strategy, at Capgemini we: retail, oil and gas, and the public sector. X have provided services to AMI projects encompassing over As companies face increasing scrutiny from consumers and 113 million meters worldwide; regulatory bodies alike, Capgemini is positioned strongly in X have provided services to over 75 active utilities with regard collaborating together with clients, technology partners and their Smart Meter and Smart Grid programs; industry bodies to implement powerful tools and processes X directly manage mass deployment programs for over 23 million to be proactive in meeting these demands proactively. With smart meters worldwide; and extensive experience in supply chain visibility, product information management, smart metering, product lifecycle management, X provide daily smart meter network operations support for risk and compliance management, Capgemini is a partner in end 6 million meters globally. to end sustainability management. Our Smart Energy Services Platform (SESP) is used to support mass deployments and ongoing meter operations for over 7.5 million meters globally. Our clients include many of the world’s major utilities such as British Columbia Hydro, Ontario’s Hydro One, San Diego Gas & Electric, Southern California Gas, Consumers Energy, Fortum, AusNet Services, Hafslund, Italgas, EON Sweden, GrDF, Hydro Quebec, and Centrica. 120 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders 3.4.2.5 MERLIN DATA CENTER In its short life, Merlin has also won the Data Centre Dynamics Leaders’ Green Data Centre Award (2010) and the Uptime Forming a part of our portfolio of data centers, our Merlin data Institute’s Green IT Award for Data Center Design (2011). It was center continues to operate as one of the most sustainable data also a runner up in The Guardian’s 2011 Sustainable Business centers in the world. Based on state-of-the-art technology, Merlin Awards, and a finalist in the 2011 Business Green Leader’s was opened in the UK in 2010 to ensure clients’ systems are awards. run as efficiently as possible with reduced emissions (compared with their own in-house systems). Sustainability has been at the Further information is available from: heart of the project from the selection of its location, through its http://www.capgemini.com/resources/a-closer-look-at-merlin. design and construction, to the day-to-day operations of the site. Committed to maximising the resource efficiency of our existing 3.4.2.6 THE OTACE CLIENT SATISFACTION POLICY facilities, Capgemini has, for some time, been investing heavily Our internal client relationship management process, known in improving the power efficiency of our data centers, including: as OTACE (On Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a X sourcing renewable energy; key factor underpinning our client relationships. Our clients are X converting AC mains power supply to DC; requested to specify their expectations from the Group, based X installing energy-efficient lighting and moving to lights-out operation; on a set of indicators relating to the following: X type of service required; 3 X monitoring temperature set points and making adjustments X nature of the working relationship; as required to maintain an optimal power-toprocessing ratio. X knowledge sharing. Among Merlin’s key sustainability achievements are: We document and then analyze these indicators with clients X a PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) ratio of 1.10, which means to produce ratings that are reviewed according to an agreed power savings of 91% compared to an “industry average” data schedule. center; OTACE provides an indication of strengths and areas for X a cooling system that delivers 80% savings in running costs improvement, as well as a deeper understanding of the various and produces up to 50% less carbon emissions than traditional parameters of client satisfaction on individual projects. In 2015, data center cooling solutions; and more than 5,700 client assignments were monitored using X the elimination of batteries in the Uninterruptible Power OTACE (+37%). The results showed that 94% met or exceeded Supply (UPS) thanks to the application of innovative flywheel customer expectations (+6pts), with a client satisfaction rate of technology. 3.96 out of 5. All of this has been achieved while fulfilling the industry’s most OTACE is progressively deployed in new units and the coverage rigorous security and resiliency demands. This led to Merlin in 2015 was 86% of total revenue (+8pts). winning the EU Institute for Energy and Transport’s 2013 Our client focus and our Collaborative Business Experience European Code of Conduct for Data Center Energy Efficiency are the essence of the way we work with our clients. Client Award in recognition of “our reduction in energy consumption in satisfaction and their appreciation of the value we bring in to help a cost-effective manner without hampering the critical function them achieve sustainable results are essential to our business. of data center equipment.” This is reflected in how our people feel. 3.4.3 Our suppliers and business partners Capgemini’s commitment to supplier relationship is reflected in Our procurement procedures are based on the following its comprehensive set of guidelines on purchasing ethics, on the principles: selection and management of suppliers. X treating suppliers fairly; X selecting suppliers based on value, performance, price and PURCHASING PRINCIPLES sustainability; In our purchasing activities, the Group takes into account X selecting suppliers in accordance with a justifiable and environmental issues, social impacts, human rights, and the fight transparent process; against corruption. The ten key principles of the United Nations X preserving the confidentiality of supplier information; Global Compact guide Capgemini’s activities throughout our business. In other words, the Group is committed to ensuring X managing supplier risk; that we only work with suppliers with ethical practices and which X ensuring supplier contracts have clauses relating to ethical and respect human rights. sustainable procurement; X maintaining relationships with suppliers based wholly on competition. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 121 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.4 Engaging with stakeholders Supplier diversity and equal opportunity is encouraged: we aim Furthermore, our suppliers have the possibility to notify to allow qualified small and very small businesses the opportunity us of any known or suspected improper behavior in their to receive a share of the market. Our “eco-system” approach dealings with Capgemini or by Capgemini employees or with major clients aims to foster this and level the entry barrier agents, by sending a message to the following email address: where practical. Supplierstandardsofconduct@capgemini.com which is accessed Our suppliers are expected to conduct their relationships with us only by our Group Chief Procurement Officer and Chief Ethics & and any of our clients, commercial partners and other suppliers Compliance Officer. on a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core principles of sustainability. These principles apply both to the SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT products and services provided, to the suppliers’ activities and, In 2015, Group purchases from its top one hundred and top ten where appropriate, to their downstream supply chains. suppliers totalled respectively €1,274 million and €478 million. Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff is expected to work according The number one, top five and top ten suppliers represented 3%, to the same Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability criteria as 12% and 17% of Group spend, respectively. our own employees; in tandem, we apply the same health and This year Capgemini has introduced a new Supplier Relationship safety and diversity criteria to contractors and suppliers as to our Management (“SRM”) approach. Supplier Relationship own employees. Management is one of the core activities of procurement and probably the one with utmost long-term impact. Why? As we go OUR ETHICS & SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PRINCIPLES one step above transactional activity we need to encompass total In 2015, Capgemini has developed its “Supplier Standards cost of ownership, roadmap alignment, operational performance, of Conduct & Compliance Management Requirements” that risk management as well as co-innovation and differentiation. regroups all of the above principles and also reminds that For this, there is no better way than align our organizations, have Capgemini operates to a “Purchase Order Mandatory” policy. clear communication matrixes, perform regular reviews covering All suppliers are requested to agree upon the principles that all aspects of our relationship and performance and last but not are set out in this document prior to working with us. Should a least, build trust and executive relationships rewarding alignment, supplier fail to respect these ethical and sustainability guidelines, cooperation and problem solving in a win-win spirit. Capgemini is then entitled to cancel the contract with the supplier. Experience has proven that successful and positive supplier “Capgemini Supplier Standards of Conduct & Compliance relationship management is valued by our partners and suppliers. Management Requirements” document is available here: Last but not least, crisis resolution, deal making and decisive X https://www.capgemini.com/resources/capgemini-suppliermoves are facilitated by SRM bringing facts and evidences to standards-of-conduct-compliance-management-requirements be built upon as well as trusted & streamlined communication channels. Other reference documents and actions can be found at the following addresses: Capgemini will further roll-out its SRM approach in 2016, with a clear focus on strengthening the governance and performance X for ethics: http://www.capgemini.com/resources/our-ethicsmanagement with its top partners and suppliers. for-you The journey towards SRM is not overnight and will take months X for CR&S and sustainability with SMEs: http://www. of careful preparation and ramp-up. It will be rewarding for uk.capgemini.com/about/corporate-responsibility/businessCapgemini and its customers, its partners and suppliers. information-for-small-medium-enterprises. 122 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.5 Independent external analysis 3.5 Independent external analysis Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party on the consolidated labour, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. 3 For the year ended 31 December 2015 X at the request of the Company, express reasonable assurance, To the Shareholders, that information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √ in the chapter 3.3.3 of the Management Report is In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Cap gemini S.A., fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC the Guidelines (Reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR under number 3-1049 (1) , we hereby report to you on the information). consolidated labour, environmental and social information for the year ended December 31st 2015, included in the management Our work involved six people and was conducted between report (hereinafter named «CSR Information»), pursuant to article December 2015 and February 2016 for a total duration of L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. around nine weeks. We performed our work in accordance with the French professional standards and with the decree dated 13 May COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent The Board is responsible for preparing a company’s management third party performs its engagement and with ISAE 3000(2) report including the CSR Information required by article concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance Attestation regarding the completeness with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the of CSR Information «Guidelines»), summarised in the management report and available on request, from the company’s head office. Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding labour and Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments Code of ethics of our profession and the requirements of article and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have them. implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical We compared the CSR Information presented in the management requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French and regulatory requirements. Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of X attest that the required CSR Information is included in the consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 set out in the methodological information, presented in the of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the sections 3.2.1 and 3.3.4 of the chapter related to environmental, completeness of CSR Information); labour and social information of the management report. X express limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information Conclusion taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in Based on the work performed and given the limitations accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information CSR Information); has been disclosed in the management report. (1) Whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 123 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.5 Independent external analysis Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information For the other consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its Nature and scope of our work consistency based on our understanding of the company. We conducted around ten interviews with the persons We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes used, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, based on our professional judgement, were sufficient to provide in order to: a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of X assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other understandability, and taking into account industry best limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, practices where appropriate; the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. X verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness Conclusion and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an Based on the work performed, no material misstatement understanding of the internal control and risk management has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures accordance with the Guidelines. based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the labour and Reasonable assurance on a selection environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy of CSR Information and industry best practices. Nature and scope of the work Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the For the information selected by the Group and identified by most important and presented in Appendix 1: the symbol √ in the table “Summary of environmental data by country” and presented in Appendix 1 in this report, our audit X at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources consisted of work of the same nature as described in paragraph and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative 2 above for the CSR information considered the most important, information (organisation, policies, actions), performed but in more depth, particularly regarding the number of tests. analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the The sample selected represents between 64% and 78% of the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information quantitative environmental information identified by the symbol √. was consistent and in agreement with the other information in We consider that this work enables us to express a conclusion of the management report; reasonable assurance for the information selected by the Group X at the level of a representative sample of entities, presented and identified by the symbol √. in Appendix 2 selected on the basis of their activity, their Conclusion contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures In our opinion, the information selected by the Group and were followed correctly and to identify potential undisclosed identified by the symbol √ is fairly presented, in all material data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling aspects, in compliance with the Guidelines. techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 33% of headcount. Appointed Independent Third-Party Auditor French original signed by: Paris La Défense, 26th February 2016 KPMG S.A. Frédéric Quélin Philippe Arnaud Partner Partner Climate Change & Sustainability Services Department 124 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.5 Independent external analysis Appendix 1 Environmental indicators Level of assurance Direct energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions related to direct energy consumption Reasonable Greenhouse gas emissions related to work travel Labour indicators Level of assurance Total headcount Workforce broken down by geographical area, age and gender Number of hires Turnover rate (total) Limited 3 Absenteeism ratio Breakdown of part-time workforce Number of training hours Number of employees who had a performance and career review Qualitative information Labour topics Remuneration and their evolution Working time organization Policies implemented regarding training Measures implemented to promote gender equality Environnemental Topics The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues Social Topics Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsability Appendix 2 Audited entity Capgemini UK Capgemini North America Capgemini India Capgemini France 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 125 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 3.6 Grenelle correlation table The following Grenelle II table details the indicators included in the legislation and which Capgemini has reported. Explanations for not reporting any indicator are also included. HR data indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) Employment X Total headcount; Distribution of employees by gender, ■ See pages 90 and 91 and pages 100 to 102 age and geographical area X Recruitments and redundancies ■ See pages 91, 102 and 107 X Remunerations and their evolution ■ See page 92 b) Work organization X Working time organization ■ See page 93 X Absenteeism ■ See page 94 c) Labor relations X Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, ■ See pages 105 to 107 consultation and negotiation with the employees X Summary of collective agreements ■ See pages 105 to 107 d) Health and safety X Occupational health and safety conditions ■ See page 95 X Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions ■ See page 95 or the representatives of the company health and safety committee X Occupational accidents , including accident frequency ■ See page 94 and 95 and severity rates, and occupational diseases e) Training X Policies implemented regarding training ■ See pages 96 to 98 X Total number of training hours ■ See pages 96 to 98 f) Equal opportunity X Measures implemented to promote gender equality ■ See pages 100 to 103 X Measures implemented to promote employment and integration ■ See pages 103 and 104 of disabled people X Policy against discrimination ■ See pages 99 and 100 g) Promotion and compliance with ILO fundamental conventions relative to: X The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective ■ bargaining X The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and ■ occupation See pages 84 and 85 X The elimination of all forms of forced labor ■ X The abolition of child labor ■ 126 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Environmental indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) General environmental policy X The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues ■ See pages 108 and 109 and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues X Information and training measures for employees regarding the ■ See pages 108 and 109 protection of the environment X Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution ■ Due to the nature of our activities, our impact is mostly linked to associated carbon emisisons. Hence the most relevant indicator has been identified as Greenhouse Gas Emissions and to the set of actions implemneted to reduce and optimize energy resources and sustainable resources in general X Amount of the environmental risks provisions and guarantees, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the company in ■ as above 3 an ongoing litigation b) Pollution and waste management X Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the ■ as above atmosphere, water and soil, impacting severely the environment X Measures regarding waste prevention, recycling and disposal ■ See pages 110 and 115 X Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution ■ as themes a, b c) Sustainable use of resources X Water consumption ■ As water usage is not a significant environmental aspect for Capgemini, it has been excluded from X water supply adapted to the local constraints ■ the data tables. The Group roll out of our carbon accounting system requires the inclusion of water consumption at which time it can be identified if the water used in cooling systems (especially in our data centers) is significant X Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve ■ Due to the nature of our business we do not efficiency in their use consume raw materials X Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy ■ efficiency and renewable energy use X Land usage ■ As there is very little land or 'green' space at our office locations for which we have responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered applicable d) Climate Change X Greenhouse gas emissions ■ See pages 110 to 115 X Adaptation to consequences of climate change ■ We evaluate the risks in terms of energy costs. The aim going foward is to set reduction targets globally e) Biodiversity protection X Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity ■ As there is very little land or ‘green’ space at our office locations for which we have responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered applicable 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 127 3 Cap Gemini, its values, Employees and Corporate Responsability and Sustainability (CR&S) 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Social and communities indicators Y■/N■ Explanation a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the company activity: X regarding regional employment and development ■ See pages 116 to 119 X on the local populations ■ See pages 118 and 119 b) Relations with stakeholders , including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment , consumers organization and local populations X Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders ■ See pages 116 to 119 X Actions of partnership and sponsorship ■ See pages 116 to 119 c) Subcontractors and suppliers X Integration of social and environmental issues into the company ■ See pages 121 and 122 procurement policy X Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship ■ See pages 121 and 122 with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility d) Fair business practices X Action implemented against corruption ■ See pages 84 and 85 X Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety ■ Due to the nature of our activities, we are not faced with consumers and are not building products which may impact health or security of consumers e) Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights X Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ See pages 84 and 85 128 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 4 Financial information 4.1 4.3 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Comments on the Cap Gemini Group consolidated results 130 S.A. Financial Statements 196 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 130 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group consolidated ﬁ nancial statements and outlook for 2016 134 4.4 2015 financial statements 199 4.2 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2014 and 2015 199 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended Consolidated financial December 31, 2014 and 2015 201 statements 136 4.4.3 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements 202 4.4.4 Statutory Auditors’ report 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 136 on the ﬁ nancial statements 219 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report in equity 137 on regulated agreements and commitments 220 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of ﬁ nancial position 138 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂ ows 139 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 140 4.5 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 141 Other financial and accounting 4.2.7 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 195 information 223 4.5.1 Five-year ﬁ nancial summary 223 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments 224 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 129 4 Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year 2015 represented a major step in the Group’s development. On €476 million linked to the reassessment of deferred tax assets a financial level, the Group achieved its target operating margin on US tax loss carry-forwards. of 10% of revenues one year ahead of schedule, while continuing On this basis, profit for the year attributable to owners of the to improve organic free cash flow generation. Company is €1,124 million for 2015, compared with €580 million Furthermore, on an operating level, the business portfolio was in 2014 and 2015 basic earnings per share are €6.67. strengthened both in terms of presence and offerings. Firstly, Normalized earnings per share (basic earnings per share thanks to strong organic growth and the acquisition of the US restated for “other operating income and expense” and net of company IGATE on July 1, 2015, the North America region is tax calculated at the effective tax rate), prior to the recognition of now the Group’s largest geographic area, generating 28% of the one-off tax profit, increased by 15% to €4.84. Group revenues. Accordingly, the geographic spread of the Group’s activities is now a better match for the global market Organic free cash flow (cash flow from operations less and its growth potential. At offerings level, thanks to investment acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets in innovation, the share of Digital offerings in the business portfolio (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest is now significant: Digital and Cloud offerings contribute 22% of cost, after payment of €76 million to increase the Group’s majority revenues and represent, with a growth rate of 23% in 2015 on a stake in CPM Braxis, is up €147 million, reaching €815 million. like-for-like basis (i.e. at constant Group perimeter and exchange rates), a major growth driver for the Group. OPERATIONS BY MAJOR REGION Overall, the Group generated revenues of €11,915 million in North America reported revenues of €3,325 million in 2015 2015, up 12.7% compared with 2014. Excluding the impact of (28% of Group revenues), a rise of 7.8% like-for-like. With the fluctuations in Group currencies against the euro and changes in appreciation of the US dollar against the euro and the acquisition Group perimeter, and primarily the integration of IGATE, revenues of IGATE in July 2015, growth is some 49.1% based on published grew 1.0% year-on-year. figures. All sectors contributed to these results, particularly the The operating margin is €1,262 million, or 10.6% of revenues, retail and consumer goods sector which reported growth in up 1.4 points in one year. It therefore exceeds the objective set excess of 20% on a like-for-like basis. Application services and for 2015 of 10.3% (as increased by the Group on the publication Consulting services reported the strongest growth in 2015. The of the half-year results in July 2015). The gross margin accounts operating margin of the North America region surged 76% yearfor 1.1 points of this improvement, with the balance mainly on-year to €494 million, representing 14.9% of revenues and an attributable to general and administrative expenses (0.3 points). improvement of 2.3 points in the operating margin rate in one year. These results bear witness to the Group’s new capacity in Other operating income and expenses total €240 million. The the number one market for IT services. increase compared to 2014 is primarily due to the costs of acquiring and integrating IGATE as well as the amortization United Kingdom and Ireland reported 2015 revenues of expense on intangible assets recognized as part of this €2,150 million (18% of Group revenues), down 13.9% on a acquisition. Restructuring costs remain under tight control at like-for-like basis and 2.2% after accounting for the appreciation €81 million. of the pound sterling against the euro. This decline is entirely due to the planned decrease in revenue from a major Group The operating profit for 2015 is €1,022 million, representing an contract in the public sector. Driven by the financial services and operating margin rate of 8.6% up 0.5 points on the 2014 rate retail and consumer goods industries, the private sector was of 8.1%. extremely dynamic, helping to rebalance the relative weightings The net financial expense is €118 million, up €48 million on 2014, of the public and private sectors in this region. The operating after expenses of €51 million relating to the implementation of margin is €289 million, representing an operating margin rate of the IGATE acquisition financing (initially consisting of a bridge 13.4%, up 2.1 points on 2014. loan followed by bonds issue). The 2015 Group income tax is a €203 million income, following a one-off non-cash profit of 130 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results France reported revenues of €2,444 million (20% of Group year. The improvement in profitability in Asia-Pacific is more than revenues) up 1.2% year-on-year at constant Group perimeter offset by the downturn recorded in Latin America, resulting in a and 4.4% on 2014 published revenues. Trends in the different 1.9 point fall in the operating margin rate to 4.2%. sectors were highly contrasted, with robust growth in the financial services, retail and consumer goods sectors and the OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS public sector more than offsetting the decline recorded in the manufacturing sector as well as telecommunications and media. Consulting services (4% of Group revenues) benefited from The operating margin increased slightly in 2015 in absolute terms the repositioning around “digital transformation”, reporting an to €199 million while the operating margin rate fell by a mere 0.3 upturn in activity of 8.7% on a published basis and 5.8% like-forpoints year-on-year to 8.1% of revenues. like. This increase was driven by strong growth in North America, the United Kingdom and the Rest of Europe region. The utilization Benelux reported 2015 revenues of €1,078 million (9% of Group rate exceeded the 2014 rate throughout the year and attained revenues), successfully steadying its activity level (+0.1% year71% in the fourth quarter. As a result, the 2015 operating margin on-year) after several years of decline. This stability is supported rate is 9.1% compared with 8.2% in 2014. by the end of the multi-year contraction in financial services. The strong growth in the manufacturing sector fully offset the Local professional services (15% of Group revenues) continuing shrinkage in the public sector. At a business level, reported revenue growth in 2015 of 0.3% on a like-for-like basis growth in Application services and Local professional services and 10.6% based on published figures. Growth in the United offset the decline in Other managed services. The operating Kingdom and Benelux compensated the drop in activity in the margin for the year is €121 million, representing a 0.7 point aeronautic sector in France. The utilization rate improved during improvement in the operating margin rate on 2014 to 11.2%. the year, closing the year at 84%, an improvement of 2 points year-on-year. The operating margin improved 1.7 points to 11.6% The Rest of Europe region reported revenues of €1,988 million in 2015 compared with 9.9% in 2014. (17% of Group revenues), the strongest increase in Europe with growth of 7.4% on a like-for-like basis (and 7.5% based on Application services (59% of Group revenues) growth in published figures). This remarkable performance was fueled by most of the sectors, with in particular double-digit growth in the 2015 was 6.3% on a like-for-like basis and 19.5% based on 2014 published figures. Growth was driven, among other things, 4 financial services, retail and consumer goods and energy sectors. by the investment in innovation around Digital & Cloud and in At an operating level, the offshore leverage is progressing rapidly particular what the profession refers to as SMAC (Social, Mobile, in Central and Northern European countries. The operating Analytics and Cloud). Geographically, this growth was primarily margin increased 20% year-on-year to €192 million, representing driven by North America, Rest of Europe and the private sector a margin rate of 9.6% of revenues, up 1.0 points on 2014. in the United Kingdom. Here again, the utilization rate improved year-on-year, closing the year at 85%. The operating margin rate Finally, with revenues of €930 million (8% of Group revenues), is 11.9%, up 1.3 points on 2014. the Asia-Pacific and Latin America region reported growth of 6.5% on a like-for-like basis and 5.6% based on published Other managed services (22% of Group revenues) reported figures. Driven by the development of financial services, growth a 10.9% decline in 2015 revenues on a like-for-like basis in the Asia-Pacific region continued to exceed 10%. On the other (down 0.2% on published figures). This decrease was due to side, Latin America started the year with a good momentum a contraction in activity levels in infrastructure services with the before slowing down significantly in the second half. For the full planned decrease in revenues from a major Group contract in the year, Latin America reported a slight drop in revenues on a likepublic sector in the United Kingdom. The operating margin rate for-like basis, reflecting the economic downturn in this region. at 9.6% is up 0.8 points on the 2014 rate of 8.8%. After adjusting for currency effects and particularly the weakness The following table presents the utilization rates (on a like-forof the Brazilian real against the euro, the decrease in published like basis) measuring the percentage of work time, excluding revenues in Latin America reached 15%. The 2015 operating vacation, of production employees. These rates show an overall margin is €39 million, compared with €54 million the previous improvement on 2014. 2014 2015 Utilization rate Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting services 65% 69% 64% 70% 71% 72% 68% 71% Local professional services 81% 82% 82% 82% 81% 82% 84% 84% Application services 81% 82% 82% 83% 82% 84% 85% 85% 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 131 4 Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results RESULTS BY BUSINESS Revenues (in € millions) 2013 2014 2015 Consulting services 456 442 480 Local professional services 1,498 1,577 1,744 Application services 5,825 5,854 6,997 Other managed services 2,313 2,700 2,694 TOTAL GROUP 10,092 10,573 11,915 Operating margin (as a % of revenues) 2013 2014 2015 Consulting services 7.8% 8.2% 9.1% Local professional services 10.6% 9.9% 11.6% Application services 9.7% 10.6% 11.9% Other managed services 7.1% 8.8% 9.6% TOTAL GROUP 8.5% 9.2% 10.6% HEADCOUNT how to accelerate the “People supply chain” transformation and improve its operating efficiency in India. At December 31, 2015, the total Group headcount is 180,639 employees compared with 143,643 employees one Furthermore, thanks to this acquisition Capgemini will increase year earlier. This 36,996 net increase (+26%) reflects: its competiveness across all its markets while enriching its service portfolio in key sectors such as financial services. The X 76,446 additions, including 30,265 employees included in IGATE acquisition should generate commercial synergies of the Group headcount during the year following acquisitions US$ 100 to 150 million within a 3-year timeframe, as well (primarily the acquisition of IGATE); as annual savings tied to direct cost savings (estimated X 39,450 departures (including 31,580 resignations), representing at between US$ 30 and 40 million) and greater operating an attrition rate of 19.3% of the headcount in 2015 (compared efficiency (estimated at between US$ 45 and 65 million). with 17.8% in 2014). The purchase consideration was US$ 3,961 million (i.e. US$ 48 per IGATE share). As announced on the presentation of the ORDER BOOK proposed acquisition (on April 27, 2015), the transaction was New orders recorded during the year totaled €11,538 million. ultimately financed by a combination of a bond issue (on July 1, New orders of €10,978 million were recorded in 2014, including 2015) of a nominal amount of €2,750 million, a share capital the signature of a €1 billion contract with Areva, alongside the increase (on June 9, 2015) of a net amount of €500 million, acquisition of Euriware. through the issue of 6.7 million new shares (4.05% of the share capital) at a price of €75.50 each (representing a discount of 2.4% on the share price on the issue date) and available cash SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF 2015 for the remaining balance. Fiscal year 2015 was marked by the following events: The integration of IGATE is developing in line with the plan. On the publication of its 2015 third-quarter results, the X The acquisition of IGATE: Group presented the integrated organizational structure IGATE, a US technology and services company, reported from January 1, 2016. In this context, while Ashok Vemuri, revenues of US$ 1.3 billion and an operating margin rate the IGATE CEO, left the Group by mutual agreement after of 19% in 2014. North America is IGATE’s main market, participating in the transition phase, several former IGATE generating 79% of its revenues in 2014. IGATE is a managers were promoted to positions of responsibility in the 30,000-employee group, which runs an industrialized model new organizational structure, including two to the executive leveraging production centers, located in India, that account committee. for 75% of the total headcount. Furthermore: The acquisition of IGATE, completed on July 1, 2015, therefore enables the Group to strengthen its presence in North America, X At the Economic Summit, Challenges and Oddo&Cie revealed one of Capgemini’s strategic priorities as it is, by far, the largest their 2015 ranking of best performing CEOs in France, and most innovative market in the technology and services awarding Paul Hermelin the number one position; sector. By combining IGATE and Capgemini, Group revenues X In May 2015, Capgemini organized a one-day seminar increased 33% in this region to around €4 billion (2014 pro for financial analysts and investors during which the Group forma basis). North America is now therefore the Group’s presented market trends and developments in its businesses leading market, contributing 31% of Group revenues in the and offerings. During this seminar, the Group announced its second-half of 2015. mid-term objective of attaining an operating margin rate of The transaction will strengthen Capgemini’s industrialized between 12.5% and 13.0%. This goal is based on three key delivery model globally. Capgemini will leverage IGATE knowlevers: innovation, industrialization and increased globalization of its businesses; 132 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results X For the third year running, Capgemini was recognized as one X The French Defense Procurement Agency selected Capgemini of the world’s most ethical companies by Ethisphere Institute, to develop and maintain for a seven-year period its new Mine an independent think tank dedicated to promoting ethical and Warfare Data Operating System (SEDGM), in conjunction corporate governance best practices; with the publisher of the ESRI ArcGIS geographic information X The third employee share ownership plan was a resounding system. Above all, this new system should enable the French success, mobilizing an unprecedented number of employees: Navy to adapt to new methods in the fight against mines by +50% of subscribers, 5 million shares issued, and implementing mission planning and data processing tools, 17,660 subscribers. The success of the Capgemini employee while integrating the latest available hardware and software share ownership plan is a powerful symbol of confidence in solutions. (May 6, 2015). the Group’s development prospects. In return, it reflects the X In the United States, Capgemini signed a seven-year desire to associate our teams with the Group’s performance; contract with the Georgia Technology Authority (GTA) for the X In February 2015, Capgemini launched a new cybersecurity management of IT infrastructure services for federal bodies global service line to enable organizations to embrace digital of the State of Georgia. Under this agreement, Capgemini transformation securely. Cybersecurity issues have become will coordinate the IT services provided by different service a genuine obsession for companies today. Increasingly providers under the Georgia Entreprise Technology Services sophisticated cyber-attacks can seriously damage companies program. As GTA’s IT services integrator, Capgemini will in only a few hours. This is one of the most comprehensive provide service management processes and systems that offerings on the market, comprising a wide range of services: include billing, service desk, service catalog and request consulting, complete systems protection (computing and management, and risk and security management among other industrial systems, connected objects) and a 24/7 surveillance services. (May 26, 2015). system; X The insurance company, Zurich, is transforming its UK claims X The Group extended its Big Data and Analytics services; system with Capgemini and Guidewire. Capgemini will be the primary systems integrator and will be responsible for X Capgemini increased its majority stake in CPM Braxis in Brazil to over 70%, in line with its strategy of strengthening its presence in emerging countries; implementation. This project is the first phase of a multi-year program, aimed at transforming claims processing within the 4 business, reducing costs, and improving Zurich’s customer X Capgemini strengthened its partnership with Microsoft, experience across the UK. (May 29, 2015). launching a new offering named “Capgemini Cloud Choice X Capgemini secured a contract extension worth tens of millions with Microsoft”, enabling it to offer clients overhauled of euros with Nokia, a leading global network infrastructure advice, services and Microsoft cloud solutions. The offering software, hardware and services provider. With this agreement, encompasses “SkySight”, a private cloud similar to Azure, Nokia renews its partnership with Capgemini entrusting it and “OneShare”, a tool aimed at “facilitating the deployment with the optimization of its order management operations of applications”, also based on Azure. Finally the IP offerings worldwide. This contract extension is testament to Capgemini’s include hybrid, public, hosted and private Cloud services, expertise in telecommunications and supply chain Business using Microsoft Azure. Microsoft is therefore the first partner Process Outsourcing. (June 3, 2015). to join Capgemini’s comprehensive program, known as “Cloud Choice” encompassing SaaS, PaaS, Iaas, and the cloud X In Finland, Capgemini signed an agreement with Neste, the migration of applications; world’s leading producer of premium renewable fuels, for the delivery of Neste’s ICT services. This five-year contract is worth X The Group opened two new “innovation Labs” in Munich and tens of millions of euros. Under this new contract, Capgemini Mumbai after those in Paris, London, Utrecht, Melbourne, will deliver the majority of Neste’s ICT services including service Toulouse and Lille. integration and management (SIAM), business application At operating level, the key events of the year were as follows: operations, ICT production platforms, end-user productivity X In the United States, Capgemini signed a contract to provide services and end-user support through Capgemini´s Intelligent business process outsourcing (BPO), application maintenance Service Centre™. (June 17, 2015). and testing services worldwide to Office Depot a global X In France, Capgemini signed a seven-year contract with supplier of office supplies, services and solutions. Under this SILCA, Crédit Agricole’s IT subsidiary. SILCA has launched contract, Capgemini will help Office Depot consolidate and a transformation program aimed at modernizing its IT standardize its financial and accounting processes across its infrastructures to enable the digitalization and securing of global operations until 2020. (January 29, 2015). banking activities. This program should lead to a significant X In France, Sodexo Pass is assisted by Prosodie-Capgemini reduction in IT production costs and encourage the for the introduction of paperless restaurant vouchers. Sodexo digitalization of Crédit Agricole’s banking activities through a Pass selected Capgemini because of its expertise in the strong focus on innovation. Capgemini will assist SILCA on prepayment sector, to help introduce its new Pass Restaurant® two key missions: firstly, it will provide support and consulting card solution in addition to its paper offering. (February 12, services in the areas of innovation and cybersecurity, and 2015). secondly, it will manage part of SILCA’s IT infrastructures, through the creation of a joint venture. (June 24, 2015). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 133 4 Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results X In Germany, Capgemini signed a five-year services agreement X In the United States, Capgemini announced a global with Munich Re, a leading insurance group. Capgemini will partnership with Fortinet, a leader in cybersecurity solutions. undertake the maintenance and further development of the Through this relationship Capgemini will further reinforce its insurer’s existing global data warehouse. In addition, through cybersecurity services portfolio leveraging Fortinet products. its Insights & Data practice, it will design and implement a Together Capgemini and Fortinet will provide new packaged global reporting landscape using the SAP HANA® platform cybersecurity services such as web application security, and SAP® Data Services™ software. (July 23, 2015). security for new generation datacenters and Security X In France, Capgemini and Oracle combined their expertise Operation Centers specialized in Advanced Data Analysis (3rd to assist the Randstad Group with its Big Data project. generation capabilities) to help companies to detect and react Capgemini through project assistance and Oracle in the to sophisticated cyber-attacks. (October 1, 2015). technology sector, both contributed significantly to the X In the United Kingdom, Capgemini signed a five-year contract development of the solution, which consists of a decisionto provide IT infrastructure services to Nationwide. This making tool for companies and candidates – or even public agreement will help the world’s largest building society to drive bodies. Information available to the group reveals the hidden improvements to user experience, increase its agility to meet section of the employment market. To this end, the solution growing customer demand and be the number one choice for maps expertise corresponding to a specific need in a given financial services in the United Kingdom. The contract will run labor pool. A jobseeker will be proposed a list of employment until July 2020 with three core elements: service integration, positions based on a range of expertise transferable to different service desk and end user services. (October 20, 2015). job sectors, rather than on his or her original job. Accordingly, X In France, Valeo and Capgemini are working together to the Randstad France group Big Data tool offers a wider develop a unique smart mobility solution for corporate fleets and enriched range of employment supply and demand. and car rental companies. Capgemini’s digital expertise (September 15, 2015). combined with Valeo’s smart key technology – Valeo InBlue™, X In the Netherlands, Capgemini signed a new partnership will allow secure virtual key management and real-time car with Eneco to accelerate the digital transformation of the data collection together with digital services for corporate fleets Dutch energy company. This new agreement extends the and car rental companies. Valeo’s InBlue™ solution is a vehicle partnership between Eneco and Capgemini currently focused entry/start system allowing drivers to use their smartphone on infrastructure services, business innovation and the digital to lock, unlock and start their car and transfer vehicle data transformation of the energy company. Capgemini will call thanks to a highly secure cloud-based platform. In addition to on its global expertise in the energy sector. Capgemini and having full command of IT integration, Capgemini is developing Eneco will therefore be able to offer new innovative services a range of customized digital services in order to accelerate its to the entire Utilities sector. This new contract will help Eneco time-to-market. This industrial solution will provide end users transform its IT environment and innovate and provides, with an enhanced and innovative customer experience, and in particular, for Eneco and Capgemini to work together in allow fleet managers to make car sharing and monitoring safe the areas of research, intellectual property and commercial and seamless. (November 5, 2015). development. (September 30, 2015). 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements and outlook for 2016 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT An analysis of costs by function reveals: Consolidated revenues total €11,915 million for the year X the cost of services rendered is €8,838 million, or 74.2% of ended December 31, 2015, compared with €10,573 million in revenues, down slightly by 1.1 points on 2014. This enabled 2014, up 12.7% (+1.0% like-for-like). Operating expenses total an improvement in the gross margin to 25.8% of revenues in €10,653 million compared with €9,603 million in 2014. 2015; An analysis of costs by nature reveals: X selling costs total €955 million, or 8.0% of revenues, stable on last year; X a €959 million increase in personnel costs (+15.2%) to €7,260 million for 2015. Personnel costs represent 60.9% X general and administrative expenses total €860 million (7.2% of revenues compared with 59.6% in 2014. The average of revenues) an improvement of 0.3 points on 2015 as a result headcount rose 17.1% in 2015 to 161,268, compared with of a strict cost control policy. 137,747 in 2014. Offshore employees represent 54% of the The operating margin is therefore €1,262 million in 2015, or total Group headcount, compared with 47% in 2014; 10.6% of revenues compared with 9.2% in 2014. X a decrease of 3.4% or €77 million in “purchases and Other operating income and expense (including the subcontracting” (18.5% of revenues compared with 21.6% amortization of intangible assets recognized in business last year). combinations) represents an overall net expense of €240 million in 2015, compared with €117 million in 2014. This increase of 134 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2015 Group consolidated results €123 million is mainly due to acquisition and integration costs as X a €347 million increase in deferred tax assets, mainly due to well as the amortization of intangible assets recognized in the the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carrycontext of the IGATE acquisition and the impairment of goodwill forwards in the amount of €476 million; in the Latin America region. X a €155 million increase in other non-current assets, mainly due Operating profit is €1,022 million (8.6% of revenues) compared to: with €853 million (8.1% of revenues) in 2014, an increase of • the call option on Cap Gemini S.A. shares purchased on 19.8%. October 18, 2013 in the amount of €67 million, The net financial expense is €118 million, up on 2014 • research tax credit receivables and competiveness and (€70 million). This rise is mainly due to the increase in net finance employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount costs as a result of the bond issue performed to finance the of €19 million, IGATE acquisition. • the fair value remeasurement of cash flow hedging derivative Income tax income of €203 million is recognized in respect instruments contracted pursuant to the central management of of 2015, compared with an income tax expense of €210 million foreign exchange risk, recognized through equity in the amount in 2014. This is primarily due to the remeasurement of deferred of €17 million. tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) €476 million. Adjusted for this non-recurring item, the effective totaled €3,055 million at December 31, 2015, compared with tax rate is 30.1% in 2015 (compared with 26.8% in 2014). €2,849 million at December 31, 2014, up 7.2%. Accounts Profit for the year attributable to owners of the receivable, net of advances from clients and amounts billed Company is €1,124 million in 2015, compared with €580 million in advance and excluding capitalized costs on projects, in 2014. Basic earnings per share are €6.67 based on an average totaled €2,207 million at December 31, 2015 compared with of 168,452,917 ordinary shares outstanding in 2015, compared €1,981 million at December 31, 2014 and represent 64 days with €3.68 based on an average of 157,855,433 ordinary shares annual revenue. outstanding in 2014. Non-current liabilities increased €2,346 million at December 31, 2015 (to €4,990 million compared with 4 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION €2,644 million last year), mainly due to the bond issue performed to finance the IGATE acquisition. Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled €6,887 million at December 31, 2015, up €1,830 million on Accounts and notes payable mainly consist of trade payables December 31, 2014. This increase was mainly due to: and related accounts, personnel costs and accrued taxes other than income tax and total €2,724 million at December 31, 2015, X profit for the year of €1,124 million; compared with €2,543 million at December 31, 2014. X share capital increases totaling €564 million (including Consolidated net debt totaled €1,767 million at December 31, €500 million for the financing of the IGATE acquisition); 2015 compared with net cash and cash equivalents of X a €258 million increase in foreign exchange translation €1,218 million at December 31, 2014. This €2,985 million reserves; decrease was mainly due to: X the recognition in equity of actuarial gains on provisions for X cash outflows relating to the acquisition of the IGATE group net pensions and other post-employment benefits of €97 million, of cash transferred in of €3,392 million; net of deferred tax; X cash outflows of €615 million to repay certain IGATE debts; partially offset by the payment to shareholders of the 2014 X payment to shareholders of the 2014 dividend of €198 million; dividend of €198 million. partially offset by: Non-current assets total €10,532 million at December 31, 2015, up €4,711 million on December 31, 2014, mainly due to: X organic free cash flow, equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets X a €3,271 million increase in goodwill, attributable to the (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net acquisition of IGATE in the amount of €3,092 million and the interest cost, of €815 million; positive impact of foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by impairment of €40 million recognized on X share capital increases totaling €564 million (including goodwill of the Latin America region; €500 million for the financing of the IGATE acquisition). X a net increase in intangible assets of €690 million mainly due to OUTLOOK FOR 2016 the provisional allocation of the IGATE purchase price to client relationships in the amount of €576 million; For 2016, the Group forecasts revenue growth at constant X a €248 million increase in property, plant and equipment, exchange rates of 7.5% to 9.5%, an operating margin of 11.1% primarily due to the acquisition of IGATE; to 11.3% and organic free cash flow generation in excess of €850 million. The Group estimates the negative impact of currency fluctuations on revenues at -2%, primarily due to the appreciation of the euro against the pound sterling and the Brazilian real. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 135 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 2014 2015 in millions of euros Notes Amount % Amount % Revenues 3-5 10,573 100 11,915 100 Cost of services rendered (7,960) (75.3) (8,838) (74.2) Selling expenses (855) (8.1) (955) (8.0) General and administrative expenses (788) (7.5) (860) (7.2) Operating expenses 6 (9,603) (90.8) (10,653) (89.4) Operating margin * 970 9.2 1,262 10.6 Other operating income and expense 7 (117) (1.1) (240) (2.0) Operating profit 853 8.1 1,022 8.6 Net finance costs 8 (15) (0.1) (55) (0.5) Other financial income and expense 8 (55) (0.5) (63) (0.5) Net financial expense (70) (0.7) (118) (1.0) (1) Income tax income (expense) 9 (210) (2.0) 203 1.7 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 573 5.4 1,107 9.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 580 5.5 1,124 9.4 Non-controlling interests (7) (0.1) (17) (0.1) EARNINGS PER SHARE Average number of shares outstanding during the year 157,855,433 168,452,917 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 10 3.68 6.67 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 170,226,305 178,581,519 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 10 3.44 6.33 Average number of shares outstanding during the year 157,855,433 168,452,917 Normalized earnings per share * (in euros) 10 4.22 4.84 (1) Including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of €476 million; * The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin and normalized earnings per share) are defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement and Note 10, Earnings per share, respectively. 136 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity in millions of euros 2014 2015 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of tax (1) (210) 97 (2) Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of tax 57 35 Translation adjustments (2) 255 255 TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY 102 387 Profit for the year (reminder) 573 1,107 If this income and expense recognized in equity had been recognized in profit or loss, profit for the year would have been as follows: 675 1,494 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 682 1,514 Non-controlling interests (7) (20) (1) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss; (2) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. 4 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 137 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position in millions of euros Notes December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 Goodwill 12 14 3,784 7,055 Intangible assets 12 158 848 Property, plant and equipment 13 515 763 Deferred taxes 15 1,065 1,412 Other non-current assets 17 299 454 Total non-current assets 5,821 10,532 Accounts and notes receivable 18 2,849 3,055 Current tax receivables 46 64 Other current assets 19 512 514 Cash management assets 20 90 116 Cash and cash equivalents 20 2,141 1,950 Total current assets 5,638 5,699 TOTAL ASSETS 11,459 16,231 in millions of euros Notes December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 Share capital 1,309 1,377 Additional paid-in capital 3,010 3,499 Retained earnings and other reserves 158 887 Profit for the year 580 1,124 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 5,057 6,887 Non-controlling interests 26 26 Total equity 5,083 6,913 Long-term borrowings 20 914 3,161 Deferred taxes 15 158 221 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 23 1,294 1,216 Non-current provisions 24 24 28 Other non-current liabilities 25 254 364 Total non-current liabilities 2,644 4,990 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 20 102 652 Accounts and notes payable 26 2,543 2,724 Advances from customers and billed in advance 18 776 739 Current provisions 24 48 90 Current tax liabilities 115 61 Other current payables 27 148 62 Total current liabilities 3,732 4,328 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11,459 16,231 138 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows Cash flows for the period are discussed in Note 21, Cash flows. in millions of euros Notes 2014 2015 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 580 1,124 Non-controlling interests (7) (17) Impairment of goodwill 12 14 40 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 12 13 204 264 Change in provisions 2 8 Losses on disposals of assets 6 17 Expenses relating to share grants 28 32 Net finance costs 8 15 55 Income tax (income) expense 9 210 (203) Unrealized (gains) losses on changes in fair value and other 6 (19) Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A) 1,044 1,301 Income tax paid (B) (97) (137) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (71) (22) 4 Change in capitalized costs on projects 19 (10) Change in accounts and notes payable 26 (80) Change in other receivables/payables (106) (48) Change in operating working capital (C) (132) (160) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C) 815 1,004 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12 13 (150) (198) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8 19 (142) (179) Cash (outflows) inflows on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 3 (3,392) Cash outflows in respect of cash management assets (12) (2) Other cash (outflows) inflows, net (2) (13) (11) (3,407) NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (153) (3,586) Proceeds from issues of share capital 229 564 Proceeds from issues of share capital subscribed by non-controlling interests 5 Dividends paid (174) (198) Net payments relating to transactions in Cap Gemini S.A. shares (181) (81) Proceeds from borrowings 160 2,881 Repayments of borrowings (248) (797) Interest paid 8 (35) (38) Interest received 8 30 28 NET CASH FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) (219) 2,364 NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F) 443 (218) Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H) 68 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 20 1,629 2,140 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G+H+I) 20 2,140 1,948 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 139 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Total income and expense Equity Consorecognized in (attribulidated equity table to NonAddiretained owners controltional earnings of the ling Number of Share paid-in Treasury and other Translation CominteTotal in millions of euros shares capital capital shares reserves adjustments Other pany) rests equity At January 1, 2014 160,317,818 1,283 2,930 (9) 1,246 (265) (727) 4,458 33 4,491 Dividends paid out for 2013 (174) (174) (174) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 5,530,539 44 184 8 30 266 266 Adjustments to the put option granted to minority shareholders (3) (3) (3) Tax impact of the derivative instrument on Cap Gemini S.A. shares 9 9 9 Elimination of treasury shares (181) (181) (181) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18) (104) 122 Transactions with shareholders 3,275,131 26 80 (51) (138) (83) (83) Income and expense recognized in equity 255 (153) 102 102 Profit for the year 580 580 (7) 573 At December 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,309 3,010 (60) 1,688 (10) (880) 5,057 26 5,083 Dividends paid out for 2014 (198) (198) (198) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 1,888,551 15 49 92 (18) 138 138 Adjustments to the put option granted to minority shareholders (32) (32) (32) Tax impact of the derivative instrument on Cap Gemini S.A. shares 22 22 22 Elimination of treasury shares (107) 2 (105) (105) Issues of share capital 6,700,000 53 440 7 500 5 505 Transactions with minority shareholders (9) (9) 15 6 Transactions with shareholders 8,588,551 68 489 (15) (226) 316 20 336 Income and expense recognized in equity 258 132 390 (3) 387 Profit for the year 1,124 1,124 (17) 1,107 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 172,181,500 1,377 3,499 (75) 2,586 248 (748) 6,887 26 6,913 140 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 Note 1 Accounting basis 142 Note 17 Other non-current assets 172 Note 2 Consolidation principles and group structure 143 Note 18 Accounts and notes receivable 173 Note 3 Operating segments 146 Note 19 Other current assets 174 Note 4 Consolidated income statement 149 Note 20 Net debt / net cash and cash equivalents 174 Note 21 Cash ﬂows 179 Note 5 Revenues 150 Note 22 Currency, interest rate and counterparty Note 6 Operating expenses by nature 151 risk management 181 Note 7 Other operating income and expense 151 Note 23 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment Note 8 Net ﬁnancial expense 152 beneﬁts 183 Note 9 Income tax expense 153 Note 24 Current and non-current provisions 188 Note 25 Other non-current liabilities 188 Note 10 Earnings per share 154 Note 26 Accounts and notes payable 188 Note 11 Equity 155 Note 27 Other current payables 189 Note 12 Goodwill and intangible assets 163 Note 28 Number of employees 189 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment Note 14 Cash-generating units and asset impairment tests 165 167 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments Note 30 Related-party transactions 190 191 4 Note 15 Deferred taxes 168 Note 31 Subsequent events 191 Note 16 Financial instruments 171 Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies by country 192 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 141 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 Accounting basis The consolidated financial statements for the year ended b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not adopted December 31, 2015 and the notes thereto were adopted by early (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, not yet in the Board of Directors on February 17, 2016. The consolidated effect at January 1, 2015) financial statements will be approved by the Combined The potential impacts of the application of new standards, Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 18, 2016. amendments and interpretations on the Group consolidated financial statements will not be material. A) IFRS standards-base Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 c) New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet of July 19, 2002, the 2015 consolidated financial statements endorsed (published by the IASB, not yet endorsed by the have been prepared in accordance with international accounting EU, not yet in effect at January 1, 2015) standards (IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) as The Group did not elect to adopt early the standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) amendments, and interpretations published by the IASB but not and endorsed by the European Union (EU). yet endorsed by the European Union at December 31, 2015 or The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by in effect at January 1, 2015. Syntec Numérique, an organization representing major consulting With regards to IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, and computer services companies in France, regarding the in 2015 the Group worked together with international sector application of certain IFRSs. players and within Syntec Numérique in France on identifying The main accounting policies are presented at the beginning of application issues. each note to the consolidated financial statements. C) Use of estimates B) New standards and interpretations applicable The preparation of consolidated financial statements involves the in 2015 use of estimates and assumptions which may have an impact on the reported values of assets and liabilities at the period end or a) New standards, amendments and interpretations of on certain items of either net profit or the income and expenses mandatory application (published by the IASB, endorsed by recognized directly in equity for the year. Estimates are based the EU, entered into effect on January 1, 2015) on economic data and assumptions which are likely to vary over The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged time and are subject to a degree of uncertainty. They mainly on those applied for the preparation of the 2014 consolidated concern revenue recognition on fixed-price contracts accounted financial statements, with the exception of new standards, for on a percentage-of-completion basis, recognition of deferred amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on tax assets, measurement of the recoverable amount of assets, January 1, 2015 and which had no material impact on the Group provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, the financial statements. fair value of derivatives, and provisions. 142 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 2 Consolidation principles and group structure Consolidation methods Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as well as inter-company profits. The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled by the parent company are fully consolidated. The parent company is The Group does not control any special purpose entities that deemed to exercise control over an entity when it has the power have not been consolidated. to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as Foreign currency translation to obtain benefits from its activities. The consolidated financial statements presented in this report Investments in associates over whose management the parent have been prepared in euros. company directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, without however exercising full or joint control, are accounted The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of subsidiaries for by the equity method. This method consists of recording the denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros Group’s share in profit for the year of the associate in the Income at year-end rates of exchange with the exception of equity Statement. The Group’s share in net assets of the associate is accounts, which are carried at their historical values. Income recorded under “Other non-current assets” in the Consolidated statements denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Statement of Financial Position. euros at the average rates of exchange for the year. However, for certain material transactions, it may be relevant to use a specific Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 32, List rate of exchange. Differences arising from translation at these of the main consolidated companies by country. different rates are recognized directly in equity under “Translation All consolidated companies prepared their accounts to December 31, 2015 in accordance with the accounting policies reserves” and have no impact on the Income Statement. Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form 4 adopted by the Group. an integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recognized in equity under “Translation reserves” for their netof-tax amount. Exchange differences on receivables and payables denominated in a foreign currency are recorded in operating income or expense or financial income or expense, depending on the type of transaction concerned. The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average rate Closing rate 2014 2015 2014 2015 Australian dollar 0.67960 0.67838 0.67435 0.67128 Brazilian real 0.32053 0.27480 0.31049 0.23193 Canadian dollar 0.68225 0.70630 0.71109 0.66155 Chinese renminbi yuan 0.12235 0.14349 0.13270 0.14163 Indian rupee 0.01235 0.01406 0.01304 0.01389 Norwegian Krona 0.11976 0.11200 0.11060 0.10413 Polish zloty 0.23899 0.23916 0.23402 0.23453 Pound sterling 1.24055 1.37806 1.28386 1.36249 Swedish krona 0.10997 0.10691 0.10646 0.10882 US dollar 0.75373 0.90166 0.82366 0.91853 For information, the Income Statement of IGATE, purchased on July 1, 2015, was consolidated at average exchange rates for the second-half of 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 143 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Business combinations company monetary asset or liability (e.g. an inter-company receivable denominated in a currency different from the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition functional currency of the subsidiary) cannot be eliminated. method. Under this method, the identifiable assets acquired and Such foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value at the acquisition the Income Statement or in Income and expense recognized date and may be adjusted during the 12 months following this directly in equity, if the underlying forms an integral part of the date. net investment in the foreign operation (e.g. a loan with no fixed E x c h a n g e g a i n s a n d l o s s e s o n i n t e rc o m p a n y maturity). transactions The fair values of hedging instruments relating to inter-company The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are operating transactions performed as part of the centralized included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements after management of currency risk in the parent company are the elimination of inter-company balances and transactions. eliminated. However, a foreign exchange gain or loss arising on an interACQUISITION OF IGATE the company) and vested rights under stock option plans were converted into a right to receive cash of US$ 48 per security. IGATE is a technology and services group based in the United The resulting purchase price was US$ 3,961 million. IGATE States and headquartered in New Jersey. In 2014, it reported Corporation shares are no longer traded and have been delisted US GAAP revenues of US$ 1.3 billion and operating income of from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. US$220 million, and had 33,484 employees at December 31, 2014. North America is IGATE’s main market generating 79% of IGATE is fully consolidated from July 1, 2015. revenues in 2014, followed by Europe (14%) and the Asia-Pacific Since its acquisition on July 1, 2015, IGATE has contributed region (7%). €609 million to Group revenues, €88 million to Group operating Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement announced on profit and €68 million to Group profit for the year. Had the April 27, 2015, Capgemini completed the acquisition of IGATE acquisition been performed on January 1, 2015 and based Corporation on July 1, 2015, which became a wholly-owned on information provided by IGATE in respect of the first-half subsidiary of the Capgemini Group at that date. On July 1, of 2015, the Group estimates that IGATE’s contribution to its 2015, all issued and outstanding IGATE Corporation ordinary revenues, operating profit and profit for the year would have been shares (other than IGATE Corporation ordinary shares held by €1,194 million, €160 million and €109 million, respectively. Provisional allocation of the purchase price The provisional allocation of the purchase price at July 1, 2015 was the subject of an appraisal by an independent expert. It breaks down as follows: Fair value in US$ Fair value in millions € millions (1) Intangible assets 775 692 o/w customer relationship 12 644 576 o/w remeasurement of intangible assets 49 44 Property, plant and equipment 299 268 o/w remeasurement of property, plant and equipment 65 58 Deferred tax (205) (183) o/w deferred tax liabilities relating to the purchase price allocation (254) (227) Cash and cash equivalents 184 164 Long-and short-term borrowings (690) (617) Other assets and liabilities 138 124 NET ASSETS AT THE ACQUISITION DATE 501 448 GOODWILL 12 3,460 3,092 PURCHASE PRICE 3,961 3,540 Acquisition costs expensed in the Income Statement 18 16 (1) The fair value was converted using exchange rate at July 1, 2015. 144 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Financing transactions X purchase of US dollar/euro call options: all these instruments To finance this acquisition, the Group performed the following were unwound before the acquisition of IGATE and were transactions to supplement available cash: recognized in full in net financial expense at December 31, 2015 (see Note 8, Net financial expense); X negotiation of a bridge loan of US$ 3,800 billion (available X set-up, for a total notional amount of US$ 1,000 million and for draw-down in US dollars and/or euro) with a group of with a 5-year maturity, of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency 15 banks following a round of syndication completed on swaps, classified as cash flow hedges for the interest rate June 2, 2015 (the bridge loan having been subscribed by a component and as fair value hedges for the exchange restricted group of banks on April 24, 2015). This loan was rate component. In respect of these financial instruments, drawn twice on June 29, 2015, in the amount of €2,200 million Capgemini will receive from the relevant banking counterparties and US$ 1,000 million (representing a total euro-equivalent a rate of 1.75% on a notional amount of €894 million, in of €3,094 million) for the partial financing of the acquisition of exchange for payment of an average rate of 3.51% on a IGATE on July 1, 2015 and the refinancing of a portion of its notional amount of US$1,000 million (see Note 8, Net financial borrowings (see below); expense). X a €500 million share capital increase (net of post-tax share issue costs) launched on June 9, 2015 by private placement Following its acquisition by Capgemini, IGATE repaid its main and concerning 6,700,000 new shares. The subscription price borrowings in July 2015: was €75.50 per share, representing a discount of 2.4% on the X a bond issue of a principal amount of US$325 million, maturing volume-weighted average price of June 9, 2015; in 2019; X a “triple tranche” bond issue for a total nominal amount of X a bank loan with an outstanding balance of US$ 234 million. €2,750 million, placed on June 24, 2015 and with a settlement/ Employee incentive instruments delivery date of July 1, 2015. The three tranches of this bond issue present the following characteristics (see Note 20, Net In the context of the acquisition of IGATE on July 1, 2015, the debt / Net cash and cash equivalents): • €500 million of notes due July 2, 2018, paying a floating Capgemini Group decided to maintain the vesting conditions of capital instruments (stock options, restricted shares and performance units) granted by IGATE prior to the acquisition 4 coupon of 3 month Euribor + 85bp (issue price 100%), and to fix the price thereof based on the transaction price. A • €1.25 billion of notes due July 1, 2020, paying an annual cash amount will therefore be granted at the initial vesting dates coupon of 1.75% (issue price 99.853%), calculated based on a price of US$48. The cash payment for • €1 billion of notes due July 1, 2023, paying an annual coupon stock options and restricted shares not vested at July 1, 2015 of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). will be made primarily in 2015 (post acquisition), 2016 and 2017 On July 7, 2015, the proceeds from this bond placement were subject to compliance with the presence condition associated allocated to the repayment of the €3,094 million drawdown on with these instruments at the vesting date. the bridge loan. The bridge loan was cancelled in full on July 9, The payment in respect of vested capital instruments is 2015 (see Note 8, Net financial expense). US$42 million. The US$75.5 million expense in respect of Furthermore, Capgemini entered into the following transactions instruments in the course of vesting is spread over the period to manage the interest rate and foreign currency risk associated between the different grant and vesting dates. Accordingly, with this acquisition: a provision of US$54 million was recognized in the opening balance sheet in respect of services rendered between the X purchase of euro interest rate swaptions: all these options were grant dates and the date of acquisition of IGATE. The expense unwound before the acquisition of IGATE and were recognized in respect of the period after the acquisition date is estimated in full in net financial expense at December 31, 2015 (see at US$21.5 million and will be recognized progressively in the Note 8, Net financial expense); Income Statement over the period from the acquisition date to the relevant vesting dates. An expense of €9.9 million was recognized in respect of 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 145 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 3 Operating segments Group Management analyzes and measures activity year in the seven strategic units, primarily business-focused and performance: therefore the roll-out of uniform expertise and know-how in all countries and regions. X in the geographic areas where the Group is present; X in the different businesses (consulting services, local Accordingly, the Group presents segment reporting for the eight professional services, application services, and other managed geographic areas where it is located. services). Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the companies on behalf of geographic areas are allocated to the performance: relevant segments either directly or on the basis of an allocation key. Items not allocated correspond to headquarter expenses. X of commercial development: it focuses on trends in major contracts and clients in Group markets across all its Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the service basis. offering of the different businesses in the countries, given their The performance of operating segments is measured based on considerable interaction and to measure the services rendered. the operating margin*. This indicator enables the measurement These analyses are performed by Group Management within and comparison of the operating performance of operating the Coordination Committee of the geographic area, which segments, irrespective of whether their business results from brings together the business managers operating in a given internal or external growth. area; The operating margin* realized by the main offshore production X at operational and financial level: management of treasury centers (India and Poland) is reallocated to the geographic areas and support services, the operating investment and managing the contracts to enable a better understanding of the financing policies and the acquisition policy are decided and performance of these areas. implemented by geographic area. * Operating margin, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the The business analysis enables the transversal management and Group is defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement. monitoring of resources and service production during the fiscal SEGMENT REPORTING BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA The Group has operations in the following eight geographic areas: Geographic area Main countries North America Canada, United States France France United Kingdom and Ireland Ireland, United Kingdom Benelux Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands Southern Europe Italy, Portugal, Spain Nordic countries Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden Germany and Central Europe Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Switzerland Asia-Pacific and Latin America Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Japan, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates 146 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA United Germany Kingdom Souand Asia-Pacific North and thern Nordic Central and Latin HQ exElimi2015 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America penses nations Total Revenues ■ external 3,325 2,444 2,150 1,078 518 723 747 930 11,915 ■ inter-geographic area 151 185 162 77 28 20 181 1,051 (1,855) TOTAL REVENUES 3,476 2,629 2,312 1,155 546 743 928 1,981 (1,855) 11,915 OPERATING MARGIN * 494 199 289 121 29 86 77 39 (72) 1,262 % of revenues 14.9 8.1 13.4 11.2 5.6 11.9 10.3 4.2 10.6 OPERATING PROFIT 408 152 291 107 3 81 64 (24) (60) 1,022 United Germany North Kingdom and Southern Nordic and Asia-Pacific Central and Latin HQ exElimi4 2014 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America penses nations Total Revenues ■ external 2,230 2,342 2,197 1,074 497 699 653 881 10,573 ■ inter-geographic area 113 173 149 62 24 20 161 698 (1,400) TOTAL REVENUES 2,343 2,515 2,346 1,136 521 719 814 1,579 (1,400) 10,573 OPERATING MARGIN * 281 197 249 113 19 79 62 54 (84) 970 % of revenues 12.6 8.4 11.3 10.5 3.8 11.3 9.4 6.1 9.2 OPERATING PROFIT 274 158 232 95 5 76 54 43 (84) 853 * Operating margin, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the Group is defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 147 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA United Germany Kingdom Souand Asia-Pacific Not At December, 31 2015 North and thern Nordic Central and Latin alloElimina(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America cated tions Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 3,385 2,603 1,757 1,275 362 514 621 1,796 36 12,349 ■ inter-geographic area 69 77 56 35 10 12 49 137 39 (484) TOTAL ASSETS 3,454 2,680 1,813 1,310 372 526 670 1,933 75 (484) 12,349 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and PPE(1) 28 51 40 20 6 10 13 74 1 243 Deferred tax assets 1,412 Current income taxes 94 Cash management assets 116 Cash and cash equivalents 1,950 Derivative instruments 310 TOTAL ASSETS 16,231 Liabilities by geographic area ■ external 814 1,192 1,378 285 193 219 286 645 8 5,020 ■ inter-geographic area 110 103 73 43 13 41 29 72 (484) TOTAL LIABILITIES 924 1,295 1,451 328 206 260 315 717 8 (484) 5,020 Equity 6,913 Deferred tax liabilities 221 Current tax liabilities 79 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 3,813 Derivative instruments 185 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 16,231 United Germany Kingdom Souand Asia-Pacific Not At December 31, 2014 North and thern Nordic Central and Latin alloElimina(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux Europe countries Europe America cated tions Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 1,207 2,220 1,307 1,115 299 370 460 926 36 7,940 ■ inter-geographic area 76 66 56 20 10 9 38 98 25 (398) TOTAL ASSETS 1,283 2,286 1,363 1,135 309 379 498 1,024 61 (398) 7,940 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and PPE(1) 21 40 28 20 6 20 9 52 196 Deferred tax assets 1,065 Current income taxes 46 Cash management assets 90 Cash and cash equivalents 2,141 Derivative instruments 177 TOTAL ASSETS 11,459 Liabilities by geographic area ■ external 684 1,154 1,488 302 204 213 256 682 8 4,991 ■ inter-geographic area 73 92 93 38 10 27 23 42 (398) TOTAL LIABILITIES 757 1,246 1,581 340 214 240 279 724 8 (398) 4,991 Equity 5,083 Deferred tax liabilities 158 Current tax liabilities 115 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,016 Derivative instruments 96 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 11,459 (1) Total acquisitions of intangible assets and PPE-property, plant and equipment is different from the figure reported in the Statement of Cash Flows (€198 million in 2015 and €150 million in 2014), which excludes acquisitions of assets held under finance leases (€45 million in 2015 and €46 million in 2014). 148 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements SEGMENT REPORTING BY BUSINESS X Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system Segment reporting by business is presented according to the integration and application maintenance activities; following classification: X Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or X Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure systems of organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client (or those of a group of clients), transaction services, onindustries and processes; demand services and/or business activities (Business Process X Local Professional Services, which provide assistance and Outsourcing, BPO). support to internal IT teams within client companies; BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY BUSINESS 2014 2015 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting services 442 4 480 4 Local professional services 1,577 15 1,744 15 Application services 5,854 55 6,997 59 Other managed services 2,700 26 2,694 22 REVENUES 10,573 100 11,915 100 4 BREAKDOWN OF OPERATING MARGIN* BY BUSINESS 2014 2015 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting services 37 8.2 44 9.1 Local professional services 156 9.9 202 11.6 Application services 623 10.6 830 11.9 Other managed services 238 8.8 258 9.6 Headquarter expenses (84) (72) OPERATING MARGIN * 970 9.2 1,262 10.6 * Operating margin, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the Group is defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement. Note 4 Consolidated income statement Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated Income Other operating income and expenses include amortization Statement by function. Operating expenses are broken down into of intangible assets recognized in business combinations, the the cost of services rendered (corresponding to costs incurred charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair value for the execution of client projects), selling expenses, and general of shares granted to employees (including social security and administrative expenses. contributions and employer contributions), and non-recurring revenues and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, negative These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses goodwill, capital gains or losses on disposals of consolidated which are deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin, companies or businesses, restructuring costs incurred under one of the main Group business performance indicators. a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s management, Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating income the cost of acquiring and integrating companies acquired by the and expenses from operating margin. Group, and the effects of curtailments, settlements and transfers of defined benefit pension plans. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 149 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is then in non-consolidated companies, net interest costs on obtained by taking into account the following items: defined benefit pension plans, exchange gains and losses on financial items, and other financial income and expense on X net finance costs, including net interest on borrowings miscellaneous financial assets and liabilities calculated using calculated using the effective interest rate, less income from the effective interest rate; cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets; X current and deferred income tax expense; X other financial income and expense, which primarily correspond to the impact of remeasuring financial instruments X share of profit of associates; to fair value when these relate to items of a financial nature, X share of non-controlling interests. disposal gains and losses and the impairment of investments Note 5 Revenues The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on the contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) may be deferred nature of the services rendered: when they are specific to a given contract, relate to future activity on the contract and/or will generate future economic benefits, a. Time and materials contracts and are recoverable. These costs are allocated to work-inRevenues and cost of services are recognized as services are progress and any reimbursement by the client is recorded as a rendered. deduction from the costs incurred. b. Long-term fixed-price contracts When the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract revenues, a loss to completion is recognized in the amount of Revenues, including systems development and integration the difference. contracts, are recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method. Costs are recognized as they are incurred. Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under “Accounts c. Outsourcing contracts receivable” when invoiced to customers and “Accrued income” Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over the when they are not yet invoiced. Advances from customers and term of the contract as the services are rendered. billed in advance are included in current liabilities. The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing Group revenues total €11,915 million (€10,573 million in 2014), representing a year-on-year increase of 12.7%, based on the year-end Group structure and exchange rates and 1.0% on a like-for-like basis (constant Group structure and exchange rates). 150 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 6 Operating expenses by nature 2014 2015 in millions of euros Amount % of revenues Amount % of revenues Personnel expenses 6,301 59.6% 7,260 60.9% Travel expenses 428 4.0% 499 4.2% 6,729 63.6% 7,759 65.1% Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,284 21.6% 2,207 18.5% Rent and local taxes 336 3.2% 372 3.1% Other charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 254 2.4% 315 2.7% OPERATING EXPENSES 9,603 90.8% 10,653 89.4% BREAKDOWN OF PERSONNEL COSTS in millions of euros Note 2014 2015 Wages and salaries 4,976 5,845 Payroll taxes Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and other post1,256 1,344 4 employment benefit expenses 23 69 71 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 6,301 7,260 Note 7 Other operating income and expense in millions of euros Notes 2014 2015 (1) Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (20) (45) Impairment of goodwill 12 14 (40) Expense relating to share grants 11 (36) (42) Restructuring costs (68) (81) Integration costs for purchased companies (4) (39) Acquisition costs (1) (16) Other operating expenses (9) (29) Total operating expenses (138) (292) Other operating income 21 52 Total operating income 21 52 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (117) (240) (1) The increase in this heading is primarily attributable to the amortization of intangible assets recognized on the acquisition of the IGATE group. RESTRUCTURING COSTS INTEGRATION COSTS FOR PURCHASED COMPANIES Fiscal year 2015 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce Integration costs for purchased companies total €39 million and reduction measures in the amount of €67 million (€46 million in mainly concern the IGATE group and primarily consist of cost of 2014) and the streamlining of real estate and production assets consultants involved in the integration and expenses relating to in the amount of €11 million (€21 million in 2014). incentive instruments granted to IGATE employees. Other operating income includes an income of €35 million relating to the decrease in the present value of the benefit obligation for the main Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan, following an agreement with certain members regarding a reduction in their defined benefits. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 151 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 8 Net ﬁnancial expense in millions of euros Note 2014 2015 Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets 30 28 Net interest on borrowings (35) (71) Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate (5) (43) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (10) (12) Net finance costs at the effective interest rate (15) (55) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 23 (40) (45) Exchange gains (losses) on financial transactions (7) 21 (Losses) gains on derivative instruments 1 (20) Other (9) (19) Other financial income and expense (55) (63) o/w financial income 45 143 o/w financial expenses (100) (206) NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (70) (118) Interest on borrowings (€71 million) and the impact of amortized X interest on finance leases of €4 million, primarily in the United cost on borrowings (€12 million) total €83 million and mainly Kingdom and the United States (€5 million in 2014). comprise: Other financial income and expense primarily comprises (see X coupons on the 2011 bond issue of €26 million (stable on Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure): 2014), plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €1 million; X an expense of €16 million in respect of the bridge loan set-up X an amortized cost accounting impact of €10 million on the in the context of the IGATE acquisition, primarily consisting of “ORNANE 2013” bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new commission paid to participating banks; and/or existing shares issued in October 2013 (zero-coupon X a net gain of €8 million realized on the unwinding of the euro bonds) compared with €9 million in 2014; interest rate swaptions (net gain of €5 million) and the US X coupons on the bond issues maturing in July 2018, July 2020 dollar/euro call options (net gain of €3 million). and July 2023 of €26 million, plus an amortized cost Note that fair value gains and losses on the conversion option accounting impact of €1 million primarily on the July 2020 embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds and the call option bond issue: floating coupon of €2 million on the July 2018 on own shares purchased in October 2013 are included in tranche, coupon of €11 million on the July 2020 tranche and the “Derivative instruments” line (see Note 20, Net debt / Net coupon of €13 million on the July 2023 tranche, respectively cash and cash equivalents). Given the “matching” nature of the (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure); main characteristics of these two derivative instruments, their X the net impact of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps respective fair value gains and losses fully offset each other, of €8 million; resulting in a nil impact on the Group net financial expense. 152 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 9 Income tax expense The income tax expense is the sum of the current tax expense periods. It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted and the deferred tax expense. It is recognized in net profit, except or substantively enacted at the year-end. where it relates to a business combination or items recognized in Deferred taxes equity or in income and expense recognized in equity. See Note 15, Deferred tax. Current income tax The current tax expense is the estimated amount of tax payable (or receivable) in respect of the taxable profit (or loss) for a period and any adjustment to the current tax amount in respect of prior The income tax income for fiscal year 2015 breaks down as follows: in millions of euros Note 2014 2015 Current income taxes (161) (226) Deferred taxes 15 (49) 429 INCOME TAX INCOME (EXPENSE) (210) 203 4 The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the Group effective tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2014 2015 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 783 904 Standard tax rate in France (%) 38.0 38.0 Tax expense at the standard rate (297) 38.0 (343) 38.0 Difference in tax rates between countries 53 (6.8) 53 (5.9) Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising in the period (34) 4.4 (31) 3.4 Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior to January 1 93 (11.9) 192 (21.3) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 3 (0.3) 4 (0.4) Prior year adjustments 6 (0.8) (8) 0.8 Taxes not based on taxable income (37) 4.6 (43) 4.8 Permanent differences and other items 3 (0.4) (97) 10.7 Income tax expense and effective tax rate before remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards (210) 26.8 (273) 30.1 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 476 (52.6) Income tax income and effective tax rate after remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 203 (22.5) Taxable profit projections were revised upwards in the United States as a result of an organic improvement in Group’s profitability in the United States combined with the acquisition of IGATE (included in the tax consolidation from July 2, 2015). Accordingly, the Group remeasured its deferred tax assets in the United States in the amount of €476 million. The heading “Taxes not based on taxable income” primarily consists of the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Enterprises, CVAE) and the additional 3% contribution on dividends paid in France, State taxes in the United States and the regional tax on productive activities (IRAP) in Italy. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 153 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and normalized both items being adjusted, where appropriate, for the effects earnings per share are as follows: of all potential dilutive financial instruments corresponding to (i) bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing X basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit shares, (ii) performance shares (iii) free share grants, and (iv) or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants; average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares. The weighted average X normalized earnings per share are calculated by number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted by the dividing normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of number of ordinary shares bought back or issued during the the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary period and is calculated by reference to the date of redemption shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury or issue of shares during the year; shares. Normalized net profit or loss is equal to profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company corrected for the X diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing impact of items recognized in other operating income and profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the expense (see Note 7, Other operating income and expense), weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding net of tax calculated using the effective tax rate. during the year as used to calculate basic earnings per share, BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE 2014 2015 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company (in millions of euros) 580 1,124 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 157,855,433 168,452,917 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 3.68 6.67 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE X shares available for grant under the performance share grant plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion Directors on July 30, 2014, representing a weighted average into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding during of 1,260,667 shares. The related performance conditions will the year. The average share price in 2015 was €78.23. be assessed in August 2016; In 2015, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose of X all the shares available for grant under the performance share calculating diluted earnings per share include: grant plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of X the 5,958,587 “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds issued Directors on July 29, 2015, representing a weighted average on October 25, 2013, as the €6 million interest expense of 443,279 shares. The related performance conditions will be recorded (net of taxes) on the bonds is lower per bond than assessed in March 2018; basic earnings per share. These bonds are convertible during X the shares falling within the scope of the free share grant the period from October 25, 2013 (inclusive) to December 31, plan open to all French employees, the terms of which were 2016 (inclusive) in a limited number of defined circumstances approved by the Board of Directors on October 8, 2014, and then at any time from January 1, 2017 (inclusive) until representing a weighted average of 99,255 shares. These the eighteenth business day (exclusive) preceding January 1, shares are subject to the presence of the beneficiaries in the 2019, when they will be redeemable at par; Group in October 2016; X shares to be delivered to French and non-French employees X the weighted average number of Redeemable Share under the 2012 and 2013 performance share grant plans, Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) still outstanding, representing a weighted average of 1,324,733 shares. At i.e. 1,042,081 warrants, as the aggregate market price of the December 31, 2015, the only remaining condition applicable to Cap Gemini S.A. share in 2015 is higher than the aggregate of these shares is the presence of the beneficiaries in the Group the €34 strike price and the €3.22 issue premium. at the delivery dates, scheduled for January and March 2017, respectively; 154 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements in millions of euros 2014 2015 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 580 1,124 Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of debt instruments, net of tax 6 6 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 586 1,130 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 157,855,433 168,452,917 Adjusted for: “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds 5,958,587 5,958,587 Performance shares and free shares that can be granted 3,484,679 3,127,934 Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) 2,927,606 1,042,081 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 170,226,305 178,581,519 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 3.44 6.33 NORMALIZED EARNINGS PER SHARE in millions of euros 2014 2015 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 580 1,124 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company – excluding remeasurement of (476) 4 deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 580 648 Other operating income and expenses, calculated at the effective tax rate 87 167 Normalized profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 667 815 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 157,855,433 168,452,917 NORMALIZED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 4.22 4.84 Note 11 Equity Incentive instruments and employee share ownership The fair value of shares subject to internal performance and/or presence conditions is calculated using a model in compliance a) Instruments granted to employees with IFRS 2, which incorporates assumptions concerning the Shares subject to performance and presence share price at the grant date, share transfer restrictions, the riskconditions free interest rate and the expected dividend yield. Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition employees, subject to performance (internal and external) and rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed presence conditions. Share grants become definitive after a each year and internal performance conditions (non-market vesting period of at least two or four years, depending on the conditions). tax residence of the beneficiary. This amount is recognized in “Other operating income and The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the value expense” in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The fair value of shares subject to external performance b) Instruments proposed to employees conditions is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the grant Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants date, implicit share price volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the (BSAAR) expected dividend yield and market performance conditions. Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were proposed to employees and corporate officers of the Group. They confer entitlement to subscribe for Cap Gemini S.A. shares at a strike price determined at their date of acquisition by the employees and corporate officers of the Group. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 155 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Employee savings plan X the opportunity gain reflecting the possibility granted to Leveraged employee share ownership plans offering the employees to benefit from market terms and conditions possibility to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential rate identical to those of the Group. have been set up by the Group. When determining the IFRS 2 In certain countries where the set-up of a leveraged plan expense measuring the benefit granted to employees, the Group through an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds Commun de adjusts the amount of the discount granted by the Group to Placement Entreprise) or directly in the name of the employee employees on the subscription price based on the following two is not possible, the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) items: includes a Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism. The X the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to benefit offered by the Group corresponds to the amount of the employees during a period of five years. This cost is measured discount on the share subscription price. taking account of the five-year lock-in period. It corresponds Treasury shares to the cost of a two-stage strategy under which the market Cap Gemini S.A. shares held by the Company or by any participant enters into a forward sale effective at the end of consolidated companies are shown as a deduction from equity, the five-year lock-in period and simultaneously borrows the at cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken amount necessary to buy a share available for immediate directly to equity, net of the tax effect, so that the gain or loss on transfer. This borrowing is financed with the proceeds from the the sale has no impact on the Income Statement for the period. forward sale of the share and the dividends received during the lock-in period. This cost is calculated based on the following Derivative instruments on own shares assumptions: When derivative instruments on own shares satisfy IAS 32 • the subscription price is set by the Chairman and Chief classification criteria for recognition in equity, they are initially Executive Officer pursuant to the powers delegated by the recognized in equity in the amount of the consideration received Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to the or paid. Subsequent changes in fair value are not recognized in average Cap Gemini S.A. share price, adjusted for volume, the financial statements, other than the related tax effect. during the twenty trading days preceding the decision of the Where these instruments do not satisfy the aforementioned Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to which a discount is criteria, the derivative instruments on own shares are recognized applied, in assets or liabilities at fair value. Changes in fair value are • the grant date is the date at which employees are fully informed recognized in profit or loss. The fair value remeasurement of the specific characteristics and terms and conditions of the of these instruments at the year-end is recognized based on offer and particularly the subscription price, external valuations. • the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine the cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at which a bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on maturity without allocation, to a private individual with an average risk profile, for a term corresponding to the term of the plan; INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP B) Performance share plans The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, A) Stock option plans 2013 and then May 6, 2015, authorized the Board of Directors The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan to grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, on authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed one or several occasions and within a maximum period of in June 2008. 18 months, subject to performance and presence conditions. On December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013, July 30, 2014 and July 29, 2015, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these four plans. 156 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.5% 1.5% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,003,500 1,209,100 Date of Board of Directors’ decision December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and At the end of the first and second calendar years following second years following the the grant date grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from 2 years and 1 week as from the the grant date (France) or grant date (France) or 4 years 4 years and ½ month as from and 1 week as from the grant the grant date (other countries) date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 4 years 4 years Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% 0.98% 0.59% 1.28% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions 4 ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 28.67 16.18 32.14 Of which corporate officers 16.18 18.12 Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 958,500 1,135,300 o/w to corporate officers (1) (4) 50,000 50,000 Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 54,000 66,200 Number of shares vested during the year (2) (4) 383,000 355,600 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) (3) (3) 521,500 713,500 Diluted weighted average number of shares 548,500 776,233 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 33.15 36.53 (1) Grant subject to performance and presence conditions; (2) Balance on the “French” plan granted in January 2015 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date; (3) In respect of the “foreign” plan only; (4) Balance on the “French” plan granted in March 2015 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 157 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,290,500 1,068,550 Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Performance assessment dates Three years for the internal Three years for the two performance condition and performance conditions two years for the external performance condition Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date 2 years and 7 months as from (France) or four years as from the grant date (France) or the grant date (other countries) 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date (France only) 4 years 3 years Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34%-0.81% 0.10%-0.55% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 26.46 48.26 61.73 82.18 ■ Of which corporate officers 29.32 56.66 Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 1,288,500 o/w to corporate officers (1) 50,000 Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 1,068,550 o/w to corporate officers (1) 40,000 Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 55,000 3,900 Number of shares vested during the year (2) 1,000 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) (3) (4) 1,232,500 1,064,650 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,260,667 443,279 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.60 (1) Grant subject to performance and presence condition; (2) Accelerated grant following the death of a beneficiary; (3) Of which 405,750 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 826,750 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan; (4) Of which 359,650 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 705,000 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. 158 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements a) Shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 plans on a pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the Based on an assessment of the performance conditions of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the 2012 and 2013 plans for shares granted to beneficiaries of the basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in 2012 and 2013 plans tax-resident in France, 100% of the initial the second case, allocation vested to those beneficiaries still present in the Group • is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if at the vesting date at the beginning of January 2015 and the the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher beginning of March 2015, respectively. than or equal to 110% of the basket. With regards to the external performance condition, due to the Under these conditions, if the performance of the good performance of the share over the calculation period, the Cap Gemini S.A. share is in line with that of the basket of relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share compared to comparable shares, only 60% of the initial allocation will be that of the basket of comparable companies exceeded 110% granted in respect of the external performance condition (i.e. in both cases, the threshold above which 100% of the initial 30% of the initial allocation). allocation vests in respect of the external performance condition. The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with With regards to the internal performance condition, cumulative each security equally weighted: organic free cash flow generation for fiscal years 2012 to X 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / 2014 exceeded the €1 billion threshold, enabling the vesting CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; of the maximum number of shares in respect of the internal performance condition. X 2014 and 2015 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / CAC 40 index / CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. As both conditions exceeded the maximum vesting thresholds, The fair value of shares subject to external performance 100% of shares initially allocated vested to beneficiaries taxconditions is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance resident in France still present in the Group at the vesting date, with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for nonsubject however to a lock-in period of four years in accordance transferability for the shares granted in France. with plan rules. A total of 383,000 shares vested under the 2012 plan and Internal performance condition 4 355,600 shares vested under the 2013 plan, representing 94.6% The internal performance condition is based on the generation and 91.6% of the maximum possible amount, respectively. The of Organic Free Cash Flow (OFCF) over a three-year period performance conditions are assessed at the same dates and encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 under the same conditions for non-French beneficiaries, however plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan and fiscal years the shares vest at the end of a four-year period, subject to their 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan. Accordingly: presence in the Group at this date. Vested shares are not, X no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance however subject to a lock-in period. condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 2014 and 2015 over the reference period is less than €750 million for the 2012 plans and 2013 plans, €850 million for the 2014 plan and €1,750 for the 2015 plan; In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external X 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic performance condition when granting performance shares, the Free Cash Flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 Board of Directors decided from the 2010 plan to add an internal and 2013 plans, €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan and €2 billion condition to the external condition initially planned. for the 2015 plan. The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions The following internal and external performance conditions apply: is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. grant calculation as does the internal performance condition. A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares granted in France. External performance condition The external performance condition is applied in an identical C) Free share plans manner across the plans and in line with the conditions applied Following the free share grant in 2012, the Combined to the first two plans, as follows: Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 gave the Board of X No shares are granted if the performance of the Directors an 18-month authorization to grant shares to certain Cap Gemini S.A. share during the period in question is less Group employees, on one or several occasions subject only to a than 90% of the performance of the basket of securities over condition of presence. This authorization was partially used and the same period. the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries X The number of shares ultimately granted: were set by the Board of Directors meeting of October 8, 2014. • is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least equal to 90% of the basket, • is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 100% of the basket, • varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 159 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2014 Plan France Date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 23, 2013 Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 1,595,495 shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions (1) Total number of shares granted 104,379 Date of the Board of Directors’ decision October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date Democratic plan Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under this plan in respect 102,379 of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted during the year Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 6,231 Number of shares vested during the year 28 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under this plan in respect 96,120 of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Diluted weighted average number of shares 99,255 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% Fair value in euros (per share) €43.91 (1) i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by exercised or transferred except under the conditions specified enabling all employees of French companies with at least three in the issue agreement. The issue was disclosed in a prospectus months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby approved by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting N°09-140. period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each Since the date of admission of the BSAAR warrants to trading share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual on the Euronext Paris market, 2,646,368 BSAAR warrants salary (four categories): the lowest paid employees receiving more have been exercised resulting in delivery of the same number shares than the highest paid employees. of shares. The Board of Director decisions were preceded each time by the signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of payment E) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – of the profit-sharing bonus. ESOP 2012 The Group set up an employee share ownership plan D) Redeemable share subscription or purchase (ESOP 2012) in the second half of 2012. On September 27, warrants (BSAAR) 2012, the Group issued 6,000,000 new shares reserved for During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees employees with a par value of €8, representing a share capital and corporate officers of the Group (at a price of €3.22 per increase of €153 million net of issue costs. The total cost of warrant). The exercise period commenced the date of listing of this employee share ownership plan in 2012 was €0.8 million, the BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market on July 23, attributable to the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism 2013 and terminates on the seventh anniversary of the issue for employees in countries where the set-up of an Employee date. Between July 23, 2009 and the date the warrants were Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds Commun de Placement Entreprise, admitted to trading on Euronext Paris, they could not be FCPE) was not possible or relevant. 160 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements F) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – IMPACT OF INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE ESOP 2014 OWNERSHIP PLANS The Group set up an employee share ownership plan The following table breaks down by type of incentive and (ESOP 2014) in the second half of 2014. On December 18, 2014, employee share ownership instrument, the expense recognized the Group issued 5,000,000 new shares reserved for employees in “Other operating income and expense” (including payroll with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of taxes and employer contributions) and the residual amount to €229 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee be amortized in future periods. share ownership plan in 2014 was €1.1 million, attributable to the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds Commun de Placement Entreprise, FCPE) was not possible or relevant. 2014 2015 Residual Residual amount to be amount to be Expense of amortized in Expense of amortized in in millions of euros Note the period future periods the period future periods Performance share plans 32 57 40 99 Other 4 3 2 1 TOTAL 7 36 60 42 100 4 G) Employee incentive instruments IGATE The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: 2015 Plan Vesting period One, two or three years for the market condition and three years for the internal condition Number of units at December 31, 2014 that may vest under the plan in respect of units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions Number of units subject to performance and presence conditions granted during the year 114,073 Number of units forfeited or cancelled during the year Number of units vested during the year Number of units at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions 114,073 Main market conditions at the grant date Risk-free interest rate 0.35% Expected dividend rate 1.60% Fair value in euros (per unit) €56.30 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 161 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements On July 1, 2015, in the context of the IGATE acquisition, TREASURY SHARES AND MANAGEMENT OF SHARE CAPITAL AND Capgemini exchanged IGATE Performance Share Awards (PSA) MARKET RISKS held by beneficiaries for Capgemini Performance Units (PUs): The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment X The number of PUs granted was calculated by multiplying the purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies. number of IGATE PSAs outstanding by the following ratio: At December 31, 2015, treasury shares were deducted from consolidated equity in the amount of €75 million. These consist of US$ 48 (i) 821,107 shares purchased between March and October 2015 (unit purchase price of IGATE shares paid by Capgemini) under the share buyback program and (ii) 224,440 shares relating €78.37 x 1.0824 to the implementation of the liquidity agreement (the associated (closing price of the Cap (€/US$ exchange rate on liquidity line is €14 million) and the contractual holding system for Gemini S.A. on April 24, April 24, 2015)) key employees of American activities. 2015) In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group is not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the X This calculation is equivalent to adjusting the number of PSAs value of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the by the exchange parity of the IGATE and Cap Gemini S.A share price do not impact the Consolidated Income Statement. shares in US$ on April 24, 2015. The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to X The vesting of PUs is subject to the attainment of internal maintain a strong capital base in view of supporting the and market performance conditions and the presence of the continued development of its business activities and delivering beneficiary in the Group at the vesting date: a return to shareholders, while adopting a prudent approach • The internal performance condition consists of an organic free to debt as evidenced by the use of the debt-to-equity ratio as cash flow objective for the period 2015 to 2017, as presented a key performance indicator (see Note 29, Off-balance sheet in the audited, published Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal commitments). At December 31, 2015, and following the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, with the maximum number of acquisition of IGATE, the Group had net debt* of €1,767 million units vesting for an aggregate amount of €2 billion. (compared with net cash and cash equivalents of €1,218 million • The market performance condition is based on the ability at December 31, 2014). In order to best manage the structure of the Cap Gemini share to outperform a reference basket of its capital, the Group can issue new shares, buy back its own comprising the CAC40 index and the following companies shares, adjust the dividend paid to shareholders or enter into in equal weighting: Accenture, CSC, Atos, Tieto, CGI Group, derivative instruments on its own shares. Infosys, Sopra, Cognizant. It is recalled that in October 2013, the Group sold a call option on X The vesting schedule is as follows: Cap Gemini S.A. shares to a bank counterparty. At December 31, 2015, the derivative instrument is recognized in equity in the • 25% of PUs on July 1, 2016, subject to presence and market amount of €65 million, after adjustment for the tax impact. performance conditions; * Net debt, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the Group is defined • 25% of PUs on July 1, 2017, subject to presence and market in Note 20, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents. performance conditions; • 25% of PUs on July 1, 2018, subject to presence and market CURRENCY RISK AND TRANSLATION GAINS AND LOSSES ON THE performance conditions; ACCOUNTS OF SUBSIDIARIES WITH A FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY OTHER THAN THE EURO • 25% of PUs on July 1, 2019, subject to presence and internal performance conditions. Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency X In addition, PUs vesting in the first three years are subject accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, the consolidated financial to a final adjustment clause tied to the change in the statements are particularly impacted by fluctuations in the US Cap Gemini S.A. share price between the vesting dates and dollar and the Indian rupee against the euro, generating a positive July 1, 2019. impact on translation reserves, mainly due to the appreciation of those same currencies against the euro during 2015. The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements are presented in Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group Structure. 162 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 12 Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the negative Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income Statement in where applicable, non-controlling interests) over the net amount “Other operating income and expense”. recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Where an acquisition confers control with remaining Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income Statement non-controlling interests (acquisition of less than 100%), the in “Other operating income and expense” in the year incurred. Group elects either to recognize goodwill on the full amount Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least of revalued net assets, including the share attributable to nonannually, or more frequently when events or changes in controlling interests (full goodwill method) or on the share in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. revalued net assets effectively acquired only (partial goodwill method). This choice is made on an individual transaction basis. Customer relationships Goodwill balances are allocated to the different cash-generating On certain business combinations, where the nature of the units (as defined in Note 14, Cash-generating units and asset customer portfolio held by the acquired entity and the nature impairment tests) based on the value in use contributed to each of the business performed should enable the acquired entity unit. to continue commercial relations with its customers as a result of efforts to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are When a business combination with non-controlling interests valued in intangible assets and amortized over the estimated provides for the grant of a put option to these non-controlling interests, an operating liability is recognized in the Consolidated term of contracts held in portfolio at the acquisition date. Licenses and software 4 Statement of Financial Position in the amount of the estimated exercise price of the put option granted to non-controlling Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted interests, through a reduction in reserves. Changes in this put ownership basis, as well as software and solutions developed option resulting from any changes in estimates or the unwinding internally and which have a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect of the discount are also recognized through reserves. Any on future results, are capitalized and amortized over three to additional acquisitions of non-controlling interests are considered five years. a transaction with shareholders and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured and no additional goodwill is recognized. The capitalized costs of software and solutions developed internally are costs that relate directly to their production, i.e. the salary costs of the staff that developed the relevant software. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 163 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Other Customer Licenses and intangible in millions of euros Goodwill relationships software assets Total GROSS VALUE At January 1, 2014 3,652 201 207 251 4,311 Translation adjustments 176 11 7 194 Acquisitions / Increase 24 24 Internal developments 20 20 Disposals / Decrease (13) (1) (14) Business combinations 8 1 13 22 Other movements (1) (2) (3) At December 31, 2014 3,835 213 236 270 4,554 Translation adjustments 221 18 (2) 2 239 Acquisitions / Increase 37 37 Internal developments 33 33 Disposals / Decrease (18) (1) (19) Business combinations (1) 3,092 576 27 111 3,806 Other movements 2 (1) 1 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 7,148 807 282 414 8,651 (2) ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2014 51 137 166 190 544 Translation adjustments 10 6 16 Charges and provisions 17 21 17 55 Disposals (12) (12) Business combinations 11 11 Other movements (2) (2) At December 31, 2014 51 164 190 207 612 Translation adjustments 2 5 (2) 5 Charges and provisions 40 43 26 20 129 Disposals (18) (1) (19) (1) Business combinations 19 3 22 Other movements (1) (1) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 93 212 214 229 748 NET VALUE At December 31, 2014 3,784 49 46 63 3,942 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 7,055 595 68 185 7,903 (1) The Business combinations line is related to the acquisition of IGATE (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure); (2) Goodwill is subject to impairment only. 164 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 13 Property, plant and equipment A) Property, plant and equipment Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each period end. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to disposal Position and corresponds to the historical cost of these items, gains and losses corresponding to the difference between the less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. No items selling price and the net carrying amount of the relevant asset. of property, plant and equipment have been revalued. Buildings B) Leases owned by the Group are measured based on the components approach. Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as operating Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic leases, and give rise to lease payments expensed as incurred benefits associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or over the lease term. bringing assets into compliance) is capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classified as a finance lease and is recognized as an asset at the lower of Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of future estimated useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated based minimum lease payments, with the related obligation recorded on acquisition cost less any residual value. in liabilities within borrowings. The asset is depreciated over the Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the following estimated useful lives: period during which it is expected to be used by the Group and the obligation is amortized over the lease term. Deferred tax is 4 recognized as appropriate. Buildings 20 to 40 years Fixtures and fittings 10 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years Vehicles 5 years Other equipment 5 years 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 165 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Land, buildings and fixtures and Computer in millions of euros fittings equipment Other PP&E Total GROSS VALUE At January 1, 2014 572 553 185 1,310 Translation adjustments 18 20 11 49 Acquisitions / Increase 37 94 21 152 Disposals / Decrease (27) (42) (8) (77) Business combinations 16 17 4 37 Other movements (7) (7) At December 31, 2014 616 635 213 1,464 Translation adjustments 7 12 6 25 Acquisitions / Increase 44 108 21 173 Disposals / Decrease (22) (70) (11) (103) Business combinations (1) 283 56 37 376 Other movements (1) (8) 1 (8) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 927 733 267 1,927 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2014 304 380 132 816 Translation adjustments 10 13 6 29 Charges and provisions 46 87 16 149 Disposals (21) (35) (7) (63) Business combinations 10 13 2 25 Other movements (7) (7) At December 31, 2014 349 451 149 949 Translation adjustments 6 8 4 18 Charges and provisions 53 100 22 175 Disposals (20) (52) (10) (82) Business combinations (1) 49 40 19 108 Other movements (5) 1 (4) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 437 542 185 1,164 NET VALUE At December 31, 2014 267 184 64 515 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 490 191 82 763 (1) The Business combinations line is related to the acquisition of IGATE (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure). PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PURCHASED UNDER FINANCE LEASE Net (in millions of euros) 2014 2015 At January 1 156 104 Translation adjustments 6 3 Acquisitions / Increase 46 45 Charges and provisions (41) (41) Business combinations 2 1 (1) Other movements (65) 1 AT DECEMBER 31 104 113 (1) Including €61 million following exercise of the lease finance option by S.A.R.L. Immobilière Les Fontaines, leading to the transfer of the asset from PP&E purchased under finance lease to assets owned outright. 166 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 14 Cash-generating units and asset impairment tests Cash-generating units The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less costs to sell of the cash-generating unit and its value in use: The cash-generating units identified by the Group represent geographic areas and lines of development and strategic X fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length investment. transaction and is determined with reference to the price in a binding agreement or the market price in recent and Asset impairment tests comparable transactions; Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a X value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to definite useful life are tested for impairment when there is an be derived from these cash-generating units. indication at the period end that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. Goodwill and assets with an The value in use of each cash-generating unit is measured using indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least once a year. the discounted future cash flow method, based on the various assumptions in the three-year strategic plan extrapolated over The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable a period of five years, including growth and profitability rates amount of each asset or group of assets generating cash flows considered reasonable. Discount rates (based on the weighted that are separate from the cash flows generated by other assets average cost of capital) and long-term growth rates for the or groups of assets (cash-generating units). period beyond five years are based in the majority of cases on the average of a representative sample of projections by financial analysts who use these indicators to value the Group. When the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is deducted from goodwill 4 to the extent possible and charged under “Other operating income and expenses.” GOODWILL PER CASH-GENERATING UNIT The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units breaks down as follows, noting that the goodwill arising on the IGATE acquisition of €3,092 million was allocated to the different Group cash-generating units at December 31, 2015 that will benefit from this acquisition. December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 Net carrying Net carrying in millions of euros Gross value Impairment amount Gross value Impairment amount North America 687 (7) 680 2,114 (8) 2,106 France 1,057 (1) 1,056 1,450 (1) 1,449 United Kingdom and Ireland 569 569 1,062 1,062 Benelux 808 (12) 796 992 (12) 980 Southern Europe 50 50 129 129 Nordic countries 159 159 295 295 Germany and Central Europe 263 (31) 232 407 (32) 375 Asia-Pacific 62 62 560 560 Latin America 180 180 139 (40) 99 GOODWILL 3,835 (51) 3,784 7,148 (93) 7,055 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 167 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements This goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2015 X discount rate: 9.0% for North America (9.0% in 2014), 14.7% in line with the Group procedure for verifying the value of such for Brazil (13.1% in 2014), 13.4% for India (12.5% in 2014), assets. 8.7% for the United Kingdom (8.9% in 2014), and 8.5% for the rest of the Group (9.3% in 2014). In 2015, the Group used estimates produced by nine financial analysts, all of whom were included in the 2014 group of financial No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2015 analysts. Long-term growth and discount rates used for Brazil as a result of these impairment tests, with the exception of the and India have been calculated separately, taking account of the Latin American area where an impairment of €40 million was specific characteristics of these countries. recognized to take account of the deteriorated outlook mainly due to the environment and economic situation in Brazil. The change in discount rates arises from the three components used for the calculation: risk-free rates, the risk premium and the Furthermore, an analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a volatility of the Cap Gemini S.A. share price in relation to changes combined change in the following key assumptions: in its listed market (“beta”). X +/2 points in the revenue growth rate for the first five years; Value in use is measured using the discounted future cash flow X +/1 point in the operating margin* rate for the first five years; method and based on the following main assumptions: X +/0.5 points in the discount rate; X number of years over which cash flows are estimated: five X +/0.5 points in the long-term growth rate, years, based on data taken from the three-year strategic plan, did not identify any recoverable amounts below the carrying with extrapolation of this data for the remaining period; amount for any cash-generating units, with the exception of the X long-term growth rate used to extrapolate to perpetuity final Latin America cash-generating unit where an impairment was year estimated cash flows: 8.0% for Brazil (5.5% in 2014), recorded for €40 million. 3.8% for India (stable on 2014) and 2.4% for the rest of the * Operating margin, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the Group Group (2.3% in 2014); is defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement. Note 15 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are: Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the recognized tax X recorded to take account of temporary differences between asset can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and their is reviewed at each period end. This amount is reduced to the tax basis; extent that it is no longer probable that additional taxable profit X recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, will be available against which to offset all or part of the deferred in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in tax assets to be utilized. Conversely, the carrying amount of equity in the period, depending on the underlying to which deferred tax assets will be increased when it becomes probable they relate; that future taxable profit will be available in the long-term against X measured taking account of known changes in tax rates (and which to offset tax losses not yet recognized. The probability of tax regulations) enacted or substantively enacted at the yearrecovering deferred tax assets is primarily assessed based on a end. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred taxes 10-year plan, taking account of the probability of realization of previously recognized in the Income Statement, in income future taxable profits. and expense recognized in equity or directly in equity are The main deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only recognized in the Income Statement, in income and expense if, the subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to offset current recognized in equity or directly in equity, respectively, in the tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred period in which these changes become effective. taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. 168 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements RECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets and movements therein break down as follows: Provisions for pensions and Other other postdeductible Tax loss carryemployment temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note forwards benefits differences tax assets At January 1, 2014 629 252 142 1,023 Business combinations 5 6 11 Translation adjustments 26 14 4 44 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 9 (58) (5) (4) (67) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 5 48 53 Other movements (3) 1 3 1 (1) At December 31, 2014 599 315 151 1,065 Business combinations 13 4 (65) (49) Translation adjustments 32 7 (15) 24 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 9 399 (13) 37 422 Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (2) 7 11 17 4 Other movements, including offset with deferred tax liabilities (95) (24) 50 (68) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 947 296 169 1,412 (1) Including amortizable goodwill in the United States. Recognized tax loss carry-forwards total €947 million at annual amortization charge has been deducted each year from December 31, 2015 and primarily concern the United States in US tax profits. Annual tax losses can be carried forward for a the amount of €639 million (US$ 695 million) and France in the period of 20 years. amount of €281 million. At December 31, 2015, the cumulative amount of US tax losses carried forward totaled €2,977 million (US$ 3,241 million). US DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS The deferred tax asset was remeasured at December 31, 2015 in The acquisition of Ernst & Young’s North American consulting the amount of US$ 528 million (€476 million) to US$ 695 million business in 2000 gave rise to the amortization for tax purposes, (€639 million). over a period of 15 years, of the difference between the Accordingly, unrecognized deferred tax assets at this date acquisition price of the business and the tax base of the assets represent a tax base of €1,324 million (US$ 1,441 million), that is and liabilities acquired. Since 2000 and up to May 2015, the deferred tax assets of €518 million (US$ 564 million). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 169 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2014 2015 Deferred tax on tax loss carry-forwards 1,188 729 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 150 14 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 1,338 743 EXPIRY DATES OF TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (TAXABLE BASE) 2014 2015 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Between 1 and 5 years 94 2 115 2 Between 6 and 10 years 1,335 28 1,460 31 Between 11 and 15 years 1,204 25 1,238 27 Beyond 15 years (definite expiry date) 461 9 289 6 Carried forward indefinitely 1,745 36 1,572 34 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (taxable base) 4,839 100 4,674 100 o/w recognized tax losses (taxable base) 1,550 32 2,570 55 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Deferred tax liabilities and movements therein break down as follows: Taxdeductible Other taxable goodwill Customer Amortized temporary Total deferred in millions of euros Note amortization relationships cost of bonds differences tax liabilities At January 1, 2014 54 21 5 78 158 Translation adjustments 4 1 5 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 9 1 (5) (14) (18) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 12 12 Other movements 1 1 At December 31, 2014 59 16 5 78 158 Business combinations 78 56 134 Translation adjustments 4 (9) (5) Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 9 1 (12) 4 (7) Other movements, including offset with deferred tax assets (7) (52) (59) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 64 66 5 86 221 170 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 16 Financial instruments Financial instruments consist of: X the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest rate recalculated at the measurement date based on current X financial assets, including other non-current assets, accounts market parameters. receivable, other current assets, cash management assets and cash and cash equivalents; Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been X financial liabilities, including longand short-term borrowings transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control and bank overdrafts, accounts payable, and other current over the instruments. payables and non-current liabilities; X derivative instruments. b) Derivative instruments a) Recognition of financial instruments Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange purchase and sale contracts (in the form of tunnels, where Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially recognized applicable), interest rate swaps and call options on own shares. in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at their initial fair value. Other derivative instruments The subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities Other derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair value. is based on either their fair value or amortized cost depending Except as described below in the case of instruments designated on their classification in the Consolidated Statement of Financial as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative Position. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which instruments, estimated based on market rates or data provided by bank counterparties, are recognized in the Income Statement at the period end. 4 an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. When operating or financial cash flow hedges are eligible for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedging Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net instruments are recognized firstly in “Income and expense of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective recognized in equity” and subsequently taken to operating profit interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments when the hedged item itself impacts the Income Statement. and repayments of principal and redemption premiums where applicable). Accrued interest (income and expense) is not c) Fair value measurement recorded on the basis of the financial instrument’s nominal Fair value measurement methods for financial and non-financial interest rate, but on the basis of its effective interest rate. Financial assets and liabilities as defined above are classified according to assets measured at amortized cost are subject to impairment the following three fair value levels: tests as soon as there are indicators of a loss in value. Any loss in value is recognized in the Income Statement. X Level 1: fair values measured based on quoted prices (unadjusted) observed in active markets for identical assets Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on or liabilities; subsequent dates in accordance with the methods described below. These methods draw on the following interest rate X Level 2: fair values measured using inputs other than quoted definitions: prices in active markets, that are observable either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); X the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal X Level 3: fair values of assets or liabilities measured using inputs interest rate on borrowings; that are not based on observable market data (unobservable X the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly inputs). discounts the estimated cash flows through the expected As far as possible, the Group applies Level 1 measurement term of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter methods. period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability at initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes into account all fees paid or received, transaction costs, and, where applicable, premiums to be paid and received; 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 171 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT CLASSIFICATION AND FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY The following table presents the net carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of financial instruments broken down according to the three classification levels defined above (except for financial instruments where the net carrying amount represents a reasonable approximation of fair value). Net carrying amount Fair value December 31, 2015 (in millions of euros) Notes Fair value Amortized cost Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Shares in non-consolidated companies 17 4 4 Shares in associates 17 1 1 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 17 96 Other non-current assets 17 128 Asset derivative instruments 17 19 310 310 Accounts and notes receivables 18 3,055 Other current assets 19 429 Cash management assets 20 116 116 Cash and cash equivalents 20 1,950 1,950 Financial liabilities Bonds 20 3,633 3,768 Obligations under finance leases 20 97 Draw-dawns on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 20 81 Other non-current liabilities 25 182 Liability derivative instruments 25 27 185 185 Accounts and notes payable 26 2,724 Other current payables 27 59 Bank overdrafts 20 2 2 Note 17 Other non-current assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2014 2015 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 71 96 Derivative instruments 22 141 225 Non-current tax receivables 39 88 Other 48 45 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 21 299 454 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments consist as part of the centralized management of currency risk in the mainly of “aides à la construction” (building aid program) loans amount of €63 million (the current portion amounts to €81 million, and security deposits and guarantees relating in part to leases. see Note 19, “Other current assets”). Derivative instruments consist of (i) the call option on own shares At December 31, 2015, non-current tax receivables include purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on October 18, 2013, valued at research tax credit receivables and competitiveness and €162 million at December 31, 2015 (€95 million at December 31, employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount of 2014) and (ii) the fair value of derivative instruments contracted €58 million (€39 million at December 31, 2014). 172 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 18 Accounts and notes receivable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2014 2015 Accounts receivable 1,834 1,924 Provisions for doubtful accounts (20) (15) Accrued income 943 1,037 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 21 2,757 2,946 Capitalized costs on projects 21 92 109 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 2,849 3,055 Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days revenue: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2014 2015 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 21 2,757 2,946 Advances from customers and billed in advance 21 (776) (739) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE 1,981 2,207 In number of days’ annual revenue (1) (1) This ratio is adjusted to take account of the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. 67 64 4 In 2015, receivables totaling €43 million were assigned with transfer of credit risk as defined by IAS 39 to a financial institution (€33 million in 2014) and were therefore derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015. AGED ANALYSIS OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE The low bad debt ratio reflects the fact that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the services provided. At end-2015, past due balances totaled €405 million, representing 21.2% of accounts receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts. The breakdown is as follows: > 30 days and in millions of euros < 30 days < 90 days > 90 days Net accounts receivable 249 92 64 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 13.1% 4.8% 3.3% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from clients and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit which are individually analyzed and monitored. risk. The economic environment could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable CREDIT RISK from these clients. However, the Group does not consider that any of its clients, business sectors or geographic areas present The Group’s 5 largest clients contribute around 11% of Group a significant credit risk that could materially impact the financial revenues (down on 2014). The top 10 clients collectively account position of the Group as a whole. for 17% of Group revenues. The solvency of these major clients 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 173 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 19 Other current assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2014 2015 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 219 167 Prepaid expenses 214 205 Derivative instruments 22 36 85 Other 43 57 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 21 512 514 At December 31, 2015, Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax include research tax credit receivables and competitiveness and employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount of €37 million (€52 million at December 31, 2014), after recognition of research tax credit income deducted from operating expenses of €26 million (€22 million in 2014). Note 20 Net debt / net cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated Net cash and cash equivalents or net debt comprise cash and Statement of Cash Flows consist of short-term investments and cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management cash at bank less bank overdrafts, and also include the fair value assets (assets presented separately in the Consolidated of hedging instruments relating to these items. Statement of Financial Position due to their characteristics), less shortand long-term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact of hedging instruments when these relate to borrowings and own shares. in millions of euros Note 2014 2015 Short-term investments 1,668 1,107 Cash at bank 473 843 Bank overdrafts (1) (2) Cash and cash equivalents 21 2,140 1,948 Cash management assets 90 116 Bonds (858) (3,107) Obligations under finance leases (56) (54) Long-term borrowings (914) (3,161) Bonds (2) (526) Obligations under finance leases (49) (43) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net (50) (81) Short-term borrowings (101) (650) Borrowings (1,015) (3,811) Derivative instruments (1) 3 (20) (NET DEBT) / NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,218 (1,767) (1) Including the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, of the call option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on October 18, 2013 and of the 5-year EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps set-up in June 2015 in respect of the IGATE acquisition financing. 174 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS b) “ORNANE 2013” Bond issue At December 31, 2015, short-term investments mainly consist On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini S.A. launched an offering of of money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit and term bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares bank deposits, paying interest at standard market rates. (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numéraire et/ou en Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) and maturing on January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoy all rights from October 25, CASH MANAGEMENT ASSETS 2013. Cash management assets consist of capitalization contracts The total nominal amount of the issue was €400 million, with insurance companies which may be cancelled by Cap comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal value of €67.13 Gemini S.A. at any time without penalty, as well as marketable each, representing an issue premium of 42.5% compared with securities held by certain IGATE group companies which do not the Company benchmark share price during the relevant period. meet all the classification criteria defined by ESMA (European Securities and Markets Authority) for money market mutual funds, On October 18, 2013, the Company purchased a call option particularly with regards to the average maturity of the portfolio. on its own shares aimed at neutralizing the potential dilution These funds may, however, be redeemed at any time without related to the ORNANE 2013 bond issue. In addition, and in penalty. order to optimize the cost of the Group’s financial resources, the Company sold a call option also on its own shares but with a higher strike price. Together, these two transactions synthetically BORROWINGS enhance the effective dilution threshold of the ORNANEs by approximately 5%. A) Bonds The bonds will not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds). a) July 1, 2015 Bond issue During the period from October 25, 2013 to December 31, 2016 On June 24, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a “triple tranche” (inclusive), bondholders may only exercise their share conversion bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: rights in the limited circumstances listed in the prospectus. From January 1, 2017 (inclusive), bondholders may exercise their 4 X 2015 Bond issue (July 2018): share conversion rights at any time up to the eighteenth trading The nominal amount of this tranche is €500 million, comprising day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019. 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds On the exercise by bondholders of their share conversion rights, mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of 3 month Cap Gemini S.A. may present, at its initiative, either: (i) a cash Euribor + 85bp, revised quarterly (issue price 100%). amount up to the nominal value of the bonds and new and/or X 2015 Bond issue (July 2020): existing shares thereafter, where applicable; or (ii) only new and/ The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,250 million, or existing shares. comprising 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds will be redeemed at par on January 1, 2019 if share The bonds mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon conversion rights are not exercised by bondholders. of 1.75% (issue price 99.853%). The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early X 2015 Bond issue (July 2023): repayment and pari passu clauses. The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,000 million, comprising 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. Given the settlement terms of the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, an The bonds mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon embedded conversion option is recognized in “Other non-current of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). liabilities”, with fair value movements taken to profit or loss. The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches may be redeemed before In parallel and given its terms and conditions, the call option on these dates at the initiative of Cap Gemini S.A., subject to certain own shares purchased on October 18, 2013 is recognized in conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly assets. Fair value movements are taken to profit and loss and concerning the minimum redemption price. offset those on the embedded conversion option. These three bond issues are also subject to standard early The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 under reference number n°13-557. The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under reference number n°15-318. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 175 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements c) 2011 Bond issue Early repayment may also be requested by any bondholder, On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a bond subject to the occurrence of certain events and particularly issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all failure to pay sums due in respect of the bond issue or to comply rights from November 29, 2011. with other obligations set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a The total nominal amount of the issue was €500 million, minimum threshold), liquidation or dissolution. comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating to 6.50% in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s would not constitute an early repayment event. credit rating. Furthermore, Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. will rank pari passu with all other marketable bonds issued by They may be redeemed before this date at the initiative of the the Company. Company, subject to certain conditions set out in the issue The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum redemption prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under price. Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or reference number n°11-546. part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company, provided this change in control is accompanied by a downgrading of the Company’s financial rating. IMPACT OF BONDS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 2015 2011 “ORNANE 2011 “ORNANE 2015 2015 2015 Bond issue 2013” Bond issue 2013” Bond issue Bond issue Bond issue At December 31 (in millions of euros) bonds bonds (July 2018) (July 2020) (July 2023) Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a 95 n/a 162 n/a n/a n/a Debt component at amortized cost, including accrued interest 500 360 501 370 500 1,255 1,007 Effective interest rate 5.5% 2.7% 5.5% 2.7% 1.0% 1.9% 2.6% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 27 9 27 10 2 12 13 Nominal interest rate 5.3% 0.0% 5.3% 0.0% 0.8% 1.8% 2.5% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 26 26 2 11 13 FAIR VALUE OF BONDS 2014 2015 2011 “ORNANE 2011 “ORNANE 2015 2015 2015 Bond issue 2013” Bond issue 2013” Bond issue Bond issue Bond issue At December 31 (in millions of euros) bonds bonds (July 2018) (July 2020) (July 2023) Fair value 548 387 525 391 506 1,293 1,053 Market rate 0.4% 0.8% 0.2% 0.8% 0.4% 1.2% 1.9% B) Obligations under finance leases Earliest date of Latest expiry Effective December 31, in millions of euros leases date interest rate 2015 Obligations under finance leases: Computer equipment and other fixed assets 2010 2020 4.1% 97 o/w long-term obligations 54 o/w short-term obligations 43 176 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements C) Breakdown of borrowings by currency At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2015 Other Other in millions of euros Euro currencies Total Euro currencies Total 2011 Bond issue 500 500 501 501 “ORNANE 2013” bonds 360 360 370 370 2015 Bond issue (July 2018) 500 500 2015 Bond issue (July 2020) 1,255 1,255 2015 Bond issue (July 2023) 1,007 1,007 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 1 49 50 81 81 Obligations under finance leases 41 64 105 52 45 97 Bank overdrafts 1 1 2 2 BORROWINGS 903 113 1,016 3,687 126 3,813 Obligations under finance leases are mainly denominated in pound sterling in the amount of €25 million (€39 million at December 31, 2014) and in US dollars in the amount of €15 million (€16 million at December 31, 2014). D) Effective Interest Rate (EIR) In 2015, the effective interest rate on the Group’s average credit rating to BBB by Standard & Poor’s on April 27, 2015 after the announcement of the acquisition of IGATE, the margin 4 outstanding borrowings was 2.6% (4.3% in 2014). At applicable is now 0.45% and the fee on undrawn amounts is December 31, 2015, 86% of the Group’s borrowings are at fixed 0.1575%. rates (98% in 2014) and the remainder is at floating rates. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The E) Syndicated credit facility negotiated by other main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular Cap Gemini S.A. with respect to certain financial ratios, are detailed in Note 29, On July 30, 2014, the Group signed with a syndicate of 18 banks Off-balance sheet commitments. a €750 million multi-currency credit facility, maturing on July 30, This credit facility had not been drawn at December 31, 2015. 2019. In the event of exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two one-year extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second years, respectively, the maturity of the new NET DEBT / NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BY MATURITY AT REDEMPTION VALUE facility will be extended by a maximum of two additional years. Following the exercise of the first one-year extension option, the The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted maturity of this credit facility was extended to July 28, 2020. value of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating The initial margin on this credit facility was 0.45% (excluding the to the 2011 and 2015 bond issues and the “ORNANE 2013” fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion bonds were estimated based on contractual nominal interest of the facility drawn). This margin may be adjusted upwards or rates and assuming the bonds would be redeemed in full at downwards according to the credit rating of Cap Gemini S.A. The maturity. The contractual cash flows associated with “Obligations facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% under finance leases” represent contractual repayments of the of the margin. Following the downgrade of Cap Gemini S.A.’s liability. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 177 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years At December 31, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 2016 1,948 1,948 1,948 Cash management assets 2016 116 116 116 2011 Bond issue 2016 (501) (526) (526) “ORNANE 2013” bonds 2019 (370) (400) (400) 2015 Bond issue (July 2018) 2018 (500) (511) (4) (4) (503) 2015 Bond issue (July 2020) 2020 (1,255) (1,360) (22) (22) (1,316) 2015 Bond issue (July 2023) 2023 (1,007) (1,200) (25) (25) (75) (1,075) Obligations under finance leases 2016 to 2020 (97) (103) (47) (33) (23) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 2016 to 2020 (81) (158) (91) (17) (50) Borrowings (3,811) (4,258) (715) (101) (2,367) (1,075) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (20) (NET DEBT) (1,767) (2,194) 1,349 (101) (2,367) (1,075) Au December 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2,140 2,140 2,140 Cash management assets 2015 90 90 90 2011 Bond issue 2016 (500) (552) (26) (526) “ORNANE 2013” bonds 2019 (360) (400) (400) Obligations under finance leases 2015 to 2019 (105) (112) (53) (34) (25) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings 2015 (50) (52) (52) Borrowings (1,015) (1,116) (131) (560) (425) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a 3 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,218 1,114 2,099 (560) (425) NET DEBT / NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUIDITY NET DEBT / NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CREDIT RISK RISK Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or The financial liabilities whose repayment could expose the Group counterparty risk mainly consist of financial investments: in to liquidity risk are mainly the bond issues performed in 2015, the accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested convertible bonds (“OCEANE 2013”) and the 2011 bond issue. in equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities To manage the liquidity risk that may result from financial liabilities (certificates of deposit), (ii) term deposits, (iii) capitalization becoming due and payable, at the contractual due date or early, contracts or (iv) short-term monetary market mutual funds, the Group has implemented a conservative financing policy subject to minimum credit rating and diversification rules. mainly based on: At December 31, 2015, short-term investments totaled X prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of €1,107 million and comprise mainly (i) monetary market mutual any clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; funds (FCP) meeting the criteria defined by the ESMA (European Securities and Market Authority) for classification in the “monetary X maintaining a high level of available funds at all times category”; and (ii) negotiable debt securities and term deposits (€2,066 million at December 31, 2015), which could be maturing within three months or immediately available, issued increased by a multi-currency syndicated credit facility of by highly rated companies or financial institutions (minimum €750 million (undrawn at December 31, 2015); rating of A2/P2 or equivalent). Consequently, these short-term X actively managing the due dates of financial liabilities in order investments do not expose the Group to any material credit risk. to limit the concentration of borrowings’ maturities; X using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders. 178 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 21 Cash ﬂows The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the yearresulting from the translation of cash flows relating to foreign on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing and currency assets and liabilities at the year-end exchange rate are financing activities. shown in “Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses At December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents totaled NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES €1,948 million (see Note 20, Net debt / Net cash and cash In 2015, net cash from operating activities totaled €1,004 million equivalents), down €192 million on December 31, 2014 (compared with €815 million in 2014) and resulted from: (€2,140 million). Excluding the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents of €26 million, this X cash flows from operations before net finance costs and decrease is €218 million. Cash flow impacts are shown in the income tax in the amount of €1,301 million; Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. X payment of current income taxes in the amount of €137 million; X an increase in working capital requirements, generating a negative cash impact of €160 million. Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: 4 Statement of Cash Working capital requirement components (Consolidated Neutralization of items Flows Statement of Financial Position) with no cash impact items Reclassifications (2) Foreign and Non Impact Net exchanges December 31, December 31, Net WCR of WCR profit change in Group in millions of euros Notes 2014 2015 impact items (1) items impact impact structure Amount Accounts and notes receivable, excl. capitalized costs on projects 18 2,757 2,946 (189) (9) (198) 41 221 64 Capitalized costs on projects 18 92 109 (17) (17) 6 1 (10) Advances from customers and billed in advance 18 (776) (739) (37) (37) (24) (25) (86) Change in accounts and notes receivable, advances from customers, amounts billed in advance and capitalized costs on projects (243) (9) (252) 23 197 (32) Accounts and notes payable (accounts payable) 26 (1,015) (1,015) (2) (2) (18) (60) (80) Changes in accounts and notes payable (2) (2) (18) (60) (80) Other non-current assets 17 299 454 (155) 140 (15) 16 1 Other current receivables 19 512 514 (2) (47) (49) 6 (4) 44 (3) Other non-current liabilities 25 (254) (364) 110 (141) (31) 36 6 11 Accounts and notes payable (excluding accounts payable) 26 (1,528) (1,709) 181 35 216 (21) (152) 43 Other current payables 27 (148) (62) (86) (8) (94) (3) 18 (21) (100) Change in other receivables/payables 48 (21) 27 3 29 (107) (48) CHANGE IN OPERATING (3) WORKING CAPITAL (227) 3 34 30 (160) (1) Non-working capital items comprise cash flows relating to investing and financing activities, payment of the income tax expense and non-cash items; (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities; (3) Change in Group structure into the consolidation scope reflects the acquisition of the IGATE group. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 179 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The main components of net cash used in investing activities of Net cash inflows as a result of financing activities totaled €3,586 million (compared with €153 million in 2014) reflect: €2,364 million (compared with cash outflows of €219 million in X cash outflows relating to the acquisition of the IGATE group net 2014) and mainly comprised: of cash transferred in of €3,392 million; X the 2015 bond issues for a net amount of €2,735 million; X cash outflows net of disposals of €109 million, primarily relating X cash outflows of €615 million to redeem certain IGATE debts to acquisitions of computer hardware for client projects or the including €315 million (including premiums) in respect of a bond partial renewal of IT installations and the renovation, extension issue of a principal amount of US$325 million and €212 million and refurbishment of office space; for the repayment of a bank loan with an outstanding principal X cash outflows of €70 million relating to acquisitions of intangible of US$234 million (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software for customer Group structure); projects or for internal use and internally generated intangible X share capital increases of €564 million following the issue assets (see Note 12, Goodwill and intangible assets). of new shares, including €500 million in the context of the financing of the IGATE group acquisition (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure); X payment of the 2014 dividend of €198 million; X cash outflows of €58 million to reimburse obligations under finance leases. ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW Organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost. At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2014 2015 Cash flows from operations 815 1,004 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (150) (198) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8 19 Acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) (142) (179) Interest paid (35) (38) Interest received 30 28 Net interest cost (5) (10) ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW 668 815 180 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 22 Currency, interest rate and counterparty risk management CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT b) Currency risk and hedging financial transactions The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations A) Exposure to currency risk and currency risk in respect of: management policy X inter-company financing transactions, mainly within the parent a) Currency risk and hedging operating transactions company, these flows generally being hedged (in particular The growing use of offshore production centers located in India, using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts); Poland and Latin America, exposes the Group to currency risk X fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose with respect to some of its production costs. functional currency is not the euro. The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and c) Sensitivity of revenues and the operating margin* to managing these currency risks, due in the majority to internal fluctuations in the main currencies flows with India. The definition of the hedging policy and the A 10% fluctuation in the US dollar-euro exchange rate would management of operational currency risk is centralized at parent trigger a corresponding 2.5% change in revenues and a 3.2% company level. Currency risk is managed primarily based on change in the operating margin* amount. Similarly, a 10% periodic reporting by subsidiaries of their exposure to currency fluctuation in the pound sterling-euro exchange rate would trigger risk over the coming 1 to 3 years. On this basis, the parent a corresponding 1.8% change in revenues and a 2.3% change company acting as an internal bank, grants internal currency in the operating margin* amount. guarantees to subsidiaries and enters into currency hedges with its bank counterparties, primarily through forward purchase and B) Hedging derivatives sale foreign exchange contracts. These hedging transactions are generally recorded in accordance Amounts hedged at December 31, 2015 using forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the 4 with cash flow hedge accounting rules. parent company with respect to the centralized management of currency risk on operating transactions and inter-company financing transactions. * Operating margin, the alternative performance indicator monitored by the Group is defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement. At December 31, 2015, the euro-equivalent value of forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: > 6 months and in millions of euros < 6 months < 12 months > 12 months Total Operating transactions 1,074 922 1,076 3,072 o/w ■ fair value hedge 273 273 ■ cash flow hedge 801 922 1,076 2,799 Financial transactions 314 46 1,010 1,370 o/w ■ fair value hedge 314 46 91 451 ■ cash flow hedge for the interest rate component and fair value hedge for the exchange rate component 919 919 TOTAL 1,388 968 2,086 4,442 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions The maturities of the hedges range from 1 to 36 months and the mainly comprise forward purchase and sale foreign exchange main counterparty is Cap Gemini S.A. for a euro-equivalent value contracts maturing between 2016 and 2018 with an aggregate of €2,924 million. euro-equivalent value at closing exchange rates of €3,072 million Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions concern (€2,322 million at December 31, 2014). The hedges were Cap Gemini S.A. in the amount of €1,370 million at December 31, chiefly taken out in respect of transactions in Indian rupee 2015. They mainly comprise hedged inter-company loans for (INR 128,050 million), US dollars (USD 882 million), Polish zloty €1,356 million (€115 million at December 31, 2014), including (PLN 659 million) and Pound Sterling (GBP 82 million). €919 million in respect of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross-currency swaps (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure). The residual balance primarily corresponds to loans denominated in US dollars and in Swedish krona. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 181 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The Group’s overall exposure to currency risk on assets/liabilities primarily concerns the Group’s internal financing activity. Swedish Indian Pound Other At December 31, 2015 (in millions of euros) US dollar krona rupee Euro sterling currencies Total Assets 377 8 1 65 58 105 614 Liabilities (1,062) (135) (96) (89) (37) (57) (1,476) Net exposure in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (862) Hedging derivatives 766 NET EXPOSURE (96) C) Fair value of hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives are recorded in the following accounts: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2014 2015 Other non-current assets 17 141 225 Other current assets 19 36 85 Other non-current liabilities 25 (95) (182) Other current payables 27 (1) (3) Fair value of hedging derivatives, net 81 125 Relating to: ■ operating transactions 78 145 ■ financial transactions 3 (20) The main hedging derivatives comprise: non-current assets” in the amount of €63 million and in “Other X the call option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. current assets” in the amount of €81 million; on October 18, 2013 recorded in “Other non-current assets”, X the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” valued at €162 million at December 31, 2015 (€95 million at bonds recorded in “Other non-current liabilities”, valued December 31, 2014); at €162 million at December 31, 2015 (€95 million at X the fair value of derivative instruments contracted as part of the December 31, 2014); centralized management of currency risk recorded in “Other X EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps recorded in “Other non-current liabilities” valued at €20 million at December 31, 2015. The change in the period in derivative instruments hedging operating transactions recorded in income and expense recognized in equity breaks down as follows: in millions of euros 2015 Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity at January 1 69 Amounts reclassified to operating profit in respect of transactions performed (4) Fair value of derivative instruments hedging future transactions 59 HEDGING DERIVATIVES RECORDED IN INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31 124 182 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT the Group’s net finance costs in 2015. Conversely, a 100-basis point fall in interest rates would have had an estimated €10 million A) Interest rate risk management policy negative impact on the Group’s net finance costs. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in light of its cash position: at December 31, 2015, the Group C) Fair value of interest rate derivatives had €2,066 million in cash and cash equivalents, mainly An interest rate swap contract covering 50% of a finance lease invested at floating rates (or failing this, at fixed rates for periods taken out by S.A.R.L. Immobilière Les Fontaines (owner of of less than or equal to 3 months), and €3,813 million in gross Capgemini University) was entered into by the latter in 2003. This indebtedness principally at fixed rates (86%) (see Note 20, Net swap contract matured on July 31, 2014. debt / Net cash and cash equivalents). The high proportion of fixed-rate borrowings is due to the weight of bond issues in gross COUNTERPARTY RISK MANAGEMENT indebtedness. In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and B) Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis interest rate risks as described above, the Group also enters As 86% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates in 2015, any into hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. increase or decrease in interest rates would have had a negligible Accordingly, counterparty risk can be deemed not material. impact on the Group’s net finance costs. At December 31, 2015, the Group’s main counterparties for managing currency and interest rate risk are Barclays, BNP Based on average levels of floating-rate short-term investments Paribas, CA CIB, Citibank, Commerzbank, HSBC, ING, JP and cash management assets, a 100-basis point rise in interest Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland, rates would have had a positive impact of around €10 million on Santander, and Société Générale. Note 23 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 4 A) Defined contribution plans The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid consistent with the currency and term of the post-employment by employees and Group companies to the organizations benefit obligation. responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations are limited to the payment of such contributions which are expensed For funded plans, only the estimated funding deficit is covered as incurred. The Group’s obligation under these plans is recorded by a provision. in “Accounts and notes payable”. Defined contribution plans Current and past service costs corresponding to an increase are operated in most European countries (France, the United in the obligation are recorded within “Operating expenses” of Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Central Europe, Nordic the period. countries, Italy and Spain), in the United States and in the AsiaPacific area. Gains or losses on the curtailment, settlement or transfers of defined benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other operating B) Defined benefit pension plans income” or “Other operating expenses.” Defined benefit pension plans consist of either: The impact of discounting defined benefit obligations as well as X unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the the expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other Group and the related obligation is covered by a provision financial income” or “Other financial expense.” corresponding to the present value of future benefit payments. Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes Estimates are based on regularly reviewed internal and in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. external assumptions. These unfunded plans correspond differences between projected actuarial assumptions and actual mainly to retirement termination payments and healthcare data) on the amount of the benefit obligation or the value of assistance plans; plan assets. They are recognized in full in “Income and expense X funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by recognized directly in equity” in the year in which they arise (with external funds. Group contributions to these external funds the related tax effect). are made in accordance with the specific regulations in force in each country. Obligations under these plans are determined by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement and each of these units is valued separately in order to obtain the amount of the Group’s final obligation. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 183 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements BREAKDOWN OF PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits comprise obligations under funded defined benefit plans (particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada) and obligations primarily relating to retirement termination payments (particularly in France, Germany, Sweden and India). Movements during the last two fiscal years were as follows: Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros Notes 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 3,428 4,432 (2,466) (3,138) 962 1,294 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 225 204 (116) (120) 109 84 Service cost 6 69 71 69 71 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers (32) (32) Interest cost 8 156 165 (116) (120) 40 45 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 618 (177) (362) 83 256 (94) Change in actuarial gains and losses 618 (177) 618 (177) Impact of changes in financial assumptions 603 (101) 603 (101) Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 21 21 Experience adjustments (6) (76) (6) (76) (1) Return on plan assets (362) 83 (362) 83 Other 161 39 (194) (107) (33) (68) Contributions paid by employees 7 7 (7) (7) Benefits paid to employees (98) (141) 89 130 (9) (11) Contributions paid (96) (99) (96) (99) Translation adjustments 235 170 (179) (130) 56 40 Business combinations 15 3 (1) 15 2 Other movements 2 (1) 1 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 4,432 4,498 (3,138) (3,282) 1,294 1,216 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. ANALYSIS OF THE CHANGE IN PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND X 7,889 former and current employees not accruing pensionable OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS service (8,096 at December 31, 2014); A) United Kingdom X 2,491 retirees (2,417 at December 31, 2014). In the United Kingdom, post-employment benefits primarily The plans are subject to the supervision of the UK Pension consist of defined benefit pension plans. The plans are Regulator; the funding schedules for these plans are determined administered within trusts which are legally separate from the by an independent actuary as part of actuarial valuations usually employer. They are governed by a board of directors comprising carried out every three years. Capgemini UK Plc., the employer, independent trustees and representatives of the employer. gives firm commitments to the trustees regarding the funding of any deficits identified, over an agreed period. The plans provide pensions and lump sums to members on retirement and to their dependents on death. Members who The responsibility to fund these plans lies with the employer. The leave service before retirement are entitled to a deferred pension. defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to the increase The main plan is closed to the accrual of benefits for all current in liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy employees since March 31, 2015. In exchange, these individuals of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more were given the opportunity to join a defined contribution pension generally, a downturn in financial markets. plan. The average maturity of pension plans in the United Kingdom Employees covered by defined benefit pension plans break down is 22 years. as follows: In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain X 964 current employees accruing pensionable service (995 at client contracts in full or in part could require Capgemini UK December 31, 2014); Plc. to bring forward the funding of any deficits in respect of the employees concerned. 184 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 2,512 3,252 (1,911) (2,480) 601 772 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 130 105 (89) (95) 41 10 Service cost 14 15 14 15 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers (35) (35) Interest cost 116 125 (89) (95) 27 30 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 468 (156) (329) 84 139 (72) Change in actuarial gains and losses 468 (156) 468 (156) Impact of changes in financial assumptions 456 (89) 456 (89) Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 11 11 Experience adjustments 1 (67) 1 (67) Return on plan assets (1) (329) 84 (329) 84 Other Contributions paid by employees 142 1 129 1 (151) (1) (142) (1) (9) (13) 4 Benefits paid to employees (54) (73) 54 73 Contributions paid (54) (62) (54) (62) Translation adjustments 195 201 (149) (152) 46 49 Other movements (1) (1) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION (2) AT DECEMBER 31 3,252 3,330 (2,480) (2,633) 772 697 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate; (2) The year-on-year decrease in the present value of the obligation is mainly due to the impact of an increase in the benchmark discount rate (3.6% to 3.8%). In 2015, the curtailment following a plan change represents income of €35 million due to the decrease in the present value of the benefit obligation for the main Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan after an agreement was reached with certain members regarding a reduction in their defined benefits. a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2015 Discount rate 3.6 3.8 Salary inflation rate 3.1 2.4-3.2 Inflation rate 3.1 3.2 In 2015, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in the United Kingdom. b) Plan assets in millions of euros 2014 2015 Shares 1,363 55% 1,421 54% Bonds and hedging assets 1,085 44% 1,168 44% Other 32 1% 44 2% TOTAL 2,480 100% 2,633 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 185 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Bonds and hedging assets consist of bonds and bank loans. A portion of these investments seeks to hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists in UK government bonds (GILT), owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2015 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (328) 381 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 256 (260) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (43) 44 d) Future contributions The plans are subject to regular actuarial valuations performed Contributions to defined benefit pension funds in the United at least every three years. In accordance with local regulations, Kingdom in respect of 2016 are estimated at €60 million, including the non-renewal of certain client contracts in full or in part could the funding of pension plan deficits over the period defined with require the Canadian entities to bring forward the funding of any the trustees as part of the regular actuarial valuations. deficits in respect of the employees concerned. In Canada, employees covered by defined benefit pension plans B) Canada break down as follows: In Canada, post-employment benefits consist of defined benefit X 782 current employees accruing pensionable service (809 at pension plans and other pension and similar plans. The plan December 31, 2014); assets are held in trust separately from the employer’s assets. Nonetheless, the responsibility to fund the plans lies with the X 79 former and current employees not accruing pensionable employer. The plans expose the Group to the increase in liabilities service (79 at December 31, 2014); that could result from changes in the life expectancy of members, X 275 retirees (262 at December 31, 2014). fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more generally, a downturn in financial markets. The average maturity of pension plans in Canada is 20 years. Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 499 647 (403) (470) 96 177 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 42 65 (20) (19) 22 46 Service cost 17 23 17 23 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers 15 15 Interest cost 25 27 (20) (19) 5 8 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity 102 (9) (24) (4) 78 (13) Change in actuarial gains and losses 102 (9) 102 (9) Impact of changes in financial assumptions 103 (10) 103 (10) Impact of changes in demographic assumptions 10 10 Experience adjustments (11) 1 (11) 1 Return on plan assets (1) (24) (4) (24) (4) Other 4 (79) (23) 45 (19) (34) Contributions paid by employees 4 4 (4) (4) Benefits paid to employees (26) (36) 25 35 (1) (1) Contributions paid (25) (19) (25) (19) Translation adjustments 26 (47) (19) 33 7 (14) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 647 624 (470) (448) 177 176 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. 186 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2015 Discount rate 4.0 4.0 Salary inflation rate 3.0 2.8 Inflation rate 2.0 2.0 In 2015, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in Canada. b) Plan assets in millions of euros 2014 2015 Shares 287 61% 268 60% Bonds and hedging assets 172 37% 170 38% Other 11 2% 10 2% TOTAL 470 100% 448 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, mainly in North America. Bonds primarily comprise Canadian government bonds. 4 c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2015 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (53) 61 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 38 (34) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (2) 2 d) Future contributions Contributions to the Canadian defined benefit pension funds in respect of 2016 are estimated at €15 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits defined as part of the regular actuarial valuations. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 187 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Current and non-current provisions A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) Financial Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group has a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past Provisions are discounted when the impact of the time value of event; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying money is material. Movements in current and non-current provisions break down as follows: in millions of euros 2014 2015 At January 1 58 72 Charge 25 64 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (12) (12) Reversals (surplus provisions) (14) (18) Other 15 12 AT DECEMBER 31 72 118 At December 31, 2015, current provisions (€90 million) and non-current provisions (€28 million) mainly concern risks relating to projects and contracts amounting to €99 million (€56 million at December 31, 2014) and risks relating to tax and labor disputes amounting to €19 million (€16 million at December 31, 2014). Note 25 Other non-current liabilities At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2014 2015 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 27 21 Derivative instruments 22 95 182 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 120 108 Non-current tax liabilities 18 Other 12 35 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 21 254 364 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for €108 million of put options granted to Caixa Participacões and EMC in 2012 and 2013 on their investments in CPM Braxis and earn-outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions. Derivative instruments primarily consist of the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, valued at €162 million at December 31, 2015 and EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps valued at €20 million at December 31, 2015. Note 26 Accounts and notes payable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2014 2015 Accounts payable 1,015 1,015 Accrued taxes other than income tax 386 390 Personnel costs 1,128 1,303 Other 14 16 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 21 2,543 2,724 188 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 27 Other current payables At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2014 2015 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 15 11 Derivative instruments 22 1 3 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 90 8 Other 42 40 OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES 21 148 62 Early November 2015, the Group purchased the investment held by certain minority shareholders in CPM Braxis, in accordance with an agreement signed on the entry of the Group into the share capital of CPM Braxis in October 2010, for an amount of €76 million. Following this transaction, the Group now holds a stake of 75.72% in CPM Braxis. Note 28 Number of employees AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2014 2015 4 Employees % Employees % North America 10,064 7 12,627 8 France 22,667 17 23,558 15 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,007 7 8,759 5 Benelux 8,674 6 8,385 5 Southern Europe 7,350 5 7,414 5 Nordic countries 4,231 3 4,053 2 Germany and Central Europe 10,302 8 10,817 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 65,299 47 85,495 53 Not allocated 153 160 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 137,747 100 161,268 100 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2014 2015 Employees % Employees % North America 10,384 7 16,034 9 France 23,600 17 23,832 13 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,766 6 8,656 5 Benelux 8,547 6 8,307 5 Southern Europe 7,446 5 7,434 4 Nordic countries 4,145 3 4,007 2 Germany and Central Europe 10,484 7 11,233 6 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 70,122 49 100,977 56 Not allocated 149 159 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 143,643 100 180,639 100 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 189 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING TO GROUP In addition, certain clients enjoy: OPERATING ACTIVITIES X limited financial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling A) Commitments given on client contracts €1,601 million at December 31, 2015 (€1,367 million at December 31, 2014); The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts X bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €172 million signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric at December 31, 2015 (€105 million at December 31, 2014). Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc., the Department of Work and Pensions, EMC and Michelin. B) Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Commitments given on non-cancellable leases break down by maturity as follows: Vehicles and other nonComputer cancellable in millions of euros equipment Offices leases Total Maturity < 1 year 10 197 58 265 1 to 5 years 9 404 79 492 > 5 years 70 70 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 19 671 137 827 At December 31, 2014 30 625 122 777 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in 2015 totaled €350 million (€319 million in 2014). C) Other commitments given B) Syndicated credit facility obtained by Other commitments given total €29 million at December 31, Cap Gemini S.A. and not drawn to date 2015 (€34 million at December 31, 2014) and mainly comprise Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following financial firm purchase commitments relating to goods or services in the ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility disclosed United Kingdom and in France. in Note 20, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents: X the consolidated net debt* to consolidated equity ratio must D) Other commitments received be less than 1 at all times; Other commitments received total €112 million at December 31, X the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated 2015 (€50 million at December 31, 2014) and primarily comprise: net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating X commitments received on client contracts: in the context of a margin*) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 contract signed in 2010, Capgemini Group received a limited and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then financial guarantee of €50 million from the client; ended). X commitments received following the purchase of shares held At December 31, 2014 and 2015, the Group complied with these by certain minority shareholders of CPM Braxis for an amount financial ratios. of €44 million. The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. These OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING TO GROUP covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include FINANCING restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also A) Bonds committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to With regard to the 2011 bond issue, the “ORNANE 2013” bonds maintain pari passu status. and the 2015 bond issues detailed in Note 20, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents, Cap Gemini S.A. has committed C) Borrowings secured by assets to standard obligations and particularly to maintain pari passu Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the status with all other marketable bonds that may be issued by Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, the Company. 2015, these related to finance leases for an amount of €97 million and other borrowings in the amount of €12 million. * The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin and net debt) are defined in Note 4, Consolidated Income Statement and Note 20, Net Debt / Net cash and cash equivalents, respectively. 190 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements CONTINGENT LIABILITIES been set aside for these disputes in the consolidated financial statements in so far as Capgemini can justify its positions and During 2015 and in previous fiscal years, certain Group considers the likelihood of winning the disputes to be high. This companies underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax is particularly the case, in France, for research tax credits for reassessments. A number of proposed adjustments have been the period 2009 to 2013, in respect of which the tax authorities challenged and litigation and pre-litigation proceedings were have rejected the portion concerning private clients in certain in progress at the period end. In general, no provisions have companies registered for the research tax credit. Note 30 Related-party transactions ASSOCIATES X members of management, including Directors; Associates are equity-accounted companies over which the X entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key Group exercises significant influence. At December 31, 2015, management personnel, or over which he/she has significant O2C Pro LLC is the only company equity-accounted by the influence or holds significant voting rights. Group since its acquisition in 2011. Transactions with this equity Moreover, it is worth noting that Caixa Participacões, a minority associate in 2015 were performed at arm’s length and were of shareholder, is also one of the main clients of CPM Braxis, immaterial volume. accounting for approximately 18% of its revenues. OTHER RELATED-PARTIES GROUP MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION In 2015, no material transactions were carried out with: X shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share The table below provides a breakdown of the 2014 and 2015 compensation of members of management bodies 4 capital of Cap Gemini S.A.; encompassing the Group operating management structure at each year-end, comprising 24 members in 2015 (20 members in 2014) and Directors (compensation and attendance fees). in thousands of euros 2014 2015 (1) Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes 19,320 23,185 o/w attendance fees to salaried Directors 53 65 (2) (3) o/w attendance fees to non-salaried Directors 725 779 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes (4) 7,495 6,328 Post-employment benefits (5) 845 1,184 (6) Share-based payment 5,493 6,035 (1) Includes gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharing, attendance fees and benefits in kind; (2) Note that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin have waived receipt of their attendance fees since 2011; (3) 12 directors in 2014 and in 2015; (4) This amount includes the 30% contribution due on the grant of performance shares as well as the contribution paid on high executive compensation in 2014; (5) Primarily contractual retirement termination payments; (6) Representing the annual expense relating to the grant of performance shares. Note 31 Subsequent events At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payout to Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders of €1.35 per share in respect of 2015. A dividend of €1.20 per share was paid in respect of fiscal year 2014. On January 5, 2016, the Group purchased Oinio in Germany, which will be consolidated from January 1, 2016. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 191 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies by country FC = Full consolidation EM = Equity method Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2015 % interest Method ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Belgium S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini Business Services Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Consultoria de Gestao Gemini Ltda. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis S.A. 75.72% FC CPM Braxis Tecnologia, Ltda. 75.72% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Gestion Capgemini Québec Inc. 100.00% FC IGATE Technologies (Canada), Inc. 100.00% FC Inergi LP 100.00% FC New Horizon System Solutions LP 100.00% FC Société en Commandite Capgemini Québec 100.00% FC CHILE Capgemini Business Services Chile Ltda. 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Kun Shan) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Computer Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 99.49% FC Praxis Beijing Technology Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC COLOMBIA Capgemini Colombia S.A.S 100.00% FC CZECH REPUBLIC Capgemini Czech Republic s.r.o. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Sogeti Danmark A/S 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC FRANCE Backelite S.A.S. 100.00% FC Cap Gemini S.A. Parent Company FC Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini OS Electric S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Université S.A.S. 100.00% FC Cloud ERP Solutions S.A.S 100.00% FC Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Open Cascade S.A.S. 100.00% FC Prosodie S.A.S. 100.00% FC 192 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2015 % interest Method FRANCE SCI Paris Etoile 100.00% FC Silgem S.A.S. 50.00% FC Sogeti Corporate Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100.00% FC Patni Computer Systems GmbH 99.49% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC HONG KONG Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC HUNGARY Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft. 100.00% FC INDIA Capgemini Business Services (India) Pvt Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini India Pvt Ltd. 100.00% FC 4 IGATE Global Solutions Ltd. 99.49% FC IGATE Infrastructure Management Services Ltd. 99.49% FC INDONESIA Patni Computer Systems Indonesia 99.49% FC IRELAND Sogeti Ireland Ltd. 100.00% FC ITALY Capgemini BS S.r.l. 100.00% FC Capgemini BST S.p.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC JAPAN Capgemini Japan K.K. 100.00% FC LUXEMBOURG Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 100.00% FC IGATE Technologies Luxembourg S.à.r.l. 100.00% FC Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC MALAYSIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC IGATE Global Solutions Mexico S.A. de C.V. 99.49% FC PCS Computer Systems Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 99.49% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc SA 100.00% FC NETHERLANDS Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Dunit B.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC IBX Norge AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Norge AS 100.00% FC PHILIPPINES Capgemini Philippines Corp. 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp. z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informàtica, S.A. 100.00% FC ROMANIA Capgemini Services Romania s.r.l. 100.00% FC RUSSIA Datavision NN 100.00% FC SAUDI ARABIA Capgemini Saudi Ltd. 100.00% FC 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 193 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2015 % interest Method SINGAPORE Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Singapore Pte. Ltd. 99.49% FC SLOVAKIA Capgemini Slovensko s.r.o. 100.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica S.L. 100.00% FC Sogeti España S.L. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB 100.00% FC Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC IBX Group AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige Mitt AB 100.00% FC SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Capgemini Middle East FZ LLC 100.00% FC Thesys Technologies LLC 49.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini Financial Services UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini UK plc 100.00% FC CGS Holdings Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Computer Systems (UK) Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Information Services (UK) Ltd. 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Ltd. 100.00% FC UNITED STATES Capgemini America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services USA LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini North America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini US LLC 100.00% FC CHCS Services, Inc. 100.00% FC IGATE Corporation 100.00% FC IGATE Technologies, Inc. 100.00% FC O2C Pro, LLC 49.00% EM Sogeti USA LLC 100.00% FC VIETNAM Capgemini Vietnam Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC 194 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.7 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the consolidated financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2015, on: X the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of CAP GEMINI SA; X the justification of our assessments; X the specific verification required by law. These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. I Opinion on the consolidated financial statements 4 We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2015 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. II Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: X Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the methods used to account for revenues and costs related to long-term contracts. As part of our assessments, we ensured that the above-mentioned accounting rules and principles adopted by your Group were properly applied and verified that the information provided in the note above was appropriate. We also obtained assurance that the estimates used were reasonable. X Goodwill of €7,055 million is recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The approach adopted by the Group as well as the accounting principles and methods applied to determine the value in use of these assets are described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. X Deferred tax assets amounting to €1,412 million are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements describes the methods used to calculate the value of these assets. As part of our assessments, we verified the overall consistency of the information and assumptions used to perform these calculations. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III Specific verification As required by law, we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information presented in the Group’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 26, 2016 Paris La Défense, February 26, 2016 KPMG Audit PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 195 4 Financial information 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements INCOME STATEMENT BALANCE SHEET The Company reported operating income for the year ended Net investments rose from €10,200 million last year to December 31, 2015 of €312 million (including €258 million in €15,060 million at December 31, 2015. This €4,860 million royalties received from subsidiaries) compared with €248 million increase is mainly attributable to: last year (including €237 million in royalties). X a share capital increase by a North American subsidiary in Operating profit is €175 million, compared with €177 million the amount of €2,515 million and two loans granted to the in 2014. same subsidiary totaling €1,123 million as part of the IGATE acquisition; The increase in royalties invoiced to subsidiaries in 2015 was partially offset during the year by fees relating to the X net reversals of provisions for equity interests of €1,034 million; US$3,800 million bridge loan secured in connection with the X share capital increases by European subsidiaries in the amount acquisition of the US company IGATE. of €145 million; Net financial income totaled €1,037 million (compared with X a net increase in loans granted to subsidiaries of €34 million; €1,020 million in 2014) and reflects the difference between: X a €16 million increase in other long-term investments X income of €1,854 million, mainly comprising reversals of corresponding to the net impact of treasury share transactions provisions for equity interests (€1,417 million) and particularly during the year. €908 million in respect of the US subsidiary following the Shareholders’ equity is €11,037 million, up €1,524 million on organic improvement in Capgemini’s profitability in the United last year. This increase essentially reflects the difference between: States combined with the acquisition of IGATE, foreign X net profit for 2015 (€1,157 million); exchange gains on the pooling of currency risk at Group level (€272 million), dividends received from subsidiaries (€55 million) X the share capital increase net of issue costs and tax of and income from loans granted to subsidiaries (€39 million); €496 million following the issue of 6.7 million new shares; X expenses of €817 million, mainly comprising charges to X the share capital increase of €64 million following the issue of provisions for equity interests (€383 million), a charge to the shares on the exercise of BSAAR warrants; provision on a call option on own shares sold on October 18, X the May 20, 2015 dividend payment of €1.20 per share on the 2013 (€113 million), foreign exchange losses on the pooling 165,317,556 shares making up the Company’s share capital of currency risk at Group level (€242 million), as well as at May 18, 2015 (after neutralization of the 117,564 treasury the interest expense on bond issues and a currency swap shares held by the Company), representing a total payment (€68 million). of €198 million. This €17 million improvement in net financial income year-onBorrowings totaled €4,612 million at December 31, 2015, up year was mainly due to the increase in reversals of provisions for €2,867 million compared with December 31, 2014. This increase equity interests. was mainly due to: The net non-recurring expense is €25 million compared X the three bond issues performed on July 1, 2015 for with €2 million in 2014, attributable to the loss recognized €2,750 million; on the transfer of shares on the exercise of BSAAR warrants X the €108 million increase in outstanding inter-company loans; (€27 million). X the €9 million increase in bank overdrafts on the accounts After an income tax expense of €30 million (compared with included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash €34 million in 2014), reflecting the income tax expense of the pooling international), for which the Company acts as the tax consolidation group, the Company reported a net profit of centralizing agent, offset in full by an opposite position of €1,157 million. the same amount in the cash and cash equivalents of the Company. 196 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents net of borrowings totaled X payment of the 2014 dividend for €198 million; negative €3,365 million at the end of 2015, compared with X payments relating to the acquisition of shares under the share negative €5 million at December 31, 2014. This €3,360 million buyback program authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ deterioration was mainly due to: Meeting of May 7, 2014 and May 6, 2015 of €107 million; X the share capital increase net of issue costs of €496 million; X the increase in current account advances to Group subsidiaries X the collection of brand royalties and other income of of €17 million. €311 million; In addition to the above, the following information is X dividends received from subsidiaries of €55 million; required by law: X payments in respect of share capital increases performed by X External accounts payable of Cap Gemini S.A. total subsidiaries of €2,660 million, including €2,515 million for a US €96 thousand, €47 thousand of which are not yet due. Group subsidiary and €145 million for European subsidiaries; accounts payable total €5.2 million, none of which are due. X new loans net of repayments granted to subsidiaries of €1,151 million, including €1,105 million to a US subsidiary in the context of the IGATE acquisition; APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS During its meeting of February 17, 2016, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the following appropriation of net profit for the year: Net profit for the year €1,156,946,800.03 Allocation to the legal reserve i.e. a balance of €37,099.20 €1,156,909,700.83 4 Retained earnings of previous years €1,449,263,790.24 i.e. Distributable earnings at December 31, 2015 of €2,606,173,491.07 This amount will be allocated to: ■ payment of a dividend of €1.35 per share: €232,445,025.00 ■ retained earnings for the balance €2,373,728,466.07 Giving a total of: €2,606,173,491.07 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 197 4 Financial information 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements This dividend of €1.35 for each of the 172,181,500 shares SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2016, will be fully eligible At December 31, 2015, the share capital amounted to for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the €1,377,452,000 (compared with €1,308,743,592 at French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). Taking account December 31, 2014) following: of the recommendations of certain investors, and so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions around the X the exercise of 1,888,545 redeemable share subscription or date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for purchase warrants (BSAAR) during the year; May 18, 2016, the Board of Directors proposes an ex-dividend X the early grant of 6 shares due to disability under a free share date of Monday, May 30, 2016 and a dividend payment date grant plan; of Wednesday, June 1, 2016. If, at the time of payment of the X the issue of 6,700,000 shares following the share capital dividend, the Company still holds some of its own shares, the increase by private placement with suppression of pre-emptive dividend amount for these shares will be allocated to retained subscription rights as part of the refinancing of the bridge loan earnings. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French secured to finance the acquisition of IGATE. Tax Code, it is recalled that dividends paid over the past three fiscal years were as follows: Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and based on notifications received, two X €198,381,067.20 for 2014 (€1.20 per share); shareholders held more than 5% of the Company’s share capital X €176,349,599.80 for 2013 (€1.10 per share); and voting rights at the year-end: X €162,055,362.00 for 2012 (€1 per share). X The US company, BlackRock Inc.(1), acting on behalf of All of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set clients and managed funds. out in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code. X Société Générale(2). The limited liability company, Amundi Group(3), acting on behalf of managed funds, disclosed that it had raised and then reduced its interest above and below the threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on March 4 and 13, 2015, respectively, as a result of an acquisition followed by a disposal of Cap Gemini shares on the market and holds 4.99% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on behalf of such funds. The limited liability company, Amundi, acting on behalf of the Capgemini ESOP FCPE (employee savings mutual fund) which it manages, disclosed that it reduced its interest below the threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on July 1, 2015 and holds 4.97% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights(4). (1) BlackRock’s investment is held on behalf of clients, but the investment manager has the discretionary power to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held, except at the express request of clients to retain control of their voting rights. (2) This threshold crossing disclosure follows the repeal of the so-called “trading” exception which exempted providers of investment services from including in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments considered to have an economic effect similar to the ownership of shares, following the enactment into French law of the revised transparency directive 2013/50/EU by Order no.2015-1576 of December 3, 2015 (e.g. forward purchase with physical settlement). (3) Held 80% by Crédit Agricole group and 20% by Société Générale group. The limited liability companies, Amundi, Société Générale Gestion, Etoile Gestion, CPR Asset Management and BFT Gestion are management companies controlled by Amundi Group and have a common voting policy. These management companies act independently of Crédit Agricole and Société Générale, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Articles L.233-9 II of the French Commercial Code and Articles 223-12 and 223-12-1 of the AMF General Regulations. (4) This threshold was crossed as a result of the increase in the total number of the Company’s shares and voting rights. 198 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 4.4 2015 ﬁnancial statements 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2014 and 2015 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Depreciation, amortization in thousands of euros Net Gross and provisions Net Assets Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 3,083 38,014 (34,010) 4,004 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 10,054,969 17,503,686 (3,755,180) 13,748,506 Receivable from controlled entities* 90,264 1,241,389 1,241,389 Other financial fixed assets* 54,357 70,402 70,402 4 Non-current assets 10,202,897 18,853,715 (3,789,190) 15,064,525 Accounts and notes receivable* 82 (71) 11 Other receivables* 97,829 111,715 111,715 Receivable from related and associated companies* 33,270 82,021 82,021 Marketable securities 1,075,139 556,727 556,727 Cash and cash equivalents 665,189 691,086 691,086 Current assets 1,871,428 1,441,631 (71) 1,441,559 Prepaid expenses* 33,992 28,372 28,372 Deferred charges 10,026 17,746 17,746 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 2,391 143 143 Other assets 46,409 46,261 46,261 TOTAL ASSETS 12,120,733 20,341,607 (3,789,261) 16,552,346 * of which due within one year 252,108 271,386 271,314 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 199 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements in thousands of euros 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,308,744 1,377,452 Additional paid-in capital 5,851,791 6,340,387 Legal reserve 130,874 137,708 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 486,444 1,449,264 Profit for the year 1,161,201 1,156,947 Tax-driven provisions 14,627 15,948 Shareholders’ equity 9,513,254 11,037,278 Provisions for contingencies and losses 54,891 113,659 Convertible bonds* 400,000 400,000 Bond issue 500,000 3,250,000 Bank loans and borrowings* 649,100 658,596 Payable to controlled entities* 196,053 303,670 Borrowings* 1,745,153 4,612,267 Accounts and notes payable* 4,440 3,309 Tax and social security liabilities* 2,563 3,283 Payable to related and associated companies* 764,182 745,834 Other payables* 642 940 Prepaid income 35,567 35,567 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 41 208 Other liabilities 807,435 789,142 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 12,120,733 16,552,346 * of which due within one year. 1,605,980 2,073,414 200 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 in thousands of euros 2014 2015 Royalties 236,631 258,400 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 3,133 11,555 Other income 8,552 41,724 Total operating income 248,316 311,679 Other purchases and external charges 41,823 72,344 Taxes, duties and other levies 8,512 9,566 Depreciation and amortization 720 4,216 Charges to provisions 10,447 8,330 Other expenses 9,669 42,120 Total operating expenses 71,171 136,575 Operating profit 177,145 175,103 Investment income (1) 83,321 54,965 (1) Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets 3,482 38,590 Other interest income (1) 9,690 15,131 Reversals of provisions Foreign exchange gains 992,022 143,033 1,472,213 272,180 4 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 1,010 1,065 Total financial income 1,232,558 1,854,144 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 68,600 496,659 (2) Interest and similar expenses 29,204 78,320 Foreign exchange losses 115,023 242,378 Total financial expenses 212,827 817,357 Net finance income (expense) 1,019,731 1,036,787 Recurring profit before tax 1,196,876 1,211,890 Non-recurring income from operations 22 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 2,385 3,405 Total non-recurring income 2,407 3,405 Non-recurring expenses on operations 1,157 26,723 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 1,631 773 Exceptional depreciation, amortization and provisions 1,740 1,320 Total non-recurring expenses 4,528 28,816 Net non-recurring income (expense) (2,120) (25,411) Income tax expense (33,555) (29,532) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,161,201 1,156,947 (1) of which income concerning related companies 89,358 95,496 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 1,570 9,109 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 201 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 4.4.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements I ACCOUNTING POLICIES interest received in advance on certificates of deposit and commercial paper is recognized in accrued income or prepaid The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, income, respectively. 2015 are prepared and presented in accordance with Regulation No. 2014-03 issued by the French Accounting Standards Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also Authority (Autorité des Normes Comptables, ANC). They are included in marketable securities. also prepared in accordance with the principles of prudence and accruals, and assuming that the Company is able to continue as Foreign currency transactions a going concern. Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the Items in the financial statements are generally measured using year-end exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences the historical cost method. resulting from the translation of foreign currency receivables The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: and payables at these rates are included in the balance sheet under “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/losses”. A provision Intangible assets for foreign exchange losses is set aside to cover any unrealized Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted losses. ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future Receivables and payables results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a three years. At the year-end, the value of computer software and provision for impairment set aside when their net realizable value user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables are recognized excluding VAT. Financial fixed assets The gross value of equity interests and other long-term Financial instruments investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on impairment is set aside when the value in use falls below the organized markets or over-the-counter. Gains and losses on acquisition cost. The value in use is calculated based on either financial instruments used in hedging transactions are recognized the present value of discounted future cash flows adjusted for to match the gains and losses arising on the hedged items. The net debt, the Company’s share in net assets, or in certain cases, fair value of financial instruments, which is not recognized in the with reference to the market value of comparable transactions. accounts of the Company in accordance with French accounting principles, is estimated based on market prices or pricing data Treasury shares provided by banks. Treasury shares held by Cap Gemini S.A. as part of the liquidity Forward financial instruments, and options on own shares, agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within longare initially recognized in the balance sheet at acquisition cost term investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. and subsequently remeasured to fair value. Where there is Realizable value is the average market price for Cap Gemini indication of impairment, a provision for financial risk is set aside S.A. shares in December. Other treasury shares held for other in accordance with the principle of prudence. objectives of the share buyback program are recorded in listed shares. Tax consolidation Marketable securities The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the Group have elected to file consolidated tax returns pursuant Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the to Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings lower of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of realized by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by listed securities is based on the average share price in December. consolidated entities are treated as a gain for the Company in the The realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net period in which they arise. asset value. At the year-end, accrued interest receivable or 202 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements II NOTES TO THE CAP GEMINI S.A. BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value in thousands of euros (January 1) Increase Decrease (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 36,712 1,302 38,014 Sub-total 36,712 1,302 38,014 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 14,844,426 2,659,555 (295) 17,503,686 Receivable from controlled entities 90,264 1,210,300 (59,175) 1,241,389 Other financial fixed assets 54,402 387,099 (371,099) 70,402 Sub-total 14,989,091 4,256,954 (430,569) 18,815,477 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 15,026,027 4,258,256 (430,569) 18,853,715 Equity interests X the repayment of a loan granted to a US subsidiary in the amount of €18,755 thousand; 4 Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. The main change during the year reflects share capital increases X the partial repayment of a loan granted to a UK subsidiary in in North America of €2,514,404 thousand with the acquisition of the amount of €3,590 thousand; IGATE and in Europe of €145,151 thousand. X the partial repayment of a loan granted to a Mexican subsidiary Receivable from controlled entities in the amount of €827 thousand. Amounts receivable from controlled entities consist of loans Other financial fixed assets granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in North This account comprises treasury shares held under the liquidity America (€1,123,194 thousand), Europe (€51,445 thousand), agreement. This agreement relates to the share buyback program the Asia-Pacific region (€29,971 thousand) and Latin America approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on May 6, (€29,789 thousand). 2015. Accordingly, a total of 3,637,916 shares were acquired The main changes in this heading reflect: and 3,685,978 shares were sold between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. X two loans totaling €1,123,194 thousand granted to a US held 85,000 treasury shares (133,062 at December 31, 2014), subsidiary; valued at €7,219 thousand. X a loan of €30,785 thousand granted to a UK subsidiary; In 2015, the Company continued to purchase treasury X loans totaling €27,642 thousand granted to Latin American shares for cancellation in the amount of 1,412,042 shares subsidiaries; (€107,435 thousand, including transaction fees). During the year, X loans totaling €13,969 thousand granted to European 739,622 shares were presented to beneficiaries of performance subsidiaries; shares and free shares and 686,429 shares were presented to X loans totaling €13,965 thousand granted to subsidiaries in the holders of BSAAR warrants on exercise. Asia-Pacific region; At December 31, 2015, other financial fixed assets also include X the repayment of loans granted to Latin American subsidiaries 821,107 shares with a value of €62,979 thousand earmarked for in the amount of €35,446 thousand; various objectives. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 203 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization amortization and provisions and provisions in thousands of euros (January 1) Charge Reversal (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 33,629 381 34,010 Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 4,789,457 383,000 (1,417,277) 3,755,180 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 4,823,086 383,381 (1,417,277) 3,789,190 In 2015, the charge to provisions for equity interests concerns an European subsidiary in the amount of €383,000 thousand. Provision reversals of €1,417,277 thousand concern US, UK, Italian and French subsidiaries. 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2015: in thousands of euros Net asset value Nominal value Carrying amount Listed securities Investment funds (FCP) 345,674 345,674 345,674 Unlisted securities Term deposits 120,000 120,000 120,000 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 91,053 91,053 91,053 TOTAL 556,727 556,727 556,727 Other marketable securities comprise three capitalization fund contracts subscribed in July 2010, August 2010 and November 2014 with leading insurance companies in Europe for €20,000 thousand, €50,000 thousand and €10,000 thousand, respectively. The residual balance represents capitalized interest at December 31, 2015. 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less More than one year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 1,241,389 56,150 1,185,239 Other financial fixed assets 70,402 70,202 200 Current assets Accounts and notes receivable 82 82 Income tax receivable 111,114 53,066 58,048 VAT receivable 602 602 Receivable from related companies 82,021 82,021 Prepaid expenses 28,372 9,263 19,109 TOTAL 1,533,982 271,386 1,262,596 Prepaid expenses mainly comprise the call option on own shares purchased on October 18, 2013 in the amount of €43,200 thousand (the premium paid is amortized over the contract term) and prepaid interest on the 2011 and 2015 bond issues. 204 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amortization & Amount at in thousands of euros January 1 Increase decrease December 31 Issuance fees on syndicated credit facility, 2011 Bond issue, ORNANE bonds and 2015 bond issue 10,026 11,555 (3,835) 17,746 TOTAL 10,026 11,555 (3,835) 17,746 Issuance fees on the syndicated credit facility, 2011 Bond issue, ORNANE bonds and the three 2015 bond issues (€11,367 thousand) are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the debt. In 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multi-currency credit facility with a group of 18 banks for an increased amount of €750 million, maturing on July 30, 2019. In July 2015, a one-year extension request was accepted by all banks, extending the maturity of this credit facility to July 28, 2020. 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Additional paid-in in thousands of euros Number of shares Share capital capital At December 31, 2014 (par value of €8) 163,592,949 1,308,744 5,851,791 + Capital increases tied to performance share grants and BSAAR warrants 1,888,551 15,108 49,102 + Capital increase for cash 6,700,000 53,600 452,250 Charge to the legal reserve following the capital increase for cash Offset of share issue costs, net of tax (6,834) (5,923) 4 AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 (PAR VALUE OF €8) 172,181,500 1,377,452 6,340,387 Share capital increase by exercise of BSAAR warrants €53,600 thousand, with the surplus (i.e. the difference between During the year, 2,574,974 BSAAR warrants were exercised at a the subscription price (€75.50 per share) and the par value (€8 per subscription price of €34 and the Chairman and Chief Executive share) of €67.50 per share or a total of €452,250 thousand) Officer, using the delegation of authority granted by the Board of recognized in additional paid-in capital. Concomitantly to this Directors, decided to issue 1,888,545 shares with a par value of share capital increase, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer €8 and a unit issue premium of €26, representing a share capital decided the deduction of €6,834 thousand from additional paidincrease of €15,108 thousand and an increase in additional paidin capital to increase the legal reserve to one-tenth of the new in capital of €49,102 thousand, respectively. Treasury shares were share capital amount after this increase and the offset of the presented on the exercise of the remaining 686,429 BSAAR related share issue costs against additional paid-in capital. warrants. 7. Share subscription plans Share capital increase on June 12, 2015 through a private The Group no longer grants share subscription options since placement issue with cancellation of shareholder preemptive subscription rights the plan authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed in June 2008. On June 9, 2015, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, using the delegation of authority granted by the Board of 8. Performance share plans Directors, decided to increase the Company’s share capital The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, with cancellation of shareholder pre-emptive subscription rights 2013 and then May 6, 2015, authorized the Board of Directors through an offer governed by Article L. 411-2 II of the French to grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, on Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) for one or several occasions and within a maximum period of a par value amount of €53,600 thousand, through the issue of 18 months, subject to performance and presence conditions. 6,700,000 ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. The total On December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013, July 30, 2014 and subscription price of shares thus issued was €505,850 thousand, July 29, 2015, the Board of Directors approved the terms and generating a share capital increase of a par value amount of conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these four plans. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 205 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares granted % of share capital at the date of the Board 1.50% 1.50% 1% 1% of Directors’ decision Total number of shares 1,003,500 (1) 1,209,100 (1) 1,290,500 (1) 1,068,550 (1) granted Date of Board of December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Directors’ decision Performance Three years for the internal At the end of the first and At the end of the first and assessment dates performance condition and Three years for both second calendar years second years following the two years for the external conditions following the grant date grant date performance condition Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as 2 years and 1 week as from Two years as from the grant 2 years and 7 months as from the grant date (France) the grant date (France) date (France) or four years from the grant date (France) or 4 years and ½ month as or 4 years and 1 week as as from the grant date or 4 years as from the grant from the grant date (other from the grant date (other (other countries) date (other countries) countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as 4 years 3 years from the vesting date (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest 0.35% 0.98% 0.59% 1.28% 0.34% 0.81% 0.10%-0.55% rate ■ Expected dividend 3.00% 3.00% 2.31% 1.60% rate Other conditions ■ Performance Yes (see below) conditions ■ Employee presence within the Group at Yes the vesting date 206 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Pricing model used to calculate the fair value Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions of shares Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per n/a n/a n/a n/a share and in euros) ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 28.67 16.18 32.14 26.46 48.26 61.73 82.18 Of which corporate 16.18 18.12 29.32 56.66 officers Number of shares at that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and December 31, 2014 presence) 958,500 1,135,300 1,288,500 o/w to corporate officers 50,000 (1) 50,000 (1) 50,000 (1) Change during the Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year period 1,068,550 o/w to corporate officers 40,000 (1) 4 Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 54,000 66,200 55,000 3,900 Number of shares vested during the year 383,000 (2) 355,600 (3) 1,000 (7) Number of shares at that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and December 31, 2015 presence) 521,500 (4) 713,500 (4) 1,232,500 (5) 1,064,650 (6) Share price at the grant 33.15 36.53 53.35 87.60 date (in euros) (1) Grant subject to performance and presence conditions; (2) Balance on the “French” plan granted in January 2015 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date; (3) Balance on the “French” plan granted in March 2015 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date; (4) In respect of the “foreign” plan only; (5) Of which 405,750 shares in respect of the French plan and 826,750 shares in respect of the foreign plan; (6) Of which 359,650 shares in respect of the French plan and 705,000 shares in respect of the foreign plan; (7) Accelerated grant following the death of a beneficiary. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 207 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements Shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 plans • varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and Based on an assessment of the performance conditions of the between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based 2012 and 2013 plans for shares granted to beneficiaries of the on a pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the 2012 and 2013 plans tax-resident in France, 100% of the initial Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the allocation vested to those beneficiaries still present in the Group basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in at the vesting date at the beginning of January 2015 and the the second case, beginning of March 2015, respectively. • is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if With regards to the external performance condition, due to the the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher good performance of the share over the calculation period, the than or equal to 110% of the basket. relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share compared to Under these conditions, if the performance of the that of the basket of comparable companies therefore exceeded Cap Gemini S.A. share is in line with that of the basket of 110% in both cases, the threshold above which 100% of the comparable shares, only 60% of the initial allocation will be initial allocation vests in respect of the external performance granted in respect of the external performance condition (i.e. condition. 30% of the initial allocation). With regards to the internal performance condition, cumulative The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with organic free cash flow generation for fiscal years 2012 to each security equally weighted: 2014 exceeded the €1 billion threshold, enabling the vesting X 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria of the maximum number of shares in respect of the internal / CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant performance condition. X 2014 and 2015 Plan: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / CAC 40 As both conditions exceeded the maximum vesting thresholds, index / CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant 100% of shares initially allocated vested to beneficiaries taxThe fair value of shares subject to external performance resident in France still present in the Group at the vesting date, conditions is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance subject however to a lock-in period of four years in accordance with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for nonwith plan rules. transferability for the shares granted in France. A total of 383,000 shares vested under the 2012 plan and 355,600 shares vested under the 2013 plan, representing 94.6% Internal performance condition and 91.6% of the maximum possible amount, respectively. The The internal performance condition is based on the generation performance conditions are assessed at the same dates and of Organic Free Cash Flow (OFCF) over a three-year period under the same conditions for non-French beneficiaries, however encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 the shares vest at the end of a four-year period, subject to their plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan and fiscal years presence in the Group at this date. Vested shares are not, 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan. Accordingly: however subject to a lock-in period. X no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash plans Flow over the reference period is less than €750 million for In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, the 2012 and 2013 plans, €850 million for the 2014 plan and 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external €1,750 million for the 2015 plan; performance condition when granting performance shares, the X 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic Board of Directors decided as from the 2010 plan to add an Free Cash Flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 internal condition to the external condition initially planned. and 2013 plans, €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan and €2 billion The following internal and external performance conditions apply: for the 2015 plan. The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions grant calculation as does the internal performance condition. is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. External performance condition A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares The external performance condition is applied in an identical granted in France. manner across the plans and in line with the conditions applied 9. Free share plan to the first two plans, as follows: Following the free share grant in 2012, the Combined X No shares are granted if the performance of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 gave the Board of Cap Gemini S.A. share during the period in question is less Directors an 18-month authorization to grant shares to certain than 90% of the performance of the basket of securities over Group employees, on one or several occasions subject only to a the same period. condition of presence. This authorization was partially used and X The number of shares ultimately granted: the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries • is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the were set by the Board of Directors meeting of October 8, 2014. performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least equal to 90% of the basket, • is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 100% of the basket, 208 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: 2014 Plan France Date of the General Meeting May 23, 2013 Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 1,595,495 shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions Total number of shares granted 104,379* Date of the Board of Directors’ decision October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date (Democratic plan) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2014 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions 102,379 Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted during the year Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 0 6,231 4 Number of shares vested during the year 28 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions 96,120 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.30% Fair value in euros (per share) €43.91 * i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by salary (four categories): the lowest paid employees receiving more enabling all employees of French companies with at least three shares than the highest paid employees. months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby The Board of Director decisions were preceded each time by the become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of payment period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each of the profit-sharing bonus. share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 209 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 10. Change in shareholders’ equity At Appropriation At December 31, of profit for Other December 31, in thousands of euros 2014 2014 movements 2015 Share capital 1,308,744 68,708 1,377,452 Additional paid-in capital 5,851,791 488,596 6,340,387 Legal reserve 130,874 6,834 137,708 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 486,444 962,820 1,449,264 Dividends paid 198,381 (198,381) Profit for the year 1,161,201 (1,161,201) 1,156,947 1,156,947 Tax-driven provisions 14,627 1,320 15,948 TOTAL 9,513,254 0 1,524,024 11,037,278 The appropriation of the net profit for 2014 led to the distribution X the share capital increase of €15,108 thousand following the on May 20, 2015 of a dividend of €1.20 on each of the issue of 1,888,545 million new shares following the exercise 165,317,556 shares ranking for dividends on May 18, 2015 of BSAAR warrants; for a total of €198,381 thousand. The amount not paid out on X an increase in additional paid-in capital of €501,352 thousand the 117,564 shares held by the Company on May 20, 2015 of pursuant to the aforementioned two transactions. Issue costs, €141 thousand was appropriated to retained earnings. net of tax, of €5,923 thousand were offset against this balance Other movements mainly concern: and €6,834 thousand was transferred to the legal reserve to bring it to one-tenth of the new share capital balance at X the share capital increase of €53,600 thousand following the June 12, 2015; issue of 6,700,000 shares by way of a private placement with cancellation of shareholder pre-emptive subscription rights; X 2015 net profit for the year of €1,156,947 thousand; X the €1,320 thousand charge to tax-driven provisions, corresponding to the accelerated tax depreciation of equity interests. 11. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversal in thousands of euros At January 1 Charge (utilized) At December 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ relating to foreign exchange losses 2,390 143 2,390 143 ■ on derivative instruments 52,501 113,516 52,501 113,516 TOTAL 54,891 113,659 54,891 113,659 In 2015, the net charge of €61,015 thousand to provisions on derivative instruments concerns a provision for financial risks on a call option on own shares sold on October 18, 2013. 12. Bond issues and Convertible bonds in thousands of euros December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 2011 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ORNANE 2013 400,000 400,000 2015-2018 Bond issue 500,000 2015-2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 2015-2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 TOTAL 900,000 3,650,000 210 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements A) Bond issued on November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue) In the event of exercise of their share allotment rights, On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond bondholders will receive a cash amount and potentially an issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all amount payable in new and/or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares. rights from November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). The Company also has the possibility to present solely new and/ or existing shares. The total nominal amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The purpose of the issue was to partially finance the repurchase The bonds bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing by the Company of the outstanding OCEANE bonds convertible to 6.50% in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares, maturing on credit rating. January 1, 2014. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 under reference number n°11-546. reference number n°13-557. The main features of the 2011 Bond issue are as follows: The main features of the “ORNANE 2013” bonds are as X Redemption at maturity follows: X Bond term The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. 5 years and 68 days from the issue date. X Early redemption at the Company’s option X Exercise of share allotment rights The bonds may be redeemed early at the initiative of the Company, subject to certain conditions set out in the issue (a) Bondholders may exercise their share allotment right prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum (as defined below) during the period October 25, 2013 redemption price. to December 31, 2016, inclusive, solely in the following circumstances: X Early redemption at the option of bondholders Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the • at any time during a relevant calendar quarter, if the arithmetic average of the closing price of the Company’s share calculated 4 over a period of 20 consecutive trading days among the Company, provided this change in control is accompanied by 30 trading days preceding the last trading day of the preceding a downgrading of the Company’s financial rating. calendar quarter, as determined by the calculation agent, X Early repayment exceeds 130% of the conversion price (equal to the nominal Early repayment may also be requested by any bondholder, value of the bond divided by the conversion rate, i.e. 1 share subject to the occurrence of certain events and particularly per bond, subject to adjustments) applicable the last trading failure to pay sums due in respect of the bond issue or to day of the preceding calendar quarter; comply with other obligations set out in the documentation • in the event of early redemption of all outstanding bonds at the (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in initiative of the Company; excess of a minimum threshold), liquidation or dissolution. • where the Company ignores the negative opinion of An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating bondholders in general meeting consulted on a change in the would not constitute an early redemption event. legal form or corporate purpose of the Company; X Pari passu status • where the Company plans a distribution of dividends, reserves Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari or additional paid-in capital in cash or kind, the value of which passu with all other marketable bonds issued by the Company. per Company share exceeds 25% of the arithmetic average B) “ORNANE 2013” Bonds issued on October 25, 2013 of the average share price weighted for daily trading volumes over a period of 20 consecutive trading days; On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini launched a bond issue redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares • in the event of a public offering targeting the Company’s (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numeraire et/ shares found to be compliant by the AMF and likely to lead to ou en Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) and a change in control; maturing on January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoy all rights from • In the event of an early repayment event; and October 25, 2013. The total nominal amount of the issue was • at any time during a period of 5 trading days following any €400,000 thousand, comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal period of 20 consecutive trading days during which the value of €67.13 each, representing an issue premium of 42.5% bond price determined on the closing of daily trading in the compared with the Company benchmark share price at the Company’s share has been, each trading day, less than 95% launch date. The bonds do not bear any interest (zero coupon of the multiple of (i) the daily closing price of the Company’s bonds) and will be redeemed at par on January 1, 2019. share, and (ii) the conversion rate. The Bonds may be redeemed early at the initiative of the b) From January 1, 2017 (inclusive), bondholders may exercise Company subject to certain terms and conditions. their share allotment right at any time up to the eighteenth trading day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 211 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements X Redemption at maturity The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches may be redeemed before Unless the bonds are redeemed early pursuant to the terms these dates at the initiative of Cap Gemini S.A., subject to certain and conditions set out in the prospectus, and where the share conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly allotment right is not exercised, the bonds will be redeemed concerning the minimum redemption price. in full at par, i.e. €67.13 per bond, on January 1, 2019 (or the These three bond issues are also subject to standard early next working day, if this day is not a working day). redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. X Early redemption at the Company’s initiative The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in • At any time, from October 25, 2016 and up to the maturity the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under of the bonds, for all outstanding bonds and subject to a reference number n°15-318. notice period of 45 calendar days, by redemption at par, if the arithmetic average calculated over 20 consecutive days among 13. Bank loans and borrowings the 40 days preceding the publication of the early redemption Bank loans and borrowings total €658,596 thousand and notice, of the opening price of the Company’s shares on the comprise (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign currency Euronext Paris market multiplied by the applicable conversion bank accounts used in connection with the Group’s worldwide rate at each date, exceeds 130% of the nominal value of the cash pooling arrangements in the amount of €614,700 thousand, bonds; offset in the amount of €617,319 thousand by opposite balances • At any time, for some or all of the bonds, without limit as to presented in cash and cash equivalents of the Company, (ii) bank price or quantity, by repurchase on or off market or through a overdrafts in the amount of €725 thousand and (iii) accrued repurchase or exchange offering; interest not yet due on bond issues and the cross currency swap of €43,171 thousand. • At any time, for all outstanding bonds and subject to a notice period of 45 calendar days, if the number of outstanding bonds Syndicated credit facility secured by Cap Gemini S.A. is less than 15% of the number of bonds issued. On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million X Early redemption at the initiative of bondholders in multi-currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, the event of a change in control maturing on January 13, 2016. In the event of a change in control of the Company, This facility was refinanced on July 30, 2014 with a group of bondholders may request the early redemption of all of part of 18 banks by a new multi-currency credit facility for an increased their bonds, in accordance with the terms and conditions set amount of €750 million, maturing on July 30, 2019. In the event out in the prospectus approved by the AMF. of exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two oneX Early repayment in the event of default year extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second years, respectively, the maturity of the new facility will be Possible, particularly, in the event of default by the Company. extended by a maximum of two additional years. X Pari passu status The initial margin on the new credit facility was 0.45% (excluding Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari the fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion passu with all other marketable bonds issued by the Company. of the facility drawn), compared with the margin of 0.75% applied C) Bonds issued on July 1, 2015 previously at the same credit-rating level. This margin may be On June 24, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a “triple tranche” adjusted upwards or downwards according to the credit rating bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with of Cap Gemini. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: amounts equal to 35% of the margin. X 2015 Bond issue (July 2018): Following the downgrade of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating from BBB+ to BBB by Standard & Poor’s on April 27, 2015 after the The nominal amount of this tranche is €500 million, comprising acquisition of IGATE, the margin applicable is now 0.45% and the 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1575%. mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of 3 month Euribor + 85pb, revised quarterly (issue price 100%). An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini’s credit rating would X 2015 Bond issue (July 2020): have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,250 million, Cap Gemini has agreed to comply with the following financial comprising 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility: The bonds mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon X the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be of 1.750% (issue price 99.853%). less than 1 at all times; X 2015 Bond issue (July 2023): X the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,000 million, net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating comprising 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. margin) must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 The bonds mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then of 2.500% (issue price 99.857%). ended). 212 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. These committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include maintain pari passu status. restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset At December 31, 2015, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. 14. Maturity of payables at the year end One year or More than one in thousands of euros Gross amount less year Convertible bonds 400,000 400,000 Bond issue ■ 2011 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ■ 2015 2018 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ■ 2015 2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 1,250,000 ■ 2015 2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 Sub-total 3,650,000 500,000 3,150,000 Bank loans and borrowings ■ Bank overdrafts 725 725 ■ ■ Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) Accrued interest 614,700 43,171 614,700 43,171 4 Sub-total 658,596 658,596 Group loans and borrowings ■ Loans 303,670 161,451 142,219 ■ Other payables 745,834 745,834 Sub-total 1,049,504 907,285 142,219 Accounts and notes payable 3,309 3,309 Tax and social security liabilities 3,283 3,283 Other payables 940 940 TOTAL 5,365,633 2,073,413 3,292,219 Group loans of €303,670 thousand mainly comprise: X three three-month revolving loans from Capgemini Deutschland GmbH totaling €150,000 thousand; X a three-month revolving loan from Capgemini Sverige of €129,320 thousand. This loan is denominated in Swedish krona and hedged against currency risk; X a three-month revolving loan from Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc. of €11,450 thousand. This loan is denominated in US dollars and hedged against currency risk. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 213 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 15. Accrued income and charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Borrowings ■ Accrued interest 43,171 Other liabilities ■ Accounts and notes payable 3,213 ■ Tax and social security liabilities 591 TOTAL 46,975 Accrued interest payable mainly comprises interest on bond issues and particularly the bonds issued in July 2015 in the amount of €26,835 thousand and interest payable in US dollars on the cross currency swap of €16,125 thousand. Accrued income reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Cash and cash equivalents ■ Accrued interest receivable 7,930 TOTAL 7,930 Accrued interest receivable mainly comprises interest receivable in euros on the cross currency swap of €7,824 thousand. 16. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables Provision for Reported in foreign exchange in thousands of euros Reported in assets liabilities losses On other receivables/payables 143 208 143 TOTAL 143 208 143 17. Net finance income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Provisions relating to financial items Charge (496,659) Reversal 1,472,213 Sub-total 975,554 Dividends received 54,965 Sub-total 54,965 Other financial income and expense Net income from short-term investments 3,564 Other investment income (capitalization contracts) 1,649 Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 41,371 Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 29,802 Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (9,368) Interest on bond issues (52,711) Interest on the cross currency swap (8,173) Interest on issued commercial paper (219) Other 351 Sub-total 6,266 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 1,036,787 214 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements Charges to provisions for financial items of €496,659 thousand Provision reversals of €1,472,213 thousand comprise reversals of primarily concern provisions for impairment of equity interests provisions for impairment of equity interests in respect of the US in the amount of €383,000 thousand in respect of an European subsidiary in the amount of €908,000 thousand, one of the UK subsidiary and a provision for financial risks on the treasury share subsidiaries in the amount of €421,000 and the Italian subsidiary option contract of €113,659 thousand. in the amount of €81,000 thousand. The dividends of €54,965 thousand correspond to dividends received during the period by the Company from Swedish, Dutch, Portuguese, Polish and Moroccan subsidiaries. 18. Net non-recurring income (expense) in thousands of euros Amount Disposals of equity interests selling price 49 net carrying amount (295) Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement 2,878 Sub-total 2,632 Accelerated depreciation (1,320) Loss on the delivery of treasury shares (26,646) Other Sub-total (77) (28,043) 4 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (25,411) 19. Income tax expense In France, Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of a French tax consolidation group comprising 21 companies. In 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. recognized an income tax expense in respect of the tax consolidation of €25,709 thousand. In the absence of tax consolidation, Cap Gemini S.A. would have recognized a theoretical income tax expense of €43,101 thousand. Tax losses carried forward by Cap Gemini S.A. amounted to €746,278 thousand at December 31, 2015. BREAKDOWN OF THE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2015 Net profit before Income tax in thousands of euros tax expense at 37.98% ■ Recurring profit before tax 1,211,890 (460,249) ■ Net non-recurring income (expense) (25,411) 9,651 ■ Accounting profit for the year before tax 1,186,479 (450,599) ■ Tax differences (958,502) 364,018 ■ Offset of tax losses carried forward (114,489) 43,480 ■ Tax consolidation of subsidiaries 13,568 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (29,532) IMPACT OF TAX-DRIVEN VARIATIONS in thousands of euros Amount Profit for the year 1,156,947 Income tax expense (net) 29,532 Profit for the year before tax 1,186,479 Change in tax-driven provisions: ■ Accelerated depreciation (1,320) Other tax-driven valuations PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX-DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 1,185,159 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 215 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements CHANGE IN DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Deferred tax on temporary differences Current year in thousands of euros amount Prior year amount Non-deductible provisions ■ Organic sales tax 97 105 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ Provision for foreign exchange losses 143 2,391 Net asset value differences on UCITS 1 0 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 208 41 Unrealized foreign exchange losses (143) (2,391) Remeasurement differences on receivables and payables and fair value measurement of derivatives 228,164 142,165 Amortization of the derivative on own shares 8,330 8,330 TOTAL 236,800 150,641 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 81,530 51,866 Deferred tax assets ■ Tax losses carried forward 746,278 860,767 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 256,943 296,362 III OTHER INFORMATION 20. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given in favor of subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 break down as follows: in thousands of euros Amount ■ Financial items 119,790 ■ Operating items 1,328,408 ■ Tax items 15,060 TOTAL 1,463,258 Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries in respect of financial items provide them with access to local cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs on these credit lines at December 31, 2015 amounted to €16,745 thousand. b) Other commitments comprising a number of policies taken out with leading insurance The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees companies. The terms and conditions of this insurance program for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts (including maximum coverage) are regularly reviewed and signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric adjusted to reflect changes in revenues, business activities Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power and risk profiles. The program’s largest policy, amounting to Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Johnson & Johnson €20 million, is reinsured with a consolidated captive reinsurance Services, Inc., the Department of Work and Pensions, EMC and subsidiary. Michelin. Cap Gemini S.A. granted a financial guarantee in connection Cap Gemini S.A., together with all of its subsidiaries and any with the agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France entities which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are Telecom to transfer the management of part of the latter’s insured for the financial implications of any civil or professional telecommunications network for a term of eight years, renewed liability claims that may be filed against them as a result of on January 1, 2012 for a term of 6 years. their activities. The insurance is part of a worldwide program 216 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements c) Financial instruments At December 31, 2015, external currency derivatives hedging brand royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a positive value Currency hedges/Derivative instruments of €54 thousand and mainly concerned the pound sterling, At December 31, 2015, the values of external currency Australian dollar, US dollar and Swedish krona. derivative instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency denominated internal financing arrangements, primarily break At December 31, 2015, external currency derivative instruments down as follows: entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had a net positive value of €143,304 thousand. X a euro/Swedish krona swap with a positive value of €1,219 thousand for a nominal amount of SEK 1,202 At December 31, 2015, off-balance sheet commitments given to (€131 million); subsidiaries on internal currency derivative instruments entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had X a euro/pound sterling swap with a positive value of a positive value of €18,949 thousand. €208 thousand for a nominal amount of GBP 25 million (€34 million); At December 31, 2015 off-balance sheet commitments given to X a euro/Mexican pesos swap with a positive value of banks in respect of a cross currency swap had a negative value €154 thousand for a nominal amount of MXN 38 million of €19,693 thousand. This commitment given is fully offset by (€2 million); a commitment received from the North American subsidiary in respect of a currency swap back-to-back contract with a positive X five euro/US dollar swaps with a net negative value of value of €19,693 thousand. €1,549 thousand for a nominal amount of USD 243 million (€219 million); X a euro/Australian dollar swap with a negative value of €447 thousand for a nominal amount of AUD 13 million (€9 million); X a euro/Brazilian real swap with a negative value of €328 thousand for a nominal amount of BRL 108 million 4 (€25 million). 21. Related companies in thousands of euros Total Related companies Balance sheet items ■ Equity interests 17,503,686 17,503,686 ■ Receivable from controlled entities 1,241,389 1,241,389 ■ Payable to controlled entities 303,670 303,670 ■ Related and associated companies receivable 82,021 82,021 payable 745,834 745,834 Income Statement items ■ Investment income 54,965 54,965 ■ Income on Group loans 38,590 38,590 ■ Other interest and similar income 15,131 1,941 ■ Interest and similar expenses 78,320 9,109 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 217 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 22. Dilution tied to the Redeemable share 24. Subsequent events subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors At December 31, 2015, the 352,632 redeemable share will recommend a dividend payment of €1.35 per share in respect subscription and/or purchase warrants (BSAAR) still outstanding of 2015. are dilutive, as the aggregate of the €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium is lower than the average market price of 25. Remuneration of members of the Board of the Cap Gemini share in 2015. Directors Attendance fees paid to Directors in 2015 totaled €822,725 (or If all these redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants €535,495 after deduction of withholding tax for beneficiaries not (BSAAR) were exercised, the dilutive impact at December 31, tax resident in France and the 21% flat-rate income tax advance 2015 would be 0.20% after exercise. payment and social security contributions for beneficiaries tax 23. Consolidating company resident in France). Cap Gemini S.A. is the consolidating company for the Capgemini Group. 26. Fees paid to the statutory auditors and members of their networks in thousands of euros Amount Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 1,181 Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement 1,704 Sub-total 2,885 Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services Other Sub-total TOTAL 2,885 218 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 4.4.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. For the year ended 31 December 2015 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2015, on: X the audit of the accompanying financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A.; X the justification of our assessments; X the specific verifications and information required by law. These financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 4 I OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sample techniques or other methodes of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2015 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. II JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: The net value of equity interests as reported in the balance sheet amounts to €13,749 million at 31 December 2015. The accounting principles and methods used to determine the value in use of these investments are described in Note I to the financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was appropriate and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the financial statements, taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors, and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the identity of shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. The statutory auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, on 26 February 2016 Paris La Défense, on 26 February 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 219 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements and commitments should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by French corporate law (Code de Commerce) and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards (Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015) To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., we hereby report to you on related party agreements and commitments. It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the information provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, without commenting on their relevance or substance or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under the provisions of article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Where applicable it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders with the information required by article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code in relation to the implementation during the year of agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the information given to us is consistent with the underlying documents. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements and commitments authorized during the year In accordance with article L.225-40 of the French Commercial Code, we were informed of the following agreements and commitments authorized by the Board of Directors. X Services agreement with Lazard Persons concerned: Phil Laskawy, director of Lazard Ltd. and Bruno Roger, Chairman of Lazard Frères S.A.S. Type and purpose: On April 24, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized a services agreement with Lazard (through its French and American entities) pursuant to which the latter was appointed as the exclusive advisor for the IGATE acquisition. Under the terms of the agreement between Capgemini North America Inc. on the one hand and Lazard Frères S.A.S. and Lazard Frères & Co. Ltd. on the other, on April 26, 2015, Lazard undertook, in its capacity as advisor, to assist the Company with work related to the preparation of reports and analyses, the definition of the structure and terms and conditions of the transaction, the coordination of audit work and the negotiation of the necessary documents for the acquisition. Terms and conditions: The terms and conditions of Lazard’s engagement are as follows: fee payable upon completion of the transaction equal to the higher of a fixed amount and a variable amount based on amount of the transaction. The fee paid by Capgemini North America Inc. to Lazard in 2015 amounted to USD 10.8 million. Reasons provided by the Company: This agreement was justified as follows: “Cap Gemini appointed Lazard as an advisor, given its involvement in international transactions for major international groups. In addition, this bank has already supported Cap Gemini in several major acquisitions, including the acquisition of the Kanbay group in 2007, which had many similarities with the IGATE acquisition.” 220 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements X Financing contract in the form of a bridge loan signed with Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Société Générale Persons concerned: Laurence Dors, director of Crédit Agricole S.A., Yann Delabrière, director of Société Générale, and Xavier Musca, Chief Operating Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. Type and purpose: On May 5, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized Paul Hermelin, in his capacity as CEO, to sign a bank financing contract in the form of a bridge loan for a maximum amount of USD 3,800 million with several banks, including Crédit Agricole S.A. and Société Générale and their respective affiliates. Terms and conditions: Pursuant to this authorization, a bridge loan in the amount of USD 3,800 million (with drawdowns possible in US dollars and/or euros) was signed on May 22, 2015 between Cap Gemini S.A. and six banks including Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Socitété Générale, the latter two lenders each taking on a USD 304 million commitment, corresponding to 8% of the total amount each after the syndication round. This bridge loan has an initial term of one year, with a one year extension option exercisable at the Company’s discretion. The bridge loan was cancelled in its entirety at the Company’s initiative on July 9, 2015. Fees and interest paid by the Company to Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Société Générale under this bridge loan were determined based on their respective commitments and their roles in the financing contract. The Company paid and recognized the following expenses in 2015: X USD 966,232 in fees, USD 10,407 in interest and €15,628 in interest to Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank; and X USD 966,232 in fees, USD 10,407 in interest and €15,628 in interest to Société Générale. Reasons provided by the Company: 4 This agreement was justified by the fact that “both banks regularly participate in major financing transactions in France and internationally.” X Investment agreement with Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank Persons concerned: Laurence Dors, director of Crédit Agricole S.A., and Xavier Musca, Chief Operating Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. Type and purpose: On June 8, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized, as part of the bridge loan to finance the acquisition of IGATE, an increase in the Company’s capital through a private placement, by virtue of the powers granted to it by the 25th and 26th resolutions of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. To this end, it approved an underwriting agreement with several banks, in which Crédit Agricole S.A. as well as one or more of its affiliates were invited to participate, to underwrite its capital increase and manage its placement with institutional investors. Terms and conditions: Following the private placement carried out as part of the underwriting agreement signed on June 9, 2015 with eight banks, including Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Cap Gemini S.A. carried out a €506 million capital increase. The amount in fees paid to each bank was determined based on its percentage participation in the underwriting agreement and its role in the private placement. As part of this underwriting agreement, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank committed to underwriting 20% and acted as Lead Bank and Joint Bookrunner. As such, the fees charged to equity as an issuance premium in 2015, and which were paid by your Company, amounted to €1,647,630. Reasons provided by the Company: This agreement was justified by the fact that “Crédit Agricole S.A. has recognized experience in this area.” 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 221 4 Financial information 4.4 2015 financial statements X Subscription agreement for bond issues with Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Société Générale Persons concerned: Laurence Dors, director of Crédit Agricole S.A., Yann Delabrière, director of Société Générale, and Xavier Musca, Chief Operating Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. Type and purpose: On June 8, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized Mr. Hermelin, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer, to enter into a subscription agreement for bond issues by Cap Gemini S.A. with banks, in which Crédit Agricole S.A. and Société Générale as well as one or several of their respective affiliates could be called to play a role in the placement of bonds. Terms and conditions: In accordance with this authorization and as part of a bond issue in three tranches in the amount of €2,750 million, carried out on July 1, 2015, the Company signed a subscription agreement with 12 banks including Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Société Générale on June 29, 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, these banks subscribed to all of the bonds issued by the Company to place them with investors wanting to participate in the issue. The amount in fees paid to each bank was determined based on its role in the transaction. The Company paid and recognized the following expenses in 2015: X Fees of €333,281 to Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank as Joint Lead Bank; X Fees of €1,530,625 to Société Générale as Global Coordinator and Joint Lead Bank. Reasons provided by the Company: This agreement was justified by the fact that “these two banks regularly participate in planning bond issues in France and internationally.” Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting Agreements and commitments approved in previous years but not implemented during the year In addition, we have been informed of the following agreements and commitments approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting in previous years, which remained in force but were not implemented in 2015. X Supplementary collective pension scheme for Paul Hermelin (CEO) Type: A supplementary collective defined benefit pension scheme set up by the Company in favor of certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the development of the Capgemini Group. Paul Hermelin has been registered as a beneficiary of this plan since the April 10, 2007 Shareholders’ Meeting. Purpose and terms and conditions: On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the creation of a collective defined benefit pension scheme in favor of certain senior executives of the Group, enabling them to obtain, upon their retirement, a supplementary pension that may not exceed 40% of their reference earnings. The beneficiary’s total cumulative pension benefits may not exceed 50% of the reference earnings which are capped at 60 times the annual ceiling for social security contributions. The July 29, 2015 Board of Directors’ Meeting decided to freeze Paul Hermelin’s rights under this supplementary scheme, effective from October 31, 2015, without consideration (hence a change in the Company’s favor). On December 2, 2015, the Board of Directors took due note that this agreement had been submitted to it to be reexamined. Paul Hermelin did not receive any remuneration under this agreement in 2015. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris La Défense, February 29, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 222 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Financial information 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5 Other ﬁnancial and accounting information 4.5.1 Five-year ﬁnancial summary (in thousand of euros) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 I-SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1,246,163 1,294,163 1,282,543 1,308,744 1,377,452 Number of common shares outstanding 155,770,362 161,770,362 160,317,818 163,592,949 172,181,500 Maximum number of future shares to be created: ■ through exercise of equity warrants 6,484,125 5,242,822 5,910,064 6,412,285 3,980,902 ■ through conversion fo convertible bonds 26,372,575 16,911,765 5,961,483 5,958,587 5,958,587 II-OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 241,094 230,370 241,145 248,316 311,679 Operating revenue and financial revenue 339,560 763,415 700,839 1,480,875 2,165,823 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 225,363 189,839 38,404 284,241 224,791 4 Income tax 2,962 21,562 (11,344) 33,555 29,532 Net income / (losses) 171,563 247,759 164,839 1,161,201 1,156,947 Distributed income 155,770 161,770 176,350 196,312 * 232,445 III-EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN EUROS) but before amortization and provisions 1.43 1.04 0.31 1.53 1.13 Net earnings 1.10 1.53 1.03 7.10 6.72 Dividend per share 1.00 1.00 1.03 1.20 * 1.35 IV-EMPLOYEE DATA Average number of employee during the year Cap Gemini S.A. does not have any employees Total payroll Total benefits * Subject to approval by the Combined shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 223 4 Financial information 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments Other Book value of Loans shareshares & adGuaholders’ Number of vances rantees 2015 Divi(in millions of euros) Capital equity* % interest shares owned Gross Net granted given Revenue dends Subsidiaries Capgemini North America Inc 1 6,837 100.00% 982,000 9,132 7,186 1,123 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 723 1 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 0 10 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 14 30 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 801 Capgemini AB (Suède) 3 328 100.00% 25,861 387 387 9 21 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 321 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 996 18 Capgemini Business services BV 16 3 100.00% 35,289 38 38 Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 4 95.59% 3 629 629 12 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 0 2 100.00% 64,311 59 45 2 20 Capgemini Suisse AG 0 (1) 100.00% 500 45 30 7 77 58 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o 4 33 100.00% 129,160 25 25 190 12 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 0 1 100.00% 1 2 2 0 6 capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 1 98.77% 21,255 8 8 2 15 Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 754 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 7 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 7 99.99% 329,996 3 3 40 2 SOGETI S.A.S. 261 381 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 31 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 14 100.00% 3,575,000 543 131 10 17 214 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 42 (16) 85.73% 363,217 319 173 9 228 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 8 5 100.00% 1,698,842 44 19 28 1 Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 2 6 99.80% 12,900,034 1 1 26 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 2 1.16% 126,369 0 0 13 Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 109 (40) 100.00% 156,122,611 229 58 12 30 0 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd 128 (106) 100.00% 1,502,342 172 172 8 30 183 Capgemini Business Services (India) 0 61 99.90% 4,995 25 25 102 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 4 100.00% 8,000,000 164 12 15 312 S.C.I. Paris Etoile 0 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 3 2 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L 3 (6) 99.90% 1,004,628 52 52 4 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 3 (1) 100.00% 210,000 3 3 17 Capgemini Latin America 468 (0) 100.00% 46,824,750 477 182 24 3 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 10 Other French companies nm nm nm nm 0 0 nm nm nm nm Investments As of December 31, 2015, investments held by Cap Gemini S.A. are not material * Including net income for the year nm: not material 224 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 5.3 Cap Gemini share capital 226 Current ownership structure 235 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements Changes in the ownership structure and delegations of authority) 226 over the past three years 236 5.1.2 Financial authorizations 227 Shareholders’ agreements 236 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding 228 5.1.4 Employee shareholders 228 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of all securities granting access to the Company’s 5.4 share capital 230 Share buyback program 237 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 237 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market 231 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 225 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements and delegations of authority) AMOUNT OF CAPITAL At December 31, 2015, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,377,452,000, divided into 172,181,500 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Additional paid-in Share capital capital Number of shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 Share capital increase for cash: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 6,000,000 48,000,000 106,560,000 ■ Issue costs for shares reserved for employees (1,068,864) Allocation to legal reserve (4,800,000) AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 161,770,362 1,294,162,896 5,818,093,835 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 285,000 2,280,000 (6,240) ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes ■ Shares issued following the conversion of OCEANE 2009 bonds 1,188,167 9,505,336 30,892,342 Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,925,711) (23,405,688) (76,702,738) AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 160,317,818 1,282,542,544 5,772,277,199 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 5,000,000 40,000,000 190,000,000 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (864,294) ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 530,539 4,244,312 (4,244,312) Allocation to legal reserve (1,458,070) Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18,043,264) (103,919,200) AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,308,743,592 5,851,791,323 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued by private placement 6,700,000 53,600,000 452,250,000 ■ Shares issued after the vesting of free shares 6 48 0 ■ Shares issued following the exercise of BSAAR warrants 1,888,545 15,108,360 49,102,170 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (5,922,837) Allocation to legal reserve (6,833,742) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 172,181,500 1,377,452,000 6,340,386,914 226 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.2 Financial authorizations AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED BY THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARE CAPITAL The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Authorization date and Maximum amount resolution Used Type of securities (in euros) (1) (2) number Expiry date during 2015 Amount a) Ordinary shares paid up by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other eligible amounts €1.5 billion (par value) 05/07/2014/21st 07/07/2016 No N/A b) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access €500 million (par value) to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right €4.5 billion to allocation of debt instruments, with PSR (issue amount) 05/07/2014/23rd 07/07/2016 No N/A c) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right €125 million (par value) to allocation of debt instruments, without PSR, €1.25 billion public offer (issue amount) 05/07/2014/24th 07/07/2016 No N/A d) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right €125 million (par value) to allocation of debt instruments, without PSR, €1.25 billion €53.6 million private placement (issue amount) 05/07/2014/25th 07/07/2016 Yes par value e) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access €125 million (par value) to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right €1.25 billion to allocation of debt instruments without PSR, (issue amount) issue price set by the Board of Directors 10% of share capital 05/07/2014/26th 07/07/2016 Yes N/A “Greenshoe” option (b) to (e) f) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access €125 million (par value) 05/07/2014/27th 07/07/2016 No N/A 5 to the Company’s share capital, in consideration for €1.25 billion contributions in kind to the Company of shares or (issue amount) securities granting access to share capital 10% of share capital 05/07/2014/28th 07/07/2016 No N/A g) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, or granting a right €125 million (par value) to allocation of debt instruments, in consideration €1.25 billion for shares tendered to a public exchange offer made (issue amount) by the Company 10% of share capital 05/07/2014/29th 07/07/2016 No N/A Overall limit €500 million (par value) (b) to (g) including “Greenshoe option” (40% of share capital) €4.5 billion (issue amount) Ordinary shares issued within the scope of the international employee share ownership plan: h) Members of Group savings plans €48 million 05/07/2014/30th 07/07/2016 No N/A (issue amount) (2) i) Not restricted to members of Group savings plans, €16 million but subject to similar conditions (issue amount) (2) 05/07/2014/31st 11/07/2015 No N/A j) Performance shares 1% of share capital 05/06/2015/9th 11/06/2016 Yes €8.5 million (par value) PSR – Pre-emptive Subscription Rights (1) Recap of overall limits: – a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum issue amount of €4.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; – including a maximum par value amount of €125 million and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights; – issues performed pursuant to h), i) and j) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital issues decided pursuant to h) and i) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 227 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital USE OF AUTHORIZATIONS DURING 2015 subscription rights for a par value amount of €53,600,000, th th through the issue of 6,700,000 new ordinary shares. Pursuant to the powers conferred on it by the 25 and 26 resolutions adopted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting In addition, and pursuant to the authorization granted by the of May 7, 2014 and in connection with the refinancing of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 in the bridge loan secured to finance the acquisition of IGATE, the ninth resolution, the Board of Directors’ meeting of July 29, Board of Directors decided on June 8, 2015 to sub-delegate to 2015 decided the issue of 1,068,550 performance shares to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company the 618 managers and employees of the Group, and 19 members powers necessary to perform a share capital increase by private of the Executive Committee including Paul Hermelin. placement with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights It is recalled that the Board used the authorizations to perform and without a priority subscription period. share capital increases reserved for employees in 2014 (30th On June 9, 2015, using the aforementioned sub-delegation, the and 31st resolutions adopted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Chairman and Chief Executive Officer decided a share capital Meeting of May 7, 2014). A €40 million share capital increase was increase by private placement with cancellation of pre-emptive performed on December 18, 2014. 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding BONDS REDEEMABLE IN CASH AND/OR IN NEW AND/OR REDEEMABLE SHARE SUBSCRIPTION EXISTING SHARES (ORNANE) OR PURCHASE WARRANTS (BSAAR) On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini launched an offering of During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares and corporate officers of the Group at a price of €3.22 per (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numeraire et/ou en warrant. This issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved by Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) for a total nominal the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number 09-140. The amount of €400 million and comprising 5,958,587 bonds with warrants could not be exercised or transferred during a four-year a nominal value of €67.13 each, maturing on January 1, 2019 period commencing July 23, 2009, except under the conditions (ORNANE 2013). The terms and conditions of this issue were set specified in the issue agreement. The warrants are listed and out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 traded on the Euronext Paris market since July 23, 2013 and will under reference number n°13-557. be until July 23, 2016. On the exercise by bondholders of their share allotment rights, 352,632 warrants remained outstanding at December 31, 2015. Cap Gemini may present, at its initiative, either (i) a cash amount up to the nominal value of the bonds and new and/or existing shares thereafter, where applicable, or (ii) only new and/or existing shares. 5.1.4 Employee shareholders SHARE SUBSCRIPTION OR PURCHASE PLANS end of his term of office is set by the Board of Directors. By exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The last stock option shares may be granted to employees of the Company and its plan expired in June 2013. French and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of the General Management Team (the “Executive Committee”), without PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANT performance conditions. Performance share grant in 2015 Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ meeting of July 29, 2015 decided the issue of 1,068,550 performance The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 shares to 618 managers and employees of the Group, authorized the Board of Directors in its ninth resolution to grant 18 members of the Executive Committee (excluding Paul performance shares to employees and corporate officers of the Hermelin) and Paul Hermelin. Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, during a period of 18 months commencing May 6, 2015. The number As for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 grant plans, the internal of shares granted (existing and to be issued) was not to exceed performance condition is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over 1% of the share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ a three-year period, reflecting the Board of Directors’ desire to decision to grant such shares (this maximum number of shares prioritize long-term goals in the context of these grants. being referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a maximum The external performance condition is based on the comparative of 10% of “N”, these performance shares may be granted to the performance of the Cap Gemini share against average executive corporate officer of the Company, it being specified performance over a minimum of three years (in line with the that the portion of shares that must be held by him until the period covered by the internal performance condition). 228 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital Accordingly, the total number of shares that will vest to Since 2010, performance share grants are subject to internal and beneficiaries at the end of the vesting period will equal: external performance conditions. These conditions are detailed in X a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the the resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement of authorizing the Board of Directors to grant performance shares. the chosen internal performance target: published and audited The internal performance condition for these two share grants organic free cash flow for the three years from 2015 to 2017 concerned organic free cash flow generated over the three year compared with a minimum objective of €1,750 million; the period, 2012, 2013 and 2014. maximum number of shares will vest for organic free cash flow The external performance condition was assessed based on the generation of more than €2,000 million; and performance of the Cap Gemini share compared with a basket X a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the of comparable companies in our business sector in at least five grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement of different countries. These companies were as follows for the two the chosen external performance target: performance of the grants: Accenture, Atos, CSC, CGI Group, Cognizant, Infosys, Cap Gemini share compared with the average performance Sopra, Steria and Tieto. No shares vest in respect of the external measured over an identical three year period of a basket of performance condition if the relative performance of the Cap securities and indexes containing (i) at least five shares of Gemini share is less than 90% of the average performance of listed companies operating in the same sector as the Group the basket over a two-year period, while 30% of shares vest if in a minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly this performance is equal to that of the basket and 50% of shares established and (ii) the CAC 40 index. vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. The Board of Directors set at three years the minimum holding The internal and external performance conditions for these period for vested shares following the vesting period for plans were satisfied in full, enabling the vesting to beneficiaries beneficiaries tax-resident in France. Furthermore, the Chairman tax-resident in France of 383,000 shares in January 2015 and and Chief Executive Officer is required to hold the shares vested 355,600 shares in March 2015. until the end of his term of office in the amount of 50% of shares vested if the number of shares held by him at the grant It is noted that 1,028 shares vested early to certain beneficiaries date, valued at the grant price, is equal to less than two years’ of free share plans with performance conditions (1,000 shares) theoretical salary, and in the amount of 33% otherwise. and without performance conditions (28 shares) during 2015 (following death, invalidity, etc.). In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, performance share grants will be undertaken at the same INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING SYSTEM calendar periods from now on and will be decided by either the Board of Directors’ meeting held at the end of July or at the The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 26, 2011 and following meeting generally held at the beginning of October. Share grants without performance conditions in 2015 May 7, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to issue a maximum of 6 million shares by way of a share capital increase 5 reserved for employees and corporate officers of the Company No share grants to employees without performance conditions and its French and non-French subsidiaries who are members of were performed in 2015. the Capgemini Group Company Savings Plan. Vesting of performance shares in 2015 The international employee shareholding transaction performed Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary in 2012 was subscribed in the amount of 6 million shares directly Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 in the nineteenth and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by resolution, the Board of Directors granted (i) 1,003,500 shares Group employees from 19 countries. subject to performance and presence conditions on The international employee shareholding transaction performed December 12, 2012 and (ii) 1,209,100 shares subject to in 2014 was subscribed in the amount of 5 million shares directly performance and presence conditions on February 20, 2013. and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by These performance shares were granted subject to the following Group employees from 20 countries. vesting periods: It is recalled that subscribers to the first employee share X December 12, 2012 grant: two years and half a month for ownership plan “ESOP 2009” (which expired on December 16, beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years and half a 2014) had the option of recovering their investment (and in month for beneficiaries not tax resident in France; the grant numerous cases reinvesting in the 2014 plan) or leaving their therefore vested for French tax residents on January 2, 2015; investment in the Group Savings Plan (France only). and Overall and pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-102 of the X February 20, 2013 grant: two years and one week for French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you that beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years and one employees and corporate officers of the Company (and related week for beneficiaries not tax resident in France; the grant companies) together held 6.15% of the Company’s share capital therefore vested for French tax residents on March 1, 2015. at December 31, 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 229 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of all securities granting access to the Company’s share capital If the maximum number of shares were issued at December 31, 2015 in respect of performance and free share grant plans, BSAAR warrants and “ORNANE 2013” bonds, the dilution would be 5.5%. The dilution in respect of performance and free share grants plans is 2.1%. 230 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market At December 31, 2015, the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A. Cap Gemini shares are in particular included in the CAC 40 and comprised 172,181,500 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). the Euronext 100 indexes and the Dow Jones STOXX and Dow Cap Gemini shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market Jones Euro STOXX European indexes. Between January 1 and (compartment A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred settlement December 31, 2015, the Cap Gemini share price on “Euronext system of the Paris Stock Exchange. The increase in the Paris” increased from €60.12 to €85.60. number of shares between 2014 and 2015 is due to the issue of 6,700,000 shares within the framework of IGATE acquisition, the exercise of 1,888,545 redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR), and the early grant of 6 shares due to disability under a free share grant plan. CAP GEMINI SHARE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT THE END OF DECEMBER, 2015 (based on a shareholder survey) Non-French French Board members and Individual Treasury shares institutional institutional Group employees shareholders investors investors 7.8 % 65.4 % 20.6 % CAP GEMINI S.A. 5.7 % 0.5 % 5 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 231 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market STOCK MARKET CAPITALIZATION From January 2014 to February 2016 In billions of euros 17 15 13 Source : Bloomberg 11 9 7 5 3 jan feb . . g. pt. t. v. c. jan ma feb rch . . v. c. jan . ma ap march ril y au se oc no de ap ma jun aujulril y e y. no de feb . jun juley seoc g. pt. t. 2014 2015 2016 SHARE PERFORMANCE From December 31, 2013 to February 29, 2016 In euros CAP GEMINI: 56.1% CAC 40: 1.3% STOXX Europe 600: 1.7% 90 88 86 84 82 80 78 76 74 72 70 68 66 64 Source : Bloomberg 62 60 58 56 54 52 50 48 46 44 02 04 31 /1 /1 /2 9/ 0/ 01 20 20 3 14 14 05 07 09 /3 /1 /0 0/ 9/ 7/ 20 20 14 14 10 12 02 /2 /1 7/ 6/ 20 20 20 14 14 14 03 05 /0 /2 /1 4/ 6/ 5/ 20 20 20 15 15 07 /0 4/ 20 15 12 / 08 10 12 01 /2 /1 /0 /2 3/ 2/ 1/ 0/ 20 20 20 20 15 15 15 15 16 232 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market NUMBER OF TRADES PER MONTH ON NYSE EURONEXT PARIS From January 2014 to February 2016 In millions of shares 23 21 19 17 Source : Bloomberg 15 13 11 9 7 5 . jan . feb rch ril y e jul g. pt. t. no c. . jan fev rch ril y e jul g. pt. t. no de . jan . feb ap ma jun y au se oc v. de . ap ma jun y au se oc v. c. ma ma 2014 2015 2016 5 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 233 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market SHARE PRICE AND TRADING VOLUME The following table presents an analysis of trading in the Company’s shares on NYSE Euronext Paris over the last 24 months: Trading volume Share price (in euros) Number of shares Number of Average Value Month trading days High Average Low Total (daily) (millions of euros) March 14 21 57.240 55.281 53.140 12,856,242 612,202 710.1 April 14 20 54.560 52.436 50.360 15,959,318 797,966 835.3 May 14 21 54.200 51.439 47.790 16,278,356 775,160 834.2 June 14 21 54.680 53.535 51.890 10,110,982 481,475 541.4 July 14 23 55.740 52.462 49.860 15,103,918 656,692 792.8 August 14 21 55.240 53.190 51.010 11,251,170 535,770 597.2 September 14 22 58.960 56.218 53.750 14,461,862 657,357 817.2 October 14 23 56.980 52.105 48.400 21,310,725 926,553 1,104.6 November 14 20 59.380 55.664 51.140 14,276,819 713,841 792.0 December 14 21 61.700 58.990 54.790 12,907,321 614,634 759.0 January 15 21 65.380 60.967 57.030 14,145,906 673,615 863.9 February 15 20 72.400 66.831 63.400 14,582,238 729,112 984.4 March 15 22 78.260 74.810 71.960 15,621,830 710,083 1,167.4 April 15 20 85.770 79.070 75.580 16,616,307 830,815 1,322.6 May 15 20 85.000 80.870 76.230 16,353,988 817,699 1,320.4 June 15 22 83.410 79.490 75.830 20,316,438 923,474 1,605.0 July 15 23 90.800 85.650 79.020 17,255,940 750,258 1,478.1 August 15 21 88.500 83.700 73.380 15,985,302 761,205 1,324.3 September 15 22 81.660 78.900 76.370 13,371,313 607,787 1,055.7 October 15 22 83.370 79.180 73.560 15,485,782 703,899 1,299.4 November 15 21 88.000 82.750 79.750 12,429,827 591,897 1,031.7 December 15 22 88.870 85.630 83.020 11,428,916 519,496 981.4 January 16 20 85.160 81.730 77.620 13,343,731 667,187 1,089.3 February 16 21 85.390 76.020 67.700 19,089,041 909,002 1,430.6 Source: Bloomberg DIVIDENDS PAID BY CAP GEMINI Dividend distribution In % of net Number Dividend Year ended December 31 In € million income of shares per share 2011 156 39% 155,770,362 €1.00 2012 162 44% 161,700,362 €1.00 2013 176 40% 160,317,818 €1.10 2014 196 34% 163,592,949 €1.20 2015 232 36% 172,181,500 * €1.35 * Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. 2016 PROVISIONAL FINANCIAL CALENDAR This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes 2016 First quarter revenues: April 27, 2016 only and may be subject to subsequent amendments. 2016 First half results: July 27, 2016 2016 Third quarter revenues: October 26, 2016 2016 Annual results: February 16, 2017 234 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.3 Current ownership structure 5.3 Current ownership structure At December 31, 2015, the share capital amounted to The limited liability company, Amundi, acting on behalf of the €1,377,452,000 (compared with €1,308,743,592 at December Capgemini ESOP FCPE (employee savings mutual fund) which 31, 2014) following: it manages, disclosed that it reduced its interest below the X the exercise of 1,888,545 redeemable share subscription or threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights purchase warrants (BSAAR) during the year; on July 1, 2015 and holds 4.97% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights(4). X the early grant of 6 shares due to disability under a free share grant plan; In accordance with Article 10 of the Company’s bylaws, the companies listed below made the following disclosures to the X the issue of 6,700,000 shares following the share capital Company during the fiscal year: increase by private placement with suppression of preferential subscription rights as part of the refinancing of the bridge loan X ALLIANZ disclosed that it had raised its interest above the secured to finance the acquisition of IGATE. threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights; The ownership structure at December 31, 2015 is presented below. No shares carry double voting rights. At December 31, X AVIVA disclosed that it had reduced its interest below the 2015, Cap Gemini held 906,107 of its own shares. threshold of 2% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights; At December 31, 2015, there were 13,664 holders of registered shares. X AXA INVESTMENT MANAGERS disclosed that it had raised its interest above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code capital and voting rights; (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders X BNP PARIBAS INVESTMENT PARTNERS S.A. disclosed that, based on notifications received, two shareholders held more that it had raised its interest above the threshold of 1% of the than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights at the Company’s share capital and voting rights; year-end: X the US company, BlackRock Inc.(1), acting on behalf of X CAISSE DES DEPOTS ET CONSIGNATIONS disclosed that it had reduced and raised its interest below and above the 5 clients and managed funds; threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting X Société Générale(2). rights on two occasions. On the most recent occasion, it The limited liability company, Amundi Group(3), acting on behalf increased its interest above the 1% threshold; of managed funds, disclosed that it had raised and then X CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS LTD disclosed that it had reduced its interest above and below the threshold of 5% of reduced and raised its interest below and above the threshold the Company’s share capital and voting rights on March 4 and of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on 13, 2015 respectively as a result of an acquisition followed by a seven occasions. On the most recent occasion, it decreased disposal of Cap Gemini shares on the market and holds 4.99% its interest below the 1% threshold; of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on behalf of X CREDIT SUISSE disclosed that it had reduced and raised such funds. its interest below and above the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on five occasions. On the most recent occasion, it decreased its interest below the 1% threshold; X HSBC Holdings plc disclosed that it had reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights; Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 2.29% of the Company’s share capital. (1) BlackRock’s investment is held on behalf of clients, but the investment manager has the discretionary power to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held, except at the express request of clients to retain control of their voting rights. (2) This threshold crossing disclosure follows the repeal of the so-called “trading” exception which exempted providers of investment services from including in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments considered to have an economic effect similar to the ownership of shares, following the enactment into French law of the revised transparency directive 2013/50/EU by Order no.2015-1576 of December 3, 2015 (e.g. forward purchase with physical settlement). (3) Held 80% by Crédit Agricole group and 20% by Société Générale group. The limited liability companies, Amundi, Société Générale Gestion, Etoile Gestion, CPR Asset Management and BFT Gestion are management companies controlled by Amundi Group and have a common voting policy. These management companies act independently of Crédit Agricole and Société Générale, in accordance with the conditions laid down in Articles L.233-9 II of the French Commercial Code and Articles 223-12 and 223-12-1 of the AMF General Regulations. (4) This threshold was crossed as a result of the increase in the total number of the Company’s shares and voting rights. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 235 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.3 Current ownership structure Changes in the ownership structure over the past three years At December 31, 2013 At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2015 Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting shares capital rights shares capital rights shares capital rights Serge Kampf 4,650,000 2.9 2.9 4,250,000 (3) 2.6 2.6 3,670,000 2.1 2.1 Paul Hermelin 227,048 0.1 0.1 147,048 0.1 0.1 247,048 0.1 0.1 Public (1) (bearer + registered) 145,189,110 90.6 90.6 148,108,652 90.5 90.5 157,785,099 91.7 91.7 Employee shareholders 10,182,860 6.4 6.4 10,119,071 6.2 6.2 9,573,246 5.6 5.6 (2) Treasury shares 68,800 0.0 0.0 968,178 0.6 0.6 906,107 0.5 0.5 Own shares TOTAL 160,317,818 100 100 163,592,949 100 100 172,181,500 100 100 (1) Including share capital held by managers. (2) At December 31, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. held 906,107 of its own shares acquired under the share buy-back program. In accordance with French corporate law, these shares are stripped of voting shares. (3) Ajusted number of shares given information provided to the Company subsquent to the publication of the 2014 Registration Document. The Company does not hold any “own shares”. Based on a study of identifiable bearer shares carried out at December 15, 2015, the Company has 36,758 identifiable holders of bearer shares holding at least 50 shares. No shares carry double voting rights. Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether the share is held in registered or bearer form. Shareholders’ agreements There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. 236 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 renewed the Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax authorization granted to the Company to buy back its shares. totaled €291,001 in 2015. This authorization was used in 2015 in connection with the At December 31, 2015, excluding the liquidity agreement liquidity agreement entered into on February 15, 2010 and more the 821,107 treasury shares representing 0.48% of the generally as part of the continued purchase by the Company of Company’s share capital were allocated as follows: its own shares. X 468,475 shares for grant or sale to employees and/or The liquidity agreement seeks to improve the liquidity of the Cap corporate officers under free share grant plans, company Gemini S.A. share and stabilize the share price. In 2015, a total of savings plans or the international employee share ownership 3,637,916 shares were purchased on behalf of Cap Gemini S.A., plan; and at an average price of €76.82 per share, representing 2.11% of the share capital at December 31, 2015. During the same period, X 352,632 shares for grant to holders of securities granting 3,685,978 Cap Gemini S.A. shares were sold at an average price access to the Company’s share capital on the exercise of the of €76.78 per share, representing 2.14% of the share capital rights attached to these securities. at December 31, 2015. At the year-end, the liquidity account Finally, it is noted that no treasury shares were reallocated to a balance comprised 85,000 treasury shares (0.05% of the share different purpose or cancelled during 2015. capital) for a total of approximately €14 million. In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares in 2015. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held 821,107 of its own shares at December 31, 2015, following the various transactions described below: purchase of 1,412,042 shares representing 0.82% of the share X capital at December 31, 2015, at an average price of €75.88 per share; 5 X transfer of 739,622 shares to employees under the free share grant plan; X transfer of 686,429 shares to holders of redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) who exercised their Cap Gemini S.A. share allotment rights in 2015. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 237 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 238 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 6.4 Resolutions presented Glossary and summary table at the Ordinary Shareholders’ of financial authorizations 273 Meeting 240 6.5 6.2 Statutory auditors’ reports 282 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 252 6.3 Biographies of the candidates 6 for the Board of Directors 270 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 239 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Unofficial translation from French. The English translation is for information purpose only. In case of discrepancies, the French version shall prevail. This report presents the proposed resolutions submitted companies for vote”, produced by the French business to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of association, MEDEF, in conjunction with ANSA and AFEP and Directors. It consists of an introduction, a summary table available in French on its website www.medef.com for further of financial authorizations and a glossary. The objective of information on the issues surrounding draft resolutions and this report is to draw your attention to the important points the related legal framework application to French companies. in the draft resolutions, in accordance with prevailing laws An overview of the financial position, activities and results of and regulations and with best corporate governance practice the Company and its Group during the last fiscal year and recommended for companies listed in Paris. It does not other information required by prevailing law and regulations purport to be comprehensive and does not replace a careful are also presented in the management report on fiscal reading of the draft resolutions prior to voting. year 2015, to which you are invited to refer. Shareholders are also invited to refer to the guidelines on the “Draft resolutions presented to shareholders of listed 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 1ST AND 2ND RESOLUTIONS APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview In these two resolutions, we ask you to approve the Company financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini for the year ended December 31, 2015 as follows: X the Company financial statements of Cap Gemini showing a net profit of €1,156,946,800.03; X the consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini showing net profit for the Group of €1,124 million. FIRST RESOLUTION Review and approval of the 2015 Company financial X the Chairman’s report; and statements X the Statutory Auditors’ report on their audit of the Company; The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum approves the Company financial statements for the year and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after ended December 31, 2015, showing net profit for the year of having read: €1,156,946,800.03. X the management report of the Board of Directors; SECOND RESOLUTION Review and approval of the 2015 consolidated financial approves the consolidated financial statements for the year statements ended December 31, 2015, showing net profit for the Group of €1,124 million. The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read: X the Group management report of the Board of Directors for 2015; and X the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements; 240 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 3RD RESOLUTION REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS Overview In this resolution, we ask you to (i) approve the agreements The contract was signed by Capgemini North America, Inc., governed by Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial the wholly-owned subsidiary of Cap Gemini which performed Code entered into in 2015, and (ii) take due note of the the acquisition, and not by Cap Gemini. Nonetheless, the information concerning agreements and commitments Board of Directors is of the opinion that, as Cap Gemini entered into and approved by Shareholders’ Meetings in approved this acquisition together with, as provided in the prior years, with continuing effect in 2015, as presented Board of Directors’ Internal Rules of Operation, its main in the statutory auditors’ special report (see Section 4.4.5 terms and conditions, financing and the choice of advisory of 2015 Registration Document). bank, it could be considered that the agreement presented the characteristics of a regulated agreement between Cap Gemini SA and Lazard. (I) NEW AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS b. IGATE Acquisition financing agreements The only agreements authorized by the Board of Directors in 2015 and presented for your approval were entered into Bridge loan in the context of the merger acquisition by your Company of During its meeting of May 5, 2015, the Board of Directors the US company IGATE Corporation (hereafter referred to as unanimously authorized the signature by the Company of a the “IGATE Acquisition”). financing agreement in the form of a bridge loan with several For further information on the terms and conditions of the banking institutions under which Crédit Agricole S.A. and IGATE Acquisition, please refer to the 2015 Registration Société Générale as well as their respective affiliates could Document. be invited to participate, as these two institutions participate regularly in major financing transactions both in and outside a. Financial Advisory Agreement with the investment France. banking firm Lazard Mr. Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit During its meeting of April 24, 2015, the Board of Directors Agricole S.A., Mrs. Laurence Dors, Director of Crédit unanimously authorized the signature by Cap Gemini of a Agricole S.A. and Mr. Yann Delabrière, Director of Société financial advisory agreement with the investment banking Générale, did not participate in this vote due to their positions firm Lazard (hereinafter “Lazard”) (through its French and US in these banks. respective entities) appointing the latter as exclusive advisor Pursuant to this authorization, a bridge loan of for the IGATE Acquisition. Messrs. Bruno Roger and Phil US$ 3,800 million (available for drawn-down in US dollars Laskawy did not participate in this vote due to their positions and/or euros) was signed on May 22, 2015 between Cap in the Lazard group. Gemini and six credit institutions including Crédit Agricole Therefore, under the terms of the financial advisory Corporate and Investment Bank and Société Générale, agreement signed by Capgemini North America, Inc. with both of which providing each as lender a final commitment Lazard Frères S.A.S. and Lazard Frères & Co. LLC on April 26, of US$ 304 million, corresponding each to 8% of the total 2015, Lazard particularly undertook, as advisor, to assist the amount following the syndication phase. Company with the preparation of reports and analyses, the drafting of the structure and the definition of the transaction terms and conditions, the coordination of audit procedures This bridge loan of an initial term of one year, with a one year extension option exercisable at the initiative of your Company, contained standard stipulations for this type of 6 and the negotiation of the documents necessary to the financing. transaction. The bridge loan was cancelled in full at the initiative of your Cap Gemini selected Lazard as advisor considering its Company on July 9, 2015. involvement with major international groups in numerous “cross-border” transactions. In addition, this investment Commission and interest paid to Crédit Agricole Corporate bank has already accompanied Cap Gemini in several major and Investment Bank and Société Générale in respect of this acquisitions, such as the Kanbay acquisition completed bridge loan were determined based on their commitments in 2007. This acquisition presented a number of significant and their respective roles in the financing. In 2015, you similarities with the IGATE acquisition. Kanbay, like IGATE, Company paid: was a company governed by US law and listed in the United X commission of US$ 966,232 and interest of US$ 10,407 and States, providing services primarily in North America with the €15,628 to Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank; majority of its employees located in India. X commission of US$ 966,232 and interest of US$ 10,407 and Lazard terms and conditions are in line with standard market €15,628 to Société Générale. practice for this type of contract: commission payable on completion of the transaction equal to the higher of Underwriting agreement (i) US$ 10.8 million and (ii) 0.27% of the capitalization subject The Board of Directors’ meeting of June 8, 2015 unanimously to the transaction. authorized, with respect to the refinancing of the bridge loan Remuneration effectively paid by Capgemini North America, intended to finance the IGATE acquisition, a share capital Inc. to Lazard during 2015 totaled US$ 10.8 million; increase by private placement, pursuant to the powers granted by the 25th and 26th resolutions of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. To this end, it approved 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 241 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting the signature of an underwriting agreement with several Investment Bank and Société Générale, under the terms financial institutions, in which Crédit Agricole S.A., which is of which these financial institutions subscribed for all the recognized for its expertise in this sector, and one or more bonds issued by the Company in order to place them with of its affiliates were invited to participate, for the purpose, investors wishing to participate in the issue. in addition to underwriting the share capital increase, of This agreement contains standard declarations and placing it with institutional investors. guarantees for this type of transaction. Mr. Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Commission was paid to each financial institution based on Agricole S.A. and Mrs. Laurence Dors, Director of Crédit its role in this transaction. Accordingly, the Company paid Agricole S.A. did not participate in this vote due to their the following amounts during 2015: positions in this bank.. X commission of €333,281 to Crédit Agricole Corporate and Following the private placement performed in the context of Investment Bank, as joint lead manager; the underwriting agreement signed on June 9, 2015 with eight financial institutions, including Crédit Agricole Corporate X commission of €1,530,625 to Société Générale, as global and Investment Bank, Cap Gemini performed a €506 million coordinator and joint lead manager. share capital increase(1). This agreement contains standard declarations and (II) AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS WITH guarantees for this type of transaction. CONTINUING EFFECT IN 2015: Commission paid to each of the financial institutions The registration of Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin as reflected their percentage share in the underwriting and their beneficiaries of the senior executive supplementary pension role in the placement. plan authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 10, Under the underwriting agreement, Crédit Agricole Corporate 2007, continued during 2015. and Investment Bank underwrote 20% of the issue and acted During 2015, these corporate officers did not receive any as lead bank and associate bookrunner. In this respect, your compensation pursuant to this agreement. Company paid a commission of €1,647,630. Pursuant to Article L. 225-40-1 of the French Commercial Subscription agreement Code, the Board of Directors performed an annual review The Board of Directors’ meeting of June 8, 2015 unanimously of this agreement and decided to freeze the rights of Serge authorized your Company to enter into a subscription Kampf and Paul Hermelin(2) under this defined pension plan agreement covering the Cap Gemini S.A. bond issues with with effect from October 31, 2015 (without counterparty banking institutions, under which Crédit Agricole S.A. and for these two beneficiaries) with a favorable impact for the Société Générale as well as one or more of their respective Company, on the grounds that: affiliates could be invited to a play a role in the placement of the bonds, as these two institutions participate regularly in a) defined benefit pension plans have become increasingly bond issues both in and outside France. costly due to low asset yields and extended life expectancy and economically inefficient; and Mr. Xavier Musca, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., Mrs. Laurence Dors, Director of Crédit b) the taxation of these plans has increased significantly since Agricole S.A. and Mr. Yann Delabrière, Director of Société their implementation making them inefficient. Générale, did not participate in this vote due to their positions For the other Cap Gemini non-corporate officer beneficiaries in these banks. and for the employees members of Group General In accordance with this authorization and in the context Management, the implementation of a new replacement of a triple-tranche bond issue performed on July 1, 2015 system is planned: this will take the form of a long-term in the amount of €2,750 million, the Company entered into compensation program subject to performance conditions a subscription agreement on June 29, 2015 with twelve enabling the progressive acquisition of protective savings. institutions, including Crédit Agricole Corporate and Paul Hermelin is not concerned by this program. THIRD RESOLUTION Approval of the regulated agreements governed by by Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code de commerce), approves the agreements entered into during The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum the fiscal year 2015 detailed therein, and takes due note of and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after the information related to the commitments and agreements having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory previously entered into and approved by the Shareholders’ Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements governed Meeting. (1) €54 million par value. (2) And those of all other plan beneficiaries. 242 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 4TH RESOLUTION APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS Overview During its meeting of February 17, 2016, the Board of account of the recommendations of certain investors, and so Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions Shareholders’ Meeting that the dividend be set at €1.35 per around the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of share for a total of €232,445,025 based on the number of Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of May 30, 2016 and shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2015. a dividend payment date starting from June 1, 2016. Residual distributable profits for the year, i.e. Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the Board €2,373,728,466.07, shall be added to retained earnings. of Directors reminds shareholders that dividends paid over the past three fiscal years were as follows: €196,311,538.80 This dividend of €1.35 for each of the 172,181,500 shares for 2014 (€1.20 per share), €176,349,599.80 for 2013 (€1.10 bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2015, will be fully per share) and €162,055,362 for 2012 (€1 per share). All of eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). Taking out in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code. FOURTH RESOLUTION Net income appropriation and dividend distribution The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate the net profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 as follows: ■ net profit for the year €1,156,946,800.03 ■ allocation to the legal reserve €37,099.20 i.e. a balance of: €1,156,909,700.83 ■ retained earnings of previous years: €1,449,263,790.24 i.e. distributable earnings: €2,606,173,491.07 (1) ■ allocated to: payment of a dividend of €1.35 per share: €232,445,025.00 retained earnings for the balance: €2,373,728,466.07 giving a total of: €2,606,173,491.07 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2015, i.e. 172,181,500 shares, and could therefore change if this number varies between January 1, 2016 and the ex-dividend date. 6 It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1.35 for each of Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is the 172,181,500 shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, recalled that dividends paid over the past three fiscal years 2015, will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in were as follows: €196,311,538.80 for 2014 (€1.20 per share), Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code Général des €176,349,599.80 for 2013 (€1.10 per share), and €162,055,362 Impôts). for 2012 (€1 per share). All of these dividends were fully eligible The ex-dividend date will be May 30, 2016 and the dividend for the 40% tax rebate set out in Article 158.3.2° of the French will be payable from June 1, 2016. If, at the time of payment of Tax Code. the dividend, the Company holds some of its own shares, the dividend for these shares will be added to retained earnings. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 243 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 5TH RESOLUTION ADVISORY VOTE ON THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF FISCAL YEAR 2015 TO PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Overview Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in November 2015 with which Cap Gemini complies, the compensation of each executive corporate officer due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2015 must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for an advisory vote. The following table summarizes the 2015 compensation components of Paul Hermelin, subject to shareholder advisory vote pursuant to the “say on pay” policy. COMPENSATION COMPONENTS DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF 2015 TO PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDER ADVISORY VOTE Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2015 was approved by the Board of Directors compensation (paid in 2015) on February 18, 2015 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged compared to 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and changes in and the internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.4% per annum. This compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives Annual variable €1,109,479 During the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 17, 2016, the Board, based on the audited and compensation (paid in 2016) approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2015, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results: 1) attainment of the revenue objective: 30% weighting; 2) attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2015 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the budgeted objectives set by the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 18, 2015. They did not include the impact of the IGATE acquisition and therefore the achievements indicated below have been established accordingly (i.e. excluding as well the impact of this acquisition effective July 1, 2015). Attainment rates for these four objectives were 99.77%, 97.38%, 112.41% and 111.71% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 103.97%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 70%, the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 130%, the V1 component will be equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 3.33%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 103.97% in 2015 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 113.23%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*1.1312 = €548,039. 244 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Annual variable V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the compensation work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into four categories: “Acquisitions” for 30%, “Industrialization” for 25%, “Reinforcement of the account centricity culture” for 25% and “Talent enrichment” for 20%. For the first category (Acquisitions-30%), the Board highlighted the successful acquisition of IGATE realized in a very short time frame with operational merger effective as of January 1, 2016. This acquisition, being the biggest realized by the Group in the last 15 years, strengthens its North American operations and brings strong assets such as new logos and a highly leveraged, talented and industrialized organization. Given the size of the operation, its strong matching to Group strategy and its fast and successful closing, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category had been exceeded. For the second category (Industrialization-25%), the Board based its recommendations on objective items and particularly on the margin improvement, through different measures (gross margin, contribution margin % evolution and production costs evolution) which all evolved positively year on year by +0.6 pt (101.3%), +0.32 pt (101.7%) and minus 0.4 pt respectively. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 96%. For the third category (Account centricity-25%), the Board took into consideration the transition from a significant part of the business to a new accounting model announced during the Group “Rencontres” last October and supported by a transformation program. In addition, the Board considered from a quantitative side the growth performance realized by the strategic accounts in absolute terms vs. the Group actual growth. Considering the sales growth of strategic accounts by 10.4% and of the corresponding revenue of 5.9% compared to Group growth the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 120%. For the fourth category (Talent-20%), the Board took into account several indicators such as the movements recorded within TeamOne, the Group transformation body, with 49 movements recorded in 2015 (vs. 43 in 2014) excluding any impact from the IGATE acquisition. This, as well as several external recruits of “Vice-Presidents” (78), the promotion of 120 new Vice-Presidents vs. 112 in 2014 (excluding IGATE promotions), the increase in executive manager turnover and mobility reflected by numerous job transfers in the course of 2015 (which have more than doubled) and the further increase by 4.4 points in the percentage of women promoted VP, following a 5 points improvement the previous year, led the Board to consider that the Talent objectives set have been reached at 100%. The Board approved a weighted performance of 116%, as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative Industrialisation 15 10 15 9 Account Centricity 15 10 20 10 6 Acquisitions 30 42 Talents 10 10 11,5 8,5 TOTAL 40 60 46.5 69.5 Target 100 Proposed 116 leading to a variable V2 calculation of €561.440. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 245 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Accordingly, variable compensation of €1,109.479 was approved by the Board for 2015, i.e. 76.4% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 114.6% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2015 is therefore €2,561.479, i.e. 105.8% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2015 variable compensation calculation for Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets Indicators Weight % of achievement Weighted Total Revenue 30% 99.77% 29.93% Operational Margin % 30% 97.38% 29,22% Net result before tax 20% 112.41% 22,48% Organic Free Cash Flow 20% 111.71% 22,34% Total weighted R/B before flex 103.97% Total weighted after 70/130 flex 113.2% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 548,039 V2: qualitative part based on 2015 personal objectives Categories Weight Weighted local Acquisitions 30% Industrialisation 25% 116 % Account centricity 25% Talent enrichment 20% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 561,440 TOTAL 2015 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1,109,479 As a % of the total variable on target 114.6 % As a % of fixed compensation 76.4 % The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid at the end of the first quarter of Y+1, or in the present case in March 2016. Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation 246 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or Presentation accounting value subject to vote Stock options, Performance 40,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. performance shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance shares or any €2,266,678 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% other form (accounting of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2015 to 2017. of long-term value) The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €1750 million. Above this threshold, shares vest compensation progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of €2 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/ CSC/Atos/Tieto/Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 60% of the initial grant vests. A portion of this allocation has been granted in reward of the successful IGATE acquisition. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.02% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 (Ninth resolution) Grant authorized by the Board meeting of July 29, 2015 Stock options No stock options or other items were granted. = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect attendance fees waiver fees as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2015 (as both Serge Kampf and he have done for the last six years). Valuation of €3,652 Contributions paid on behalf of Paul Hermelin in respect of unemployment insurance for company benefits in kind Contributions managers. paid For further information on Paul Hermelin’s remuneration policy, Meeting for vote pursuant to the “say on pay” procedure, please including all information items not presented to this Shareholders’ refer to section 2.3 of the 2015 Registration Document. FIFTH RESOLUTION Advisory vote on the components of compensation due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2015 to Paul or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2015 to Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as presented in 6 Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Management Report section entitled “Components of The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum compensation due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2015 to and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, issues Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, subject to a favorable opinion on the components of compensation due shareholder advisory vote”. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 247 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 6TH RESOLUTION BOARD OF DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE FEES Overview It is recalled that the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 the term of office of the director representing employee authorized the payment of attendance fees to directors of a shareholders, you are asked, from this year, to apply new total maximum amount of €1,000,000 per year, superseding legislative measures regarding employee representation on the previous resolution. This allowed the objectives set by the Board, which would result in the appointment of two the Board of Directors to be attained. Despite the significant employee directors by the end of 2016. increase in the number of Board meetings during 2015 Further to the death of Serge Kampf on March 15, 2016, your and the large number of meetings held by each of the Board is currently composed of 11 members. Accordingly, Committees, the participation rate remained high, including assuming the approval of the various governance resolutions for directors residing outside France. This increase in the by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors would total amount of attendance fees allowed the increase to be increase from 11 to 15 directors by the end of the year (i.e. focused both on the directors not residing in France and on an increase of more than 33%). In order to take account those specifically involved in the work of the Committees of this expansion of the Board of Directors’ composition, (as Chairmen or members of several Committees), while while continuing to involve directors of high quality who are retaining the international outlook of the Board consistent strongly committed, we propose that you increase the total with the international development and global presence of amount of attendance fees. the Group. The 6th resolution therefore asks shareholders to set the Nonetheless, your Board of Directors aims to continue maximum amount of annual attendance fees allocated to the increasing the diversity of its composition. Two draft Board of Directors at €1,200,000 (i.e. an increase of 20%), resolutions presented to this Shareholders’ Meeting therefore applicable until a new Shareholders’ Meeting decision. concern the appointment of two new female directors in order This authorization would supersede that granted by the to satisfy this objective. Furthermore, in addition to renewing Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. SIXTH RESOLUTION Board of Directors attendance fees At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, sets the total annual amount of attendance fees allocated to the Board of Directors per fiscal year at €1,200,000. PRESENTATION OF RESOLUTIONS 7 AND A* APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES SHAREHOLDERS Overview The resolutions 7 and A ask shareholders to renew the term During its meeting of March 23, 2016, the Board decided of office of the director representing employee shareholders, to recommend the candidacy of Mrs. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas expiring at the end of this Shareholders’ Meeting. This office both in consideration of the fact that Lucia Sinapi-Thomas is is currently held by Mrs. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas. presented by the FCPE mutual fund representing the largest number of employee shareholders and holding the greatest Pursuant to legislative provisions and Article 11-5) of the percentage of the Company’s share capital, and given the Company’s bylaws, as the percentage of share capital held high quality of her contribution to the work of the Board of by employees of the Company and companies related to it Directors and the Compensation Committee over her current represents over 3% of the Company’s share capital (6.15% term of office. Accordingly, the Board approved the of the share capital as at December 31, 2015), a director seventh resolution and did not approve resolution A. representing employees shareholders must be elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting from among two candidates As only one directorship representing employee shareholders proposed by employees shareholders. One of these is available, the candidate obtaining the greatest number of candidates, Mrs. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, was nominated votes will be elected. The director will be appointed for a by the Supervisory Board of the various Capgemini period of four years, in accordance with the bylaws. FCPE employee savings mutual funds, which represent A detailed biography of the two employees shareholders’ together 78% of the share capital held by the employees candidates is presented after the draft resolutions. shareholders; the other candidate, Mrs. Tania Castillo-Pèrez, was directly elected by all registered employee shareholders. * Resolutions 7 and A: pursuant to Article 11-5 of the bylaws, as only one position of director representing employees shareholders is available, the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes will be elected. 248 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting SEVENTH RESOLUTION* Appointment of a director representing employees in Lucia Sinapi-Thomas as a director representing employees for a accordance with Article 11-5 of the bylaws period of four years. This term of office will expire at the close of The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings appoints statements for the year ending December 31, 2019. RESOLUTION A* Appointment of a director representing employees in Meetings appoints Tania Castillo-Pèrez as a director representing accordance with Article 11-5 of the bylaws (Resolution employees for a period of four years. This term of office will not approved by the Board of Directors) expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance held to approve the financial statements for the year ending with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ December 31, 2019. PRESENTATION OF THE 8TH AND 9TH RESOLUTIONS APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Overview The Board of Directors regularly assesses its composition Commerciales (class of 1992). Ms. Ferrand started her career and the various areas of expertise and experience at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, where she was an auditor and contributed by its members and identifies the directions to later a financial advisor in the Transaction Services Division. be given in order to ensure the best possible balance with In 2000, she joined Sony France, the French subsidiary of the regards to international outlook and the human diversity of consumer and professional electronics branch of the Sony the Group employees. Corporation group, as Financial Director before becoming General Secretary in 2002. In 2011, she held the position At the proposal of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the of Chief Financial Officer of the Europacorp group. Since Board of Directors agreed, during its meeting of March 23, January 2013 she has been Financing Director at Artémis 2016, the need to increase the financial expertise of the Group and in charge of strategic and financial support for Board and strengthen the Audit Committee. In addition, certain investments. Mrs. Carole Ferrand would bring to the Board confirmed the need to continue rejuvenating its the Board her experience in audit, finance and financial composition, increasing the number of female directors and transactions. Your Board considers that Mrs. Carole Ferrand the diversity of profiles and cultures represented. would qualify as an independent director. Accordingly, at the end of a process to identify candidates A detailed biography of each of the candidates is presented carried out by the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance after the draft resolutions. Committee, followed by a number of interviews held by several members of the Ethics & Governance Committee, your Board wishes to propose to the Shareholders’ Meeting the appointment of Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones and Mrs. Carole Should the Cap Gemini Shareholders’ Meeting follow the recommendations of the Board of Directors, its composition will increase from 11 to 13 directors, enabling better 6 Ferrand for a period of four years (8th and 9th resolutions). representation with profiles and expertise that are both diverse and complementary and well adapted to the specific Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones is currently a director of nature of the Company’s activities. These appointments will Air Liquide S.A., where she chairs the Audit and also allow to strengthen the independence of the Board, with Accounts Committee. An English chartered accountant, a percentage of independent directors increasing to 69%. Mrs. Herbert-Jones initially worked for 15 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers in its London and then Paris Furthermore, female representation on the Board would also offices, where she was director of Mergers and Acquisitions. be stepped-up, with 6 female directors out of a total of 13 She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, directors on the Board, representing a rate of 46%, perfectly including 15 years as Chief Financial Officer and member in line with the Company’s commitments and obligations. of the Executive Committee, before retiring on March 1, It is recalled that the Copé-Zimmermann Law on the equal 2016. Of British nationality, Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones would representation of men and women on Boards of Directors bring strong financial expertise to the Board, as well as her provides that from the first Shareholders’ Meeting held experience with international transactions, particularly in the in 2017, the percentage of directors of each sex must not service sector, while contributing the insight of her Anglobe less than 40%. Companies referring to the AFEP-MEDEF Saxon culture and improving the diversity of profiles on the Code, as is the case for your Company, must achieve Board. Your Board considers that Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones this objective one year earlier, that is, from Shareholders’ would qualify as an independent director. Meetings held in 2016. Mrs. Carole Ferrand is Financing Director at Artémis Group. She is a graduate of the École des Hautes Études * Resolutions 7 and A: pursuant to Article 11-5 of the bylaws, as only one position of director representing employees shareholders is available, the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes will be elected. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 249 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting EIGHTH RESOLUTION Appointment of Siân Herbert-Jones as a director Herbert-Jones as a director for a period of four years. This term At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the of office will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints Siân ending December 31, 2019. NINTH RESOLUTION Appointment of Carole Ferrand as a director Carole Ferrand as a director for a period of four years. This term At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the of office will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints ending December 31, 2019. PRESENTATION OF 10TH RESOLUTION SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM Overview We ask you to authorize the Board of Directors to buy back At December 31, 2015, the Company held 821,107 of its own shares of the Company for the objectives and in accordance shares outside the liquidity agreement. with the conditions presented in the summary table following The new resolution submitted to your approval provides for the draft resolutions. the buy back by the Company of its own shares up to the Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary statutory limit of 10% of the number of shares comprising Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the authorization granted the share capital at the date of such purchases, and to the Company to buy back its shares, subject to certain that the maximum number of treasury shares held after conditions. This authorization was used in 2015 in connection such purchases may not exceed 10% of the amount of with the liquidity agreement entered into with Oddo the Company’s share capital at any time. The maximum Corporate Finance on February 15, 2010 and more generally purchase price will be set at €130 per share. The acquisition, in the active management of its dilution by the Company. disposal and transfer transactions described above may be carried out by any means in accordance with prevailing laws The purpose of the liquidity agreement is to improve the and regulations – including through the use of derivative liquidity of the Cap Gemini share and stabilize the share instruments or by means of a block purchase or transfer price. At the year-end, the liquidity account presented a of shares – and be carried out at any time, except during balance of 85,000 shares (0.05% of the share capital) and public offers for the Company’s shares. This authorization is approximately €14 million. granted for a limited period of 18 months. Furthermore, during 2015, outside the liquidity agreement, The objectives of the buyback program that would be the Company purchased 1,412,042 shares at an average implemented pursuant to this authorization are described in price of €75.88 and transferred 1,426,051 shares to holders the resolution itself and summarized in the table below. of BSAAR warrants who exercised their Cap Gemini share allotment rights and to employees under the free share grant plan. TENTH RESOLUTION Authorization of a share buyback program, for a period French Commercial Code, the allocation or sale of shares to of 18 months, enabling the Company to buy back its employees under the French statutory profit-sharing scheme own shares within the limit of a number of shares or the implementation of any company or group savings plan equal to a maximum of 10% of the share capital, a (or similar plan) on the terms provided by law, in particular maximum amount of €2,230 million and a maximum Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du purchase price of €130 per share travail), and generally, honoring all obligations relating to share The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum option programs or other share allocations to employees or and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after corporate officers of the Company or a related company; or having read the Board of Directors’ report, authorizes the Board X the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, authorized by law and in accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other seq. of the French Commercial Code, to purchase or arrange the means; or purchase of the Company’s shares, particularly with a view to: X the cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased; or X the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate X the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by law), in in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or assetparticular with a view to the allocation of free shares pursuant for-share exchanges; or to the provisions of Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the 250 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting X the management of the secondary market or maintenance The maximum purchase price of shares purchased pursuant of the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share by an investment to this resolution will be €130 per share (or the equivalent at services provider under a liquidity contract that complies with the same date in any other currency). The Shareholders’ the ethical code recognized by the French Financial Markets Meeting delegates to the Board of Directors powers to adjust Authority (Autorité des marchés financiers, AMF). the aforementioned maximum purchase price in the event of a This program is also intended to enable the implementation of change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF and more by capitalizing reserves, a free share allocation, a stock split or generally the carrying out of any transaction that complies with reverse stock split, a distribution of reserves or any other assets, prevailing regulations. In such cases, the Company will inform its a share capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting shareholders by means of a press release. share capital, to take account of the impact of such transactions on the value of the shares. Purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such that, at the date of each purchase, the total number of shares The total amount allocated to the share buyback program acquired by the Company since the beginning of the buyback authorized above may not exceed €2,230 million. program (including the shares subject to the current purchase) The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board does not exceed 10% of the shares comprising the Company’s of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent share capital at that date (including transactions impacting the authorized by law, to decide and implement this authorization share capital and performed after this Shareholders’ Meeting), and if necessary to specify the conditions and determine the it being stipulated that (i) the number of shares purchased with terms thereof, to implement the share buyback program, and a view to their retention or presentation in a merger, demerger in particular to place stock market orders, allocate or reallocate or asset-for-share exchange transaction may not exceed 5% purchased shares to desired objectives subject to applicable of the Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are legal and regulatory conditions, set any terms and conditions repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set out in the AMF that may be necessary to preserve the rights of holders of general regulations, the number of shares taken into account securities or other rights granting access to the share capital in calculating the above 10% limit will be the number of shares in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions and, where purchased minus the number of shares resold during the applicable, any contractual terms stipulating other cases where authorization period. adjustment is necessary, to make declarations to the French Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed Financial Markets Authority or any other competent authority, at any time other than during the period of a public offer for the to accomplish all other formalities and generally do all that is Company’s shares, subject to the limits authorized by prevailing necessary. laws and regulations, on one or more occasions and by any This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months as means, and particularly on regulated markets, via a multilateral from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, It supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused including by block purchases or sales, by public offer for cash portion, the authorization granted by the 7th resolution adopted or shares or using options or other forward financial instruments by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. traded on regulated markets, via a multilateral trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, either directly or through an investment services provider, or in any other manner (with no limit on the portion of the share buyback program carried out by each of these means). 6 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 251 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting We present a series of resolutions aimed at providing the Company with the financial means to develop and implement its strategy, in order to associate all Company stakeholders with its success and particularly shareholders and employees. Your Board of Directors presents below the main characteristics of and reasons behind these resolutions and the uses made in recent years of equivalent resolutions in force. The summary table following the draft resolutions, to which you are invited to refer, is an integral part of this report. PRESENTATION OF 11TH RESOLUTION CANCELLATION OF TREASURY SHARES Overview It is recalled that the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of No treasury shares were cancelled during fiscal year 2015. May 6, 2015 authorized the Board of Directors to cancel, up Shareholders are asked today to renew for a period of 26 to a maximum of 10% of the share capital, on one or several months the authorization granted to the Board of Directors to occasions, at its sole discretion, all or some of the treasury cancel shares bought back up to a maximum of 10% of the shares held by the Company or that it comes to hold pursuant share capital by 24-month period, this share capital amount to Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code and to being adjusted for any transactions performed after the date reduce the share capital accordingly. of the Shareholders’ Meeting. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of transactions impacting the share capital subsequent to this twenty-six months, to cancel shares bought back by Shareholders’ Meeting. the Company under the share buyback programs The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation, to carry out and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, such cancellation(s) and reduction(s) of share capital as may and after having read the Board of Directors’ report and the be performed pursuant to this authorization, to deduct from statutory auditors’ special report, authorizes the Board of additional paid-in capital or the distributable reserves of its Directors to reduce the share capital, on one or more occasions, choice the difference between the purchase price of the in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, by cancellation of cancelled shares and their par value, to allocate the portion of whatever number of treasury shares it decides up to the limits the legal reserve that becomes available as a result of the capital authorized by law, in accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. reduction, to amend the bylaws and to carry out all necessary and L. 225-213 of the French Commercial Code. formalities. At the date of each cancellation, the maximum number of shares This authorization is granted for a period of twenty-six months as cancelled by the Company during the twenty-four month period from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. preceding such cancellation, including the shares subject to The Shareholders’ Meeting takes due note that this authorization the current cancellation, may not exceed 10% of the shares supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, comprising the Company’s share capital at that date, this limit the authorization granted by the 8th resolution adopted by the being applied to a share capital amount adjusted to reflect any Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. 252 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 12TH TO 21ST RESOLUTIONS FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS AND GRANT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES Overview 1. Resolutions 12 to 21 are all intended to give the Board 3. These authorizations are subject to limits in terms of their of Directors powers to make certain decisions regarding validity and issue ceilings. Firstly, each authorization is increasing the Company’s share capital, by various means granted for a limited period. In addition, the Board of and for various reasons, as explained in the summary Directors may only increase the share capital up to strictly table that follows the draft resolutions. The aim of these defined ceilings, above which the Board of Directors cannot financial authorizations is to give the Board of Directors increase the share capital again without calling a new flexibility in its choice of potential issue, and to enable it, Shareholders’ Meeting. These ceilings are presented in the at the appropriate time, to adapt the nature of the financial summary table following this introduction. Furthermore, the instruments issued to the Company’s needs and conditions 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th resolutions may not in French or international financial markets. be used by the Board of Directors following a public offer for the Company’s shares until the end of the offer period 2. These resolutions may be split into two main categories: (unless specifically authorized by a Shareholders’ Meeting). those that would result in share capital increases with retention of pre-emptive subscription rights, and those that 4. As part of the employee incentive policy and in order to would result in share capital increases with cancellation of align employee interests with those of shareholders and pre-emptive subscription rights. also stabilize the Company’s share capital, we wish to continue making the Company’s share capital accessible All share capital increases for cash entitle existing to a large number of employees, in particular through shareholders to a “pre-emptive subscription right”, which employee stock ownership plans (“ESOP”). The next is detachable and may be traded during the subscription employee stock ownership plan could be renewed either period. For a period of at least five trading sessions after just after the expiry of the ESOP 2012 (which would require the opening of the subscription period, each shareholder the operation to be launched in September 2017) or just has the right to subscribe for a quantity of new shares before the 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting. Nonetheless, even proportionate to his/her existing interest in the share though it is not envisaged at this stage to make any use capital. of these delegations in 2016, the Company must present In some of these resolutions, the Board of Directors the delegations of power to perform a share capital requests your authorization to cancel this pre-emptive increase reserved for employees this year to the vote subscription right. Depending on market conditions and of shareholders. Anticipation of the launch of the next the type of securities issued, it may be necessary to cancel employee stock ownership plan will require prior approval pre-emptive subscription rights in order for the newlyof the Autorité des Marchés Financiers based on a valid issued securities to be placed on the best possible terms, delegation from the Shareholders’ Meeting. In addition, it particularly when speed is essential to the success of an must be noted that this proposed renewal of authorization is issue. in line with current market practice in Paris, whereby these In 2015, the Company used this facility to cancel predelegations of powers every two years, at the same time emptive subscription rights in the context of the IGATE of any decision or delegation of authority enabling a share acquisition financing. Cap Gemini thus performed a share capital increase for cash – as is the case this year with the capital increase of a par value amount of €54 million, raising equity of €506 million by way of a private placement 13th to 18th resolutions. We therefore propose to present this year to the Shareholders’ Meeting the renewal of the two resolutions delegating to the Board of Directors its authority 6 exclusively with institutional investors. More than one hundred of such investors participated in the transaction to issue shares or securities granting access to the share performed solely on June 9, 2015 after the market close. capital reserved for employees of the Company in order to implement a new ESOP tranche. Following this private placement, 6,700,000 new shares were issued, representing 4.05% of the Company’s share Should the Board of Directors use a delegation of authority capital prior to the transaction. The subscription price was or powers or an authorization granted by the Shareholders’ €75.50 per share, equal to a discount of 2.4% compared Meeting, it will prepare at the time of its decision, where with the volume-weighted average price on June 9, 2015. applicable and in accordance with the law and regulations, The 25th and 26th resolutions approved by the Combined an additional report describing the definitive terms and Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, equivalent to the conditions of the transaction and indicating its impact on 15th and 16th resolutions presented to you to today, were the position of holders of equity instruments or securities used for the purposes of this issue. The green shoe option granting access to the share capital, in particular with was not used. respect to their share in equity. This report and, where applicable, the statutory auditors’ report will be made The cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights is, in available to holders of equity instruments and securities some cases, provided for directly by law: in particular, granting access to the share capital and brought to the if you approve the resolution authorizing the Board of attention of the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Directors to issue performance shares (21st resolution), this, by law, entails automatic waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of these issues For an overview of the use of authorizations previoulsy granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting, please refer to section 5.1.2 of 2015 Registration Document page 227. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 253 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TWELFTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, or the amount by which the par value of existing equity for a period of twenty-six months, to increase the instruments will be increased and decide the date, which share capital by a maximum amount of €1.5 billion by may be retroactive, from which the new equity instruments capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits will rank for dividends or the increase in the par value of or other amounts existing equity instruments will take effect, The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum • decide in the event of a free allocation of equity instruments and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having that fractional rights will not be negotiable or transferable read the Board of Directors’ report and in accordance with and that the corresponding equity instruments will be sold Articles L. 225-129-2 and L. 225-130 of the French Commercial in accordance with the methods determined by the Board Code: of Directors, it being specified that the sale and allocation 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subof the sales proceeds must be performed within the time delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to period set by Article R. 225-130 of the French Commercial decide share capital increases, on one or more occasions, Code, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, by capitalizing • set terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting that may be converted into share capital under the law access to the share capital (including by means of cash and the Company’s bylaws and by issuing new shares or adjustments), increasing the par value of existing equity instruments or by • duly record completion of each share capital increase and a combination of both methods; make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, 2. resolves that the maximum par value amount of share capital • generally, enter into all agreements, take all measures increases performed pursuant to this delegation may not and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and exceed €1.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency financial administration of securities issued by virtue of or currency unit established by reference to more than one this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached currency, it being stipulated that this ceiling will be increased, thereto; where applicable, by the par value amount of shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and regulatory 4. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior provisions and, where applicable, any contractual terms authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, the following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, rights of holders of securities or other rights granting access until the end of the offer period;; to the share capital; 5. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as 3. in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; of authority, delegates to the Board full powers, with the 6. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, to date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation implement this delegation, and in particular to: granted by the 21st resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ • determine the amount and nature of sums to be capitalized, Meeting of May 7, 2014. set the number of new equity instruments to be issued and/ THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for a without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company period of twenty-six months to issue, with retention of (excluding preference shares), or (ii) securities governed by pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/ Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228-93 paragraphs 1 and or securities granting access to the Company’s share 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code capital, immediately or in the future granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, read the Board of Directors’ report and the statutory auditors’ to the share capital of the Company or other companies special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 (including companies in which the Company owns directly or et seq. of the French Commercial Code and particularly indirectly more than half the share capital), it being stipulated Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-132 to L. 225-134 that the shares and other securities may be subscribed in and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code: cash, by offset of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital; 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subdelegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital decide a share capital increase, on one or more occasions, increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this delegation of authority: in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, with retention of pre-emptive subscription rights, in • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future euros or in any other currency or currency unit established share capital increases that may be carried out under this by reference to more than one currency, with or without delegation is set at €550 million or the equivalent in any a share premium, whether for valuable consideration or other currency or currency unit established by reference 254 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • to more than one currency, it being stipulated that the • takes due note that, in accordance with Article L. 225-134 maximum aggregate par value amount of increases in the of the French Commercial Code, if subscriptions as of right Company’s share capital made under this delegation and and any pro-rated subscriptions do not absorb the entire under those delegations granted by the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th issue, the Board of Directors may use, in the conditions and 18th resolutions of this Shareholders’ Meeting is set provided by law and in the order it sees fit, any or all of the at €550 million or the equivalent in any other currency or options listed below: currency unit established by reference to more than one – allocate at its discretion some of all of the shares or in the currency, case of securities granting access to the share capital, • added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of securities, whose issue has been decided but have not any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with been subscribed, legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any – offer to the public, on the French market or on a foreign contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment market, some or all of the unsubscribed shares or in the is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other case of securities granting access to the share capital, rights granting access to the share capital, securities, • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing – generally limit the share capital increase to the amount additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts of subscriptions received, provided, in the case of issues and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this of shares or securities where the primary instrument is a delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the share, that the share capital increase reaches at least threeratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding quarters of the amount of the share capital increase initially before and after the transaction; decided after the use, where applicable, of the above-two 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt options, instruments on the issue of securities representing debt • resolves that share subscription warrants may also be instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to issued without consideration to holders of existing shares, the share capital of the Company or other companies: it being stipulated that fractional allotment rights and the • the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that corresponding securities will be sold under the conditions may be issued immediately or in the future under this set in Article L. 228-6-1 of the French Commercial Code; delegation is set at €7.5 billion or the equivalent in any 5. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, other currency or currency unit established by reference with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized to more than one currency at the issue date, it being by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in stipulated that the maximum aggregate nominal value of particular to: debt instruments that may be issued under this delegation and under those delegations granted by the 14th, 15th, 16th, • decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access 17th and 18th resolutions of this Shareholders’ Meeting is to the share capital, immediately or in the future, set at €7.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency • determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the or currency unit established by reference to more than one amount of any premium that may be required on issue, currency, • determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, • these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities redemption premium above par, • these limits are independent of the amount of any debt to be issued, • for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and 6 instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which of Directors in accordance with Articles L. 228-36-A, may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated L. 228-40, L. 228-92 paragraph 3, L. 228-93 paragraph 6 and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these and L. 228-94 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance Code; with applicable formalities, 4. in the event the Board of Directors uses this delegation: • set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights • resolves that the issue(s) will be reserved in priority for (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the shareholders, who may subscribe pursuant to their priority case may be, including by delivery of Company assets) rights in proportion to the number of shares owned by them attached to shares or securities granting access to shares at that time, to be issued, and in particular set the date, which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for dividend, • takes due note that the Board of Directors has the option of and all other terms and conditions for the completion of the instituting pro-rated subscription rights, share capital increase, • takes due note that this delegation of authority involves • set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will the waiver by shareholders, in favor of holders of securities have the option of purchasing or exchanging on the stock issued granting access to the Company’s share capital, of market, at any time or during specified periods, securities their pre-emptive subscription rights to the shares to which issued or to be issued, whether or not such purchase these securities will grant entitlement immediately or in the or exchange is performed with a view to cancellation in future, accordance with legal provisions, • at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums necessary to increase the legal reserve, 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 255 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • determine and make all adjustments to take account of the 6. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution conferred in this resolution; of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other 7. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in until the end of the offer period; control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or 8. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as other rights granting access to the share capital (including from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; by means of cash adjustments), 9. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this • duly record completion of each share capital increase and date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, granted by the 23rd resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. • generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial administration of securities issued by virtue of this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached thereto; FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, or abroad under local rules (for example in connection with a for a period of twenty-six months to issue, by way reverse merger); of a public offer with cancellation of pre-emptive 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subsubscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to granting access to the Company’s share capital, decide issues of shares or securities granting access to immediately or in the future the Company’s share capital to be carried out further to The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with the issue, by companies in which the Company directly quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ or indirectly owns more than half the share capital, of Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with This decisions involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-135, L. 225-136, of holders of securities that may be issued by companies L. 225-148 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial of the Company’s group, of their pre-emptive subscription Code: rights to the shares or securities granting access to the 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subCompany’s share capital to which these securities grant delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to entitlement; decide a share capital increase, on one or more occasions, 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this sees fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights delegation: and by public offer, in euros or in any other currency or • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future currency unit established by reference to more than one share capital increases that may be carried out under this currency, with or without a share premium, whether for delegation is set at €137 million or the equivalent in any valuable consideration or without consideration, by issuing other currency or currency unit established by reference to (i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), or more than one currency, it being stipulated that this amount (ii) securities governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, will count towards the overall ceiling for share capital L. 228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of increases set in paragraph 2 of the 13th resolution of this the French Commercial Code granting access, immediately Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, overall ceiling stipulated by a resolution of the same kind conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a that may supersede said resolution during the period of warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the validity of this delegation, Company or other companies (including companies in which the Company owns directly or indirectly more than • added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of half the share capital), it being stipulated that the shares any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with and other securities may be subscribed in cash, by offset legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any of debt, or by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment paid-in capital. Such securities may be issued in particular is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other as consideration for securities meeting the conditions laid rights granting access to the share capital, down in Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code that may be contributed to the Company in connection with a public exchange offer initiated by the Company in France 256 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing market during the three trading days preceding the date additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts on which the price is set, less 5%) after making any and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this adjustments to that average in the event of differences in delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the dividend ranking dates, ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding • the issue price of securities granting access to the share before and after the transaction; capital and the number of shares to which conversion, 4. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt redemption or more generally transformation of each instruments on the issue of securities representing debt security granting access to the share capital would instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to confer entitlement will be such that the amount received the share capital of the Company or other companies: immediately by the Company plus any amount to be • the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may received subsequently by the Company will, for each share be issued immediately or in the future under this delegation issued as a consequence of the issue of such securities, be is set at €2.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency at least equal to the minimum subscription price defined in or currency unit established by reference to more than the previous paragraph; one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated that 9. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, this amount will count towards the overall ceiling set in with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized paragraph 3 of the 13th resolution of this Shareholders’ by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any overall particular: ceiling stipulated by a resolution of the same kind that may • decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access supersede said resolution during the period of validity of this to the share capital, immediately or in the future, delegation, • determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the • these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any amount of any premium that may be required on issue, redemption premium above par, • determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, • these limits are independent of the amount of any debt number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board to be issued, of Directors in accordance with Articles L. 228-36-A, L. 228-40, L. 228-92 paragraph 3, L. 228-93 paragraph 6 • for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and and L. 228-94 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which Code; may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these 5. resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance rights in respect of the securities covered by this resolution, with applicable formalities, whilst however giving the Board of Directors discretion pursuant to Article L. 225-135, paragraph 5 of the French • set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights Commercial Code to grant shareholders, for a period and (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the on terms to be set by the Board of Directors in compliance case may be, including by delivery of Company assets) with applicable laws and regulations, and for all or part of any attached to shares or securities granting access to shares issue that may be carried out, a priority subscription period to be issued, and in particular set the date, which may be that does not give rise to negotiable rights and which must be exercised in proportion to the quantity of shares owned retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the completion of the share capital increase, 6 by each shareholder and which may be supplemented by an application to subscribe for shares on a pro-rated basis, • set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will it being stipulated that securities not thus subscribed will be have the option of purchasing or exchanging on the stock offered to the public in France or abroad; market, at any time or during specified periods, securities 6. resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by issued or to be issued, whether or not such purchase shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of or exchange is performed with a view to cancellation, in Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions accordance with legal provisions, received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or • in the event of an issue of securities intended as securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the consideration for securities contributed to the Company in share capital increase reaches at least three-quarters of the connection with a public offer with an exchange component amount of the issue decided; (public exchange offer), draw up a list of securities 7. takes due note that this delegation involves the waiver by contributed to the exchange, set the conditions of the issue, shareholders, in favor of holders of securities issued granting the exchange ratio and the amount of any cash portion to access to the Company’s share capital, of their pre-emptive be paid as an exception to the method for determining the subscription rights to the shares to which these securities will price set in paragraph 8 of this resolution, and determine grant entitlement; the terms of the issue in connection with a public exchange offer, or an alternative cash or exchange offer, or a single 8. takes due note that, in accordance with Article L. 225-136 offer to purchase or exchange the securities in question 1° paragraph 1 of the French Commercial Code: in return for payment in securities and cash, or a principal • the issue price of shares issued directly will be at least equal public cash offer or public exchange offer accompanied by to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations at the a subsidiary public exchange offer or public cash offer, or date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price any other form of public offer in compliance with the laws of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated and regulations applicable to public offers, 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 257 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against • generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure the related premiums and deduct from such premiums the completion of the proposed issues, take all measures sums necessary to increase the legal reserve, and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and • determine and make all adjustments to take account of the financial administration of securities issued by virtue of impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par thereto; value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing 10. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other until the end of the offer period; assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction 11. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations other rights granting access to the share capital (including conferred in this resolution; by means of cash adjustments), 12. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as • duly record completion of each share capital increase and from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, 13. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegations granted by the 24th and 29th resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, for securities may be subscribed in cash, by offset of debt, or a period of twenty-six months to issue, by way of a by capitalizing reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital; private placement with cancellation of pre-emptive 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subsubscription rights, ordinary shares and/or securities delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to granting access to the Company’s share capital, decide issues of shares or securities granting access to immediately or in the future the Company’s share capital to be carried out further to The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with the issue, by companies in which the Company directly or quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ indirectly owns more than half the share capital, of securities Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the granting access to the Company’s share capital. statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with This decisions involves the waiver by shareholders, in favor Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-135, L. 225-136 of holders of securities that may be issued by companies of and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code and the Company’s group, of their pre-emptive subscription rights Article L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code to the shares or securities granting access to the Company’s (Code monétaire et financier): share capital to which these securities grant entitlement; 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of sub3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this decide a share capital increase, on one or more occasions, delegation: in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future rights and by way of a private placement governed by share capital increases that may be carried out under this Article L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial delegation is set at €137 million or the equivalent in any Code, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit other currency or currency unit established by reference to established by reference to more than one currency, with or more than one currency (without exceeding the limits set by without a share premium, whether for valuable consideration applicable regulations at the time of the issue, i.e. currently or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the 20% of the share capital per year), it being stipulated that Company (excluding preference shares), or (ii) securities this amount will count towards the par value ceiling for governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228-93 share capital increases with cancellation of pre-emptive paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the subscription rights set in paragraph 3 of the 14th resolution French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or of this Shareholders’ Meeting and towards the overall ceiling in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, set in paragraph 2 of the 13th resolution or, as the case may conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a be, towards any ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions during the Company or other companies (including companies in which period of validity of this delegation, the Company owns directly or indirectly more than half the share capital), it being stipulated that the shares and other 258 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of 8. takes due note that, in accordance with Article L. 225-136 any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with 1° paragraph 1 of the French Commercial Code: legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any • the issue price of shares issued directly will be at least equal contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment to the minimum stipulated by applicable regulations at the is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other date of the issue (currently, the weighted average price rights granting access to the share capital, of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing market during the three trading days preceding the date additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts on which the price is set, less 5%) after making any and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this adjustments to that average in the event of differences in delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the dividend ranking dates, ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding • the issue price of securities granting access to the share before and after the transaction; capital and the number of shares to which conversion, 4. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt redemption or more generally transformation of each instruments on the issue of securities representing debt security granting access to the share capital would instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to confer entitlement will be such that the amount received the share capital of the Company or other companies: immediately by the Company plus any amount to be • the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that may received subsequently by the Company will, for each share be issued immediately or in the future under this delegation issued as a consequence of the issue of such securities, be is set at €2.5 billion or the equivalent in any other currency at least equal to the minimum subscription price defined in or currency unit established by reference to more than the previous paragraph; one currency at the issue date, it being stipulated that this 9. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, amount will count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 4 of with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized the 14th resolution and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in of the 13th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the particular: case may be, towards any ceilings stipulated by resolutions • decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions to the share capital, immediately or in the future, during the period of validity of this delegation, • determine the amount of the issue, the issue price and the • these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any amount of any premium that may be required on issue, redemption premium above par, • determine the dates and terms of the issue, the nature, • these limits are independent of the amount of any debt number and characteristics of the shares and/or securities instrument issue decided or authorized by the Board to be issued, of Directors in accordance with Articles L. 228-36-A, L. 228-40, L. 228-92 paragraph 3, L. 228-93 paragraph 6 • for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and and L. 228-94 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which Code; may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these 5. resolves to cancel shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance rights in respect of the securities covered by this resolution; 6. resolves that if subscriptions, including where applicable by shareholders, do not absorb the entire issue, the Board of with applicable formalities, • set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights 6 (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the Directors may limit the issue to the amount of subscriptions case may be, including by delivery of Company assets) received, provided, in the case of issues of shares or attached to shares or securities granting access to shares securities where the primary instrument is a share, that the to be issued, and in particular set the date, which may be share capital increase reaches at least three-quarters of the retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for dividend, amount of the issue decided; and all other terms and conditions for the completion of the 7. takes due note that this delegation involves the waiver by share capital increase, shareholders, in favor of holders of securities issued granting • set the terms on which the Company, where applicable, will access to the Company’s share capital, of their pre-emptive have the option of purchasing or exchanging on the stock subscription rights to the shares to which these securities will market, at any time or during specified periods, securities grant entitlement; issued or to be issued, whether or not such purchase or exchange is performed with a view to cancellation, in accordance with legal provisions, • at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against the related premiums and deduct from such premiums the sums necessary to increase the legal reserve, 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 259 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • determine and make all adjustments to take account of the 10. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing until the end of the offer period; reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share 11. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution uses the delegation of authority granted pursuant to this of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other resolution, the Board of Directors will report to the next assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, in accordance with the impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a law and regulations, on the use made of the authorizations public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in conferred in this resolution; control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or 12. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as other rights granting access to the share capital (including from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; by means of cash adjustments), 13. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this • duly record completion of each share capital increase and date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, granted by the 25th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. • generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing and financial administration of securities issued by virtue of this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached thereto; SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, on the issue • the issue price of securities granting access to the share of ordinary shares or securities granting access to capital and the number of shares to which conversion, the Company’s share capital with cancellation of preredemption or more generally transformation of each emptive subscription rights, to set the issue price in security granting access to the share capital would accordance with the terms set by the Shareholders’ confer entitlement will be such that the amount received Meeting, up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital immediately by the Company plus any amount to be per twelve-month period received subsequently by the Company will, for each share The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with issued as a consequence of the issue of such securities, be quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ at least equal to the minimum subscription price defined in Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the the previous paragraph; statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with 2. resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases Article L. 225-136 1°, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial that may be performed immediately or in the future pursuant Code: to this authorization is set, in accordance with the law, at 10% of the share capital per 12-month period (it being 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of substipulated that this limit will be assessed at the date of the delegation to the extent authorized by law, in the case of a share capital increase by way of an issue with cancellation decision to issue shares and/or securities granting access to of pre-emptive subscription rights pursuant to the 14th and the share capital); 15th resolutions of this Shareholders’ Meeting, to set the 3. takes due note that, in the event the Board of Directors uses issue price as follows: this authorization, it will prepare an additional report, certified by the statutory auditors, describing the definitive terms • the issue price of shares will be at least equal to the lower of the transaction and providing information enabling an of the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris assessment of the effective impact on shareholder positions. regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the last trading day preceding the setting of the issue price and the average price of the share on the Euronext Paris regulated market, weighted for trading volumes on the trading day when the issue price is set, in both cases potentially reduced by a discount of up to 5%, 260 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors, 2. resolves that the par value amount of share capital increases for a period of twenty-six months, to increase the decided pursuant to this resolution shall count towards the number of shares to be issued in the event of a share ceiling stipulated in the resolution pursuant to which the initial capital increase (through the issue of ordinary shares issue is decided and the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of and/or of securities granting access to the share the 13th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting and that the capital immediately or in the future) with retention nominal value of debt instruments issued pursuant to this or cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights resolution shall count towards the ceiling stipulated in the and with a “green shoe” option, where subscription resolution pursuant to which the initial issue is decided and requests exceed the number of securities on offer the overall ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 13th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with the ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and may supersede said resolutions during the period of validity the statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance of this delegation; with Articles L. 225-129-2 and L. 225-135-1 of the French 3. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without prior Commercial Code: authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this delegation following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subuntil the end of the offer period; delegation to the extent authorized by law, its authority to decide to increase the number of shares to be issued in 4. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months as the event of a share capital increase (through the issue of from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; ordinary shares and/or of securities granting access to the 5. takes due note that this delegation supersedes from this share capital immediately or in the future) with retention or date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, at the same granted by the 27th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ price as that of the initial issue, within the limits as to time Meeting of May 7, 2014. and quantity specified in applicable regulations at the date of the issue (currently, within thirty days of the closure of subscriptions and up to a maximum of 15% of the initial issue), in particular with a view to granting a greenshoe option in accordance with market practices; EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital of 26 months, to issue ordinary shares and/or increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this securities granting access to the Company’s share authorization: capital immediately or in the future, in consideration • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future for contributions in kind to the Company of shares or securities granting access to share capital, up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital share capital increases that may be carried out under this authorization is set at €137 million or the equivalent in any 6 other currency or currency unit established by reference The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with to more than one currency (without exceeding the limits quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ set by applicable regulations at the time of the issue, i.e. Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the currently 10% of the share capital), it being stipulated that statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with this amount will count towards the par value ceiling for Articles L. 225-129, L. 225-129-2, L. 225-147 and L. 228-91 et share capital increases with cancellation of pre-emptive seq. of the French Commercial Code: subscription rights authorized by this Shareholders’ Meeting 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power in paragraph 3 of the 14th resolution and towards the overall ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the 13th resolution or, as the of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, case may be, towards the ceilings stipulated by resolutions to perform a share capital increase, on one or more of the same kind that may supersede said resolutions occasions, by issuing (i) shares of the Company during the period of validity of this authorization, (excluding preference shares), or (ii) securities governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228-93 • added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with French Commercial Code granting access, immediately or legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the rights granting access to the share capital, Company or other companies (including companies • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing in which the Company owns directly or indirectly more additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts than half the share capital), as consideration for assets and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this transferred to the Company comprising equity instruments delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the or securities granting access to share capital, in cases where ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code does not before and after the transaction; apply; 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 261 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized debt • determine the terms and conditions of shares and/or instruments on the issue of securities representing debt securities presented in consideration for contributions in instruments granting access, immediately or in the future, to kind and amend, during the life of these securities, the the share capital of the Company or other companies: above terms and conditions, in compliance with applicable • the maximum nominal value of debt instruments that formalities, may be issued immediately or in the future under this • determine and make all adjustments to take account of the authorization is set at €2.5 billion or the equivalent in any impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the other currency or currency unit established by reference Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par to more than one currency at the issue date, it being value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing stipulated that this amount will count towards the ceiling reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share set in paragraph 4 of the 14th resolution and the overall allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution ceiling set in paragraph 3 of the 13th resolution of this of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other Shareholders’ Meeting or, as the case may be, towards any assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction ceilings stipulated by resolutions of the same kind that may impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a supersede said resolutions during the period of validity of public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in this authorization, control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, • these limits will be increased, where applicable, for any where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or redemption premium above par, other rights granting access to the share capital (including by means of cash adjustments), • these limits are independent of the amount of any debt instrument issues decided or authorized by the Board • at its sole discretion, offset the share issue costs against of Directors in accordance with Articles L. 228-36-A, the related premiums and deduct from such premiums the L. 228-40, L. 228-92 paragraph 3, L. 228-93 paragraph 6 sums necessary to increase the legal reserve, and L. 228-94 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial • duly record completion of each share capital increase and Code; make the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, 4. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers, • generally, take all measures and accomplish all formalities with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized for the issue, listing and financial administration of securities by law, to implement this delegation of authority, and in issued by virtue of this authorization and for the exercise of particular: the rights attached thereto; • decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting 5. resolves that the Board of Directors may not, without access to the share capital, immediately or in the future, in prior authorization of a Shareholders’ Meeting, use this consideration of assets transferred, authorization following a third party public offer for the Company’s shares, until the end of the offer period; • draw up a list of the equity instruments and securities granting access to the share capital transferred to the 6. grants this authorization for a period of twenty-six months as Company, approve the valuation of the contributions in from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; kind, set the terms of issues of shares and/or securities 7. takes due note that this authorization supersedes from this performed in consideration for said contributions and the date, in the amount of any unused portion, the authorization amount of any cash portion to be paid, approve the grant of granted by the 28th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ any specific benefits and reduce, if the contributors agree, Meeting of May 7, 2014. the valuation of contributions or the remuneration of specific benefits, NINETEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of subperiod of twenty-six months, to issue, with cancellation delegation to the extent authorized by law, the powers of pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares necessary to increase the share capital, on one or more and/or securities granting access to the Company’s occasions, in France or abroad, in the proportions and share capital, immediately or in the future, to members at the times it sees fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive of Capgemini Group employee savings plans up to a subscription rights, in euros or in any other currency or maximum par value amount of €48 million and at currency unit established by reference to more than one a price set in accordance with the provisions of the currency, with or without a share premium, whether for French Labor Code valuable consideration or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company (excluding preference shares), or The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with (ii) securities governed by Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the L. 228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with the French Commercial Code granting access, immediately Articles L. 225-129-1, L. 225-129-6, L. 225-138-1 and L. 228-91 or in the future, at any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, et seq. of the French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3332-18 conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a to L. 3332-24 of the French Labor Code: warrant or any other means, to the share capital of the 262 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Company, reserved for membersof one or more employee profits, or additional paid-in capital capitalized as a result of savings plans (or any other plan for whose members a the free allocation of securities on the basis of this resolution; share capital increase may be reserved on equivalent terms 6. authorizes the Board of Directors, under the terms specified under Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code in this delegation, to sell shares as permitted under or any analogous law or regulation) implemented within a Article L. 3332-24 of the French Labor Code to members company or a group of French or non-French companies of a company or group employee savings plan (or similar within the scope of the consolidated or combined financial plan), it being stipulated that the aggregate par value amount statements of the Company pursuant to Article L. 3344-1 of shares sold at a discount to members of one or more of of the French Labor Code, it being further stipulated that this the employee savings plans covered by this resolution will resolution may be used to implement leveraged schemes; count towards the ceilings mentioned in paragraph 2 of this 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital resolution; increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this 7. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers to delegation: implement this delegation, with the power of sub-delegation • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future to the extent authorized by law, within the aforementioned share capital increases that may be carried out under this limits and terms, and in particular: delegation is set at €48 million or the equivalent in any other • decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access currency or currency unit established by reference to more to the share capital, immediately or in the future, than one currency, • draw up in accordance with the law a list of companies from • added to this ceiling will be the par value amount of any which the beneficiaries indicated above may subscribe for shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal shares or securities granting access to the share capital and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any thus issued and who, where applicable, may receive free contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment allocations of shares or securities granting access to the is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other share capital, rights granting access to the share capital, • decide that subscriptions may be made directly by • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing beneficiaries belonging to a company or group savings plan additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts (or similar plan), or via dedicated employee savings mutual and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this funds (FCPE) or other vehicles or entities permitted under delegation, the above ceiling will be adjusted based on the applicable laws and regulations, ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding before and after the transaction; • for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which 3. resolves that the issue price of the new shares or securities may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated granting access to the share capital will be determined in and their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these accordance with the terms set out in Articles L. 3332-18 et securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance seq. of the French Labor Code and will be at least equal to with applicable formalities, 80% of the Reference Price (as defined below) or 70% of the Reference Price where the lock-up period stipulated by • set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights the plan in application of Articles L. 3332-25 and L. 3332-26 (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the case of the French Labor Code is ten years or more; for the purposes of this paragraph the Reference Price refers to an may be) attached to shares or securities granting access to shares to be issued, and in particular set the date, which may be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank 6 average listed price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market over the 20 trading days preceding for dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the the decision setting the subscription opening date for completion of the share capital increase, members of a company or group employee savings plan (or • set the amounts of issues to be made under this similar plan); authorization and in particular determine the issue prices, 4. authorizes the Board of Directors to allocate, without dates, time limits, terms and conditions of subscription, consideration, to the beneficiaries indicated above, in payment, delivery and date of ranking for dividend of the addition to shares or securities granting access to the share securities (which may be retroactive), rules for pro-rating capital subscribed for cash, shares or securities granting in the event of over-subscription and any other terms and access to the share capital to be issued or already issued conditions of the issues, subject to prevailing legal and in full or partial substitution of the discount in the Reference regulatory limits, Price and/or as an employer’s contribution, it being • determine and make all adjustments to take account of the stipulated that the benefit resulting from this allocation may impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the not exceed the applicable legal or regulatory limits; Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par 5. resolves to waive in favor of the aforementioned beneficiaries value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing the pre-emptive subscription rights of shareholders to the reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share shares and securities granting access to the share capital allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution issued pursuant to this delegation, said shareholders of dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other also waiving, in the event of the free allocation to such assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction beneficiaries of shares or securities granting access to the impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a share capital, any rights to such shares or securities granting public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in access to the share capital, including the portion of reserves, control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 263 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or • enter into all agreements and accomplish directly or other rights granting access to the share capital (including indirectly via an agent all transactions and formalities, by means of cash adjustments), including formalities required following the share capital • in the event of the free allocation of shares or securities increases and the corresponding amendments to the granting access to the share capital, determine the nature bylaws, and number of shares or securities granting access to • generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure the share capital to be issued, as well as their terms completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and and conditions and the number to be granted to each decisions and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing beneficiary, and determine the dates, time limits, and terms and financial administration of securities issued by virtue of and conditions of allocation of such shares or securities this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached granting access to the share capital subject to prevailing thereto or required as a result of the share capital increases, legal and regulatory limits, and in particular choose to • decide to postpone performance of the share capital either wholly or partially substitute the allocation of such increase; shares or securities granting access to the share capital for the discount in the Reference Price specified above 8. grants this delegation for a period of twenty-six months; or offset the equivalent value of such shares or securities 9. resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in against the total amount of the employer’s contribution or a the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted by combination of both options, the 30th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of • duly record the completion of share capital increases in the May 7, 2014. amount of shares actually subscribed, • where applicable, offset share issue costs against the related premiums and deduct from these issue premiums the amounts necessary to bring the legal reserve to onetenth of the new share capital after the share capital increases, TWENTIETH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a sees fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, period of eighteen months, to issue with cancellation in euros or in any other currency or currency unit established of pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares by reference to more than one currency, with or without and/or securities granting access to the share capital, a share premium, whether for valuable consideration or immediately or in the future, in favor of employees without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company of certain non-French subsidiaries at terms and (excluding preference shares), or (ii) securities governed by conditions comparable to those offered pursuant to Articles L. 228-92 paragraph 1, L. 228-93 paragraphs 1 the preceding resolution and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with Code granting access, immediately or in the future, at quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ any time or at fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ report and the exchange, redemption, presentation of a warrant or any statutory auditors’ special report and in accordance with other means, to the share capital of the Company, reserved Articles L. 225-129-1, L. 225-138 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the for one of the following categories of beneficiary: (i) nonFrench Commercial Code: French Employees, (ii) employee shareholding UCITS or other vehicles, with or without a legal personality, invested in 1. takes due note that in certain countries legal and/or tax shares of the Company, where the holders of units or shares context can make it inadvisable or difficult to implement are non-French Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity employee shareholding schemes directly or through a controlled by a bank within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 mutual fund (the active, early retired and retired employees of the French Commercial Code that has set-up at the and corporate officers referred to in Articles L. 3332-1 and Company’s request a structured offer for non-French L. 3332-2 of the French Labor Code of Capgemini Group employees presenting an economic profile comparable to companies whose registered offices are located in one that of an employee shareholder scheme set-up pursuant of these countries are referred to below as “non-French to a share capital increase performed under the preceding Employees”; the “Capgemini Group” comprises the resolution presented to this Shareholders’ Meeting; Company and the French and non-French companies related to the Company within the meaning of Article L. 225-180 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital of the French Commercial Code and Article L. 3344-1 et increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this delegation: seq. of the French Labor Code) and that the implementation in favor of certain non-French Employees of alternative • the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future schemes to those performed pursuant to the nineteenth share capital increases that may be carried out under this resolution submitted to this Shareholders’ Meeting; delegation is set at €48 million or the equivalent in any other currency or currency unit established by reference to more 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of than one currency, it being stipulated that this amount sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its powers to increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, will count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it 19th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting (subject to its approval) or, as the case may be, towards any ceiling 264 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting • stipulated by a resolution of the same kind that may 6. resolves that the issue price of new shares or securities supersede said resolution during the period of validity of granting access to the share capital to be issued pursuant this delegation, to this delegation will be set by the Board of Directors based on the listed price of the Company’s share on the Euronext • added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of Paris regulated market; this price will be at least equal to any shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with an average listed price of the Company’s share over the 20 legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any trading days preceding the decision setting the subscription contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment opening date for a share capital increase performed is necessary, the rights of holders of securities or other pursuant to the 19th resolution, less a 20% discount; rights granting access to the share capital, 7. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have the same • in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing powers, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts authorized by law, as those conferred on the Board of and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this Directors by paragraph 7 of the 19th resolution (including delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the the power to postpone performance of the share capital ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding increase) and the power to draw up the list of beneficiaries before and after the transaction; of the cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights within 4. resolves to cancel pre-emptive subscription rights to the the above defined category, and the number of shares shares that may be issued pursuant to this delegation, in and securities granting access to the share capital to be favor of the aforementioned beneficiary categories; subscribed by each beneficiary; 5. resolves that this delegation of powers may only be used in 8. grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as the event of the use of the delegation granted pursuant to from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. the 19th resolution and solely in order to achieve the objective set out in this resolution; PRESENTATION OF 21ST RESOLUTION AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT PERFORMANCE SHARES Overview Desirous to continue its motivation policy and involving performance conditions covering a minimum period of three employees and managers in the development of the Group, years. the Board of Directors is seeking a new authorization to grant Should the Board of Directors set a lock-in period for vested additional performance shares, existing or to be issued, shares, this period would not be less than one year. subject to internal and external performance conditions, during the next 18 months, (with, in the case of shares to The internal performance condition is measured by the be issued, the waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive amount of audited and published organic free cash flow for subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of the grants) the three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2016 to up to a maximum of 1% of the share capital. The detailed performance conditions are presented in the December 31, 2018, excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its defined benefit pension funds. 6 draft twenty-first resolution presented to you for vote. The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of shares that may be granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive In summary: Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers, if any, it The external performance condition is assessed based being specified that in this case, the Board of Directors will, on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share in accordance with applicable laws, decide the portion of compared with a basket containing at least five comparable shares that must be held by each individual until the end of companies in our business sector from at least five different his/her term of office. countries. No shares vest in respect of the external The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors to performance condition if the relative performance of the Cap grant up to 15% of the maximum number of shares to Group Gemini share is less than 90% of the average performance employees, other than members of the general management of the basket over a three-year period, while 25% of shares team (the Executive Committee), without performance vest if this performance is equal to that of the basket and the conditions. maximum 50% of shares vest if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEPMEDEF Code, performance share grants are now undertaken Compared with the previous authorization granted by the at the same calendar periods and will be decided by either Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015, implementation the Board of Directors’ meeting held at the end of July or the of which is reported on in the Group Management Report following meeting. presented in the 2015 Registration Document (“Performance share grants”, page 228, Section 5.1.4 of the Registration Recap of the use of authorizations previously granted Document), the Board of Directors proposes to extend by by Shareholders’ Meetings: one year the minimum vesting period for shares, thereby The use by the Board of Directors of previous resolutions for responding favorably to the request by investors. the grant of performance shares is presented in the Group It is recalled that in 2015, the assessment period for the Management Report (“Performance share grants”, page 228, external performance condition was already increased from Section 5.1.4, of the 2015 Registration Document). two to three years, in order to have internal and external 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 265 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TWENTY-FIRST RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period i. for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, of eighteen months, to grant performance shares, multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen existing or to be issued, to employees and corporate external performance target, it being specified that: officers of the Company and its French and non-French – the performance target to be met in order for the shares subsidiaries, up to a maximum of 1% of the Company’s to vest will be the performance of the Cap Gemini share share capital (with, in the case of shares to be issued, measured over a minimum three-year period compared the waiver by shareholders of their preemptive to the average performance, measured over the same subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of the period, of a basket containing at least five shares of listed grants) companies operating in the same sector as the Group in In accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French a minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in established (France, the United States, etc.), accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary – this relative performance will be measured by comparing Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ the stock market performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: with the average share price performance of the basket 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of subover the same period, such that: delegation to the extent authorized by law – subject to – the number of shares that will ultimately vest: the achievement of the performance conditions defined in paragraph 4 of this resolution and for a total number of will be equal to 50% of the Initial Allocation of shares if shares not exceeding 1% of the share capital at the date the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is at of the decision (this maximum number of shares being least equal to 110% of the basket, referred to hereafter by the letter “N”) – to allocate shares will vary between 25% and 50% of the Initial Allocation of the Company (existing or to be issued), to employees of if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is the Company and employees and corporate officers of its between 100% and 110% of the average performance French and non-French subsidiaries; in the case of a share of the basket, with an additional 2.5% of shares vesting capital increase by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, for each percentage point between these limits, reserves, profits or other amounts and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this delegation, the above will be equal to 25% of the Initial Allocation of shares ceiling will be adjusted based on the ratio between the if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is number of shares issued and outstanding before and after equal to 100% of the basket, the transaction; will vary between 15% and 25% of the Initial Allocation 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is performance shares may also be allocated, in accordance between 90% and 100% of the average performance of with applicable laws, to the Chairman and Chief Executive the basket, with an additional 1% of shares vesting for Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers of the each percentage point between these limits, Company, it being specified that in this case, the Board of – no shares will vest in respect of shares subject to this Directors will, in accordance with applicable laws, decide the external performance condition, if, over the calculation portion of shares that must be held by each individual until reference period, the performance of the Cap Gemini the end of his/her term of office; share is less than 90% of the average performance of 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest the basket of securities measured over the same period, at the end of a vesting period (the “Vesting Period”) of at ii. for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, least three years, it being stipulated that the Board of multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen Directors may introduce, where applicable, a lock-in period internal performance target, it being specified that: following the vesting of the shares the duration of which – the performance target to be met in order for the shares to may vary depending on the country of tax residence of vest will be the amount of audited and published organic the beneficiary; in those countries where a lock-in period free cash flow for the three-year cumulative period from is applied it will be of a minimum period of one year. January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018, excluding Group However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above payments to make up the shortfall on its defined benefit periods and may be freely sold in the event of the death or pension funds, incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 or 3 disability in France, as defined in Article L. 341-4 of the – no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial French Social Security Code (Code de la Sécurité Sociale); Allocation subject to this internal performance condition, if the cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal 4. resolves, subject to the powers conferred on the Board years is less than €2,400 million, of Directors by law and this resolution, that the exact number of shares vesting to beneficiaries at the end of the – the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal Vesting Period, compared with the total number of shares to the full amount of this half of the Initial Allocation if the (“Initial Allocation”) indicated in the allocation notice sent to cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal years beneficiaries will be equal to: is at least €2,700 million and will vary on a straight-line basis between 15% and half of the Initial Allocation for a cumulative organic free cash flow between these two limits; it being understood that organic free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less acquisitions (net of disposals) of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows), 266 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 5. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding • determine whether the shares allocated for nil consideration 15% of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the are existing shares or shares to be issued and, where Company and its French (within the meaning, particularly, of applicable, amend this choice before the vesting of shares, Article L. 225-197-6, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial • decide, in the event that transactions are carried out before Code) and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of the shares vest that affect the Company’s equity, whether to the general management team (the Executive Committee) adjust the number of the shares allocated in order to protect without performance conditions; the rights of the beneficiaries and, if so, define the terms 6. takes due note that this authorization involves the waiver and conditions of such adjustment, by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in • perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, favor of beneficiaries of performance shares if the allocation the necessary share capital increases by capitalization of concerns shares to be issued; reserves or additional paid-in capital of the Company 7. takes due note that the Board of Directors has, pursuant to when the shares ultimately vest, set the dates from which the law, the power to amend the performance conditions set shares bear dividend rights, deduct from available reserves out in paragraph 4 above by way of a duly reasoned decision or additional paid-in capital of the Company the amounts made after this decision and before the share allocations; necessary to increase the legal reserve to 10% of the new 8. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this share capital amount following these share capital increases authorization (with the power of sub-delegation to the extent and amend the bylaws accordingly, authorized by law), and in particular to: • carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do whatever • set the share allocation date, is necessary; • draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the number 9. resolves that this authorization is granted for a period of of shares allocated to each beneficiary, eighteen months as from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes from this date, in the amount of any • set the share allocation terms and conditions, including with unused portion, the delegation granted by the 9th resolution respect to performance conditions, adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015. PRESENTATION OF THE 22ND RESOLUTION AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 11, PARAGRAPH 3 OF THE BYLAWS Overview Shareholders are asked to amend the Company’s bylaws Corporate Governance Code to which Cap Gemini refers. to provide for the staggered renewal of the terms of office The implementation of these new provisions of the bylaws of directors appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting. This will could therefore be proposed at Shareholders’ Meetings to enable the smooth replacement of directors over time, avoid the renewal on block of your Board of Directors. in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF 6 TWENTY-SECOND RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 11, paragraph 3) of the bylaws New wording of Article 11, paragraph 3): – Board of Directors – Staggered renewal of the Board “The length of the terms of office of the directors shall be four of Directors years. Directors, other than directors representing employees The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum or employee shareholders appointed in accordance with the and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, law or these bylaws, shall be appointed or reappointed on a and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, resolves rolling basis to ensure the staggered renewal of terms of office to introduce the rolling renewal of members of the Board of in as equal fractions as possible. Exceptionally, and solely for Directors and to amend paragraph 3) of Article 11 of the bylaws, the purposes of this rolling renewal, the General Shareholders’ “Board of Directors”, as follows: Meeting may appoint one or more directors for a term of one, Former wording of Article 11, paragraph 3): two or three years. “The length of the terms of office of the directors shall be four The terms of office of directors shall expire at the close of the years, expiring at the close of the General Shareholders’ Meeting General Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the accounts held to approve the accounts for the year preceding the expiry for the year preceding the expiry of their term, subject to specific of their term. provisions provided for by law or these Bylaws applicable to directors representing employees or employee shareholders. Any director appointed as a replacement for another director shall only exercise his/her functions for the remaining period of Any director appointed as a replacement for another director his/her predecessor’s term of office.” shall only exercise his/her functions for the remaining period of his/her predecessor’s term of office.” 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 267 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 23RD RESOLUTION AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 11 OF THE BYLAWS – WITH THE ADDITION OF A SIXTH PARAGRAPH AND AMENDMENT OF PARAGRAPHS 1) AND 2) ACCORDINGLY Overview Following the adoption of new legal provisions in 2015 As your Company is a group parent company, the regarding employee representation on boards of directors appointment of a director representing employees by the (the Rebsamen Law of August 17, 2015 amending the initial most representative union body in the Company and its legal provisions of 2013), the Cap Gemini Board of Directors subsidiaries ensures the relevant representation of employees will soon be required to comprise one or more directors in France. The appointment of a second director representing representing employees.. employees by the International Works Council seeks to take account of the international nature of Capgemini Group and The law provides that: to encourage a European representation of employees on X the bylaws must be amended during the ordinary the Board of Directors. shareholders’ meeting held in 2017 at the latest and the Accordingly, at its meeting of March 23, 2016 and after directors appointed during the six months following the informing the various employee representation bodies shareholders’ meeting amending the bylaws; including the International Works Council, the Board of X the number of directors representing employees must be at Directors, at the recommendation of the Ethics & Governance least two if the Board of Directors comprises 12 members Committee, decided that only the appointment of two and at least one if it comprises less than 12 members. directors representing employees in accordance with the Finally, the law proposes different methods for the election above procedures would achieve relevant representation of of employee directors by employees or their appointment by employees on your Board while taking account of the global employee representative bodies. nature of the Capgemini Group. Your Company meets the criteria set by the Law of 2015 and These two directors must be appointed in the six months must therefore amend its bylaws to provide for the number of following the Shareholders’ Meeting, that is, by November 18, directors representing employees on your Board of Directors 2016. and the method of their appointment, in accordance with the Certain current provisions of the bylaws, particularly new legal provisions presented above. An amendment to the regarding the number of shares that must be held by bylaws is therefore presented to shareholders for approval directors are not intended to apply to directors representing at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, to enable employees and their application will be set aside by new the appointment of employee directors by the end of 2016, provisions of the bylaws. without waiting until the deadline in 2017. Other provisions specific to directors representing employees We propose to set the number of employee directors at two will be added, particularly regarding the term of office. This and to remove the link between the number of employee will be set at four years from the date of appointment, directors and the threshold of 12 directors provided in the expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting approving law, in order to ensure in all situations the international the accounts for the year preceding the expiry of the term representation of employees on the Board of Directors of of office. This mechanism will enable the terms of office of your Company, through the appointment of a director by directors representing employees to be aligned with those of the European Group Council; the law does not provide for directors appointed by Shareholders’ Meetings. this method of appointment where only one director Finally, the addition to the bylaws of Article 11 6) enabling representing employees is appointed. the appointment of employee shareholders requires the Shareholders are therefore asked to adopt the following amendment of paragraphs 1) and 2) of the same Article 11: methods of appointing employee directors from among the X paragraph 1) would be amended to clarify that directors four methods proposed by the law: representing employees or employee shareholders will not X appointment of a first director by the union body which be taken into account in determining whether the maximum obtained the most votes at the first round of the union threshold of 18 directors has been reached; elections organized by the Company and its subsidiaries, X paragraph 2) would be supplemented to clarify that as provided by the French Labor Code; and directors representing employees or employee shareholders X appointment of a second director by the European Group are not required to hold 1,000 shares in the same way as Council (known as the International Works Council in other directors. Capgemini Group), the Group’s most international employee representative body bringing together representatives of operating companies located in several European countries. 268 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TWENTY-THIRD RESOLUTION Amendment of Article 11 of the bylaws – Board of Article 11, paragraph 6): Directors – new paragraph 6) enabling the appointment X “6) Directors representing employees: of directors representing employees and amendment of paragraphs 1) and 2) as a consequence 1. The Board of Directors comprises a director representing employees appointed by the union body which obtained The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum the most votes at the first round of the elections referred and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and to in Articles L. 2122-1 and L. 2122-4 of the French Labor having read the Board of Directors’ report, and in accordance Code, organized by the Company and direct or indirect with the provisions of Articles L. 225-27-1 et seq. of the French subsidiaries whose registered office is located in France. Commercial Code, resolves to: 2. The Board of Directors comprises a second director X amend Article 11, paragraphs 1) and 2) of the bylaws, “Board representing employees appointed by the European Group of Directors”, as follows: Council (known as the International Works Council in Former wording of Article 11, paragraphs 1) and 2): Capgemini Group). “1) The Company shall have a Board of Directors comprised 3. Pursuant to Article 11. 3), the term of office of any of a minimum of three and a maximum of eighteen members. director appointed pursuant to Article 11, paragraphs 6.1 Members of the Board of Directors must be individuals. or 6.2 is four years, expiring at the close of the Ordinary 2) Each director must hold at least one thousand (1,000) Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the accounts for the Company shares throughout their term of office.” year preceding the expiry of his or her term. It is renewable. New wording of Article 11, paragraphs 1) and 2): 4. The term of office of directors representing employees may be terminated at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting “1) The Company shall have a Board of Directors comprised held to approve the accounts for a year during which the of a minimum of three and a maximum of eighteen members application conditions of Article L. 225-27-1I of the French and, where appropriate, one or more members representing Commercial Code cease to be met, or should this article be employees and/or employee shareholders appointed in repealed. accordance with the law or these bylaws. Members of the Board of Directors must be individuals. 5. Should the office of a director representing employees become vacant for whatever reason, the replacement 2) Each director must hold at least one thousand (1,000) appointed by the union body which obtained the most Company shares throughout their term of office. This votes at the first round of the elections or the European obligation does not apply to directors representing employees Group Council will take office for the remaining period of or employee shareholders appointed in accordance with the the term of office of his/her predecessor. The Board of law or these bylaws”; Directors may validly meet and deliberate until the date of X amend Article 11 of the bylaws, “Board of Directors”, to this replacement.” include a new sixth paragraph on the method of appointing directors representing employees, as follows: 6 TH PRESENTATION OF THE 24 RESOLUTION POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES Overview We also recommend that you confer powers to carry out the formalities required under law. TWENTY-FOURTH RESOLUTION Powers to carry out formalities The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this meeting to execute all filing, publication and other formalities required under French law. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 269 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.3 Biographies of the candidates for the Board of Directors 6.3 Biographies of the candidates for the Board of Directors Candidates for the position of director representing employees shareholders (Resolutions 7 and A) LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS Date of birth: BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE January 19, 1964 Mrs Lucia Sinapi-Thomas is Executive Director Business Platforms at Capgemini. Nationality: She started her career as a tax and business lawyer in 1986, before joining Capgemini in 1992. French She has more than 20 years of experience within Capgemini Group, successively as Group Tax First appointment: Advisor (1992), in charge of Corporate Finance, Treasury and Investors Relations (1999), extended 2012 to Risk Management and Insurance (2005), and member of the Group Engagement Board. Mrs Lucia Sinapi-Thomas was Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2013 until December 31, 2015. Expiry of term of ofﬁce: 2020 Lucia Sinapi graduated from ESSEC business school (1986) and Paris Law University (1988), was (General Meeting approving admitted to the Paris bar (1989), and has a financial analyst degree (SFAF 1997). the 2019 ﬁnancial statements) OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES Number of shares held at Dec. 31, 2015: Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces 19,114 Executive Director Business Platforms Director of: Until 12/31/2015: Deputy Chief Financial ■ BUREAU VERITAS* Officer of: ■ DASSAULT AVIATION* ■ CAP GEMINI S.A.* Other ofﬁces in Capgemini Group: Chairman of: ■ CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE S.A.S. (FRANCE) Director of: ■ CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL S.A. (LUXEMBOURG) ■ CAPGEMINI SOGETI DANMARK A/S (DENMARK) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE AB (SWEDEN) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (SWEDEN) ■ SOGETI NORGE A/S (NORWAY) ■ EURIWARE S.A. (UNTIL 07/23/2015) * Listed company TANIA CASTILLO PÉREZ Date of birth: BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Juanary 22, 1972 Mrs Tania Castillo Pérez is Vice President, Human Resources Director of SOGETI at Capgemini. Nationality: She started her career in 2005 as management consultant with Atos, before joining Capgemini in Mexican and French 2010. She is Human Resources Director of SOGETI since October 2012, and member of Capgemini Expiry of term of ofﬁce: Group Corporate Social Responsibility Board. 2020 Tania Castillo Pérez holds a BA in Philosophy from Paris Sorbonne University. She is a graduate (General Meeting approving from the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris (2001) and the Ecole Nationale d’Administration the 2019 ﬁnancial statements) (2005, Promotion Romain Gary). Number of shares held at OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES Dec. 31, 2015: 804 Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Vice President, Global Human Resources N/A Director of: Other ofﬁces in Capgemini Group: ■ SOGETI (CAPGEMINI GROUP) N/A 270 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.3 Biographies of the candidates for the Board of Directors Candidates for the position of directors (Resolutions 8 and 9) SIÂN HERBERT-JONES Date of birth: BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE September 13, 1960 Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones is currently a director of l’Air Liquide S.A., where she chairs the Audit Nationality : and Accounts Committee. British A British chartered accountant, Mrs. Herbert-Jones initially worked for 15 years with Expiry of term of ofﬁce: PricewaterhouseCoopers in its London and then Paris offices, where she was Director of Mergers 2020 and Acquisitions. She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, including 15 years (General Meeting approving as Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee, before retiring on March 1, the 2019 ﬁnancial statements) 2016. Number of shares held: Of British nationality, Mrs. Siân Herbert-Jones would bring strong financial expertise to the Board, (as at 29/03/2016) : 0 as well as her experience with international transactions, particularly in the service sector, while contributing the insight of her Anglo-Saxon culture and improving the diversity of profiles on the Board. OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces Chief Financial Officer and member of Director and Chairman of the Audit and Accounts the Executive Committee (until March 1, Committee of : 2016) of : ■ L’AIR LIQUIDE SA* ■ SODEXO GROUP* All the offices listed below were held within Sodexo Group in 2015 : Chairman of : ■ ETIN S.A.S. (FRANCE) ; ■ SODEXO ETINBIS S.A.S. (FRANCE) ; ■ SOFINSOD S.A.S. (FRANCE). Director of : ■ SODEXHO AWARDS CO, ■ SODEXO JAPAN KABUSHIKI KAISHA LTD, ■ SODEXHO MEXICO S.A. DE CV, ■ SODEXHO MEXICO SERVICIOS DE PERSONAL S.A. DE CV, ■ SODEXO REMOTE SITES THE NETHERLANDS B.V., ■ SODEXO REMOTE SITES EUROPE LTD, ■ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EURASIA LTD, ■ SODEXO, INC., ■ SODEXO MANAGEMENT, INC., ■ SODEXO REMOTE SITES USA, INC., ■ SODEXO SERVICES ENTERPRISES LLC, ■ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO SERVICES DE 6 VENEZUELA S.A., ■ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS Y CAMPAMENTOS S.A., ■ SODEXO GLOBAL SERVICES UK LTD. Member of the Management Board of : ■ SODEXO EN FRANCE S.A.S. (FRANCE) ■ SODEXO ENTREPRISES S.A.S. (FRANCE), ■ SODEXO PASS INTERNATIONAL S.A.S. (FRANCE), ■ ONE S.A.S. (FRANCE). Permanent representative of Sofinsod S.A.S. on the Supervisory Board ■ ONE SCA (FRANCE). Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years Director of : ■ SODEXO REMOTE SITES SUPPORT SERVICES LTD (UNTIL 2011), ■ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO KAZAKHSTAN LTD (UNTIL 2011), ■ UNIVERSAL SODEXO EUROASIA LTD (UNTIL 2011), ■ SODEXO MOTIVATION SOLUTIONS MEXICO S.A. DE CV (UNTIL 2011), ■ SODEXO MOTIVATION SOLUTIONS UK LTD (UNTIL 2011). * Listed company 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 271 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.3 Biographies of the candidates for the Board of Directors CAROLE FERRAND Date of birth: BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE April 2, 1970 Mrs. Carole Ferrand is Financing Director at Artémis Group. Nationality : She is a graduate of the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (class of 1992). Ms. Ferrand French started her career at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, where she was an auditor and later a financial Expiry of term of ofﬁce: advisor in the Transaction Services Division. In 2000, she joined Sony France, the French subsidiary 2020 of the consumer and professional electronics branch of the Sony Corporation group, as Financial (General Meeting approving Director before becoming Secretary General in 2002. In 2011, she held the position of Chief the 2019 ﬁnancial statements) Financial Officer of the Europacorp group. Since January 2013 she has been Financing Director at Artémis Group and in charge of strategic and financial support for certain investments. Number of shares held (as at 29/03/2016): 0 Mrs. Carole Ferrand would bring to the Board her expertise in audit, finance and financial transactions. OFFICES HELD IN 2015 OR CURRENT OFFICES Principal ofﬁce Other ofﬁces : Financing Director of : Offices held as representative of Artemis Group : ■ ARTEMIS GROUP Director – Member of the Audit Committee of : ■ GROUPE FNAC* Director of : ■ SEBDO, LE POINT ■ ARTÉMIS 21 ■ ÉDITIONS TALLANDIER Honorary Chairman and Director of: ■ TERRA NOVA (ASSOCIATION CONSTITUTED UNDER THE FRENCH LAW OF 1901) Other ofﬁces held during the last ﬁve years Director and Chairman of the Board of : ■ SOFICA EUROPACORP Director of: ■ SOFICA HOCHE ARTOIS IMAGE * Listed company 272 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations 6.4 Glossary and summary table of ﬁnancial authorizations The purpose of this glossary is to define the terms used in the summary table below. Term Definition/Characteristics Performance The vesting of performance shares will depend on the attainment of external performance criteria (stock market performance shares – of the Company’s share over a 3-year period compared to a basket of securities) and internal performance criteria (organic Performance free cash flow for the period January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018). criteria Dividend Dividends distributed in respect of the last three fiscal years are as follows: ■ 2014: €1.20 per share; ■ 2013: €1.10 per share; ■ 2012: €1 per share. All these amounts were eligible for the 40% tax rebate. Priority In return for the cancellation of PSR*, the Board of Directors may introduce priority subscription rights, which may be prosubscription rated*. Whenever introduced, such rights enable existing shareholders to subscribe to the proposed issue in proportion to rights the number of shares they currently hold. However, contrary to PSR*, such priority subscription rights are exercisable within a priority subscription period, currently equal to at least 3 trading sessions (shorter than the period allowed for PSR*) and are not tradable. This priority period cannot be proposed for all issues: in the same way as PSR*, it may be preferable or even necessary not to propose a priority period in order for the newly-issued securities to be placed on the best possible terms, particularly when speed is essential to the success of an issue or the issue is performed on non-French financial markets. PSR Acronym for “pre-emptive subscription rights”. For a description of pre-emptive subscription rights and details of the reasons behind requests to cancel pre-emptive subscription rights, please refer to the introduction to the presentation of the 12th to 21st resolutions, section 2. Subsidiaries Companies in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, over 50% of the share capital. Issue ceiling with Ceiling of €137 million (par value amount) (i.e. less than 10% of the share capital at December 31, 2015) for share cancellation of capital increases performed pursuant to the 14th, 15th, 16th and 18th resolutions, subject to the adoption of the 14th resolution PSR setting this ceiling. Overall ceiling Overall ceiling of €550 million (par value amount) (i.e. less than 40% of the share capital at December 31, 2015) applicable to share capital increases performed pursuant to the 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th resolutions, subject to the adoption of the 13th resolution setting this ceiling. The ceilings set by the 19th, 20th and 21st resolutions do not count towards this overall ceiling. Private The law authorizes share capital increases with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, up to a maximum of 20% placement of the share capital per year, by way of offers open exclusively to (i) individuals providing third-party portfolio management investment services, or (ii) qualified investors or a small circle of investors, provided such investors are acting on their own 6 account. The aim is to optimize the Company’s access to capital and benefit from the best market conditions, as this financing method is both faster and simpler than a share capital increase by way of a public offer. Reference price Weighted average listed price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated market over the 20 trading days preceding the decision setting the subscription opening date for members of a savings plan. Pro-rated In some cases, the Board of Directors may grant pro-rated subscription rights in favor of existing shareholders. This (subscription means that if subscriptions as of right (i.e. subscriptions by shareholders exercising pre-emptive subscription rights) fail to rights) entirely absorb the share capital increase, the unsubscribed shares would be allocated to the shareholders who made an application for additional shares on a pro-rated basis (over and above the entitlement given by their preemptive rights) in proportion to their subscription rights. The number of shares allocated to each shareholder may not exceed the number of shares applied for by that shareholder. Securities Securities granting access to the share capital, immediately or in the future, that may be issued comprise: granting access ■ in accordance with Article L. 228-92 paragraph 1 of the French Commercial Code, securities consisting of equity to the share instruments of the Company granting access to other equity instruments (issued or to be issued) or debt instruments, capital or debt instruments granting access to equity instruments of the Company to be issued. In particular they may comprise shares with share subscription warrants attached or bonds convertible, exchangeable or redeemable for shares to be issued, such as OCEANE bonds (bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing shares) or bonds with share subscription warrants attached; ■ in accordance with Articles L. 228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 or L. 228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code, securities consisting of equity instruments of the Company granting access to other equity instruments (existing or to be issued) or granting entitlement to the allocation of debt instruments of other companies (including Subsidiaries). They may also comprise debt instruments granting access to equity instruments to be issued by other companies (including Subsidiaries). Securities consisting of debt instruments (e.g. bonds convertible/redeemable for shares to be issued or bonds with share subscription warrants attached) may grant entitlement at any time, during specific periods or at fixed dates to the allocation of new shares. This allocation may be performed by conversion (e.g. bonds convertible into new shares), redemption (e.g. bonds redeemable for new shares), presentation of a warrant (e.g. bonds with share subscription warrants attached) or by any other means, during the term of the loans. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 273 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations SUMMARY TABLE OF FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS Terms in this table indentified by an asterisk are defined in the glossary. Term N° Purpose of validity Possible reasons for use of the delegation of authority 10th Authorization of a share buyback program 18 months Possible goals of share buybacks by your Company: ■ Allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate officers (e.g. free share allocations, share purchase options, company or group savings plan) ■ delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to securities granting access to the share capital* ■ cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased ■ delivery of shares in connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or asset-for-share exchanges ■ market-making in the secondary market or maintenance of the liquidity of the Company’s share by an investment services provider under a liquidity agreement that complies with the ethical code recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des marchés financiers, AMF) ■ any transaction that complies with current or future applicable regulations 11th Cancellation of treasury shares 26 months Potentially used to reduce the Company’s share capital 12th Share capital increase by capitalizing 26 months ■ Potentially used to capitalize reserves, profits or additional paid-in additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits capital enabling the share capital to be increased without any new or other amounts money being contributed ■ The share capital increase will be performed by issuing new shares granted without consideration, by increasing the par value of existing shares or by a combination of both methods 13th Increase in the share capital of the 26 months Potentially used by the Board of Directors to decide issues Company or another company by issuing, with retention of PSR*, ordinary shares and/ or securities granting access to the share capital* 274 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Specific ceiling (par value/nominal amount) Price or method for determining price Other information and comments ■ Purchases may be made such that, at the Maximum purchase price of €130 per share Authorization may not be used during a public date of each purchase, the total number of offer for the Company’s share capital shares acquired by the Company since the beginning of the buyback program does not exceed 10% of the shares comprising the Company’s share capital at that date (including transactions performed after this Shareholders’ Meeting) ■ The number of shares purchased with a view to their retention or presentation in a merger, demerger or asset-for-share exchange transaction may not exceed 5% of the Company’s share capital ■ For liquidity agreements, the 10% limit is calculated after deduction of the number of shares resold during the authorization period ■ Total amount allocated to the share buyback program: €2,230 million Maximum number of shares cancelled may not exceed 10% of the share capital by 24-month period ■ €1.5 billion Authorization may not be used during a public ■ Independent ceiling offer for the Company’s share capital ■ The Board of Directors decides the amount to be capitalized and the number of new equity instruments to be issued and/or the par value of existing shares ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts issued to preserve the rights of holders of securities granting access to the share capital* or other rights granting access to the share capital ■ Share capital: €550 million (i.e. less than 40% of the share capital at December 31, 2015) Price set by the Board of Directors ■ ■ Possible introduction of pro-rated subscription rights* Possible authorization of issues of 6 ■ Ceiling included in the Overall Ceiling* securities granting access to the share ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of capital of other companies, including a share capital increase by capitalizing subsidiaries additional paid-in capital, reserves, ■ Delegation may not be used during a profits or other amounts and allocating public offer for the Company’s share free shares capital ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts issued to preserve the rights of holders of securities granting access to the share capital* or other rights granting access to the share capital ■ Debt instruments (issues of securities granting access to the share capital*): €7.5 billion ■ Ceiling included in the maximum ceiling of €7.5 billion 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 275 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Term N° Purpose of validity Possible reasons for use of the delegation of authority 14th Increase in the share capital of the 26 months ■ Potentially used by the Board of Directors to decide and perform Company or another company by issuing, issues by way of a public offer with cancellation of PSR by way of a public offer with cancellation ■ Potentially used to issue shares or securities granting access to the of PSR*, ordinary shares and/or securities share capital* as consideration for securities meeting the conditions granting access to the share capital* laid down in Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code that may be contributed to the Company in connection with a public exchange offer initiated by the Company in France or abroad under local rules. The Board of Directors would be free to set the exchange parity, with the following price rules not applicable 15th Increase in the share capital of the 26 months ■ Potentially used by the Board of Directors to decide and perform Company or another company by issuing, issues by way of a private placement* with cancellation of PSR by way of a private placement with ■ Thanks to the flexibility offered by this delegation, used to rapidly cancellation of PSR*, ordinary shares and/ access qualified investors as defined by the regulations or securities granting access to the share capital* 276 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Specific ceiling (par value/nominal amount) Price or method for determining price Other information and comments ■ Share capital: €137 million (i.e. less than Shares: ■ Possibility for the Board of Directors to 10% of the share capital at December 31, ■ Price set by the Board of Directors, at least introduce priority subscription rights for 2015) equal to the statutory minimum price per shareholders ■ Ceiling included in the Overall Ceiling* share on the day of the issue ■ Currently, the statutory minimum price is ■ Ceiling included in the Issues ceiling Securities granting access to the share equal to the weighted average price of with cancellation of PSR* capital* the Company’s share on the Euronext ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of ■ Price set by the Board of Directors, such Paris regulated market during the three a share capital increase by capitalizing that, for each share issued as a result of trading days preceding the date on which additional paid-in capital, reserves, securities granting access to the share the price is set, less 5% (after making any profits or other amounts and allocating capital*, the total amount received by the adjustments to that average in the event of free shares Company in respect of these securities differences in dividend ranking dates) ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts granting access to the share capital* will ■ Possible authorization of issues of issued to preserve the rights of holders be at least equal to the statutory minimum securities granting access to the share of securities granting access to the price per share (at the date of issue of the capital of other companies, including share capital* or other rights granting securities granting access to the share subsidiaries access to the share capital capital*) ■ Possible authorization of issues of shares ■ Debt instruments (issues of securities or securities granting access to the share granting access to the share capital*): capital* to be issued following the issue €2.5 billion of securities granting access to the share ■ Ceiling included in the maximum ceiling capital of the Company by Company of €7.5 billion Subsidiaries* ■ In the case of issues of securities in consideration for securities contributed in connection with a public exchange offer, the Board of Directors may determine the securities to be contributed to the exchange and set the issue conditions, the exchange ratio and the amount of any cash portion to be paid ■ Delegation may not be used during a public offer for the Company’s share capital ■ Share capital: €137 million (i.e. less than Price of shares and securities granting access ■ Possible authorization of issues of 10% of the share capital at December 31, to the share capital* set in the same way as securities granting access to the share 2015) under the 14th resolution capital of other companies, including ■ May not under any circumstances Subsidiaries* exceed the ceiling set by law for this ■ Possible authorization of issues of shares type of offer (currently 20% of the share or securities granting access to the share capital per year) capital* to be issued following the issue ■ ■ Ceiling included in the Overall Ceiling* Ceiling included in the Issues ceiling of securities granting access to the share capital of the Company by Subsidiaries* 6 with cancellation of PSR* ■ Delegation may not be used during a ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of public offer for the Company’s share a share capital increase by capitalizing capital additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts and allocating free shares ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts issued to preserve the rights of holders of securities granting access to the share capital* or other rights granting access to the share capital ■ Debt instruments (issues of securities granting access to the share capital*): €2.5 billion ■ Ceiling included in the maximum ceiling of €7.5 billion ■ Ceiling included in the ceiling stipulated in the 14th resolution 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 277 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Term N° Purpose of validity Possible reasons for use of the delegation of authority 16th Setting the issue price of shares in the 26 months Potentially used to derogate from the rules setting the minimum issue context of a share capital increase with price for share capital increases with cancellation of PSR* (14th and cancellation of PSR* 15th resolutions) 17th Increase in the number of shares to be 26 months Potentially used to reopen a share capital increase at the same price as issued in the event of a share capital the initial issue in the event of over-subscription (“green shoe” option) increase with retention or cancellation of PSR* 18th Share capital increase by issuing shares 26 months ■ Potentially used in connection with acquisitions and/or securities granting access to the share capital* in consideration for contributions in kind to the Company of shares or securities granting access to share capital* 278 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Specific ceiling (par value/nominal amount) Price or method for determining price Other information and comments ■ 10% of the share capital per 12-month Shares: Authorization may not be used during a public period, it being stipulated that this limit will ■ the issue price of shares will be at least offer for the Company’s share capital (as the be assessed at the date of the decision equal to the lower of the average price of 14th and 15th resolutions may not be used to issue shares and/or securities granting the share on the Euronext Paris regulated during a public offer for the Company’s share access to the share capital* market, weighted for trading volumes on capital) ■ Ceiling included in the Overall Ceiling* the last trading day preceding the setting ■ Ceiling included in the Issues ceiling with of the issue price and the average price of cancellation of PSR* the share on the Euronext Paris regulated ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts market, weighted for trading volumes on issued to preserve the rights of holders the trading day when the issue price is of securities granting access to the share set, in both cases potentially reduced by a capital* or other rights granting access to discount of up to 5% the share capital Securities granting access to the share capital*: ■ Price set by the Board of Directors such that the total amount received by the Company in respect of securities granting access to the share capital* will, for each share issued as a consequence of the issue of such securities, be at least equal to the minimum price per share defined above (at the date of issue of the securities granting access to the share capital*) ■ For each issue, the ceiling is the regulatory Same price as the initial issue ■ Delegation may not be used during a limit applicable on the issue date (currently public offer for the Company’s share 15% of the initial issue) capital ■ Share capital ceiling included in the ceiling of the initial issue and the Overall Ceiling* ■ For debt instruments, ceiling included in the maximum ceiling of €7.5 billion ■ Share capital: €137 million (i.e. less than The Board of Directors will rule on the report ■ As stipulated by law, this authorization 10% of the share capital at December 31, of the Independent Reporting Accountants, cannot be used for consideration provided 2015 which includes an assessment of the value of in connection with a public exchange ■ May not under any circumstances the assets contributed offer initiated by your Company (see exceed the ceiling set by law for this 14th resolution) type of offer (currently 10% of the share ■ Authorization may not be used during capital) a public offer for the Company’s share ■ ■ Ceiling included in the Overall Ceiling* Ceiling included in the Issues ceiling capital 6 with cancellation of PSR* ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of a share capital increase by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts and allocating free shares ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts issued to preserve the rights of holders of securities granting access to the share capital* or other rights granting access to the share capital ■ Debt instruments (issues of securities granting access to the share capital*): €2.5 billion ■ Ceiling included in the maximum ceiling of €7.5 billion ■ Ceiling included in the ceiling stipulated in the 14th resolution 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 279 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Term N° Purpose of validity Possible reasons for use of the delegation of authority 19th Share capital increase by issuing shares 26 months Potentially used to develop employee share ownership and/or securities granting access to the share capital* with cancellation of PSR*, reserved for members of savings plans 20th Share capital increase by issuing shares 18 months ■ Used to develop employee share ownership outside France, due to and/or securities granting access to the legal or tax difficulties that could make it difficult to implement such share capital* with cancellation of PSR*, plans directly or through a mutual fund (1) reserved for employees of certain non■ Used solely in the event of use of the delegation granted by the French subsidiaries 19th resolution 21st Free share grants to some or all of the 18 months Potentially used to introduce a scheme to encourage employee share employees and corporate officers of the ownership and/or a profit-sharing scheme for corporate officers Group (1) This delegation targets the following beneficiary categories: (i) employees of non-French subsidiaries of the Company (“non-French Employees”), (ii) employee shareholding UCITS or other vehicles, with or without a legal personality, invested in shares of the Company, where the holders of units or shares are non-French Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity controlled by a bank within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code that has set-up at the Company’s request a structured offer for non-French employees presenting an economic profile comparable to that of an employee shareholder scheme set-up pursuant to a share capital increase performed under the 19th resolution. (2) It is noted that the Board of Directors applied a discount of only 15% for the transactions performed in 2009 and 2012 and 12.5% for the transactions performed in 2014. 280 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.4 Glossary and summary table of financial authorizations Specific ceiling (par value/nominal amount) Price or method for determining price Other information and comments ■ €48 million (i.e. approximately 3.5% of the ■ Price set by the Board of Directors subject In the United States, the minimum issue share capital at December 31, 2015) to a minimum issue price for the shares price will be at least equal to 85% of the ■ Independent ceiling or securities granting access to the share listed price of the Company’s share on the ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of capital* of: Euronext Paris regulated market the day of a share capital increase by capitalizing ■ 80% of the Reference Price* the decision setting the opening date of the additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits ■ 70% of the Reference Price* when the subscription period, subject to compliance or other amounts and allocating free lock-up period under the plan is 10 with applicable French and US legal and shares years or more regulatory requirements and the number of ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts shares issued is subject to an issue ceiling of issued to preserve the rights of holders 1.16% of the share capital at December 31, of securities granting access to the share 2015 (i.e. a ceiling of €2 million, included in capital* or other rights granting access to the €48 million ceiling set for this resolution) the share capital ■ €48 million (i.e. approximately 3.5% of the Price at least equal to the weighted average In the United States, the minimum issue share capital at December 31, 2015) listed price of the Company’s share over price will be at least equal to 85% of the ■ Ceiling included in the ceiling set in the the 20 trading days preceding the decision listed price of the Company’s share on the 19th resolution setting the subscription opening date for Euronext Paris regulated market the day of ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of the corresponding share capital increase the decision setting the opening date of the a share capital increase by capitalizing performed pursuant to the 19th resolution, less subscription period, subject to compliance additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits a 20% discount (2) with applicable French and US legal and or other amounts and allocating free regulatory requirements and the number of shares shares issued is subject to an issue ceiling of ■ Ceiling before any additional amounts 1.16% of the share capital at December 31, issued to preserve the rights of holders 2015 (i.e. a ceiling of €2 million, included in of securities granting access to the share the €48 million ceiling set for this resolution) capital* or other rights granting access to the share capital ■ 1% of share capital (“N”), it being stipulated ■ Allocated shares will only vest at the end that allocations to the Chairman and Chief of a vesting period of at least three years Executive Officer and to Deputy Chief and the Board of Directors may introduce Executive Officers will be limited to 10% a lock-in period from the vesting of the of N shares ■ Independent ceiling ■ Description of performance conditions: ■ Ceiling may be adjusted in the event of refer to the report of the Board of Directors a share capital increase by capitalizing and the draft resolution as well as the additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits glossary at the end of this document or other amounts and allocating free ■ Exceptionally, and up to 15% of N, shares ■ shares Ceiling before any additional amounts issued to preserve the rights of holders may be allocated to employees (excluding members of the general management team (the Executive Committee)) without 6 of securities granting access to the share performance conditions capital* or other rights granting access to ■ The Board of Directors may decide the share capital whether shares granted are existing shares or shares to be issued 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 281 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CAPITAL DECREASE BY CANCELATION OF SHARES BOUGHT BACK BY THE COMPANY Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 – Eleventh resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to a capital decrease by cancelation of shares bought back by the Company, we hereby report to you on our assessment of the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease. The Board of Directors proposes that you grant it, for a 26-month period commencing on the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, full powers to cancel the shares acquired under the Company’s share buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares canceled in any given 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. Those standards require that we ensure that the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease, which is not considered to affect shareholder equality, comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital decrease. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La-Défense, March 31, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 282 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES WITH OR WITHOUT PRE-EMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 – Thirteenth to Eighteenth resolutions This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed delegations of authority to the Board of Directors to issue shares and/or securities, which are submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you: X delegate to the Board, for a 26-month period, the authority to carry out the following transactions and set the final terms and conditions of the related issues and, if necessary, to waive your pre-emptive subscription rights for: • the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, with pre emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (thirteenth resolution); • the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, by way of a public offer, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (fourteenth resolution), it being specified that these securities may be issued as payment for shares tendered in a public exchange offer in accordance with the conditions set forth by Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code; • the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, by way of a public offer pursuant to paragraph II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) and within the limit of 20% of the share capital per year (fifteenth resolution); it being specified, for all securities to be issued pursuant to the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth resolutions, that: – in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial Code, the securities to be issued can give access to shares to be issued by any company which holds directly or indirectly more than half of the Company’s share capital or by any company in which the Company holds directly or indirectly more than half of the share capital; – in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial Code, the Company’s securities can give access to the existing shares or grant rights to the allocation of the debt instruments of any company which holds directly or indirectly more than half of the Company’s share capital or of any company in which the Company holds directly or indirectly more than half of the share capital; 6 – in accordance with Article L. 228-94 of the French Commercial Code, the Company’s securities can give access to the existing shares or grant rights to the allocation of the debt instruments of any company which does not directly or indirectly hold more than half of the Company’s share capital or of any company in which the Company does not directly or indirectly hold more than half of the share capital; • authorize the Board, pursuant to the sixteenth resolution and within the framework of the delegation of authority covered in the fourteenth and fifteenth resolutions, to set the issue price, within the annual legal limit of 10% of the share capital; • delegate to the Board, for a 26-month period, all powers necessary to issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s share capital or securities granting rights to the allocation of debt instruments and/or securities granting rights to shares to be issued, to remunerate contributions in kind to the Company consisting of shares or securities giving access to share capital, within the limit of 10% of the share capital (eighteenth resolution). 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 283 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports According to the thirteenth resolution, the aggregate nominal amount of the share capital increases that may be carried out, either immediately or in the future, pursuant to the thirteenth to eighteenth resolutions may not exceed €550 million, it being specified that the aggregate nominal amount of the share capital increases that may be carried out in respect of the fourteenth, fifteenth and eighteenth resolutions may not exceed €137 million. According to the thirteenth resolution, the aggregate nominal amount of debt instruments that may be issued in respect of the thirteenth to eighteenth resolutions may not exceed €7.5 billion. These limits take into account the additional securities to be issued in accordance with Article L. 225-135-1 of the French Commercial Code, in the event the shareholders adopt the seventeenth resolution. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to these transactions, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of any proposed issues, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report in respect of the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth resolutions. In addition, as this report does not stipulate the methods used to set the issue price in the event that securities are issued pursuant to the implementation of the thirteenth and eighteenth resolutions, we do not express an opinion on the components used to calculate the issue price. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights presented in the fourteenth and fifteenth resolutions. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board of Directors uses its delegations of authority to issue securities giving access to the share capital or the allocation of debt instruments, to issue securities giving access to shares to be issued or to issue shares without pre-emptive subscription rights. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La-Défense, March 31, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 284 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES OR SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO THE SHARE CAPITAL RESERVED FOR MEMBERS OF AN EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 – Nineteenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to increase share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/ or securities giving access to the share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for members of a Capgemini Group employee savings plan, subject to a maximum nominal amount of €48 million, which is submitted to you for your approval. This share capital increase is submitted to you for your approval pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-129-6 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3332-18 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code de travail). On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for a 26-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and issue free shares or securities giving access to the share capital in accordance with the limits set forth by Article L. 3332-21 of the French Labor Code and that you waive your pre-emptive subscription rights to the ordinary shares and securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed share capital increase, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La-Défense, March 31, 2016 6 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 285 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO THE SHARE CAPITAL RESERVED FOR EMPLOYEES OF NON-FRENCH SUBSIDIARIES Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 – Twentieth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and pro fessional auditing standards applicable in France To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to increase share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries of the Capgemini Group, subject to a maximum nominal amount of €48 million that will be deducted from the overall limit as defined in the nineteenth resolution, which is submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and that you waive your pre-emptive subscription rights to the ordinary shares and securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed share capital increase, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report. Since the final terms and conditions of the share capital increase have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La-Défense, March 31, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 286 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 6.5 Statutory auditors’ reports STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT FREE SHARES (EXISTING OR TO BE ISSUED) TO EMPLOYEES AND CORPORATE OFFICERS Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 – Twenty-first resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present our report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, which is submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to grant free existing shares or shares to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report on the proposed transaction. It is our responsibility to provide you with our observations, if any, in respect of the information provided to you on the proposed transaction. The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing shares or shares to be issued to employees and corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the achievement of performance targets and limited to a maximum number of shares not exceeding 1% of the share capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. will be limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying in particular that the proposed terms and conditions described in the Board of Directors’ report comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the information provided in the Board of Directors’ report, with respect to the proposed authorization to grant free shares. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La-Défense, March 31, 2016 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. 6 Françoise Garnier Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 287 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented 6 at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 288 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 7 Additional Information 7.1 7.2 Legal information 290 Group Management structure 294 7.1.1 Corporate name and head ofﬁ ce 290 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law 290 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 290 7.3 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) 290 7.1.5 Incorporation details 291 Persons responsible 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents 291 for the information 295 7.1.7 Fiscal year 291 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income 291 7.3.1 Person responsible for ﬁ nancial information 295 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings 291 7.3.2 Persons responsible for the audit 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds 292 of the ﬁ nancial statements 295 7.1.11 Shareholder identiﬁ cation 292 7.3.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document 297 7.1.12 Voting rights 292 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights 292 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares 292 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control 293 7.1.16 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies 293 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 289 7 Additional Information 7.1 Legal information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.1 Corporate name and head ofﬁce Corporate name: Cap Gemini Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law The Company is a société anonyme (joint stock company) governed by the French Companies Act of July 24, 1966 (Law no. 66–537) and Decree no. 67–236 of March 23, 1967. 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange of Cap Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, Cap Gemini, grouping together all investments representing the operating activities of the Group was incorporated on September 17, 1984. This company was registered with the Companies & Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from the date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry. It may be wound up in advance or have its term extended by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT and abroad in managing and developing their businesses by The Company designs and installs information systems. Its providing them with the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, services include the development of customized software, the its knowhow in the area of business process engineering and installation of software applications available on the market or re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of information developed internally, the integration of systems incorporating technologies. hardware, communication systems, customized software, To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of software packages and other components. The Company also clients, either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates(1), one supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, project or more of the following activities on a stand-alone or integrated management, training and assistance services. basis: OUTSOURCING MANAGEMENT CONSULTING The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources Working closely with clients, the Company provides change on their behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company management assistance to companies by helping them to may perform all or part of this service using its own hardware, redefine or redirect their strategy, change their product and telecommunications systems and other equipment. service lines, re-engineer their structures and business processes, The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to restore staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, its clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership the Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest with clients within a structure conducting all or some of these information technologies whenever appropriate. activities. (1) Including Technical Assistance/Local Professional Services under the Sogeti tradename and representing the Group’s fourth business. 290 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Additional Information 7.1 Legal information In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may X obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and decide to: manufacturing processes and sell, contribute or license any X create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital such patents and processes. of other companies and manage their business in exchange In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying for a fee. Management services include the provision of out any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or technical, marketing, legal and financial assistance, promotion financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the of a consistent image, organization of financial structures, above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is assistance in negotiations to help these companies win new likely to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes. contracts, training, research and development support, etc.; X invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on behalf of subsidiaries and affiliates; 7.1.5 Incorporation details The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number 330 703 844. Its APE business identifier is 7010Z. 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the financial statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the Management Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through May 23, 2000) to the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Auditors’ reports are available for consultation at the Company’s head office at 11, rue de Tilsitt 75017 Paris. 7.1.7 Fiscal year The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined by dividends will be paid in the form of new shares credited as French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting fully paid, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to The above provisions also apply to the distribution of interim revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to dividends, subject to compliance with French company law. distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders. In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be French company law. 7 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings The right to participate at Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in the registration of shares in the name of the shareholder (or of the person, by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) the terms and conditions set by applicable regulations. in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer shares Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such registration to participate in a Meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may must be recorded at 12:00 A.M. (Paris time) on the second not alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a working day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting and any Meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast related notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in by proxy or remotely. the notice of meeting. In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary must provide a participation certificate. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 291 7 Additional Information 7.1 Legal information To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must take the form of a secure signature or a reliable identification be received by the Company at least three days prior to procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action and the date of the Meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides potentially consisting of a user identification and password. when convening the Meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or Where applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall remotely may participate in voting using any telecommunication be communicated in the notice of meeting published in BALO or teletransmission means enabling their identification, (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). including the internet, in accordance with the conditions set Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has out in applicable regulations at the time of use. Where an also voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, electronic form is submitted, the shareholder’s signature may the remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 of the Company’s share capital or voting rights, the undisclosed added specific disclosure obligations to the Company’s bylaws. shares will be stripped of voting rights. This sanction will apply The bylaws now state that shareholders are required to notify for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of two years from the the Company if their interest in the Company’s share capital or date on which the failure to disclose is rectified. This request and voting rights is increased to above or reduced to below 1% or any the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in multiple thereof. The crossing of the threshold must be notified to the minutes of the Meeting. the Company within fifteen (15) days of the date when the shares When calculating these “thresholds per the bylaws” the same causing the threshold to be attained or crossed are registered instances where shares and voting rights held by third parties in the shareholder’s account. In the event of failure to comply are deemed equivalent to shares and voting rights held by the with these disclosure rules, at the request of one or several shareholder subject to disclosure requirements are applicable as shareholders with combined holdings representing at least 1% for thresholds provided by law. 7.1.11 Shareholder identiﬁcation The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable holders for an individual or the name, address and date of registration of bearer shares. for a company, of any holders of shares and securities granting The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting a new Article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the rights at Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may also obtain Company may request from the share transaction clearing details of how many shares are held by each shareholder and any organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth applicable restrictions on these shares. 7.1.12 Voting rights Each share confers entitlement to a portion of the profits and any shareholder and bonus registered shares granted in respect of liquidation surplus, in direct proportion to the number and par registered shares held for at least two years in the event of a value of outstanding shares. share capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits of Each share carries entitlement to one vote, including fully-paid additional paid-in capital. shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French company law alone, as the bylaws do not contain any specific provisions in this respect. 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares In addition to the voting right conferred by law, each share confers entitlement to a portion of the profits and any liquidation surplus, in direct proportion to the number and par value of outstanding shares. No preferential rights are attached to any specific class of shares or category of shareholder. 292 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Additional Information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control Not applicable. 7.1.16 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies Appointment of directors and duration of terms Age limit for the Chairman of the Board of Directors of office The age limit for the exercise of the duties of Chairman of the The Company has a Board of Directors comprised of a minimum Board of Directors is as follow: of three and a maximum of eighteen members, who must be X seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position individuals. Directors are appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for of Chief Executive Officer; and a period of four years. In the twenty-second resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, the X seventy-nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold the Board of Directors proposes to amend the Company’s bylaws position of Chief Executive Officer. to provide for the staggered renewal of the terms of office of In both cases, the term of office expires at the end of the first directors appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting. This will enable Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following the Chairman’s birthday. the smooth replacement of directors in accordance with the Where the functions of Chairman and those of Chief Executive provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF corporate governance code to Officer are separated, the functions of Chief Executive Officer which Cap Gemini refers. expire the day of the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting In addition, a director representing employee shareholders is following his/her seventieth birthday. also appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years when, at the end of a fiscal year, the percentage of share Minimum investment of directors in the share capital capital held by employees of the Company and companies of the Company related to it within the meaning of Article L. 225-180 of the French Pursuant to Article 11.2) of the bylaws, each director must hold Commercial Code, represents over 3% of the Company‘s share at least one thousand (1,000) shares in the Company throughout capital. their term of office. The director representing employee shareholders is elected by This obligation to hold is not applicable to directors Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting from a choice of two candidates representing employee shareholders. Subject to the approval nominated in accordance with the provisions of the law and the of the amendments to the bylaws submitted to the Combined bylaws. This director is not taken into account in determining the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, it is also not intended maximum number of directors pursuant to Article L. 225-17 of to apply to directors representing employees. the French Commercial Code. Majority rules within the Board of Directors Finally, in the twenty-third resolution presented to the Combined Decision are taken in accordance with quorum and majority Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, the Board of Directors’ rules provided by law, except for the decision regarding the two proposes an amendment to the Company’s bylaws to detail possible methods for the Company’s General Management. the number of directors representing employees on the Board Where voting is tied, the Chairman of the Company has the of Directors and the means of their appointment, following casting vote. the adoption of new legal provisions in 2015 on employee representation on Boards of Directors (the initial 2013 legal General Management provisions were amended by the Rebsamen Law of August 17, The General Management of the Company is assumed by either 2015). the Chairman of the Board of Directors (who therefore holds the title of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), or by another Age limit for directors Pursuant to Article 11.4) of the bylaws, the number of individual appointed by the Board of Directors, who holds the title of Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors chooses 7 directors over seventy-five (75) years of age at the end of each between these two possible methods for the Company’s General Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the company financial Management, voting with a two-thirds majority of all directors. statements, may not exceed one-third (rounded up to the nearest whole number where appropriate) of the total number of directors On April 4, 2012, at the recommendation of the Chairman at the in office. time, Serge Kampf, the Board of Directors decided to regroup the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and appointed the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin, to the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (for further details please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document). Charter and Board Special Committees Please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 293 7 Additional Information 7.2 Group Management structure 7.2 Group Management structure The Group management structure comprises: ■ a Group Executive Board (GEB) with 7 members: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aiman Ezzat Chief Financial Officer Hubert Giraud Director of People Management and Talent Development Patrick Nicolet Director of Group Competitiveness Thierry Delaporte Financial Services SBU CEO and Latin America SBU operating control AppsOne SBU CEO, Sogeti and Infrastructure Services SBUs and «Cloud Foundation Services» operating Salil Parekh control Olivier Sevillia AppsTwo SBU CEO, Capgemini Consulting and Business Services SBUs and Digital operating control ■ a Group Executive Committee comprising the GEB and 15 additional members: Jean-Philippe Bol AppsTwo SBU Deputy CEO Tim Bridges Application Services North America BU CEO Dee Burger Global Head «Digital» André Cichowlas Delivery Director (Production/Methods and Support) Lanny Cohen Technologies and Intellectual Property Director Pierre-Yves Cros Strategy and Development Director Cyril Garcia Capgemini Consulting SBU CEO Srikanth Iyengar Global Sales Director Aruna Jayanthi Business Services SBU CEO Srinivas Kandula India Operations Director Jean-Baptiste Massignon General Secretary Paul Nannetti Infrastructure Services SBU CEO Virginie Régis Marketing and Communications Director Luc-François Salvador Asia-Pacific BU Executive Chairman Hans Van Waayenburg Sogeti SBU CEO ■ and Group directors reporting directly to the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Christophe Bonnard In charge of large accounts – France Philippe Christelle Internal Audit and Ethics & Compliance Director Navin Goel In charge of large accounts – USA Christine Hodgson In charge of large accounts – United Kingdom Michael Schulte In charge of large accounts – Germany 294 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3.1 Person responsible for ﬁnancial information Aiman EZZAT Chief Financial Officer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tél.: 01 47 54 50 00 7.3.2 Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements PRINCIPAL STATUTORY AUDITORS SUBSTITUTE STATUTORY AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mr. Jean-Christophe GEORGHIOU Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, Comptes de Versailles. Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. represented by Mrs. Françoise Garnier Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 1996. KPMG Audit I.S. SAS Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, 92066 Paris La Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Défense Cedex, KPMG S.A. Substitute for KPMG S.A., Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Comptes de Versailles. Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, 92066 Paris La Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Défense Cedex, represented by Mr. Frédéric Quélin First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. 7 Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 295 7 Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS KPMG PwC Amount % Amount % in thousands of euros (excluding VAT) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Audit Statutory audit, certification of the consolidated and separate financial statements 4,060 2,870 56% 58% 2,781 2,470 59% 75% ■ Issuer 549 455 8% 9% 632 518 14% 16% ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 3,511 2,415 48% 49% 2,149 1,952 45% 59% Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement(1) 795 425 11% 9% 1,003 39 21% 1% ■ Issuer 710 42 10% 1% 995 1 21% 0% ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 85 383 1% 8% 8 38 0% 1% Sub-total 4,855 3,295 67% 67% 3,784 2,509 80% 76% Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services 130 145 2% 3% 82 102 2% 3% Other(2) 2,252 1,486 31% 30% 858 677 18% 21% Sub-total 2,382 1,631 33% 33% 940 779 20% 24% TOTAL 7,237 4,926 100% 100% 4,724 3,288 100% 100% (1) Fees presented in other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement mainly consist of due diligence procedures performed in respect of acquisitions and financial transactions, (2) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our customers pursuant to the standard ISAE 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 296 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Additional Information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements for 2015 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the Management Report listed in chapter 8, section 8.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and examined the information in respect of the financial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualified and does not contain any observations”. Paris, April 6, 2016 Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 7 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 297 7 Additional Information 298 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 8 Cross-reference table 8.1 8.3 Information required under Cross-reference table Commission Regulation (EC) for the Management no.809/2004 300 Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French 8.2 Commercial Code 302 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 301 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 299 8 Cross-reference table 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 295 and 297 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2 and 295 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3 4 RISK FACTORS 25, 26 to 31, 162, 173, 181 to 183 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History and development of the Company 6 and 7 Legal information concerning the company 290 to 293 Investments 25 and 163 to 168 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 8 to 12 and 17 to 24 Principal markets 15 to 16 and 146 to 149 The IT services market and competition 15 to 16 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the group and position of the issuer 13 to 14 List of significant subsidiaries 192 to 194 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 13 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 130 to 135 and 196 to 198 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 198, 155 to 162 and 226 to 230 Explanation of the sources and amounts of, and a description of, the issuer’s cash flows 139 and 179 to 180 Borrowing requirements and funding structure and information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources 174 to 178 and 190 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 135 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 135 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2, 34 to 58 and 293 to 294 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 53 to 54, 59 to 70 and 191 16 BOARD PRACTICES 34 to 37 and 45 to 53 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 88 to 91, 132 and 189 67 to 70, 155 to 162, 205 to 209 Employee shareholdings and stock options and 228 to 229 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 231 and 236 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 13, 54 to 55 and 191 N/A : not applicable 300 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cross-reference table 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table Page 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical financial information 1 and 3 Financial statements 136 to 195 and 199 to 219 Auditing of historical annual financial information 195, 219 and 297 Dividend policy 197 to 198, 234 and 291 Legal proceedings and arbitration 29 and 188 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital 198 and 226 to 228 Memorandum and articles of association 290 to 293 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 19 to 20 and 132 to 134 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST N/A 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 290 to 293 25 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS 224 N/A : not applicable 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table Page 1 Company financial statements 199 to 218 2 Consolidated financial statements 136 to 194 3 Management Report presented by the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini 302 to 303 4 Declaration by the person responsible for the annual financial report 297 5 Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 219 6 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 195 7 Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 220 to 222 8 Statutory auditors’ fees 218 and 296 9 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance, internal control 34 to 39, 45 to 55, 56 to 58 and risk management and 71 to 79 10 Statutory Auditors’ report on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 80 N/A : not applicable 8 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 301 8 Cross-reference table 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code Page Situation and activity of the Group in 2015 Comments on the fiscal year Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Company and the Group 130 to 135 and 196 to 198 Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the management report 191 and 218 Developments and outlook for the future 135 Research and development N/A Company financial statements Balance sheet and Income Statement 199 to 201 Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A Supplier settlement periods 197 Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies whose registered office is located in France N/A Five-year financial summary 223 Subsidiaries and investments 224 Main risk factors Risks related to operations 26 to 28 Legal risks 28 to 29 Equity risk 29 Credit and counterparty risk 29 Liquidity risk 29 Financial and market risk 29 to 30 Risks associated with employee-related liabilities 30 Insurance 30 to 31 Governance Organization of group management activities 34 to 37 List of offices and duties exercised in companies by corporate officers during the last fiscal year 40 to 44 Compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers during the last fiscal year 53 to 54 and 59 to 70 Commitments given in favor of executive corporate officers 59 to 70 Options and performance shares granted to executive corporate officers 59 to 61, 64 and 67 to 70 2015 compensation of Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 61 to 66 Summary of transactions carried out in 2015 by members of the Board of Directors and other senior managers involving Cap Gemini shares 55 Corporate social responsibility Information on employees and the social impact of Cap Gemini activities 88 to 107 Key environmental and social indicators 108 to 122 N/A : not applicable 302 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I Cross-reference table 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report Information on the share capital Changes in the ownership of share capital and voting rights during the last three fiscal years 198, 231 and 235 to 236 Ownership structure and changes during the fiscal year 226 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 55 Employee shareholding 228 to 229 Crossing of legal thresholds reported to the Company 198 Shareholder agreements concerning the share capital of the Company 236 Buyback by the Company of its own shares 237 Information on share subscription options granted to executive corporate officers and employees 61 to 70 and 228 to 229 Information on free share grants to executive corporate officers and employees 61 to 70 and 228 to 229 Summary schedule of current delegations of authority to increase the share capital and use of these delegations during the fiscal year 227 to 228 Dividends and other revenue distributed during the last three fiscal years 198, 234 to 291 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, 34 to 39, 45 to 55, 56 to 58 and 71 to internal Control and risk management. 79, 291 to 292 N/A : not applicable 8 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 303 8 Cross-reference table 304 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T — C A P G E M I N I 2 015 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT www.capgemini.com
