Communication on Progress no. 004 Participant: Royal Danish Fish Group A/S Published: 03-06-2016 Time Period: 2015-2016 Format: Stand-alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level: This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Mission Statement Self-assessment:  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders I am again pleased to confirm that Royal Danish Fish Group A/S still reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our fourth Communication on Progress; we express again our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are still committed in making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company Groups, and to engage in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Royal Danish Fish Group A/S wants to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We continue our great commitment to CSR. Especially in Ghana, we have again been working on how to develop this area and to provide a safe & fair working environment for employees. Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 As one of the leading fish producers in Ghana, West African Fish LTD strives to be a leader in social and environmental performance. Our stakeholders rely on us to protect and preserve the natural environment. We believe that everyone must do his or her part. We are convinced that we do ours. Our intention is to keep focus on environmental issues, concerns on sustainability and efforts to make the best possible conditions for our employees. We inform all our employees ongoing about the importance of the Company strategy concerning these Global Compact principles and the CSR activities. Royal Danish Fish and West African Fish are trusted names in our industry and we take that trust very seriously. It is important for us also in relation to our development in the future. We are very proud of the goals we have achieved also this year, but we will strive to still stay on the forefront in our line of business. In our name, logo and in our daily work we keep focus on balance between quality and efficiency in our production on one side and environmental issues, the welfare of our employees, CSR and sustainability on the other side. There are lots of challenges but with all the progresses, we make every year we believe that we can make a difference and be part of a good development. Sincerely yours Royal Danish Fish Group A/S Mogens Mathiasen Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Royal Danish Fish Group A/S approves and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Moreover, we have established some core values that underline the company's devotion to the Human Rights principles. Since we are operating internationally, the conditions are diverse. In our Danish factories as well as in our African fish farm we live up to any law as well as ethics concerning these matters. In Denmark, there is high level of control and we assess to have low risk for violation of these areas due to code of conduct and legislation. But we do not accept any kind of child labour, forced labour or other violations of fundamental human rights. Implementation In Ghana our company, West African Fish Ltd. has joined the Ghana Business Code. On the African continent the best thing we can do for human rights is to establish long term collaborations and try to move things in the right direction, one step at a time. We make sure in all our companies that our employees are treated equal and have the same conditions independent of gender. Gender equality is promoted through the preferential selection for female workers to grade and gut our product at the sorting table. Physical harvest labour is principally for men and limited to those who can safely work on the water. Skilled work in the Hatchery where attention to detail is vital promotes employment for women in this industry where females are preferentially selected. Measurement of outcomes We try to monitor the welfare for our employee and the people we are doing business with, and will not accept any kind of human rights abuses. We choose other business partners if they not are working after our standards. We have never been involved – neither directly nor indirectly in any issues regarding human right abuses in our business affairs. In our organization, everyone can talk free and have the right to express themselves in any situation. Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals We have a strong focus on ensuring the best possible work environment and conditions for our employees. That includes the freedom to organize themselves as they wish. We respect the ILO Core Conventions and any local and international standard on this issue. We want every employee to feel comfortable and to have ownership in our corporate culture. Furthermore, we try to make room for everyone. In Denmark, our employees are covered by one of the major national collective labour agreement (Danish Industry) which demand that we as employer follow certain rules. In Ghana, we provide for documentations from our business partners that they do not use for example child labour. We have a good and a secure working place in Ghana. The CSR activities in Ghana are very different from Denmark due to the level difference between the two countries. Implementation In our Danish companies, we have some employees, who despite lesser handicaps, prove to be important members of our team. That is part of a long-term strategy to give a large group of people, who is often underrated, an opportunity to show their worth. Furthermore, we participate in education and self-development programs. Last year all the employees in Denmark based factory participated in an ambitious project aiming to implement an understanding on sustainability in our corporate culture. We have furthermore enrolled the Danish staff to a special health insurance to help them fast in case of illness. We have a code of conduct, which our employees are committed to follow with policy made by themselves. We have policy to handle any kind of reduced labour, alcohol, absence, pregnancy and so on. West African Fish where possible & in consideration for our safety framework recruit in a nondiscriminatory fashion; all applicants are recruited based on their potential for development and passion for hard work. Physical disabilities or a mere lack of education does not dismiss candidates on this basis. Annual reviews for existing staff follow a score-rating system to ensure fair and equal Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 comparisons for both position and end year salary negotiations. Performance ratings will cover cooperation, dependency, Initiative, Knowledge, Judgment, Planning and Problem solving, quality of work, Leadership and flexibility. Where females are employed, a clear maternity policy is in place to both support the employee and ensure our farm operations can continue smoothly without the need to lose key personnel. Women are granted 84 days paid maternity leave and also granted days off throughout pregnancy for routine scans and check ups. We do however have a strict “no child policy on farm premises” for health and safety reasons. In compensation for this, lactating mothers may leave work 1 hour earlier than scheduled to attend to childcare. Strict policy on the use of child labour on our farm. No employee is recruited under the age of 18 years of age. All workers regardless of age are paid according to the “equal pay for equal work” policy stated in the labour law, section 68, part IX. Longevity & commitment is awarded outside of basic salary tiers. A written Health & Safety Protocol was established in 2014 concerning; hazard elimination, risk management, fire & safety, first aid response and training. This framework provides the basis for safety in the workplace. Opening of new Fish Outlet in Tema in 2015 with new market opportunities, new customers and creation of new jobs. (all in compliance with legal requirements). Reward to two long-standing key personnel for their commitment and loyalty to the company, contributions to farm production, employee training, and overall performance. Employees awarded a trip to Denmark (passport organized, all expenses paid) for an educational fish farm visit. Measurement of outcomes Our Danish employees have an understanding of that focus on sustainability, environmental protection and welfare and that it is a common task in the company. We have a stab in Denmark where illness much minimized is and our employees are quarantined help in case they need it no matter what situation it is required. Currently we create jobs and livelihoods for about four hundred families I Ghana, which benefit either directly, or indirectly, through spin-off in resale of our fish or similar practices. We give due to our many CSR projects many opportunities to the people in Ghana. Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Environmental concerns and focus on sustainability are still among our highest priorities. Right from the start we knew, that we wanted to do everything possible to act responsible regarding the environment – on a local basis as well as a global. Fish farms can have a major, negative impact on the ecosystems in which they are placed. We do not want to be part of that problem. Instead, we want to be part of the solution. Furthermore, we feel worried by the decline in the population of the European eel, which part of our business is based on. We want to do our best to help the eel back to European waters. Our goal is to still be a big part of the restocking program. We are committed to breeding fish in the best possible conditions. Our goal is furthermore to be more effective on the energy saving initiatives. Due to our competence and knowhow about aquaculture, we are also able to advise other producers regarding the way of building and running friendly farms. Therefore, in this way our expertise is very useful. Implementation Our Danish fish farm, RDF Aquaculture is among the world’s largest recirculating land-based aquaculture plants. At present, the company consists of the main department in Hanstholm. The technology is separate, recirculating tanks with a daily water exchange of less than 2%. About 10.000 m³ of water swirls around the system every hour, and the water is circulated through internal cleaning systems, thus maintaining the recirculation degree of 98%. That all makes up for an absolutely minimum of influence on the environment. The company is Eco-Healthy certified. We are once again in 2016 voluntarily taking big part in the restocking program for the glass eel in Europe. As we still are committed to breeding fish at the highest quality and also to ensure the best possible conditions for the fish we are still a proud member of the Sustainable Eel Group. Which is an organization in where environmental organizations, politicians, NGO´s, science and industry are working together to nurture the stock of European eel. The culmination of a long and determined effort is the launch of the Sustainable Eel Standard which is a tool designed to ensure a sustainable production of eels. The standard will be followed Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 up by a labeling of products that meet the Sustainable Eel Group's requirements for sustainable production. The label will guarantee that:  The most gentle methods are used to catch elvers  There is a low mortality rate during rearing  Fish meal / oil in the diet comes from a sustainable resource  Food is used optimally  Environmental impact meets statutory requirements  Handling, transport and slaughter of fish meets fish welfare requirements  The company actively helps nurturing fish stocks, which could be used by restocking programs Our breeding facility in Ghana is based on many of the same principles. The farm is built as environmentally friendly as possible, and makes use of modern technology and equipment. On shore are the hatcheries, where we grow our own fingerlings, that is, fish about the size of a finger. Those are bred from our own broodstock. Currently we only produce fingerlings for our own use; however, soon we will be able to provide top quality fingerlings for other fish farmers, and for restocking Lake Volta. This will benefit the dwindling tilapia stock that is causing great problems for local fishing communities. The hatcheries are constructed with state of the art recirculation technologies. This allows us to produce fingerlings with almost no water exchange, which reduce our effect on the environment to a minimum. At the farm, we use the most ecologically friendly floating fish food. Annual environmental reports combined with a structured monitoring program coordinated by the farm coordinator, ensures we maintain our legal and ethical responsibility to preserve and protect our natural resource. Measurement of outcomes Any test made by local water authority in Denmark shows fantastic positive results. We have never had any remarks regarding the quality of the water that leaves our fish farm. Our Aquaculture in Denmark achieved the honor of being the first eelfarm in the world able to meet the stringent requirements of the prestigious Sustainable Eel Standard. The certification for Sustainable Eel default is handled by an independent third party, namely MacAlister Elliott & Partners Ltd. in Hampshire. From our environmental Management in Ghana, the annual environmental report was submitted Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 in 2015 for the period 2014 to both the Water Resources Commission and Environmental protection Agency detailing the main operational activities for the previous year centered on water & waste management. Mitigation measures and a clear health & safety policy framework was submitted for review, which met approval and recognition for being well organized with a clear management structure. Continued water/sludge sampling is carried out every 2-3 months in compliance with guidelines set out by the WRC and sent for routine analysis. West African Fish also supported a two-year research project coordinated by Stirling University in Scotland, UK together with the WRI for FAO submission. A team of scientists was allowed to visit our premises for periodic water sampling. We provided fuel and the use of our boat, and also a diver for benthic sampling. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briber. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our policy is clear on this matter. We adhere to the strongest anti-corruption principles – and will work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We fully support the UN Convention against Corruption. We refuse to work with anyone who takes part in such matters. We believe that running a successful business is to run it properly. Implementation Royal Danish Fish Group A/S has a zero tolerance for any form of corruption and tries to educate all employees in this regard. We have a string policy regarding this matter, which we inform our partners and customers about before we are doing business. Measurement of outcomes We do not have any problems with our policy in Denmark. In Ghana, it can be a slightly different matter. It can cause some delays, but this is the price we are willing to pay. We feel that our anticorruption attitude in the long run is met with respect. We have never been involved directly or indirectly in matters of these issues neither in Denmark nor in Ghana. We act in accordance with Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016 applicable legislation and rules where we operate and we do business with partners who have the same policy regarding anti-corruption. Communication on Progress no. 004, Royal Danish Fish Group 2015-2016
