Performance & Sustainability Report 2016 ABOUT FIRMENICH ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE TABLE OF CONTENTS Firmenich is the world’s largest privately owned company in the Chairman and CEO Letter 02 fragrance and flavor business. Founded in 1895 and headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, R&D Perspectives 04 Firmenich has created many of the world’s best-known perfumes Ingredient Perspectives 04 and flavors enjoyed around the world, every day. Firmenich reports its financial results and sustainability initiatives Perfumery Perspectives 05 (following the GRI guidelines) on a fiscal year basis ending June 30. Flavor Perspectives 06 In this report, all references to “FY16” relate to the 12 months ended June 30, 2016. Sustainability at Firmenich 07 Pathways to Positive 08 6,500 Employees 36 Countries Ethics and Excellence 10 Environment and 18 Resources 25 Manufacturing 3.2bn Swiss francs Innovation, Science 26 sites (CHF) sales and Society Partnerships 32 People and Communities 40 3 R&D centers About this Report 48 OUR WORLD Firmenich operates in three business divisions: Ingredients, Fragrances and Flavors. • The Ingredient Division designs natural and synthetic perfumery and flavoring ingredients. This division was the first created 120 years ago. • The Fragrance Division creates home care, body care and fine fragrances featuring Firmenich molecules and raw materials bought from suppliers. • The Flavor Division crafts flavors used in Sweet Goods, Beverages, and Savory Products. Firmenich’s Flavor Division aims to capture and capitalize on the continued consumer demand for healthier products. As a supplier to the world’s largest consumer goods companies and to a multitude of regional and local customers, Firmenich’s environmental footprint and governance standards matter to our customers. Through our new generation of ingredients, leading delivery systems, ecodesign products and focus on health and wellness as well as hygiene and sanitation, we have anchored sustainability in the long-term interests of employees, local communities, customers and the environment. Firmenich aims to uphold the sustainable development of our industry and the world, with specific targets focused on Ethics and Cover printed on Colorplan Sapphire. Excellence; Environment and Resources; Innovation, Science and Inner printed on Oxygen Offset which is 100% recycled. Society; Partnerships; and People and Communities. Designed and produced by SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP. Printed by Pureprint. 01 CHAIRMAN AND CEO LETTER Taking their legacy forward, we launched the Building on our partnership with the Bill & Melinda Firmenich Next Generation Research Programs Gates Foundation to “Reinvent the Toilet”, at Stanford University in the United States and the we developed cutting edge malodor counteracting EPFL in Switzerland to advance breakthrough solutions. Recognized as ground-breaking science innovation in sustainability and neurosciences. by Bill Gates and his team at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, our technologies associate our Patrick Firmenich, Vice Chairman of the Board, unique fragrance creation capabilities with was inducted into the Fragrance Foundation’s our deep understanding of olfactive receptors. Circle of Champions in recognition of his extraordinary impact on the fragrance industry. Our creativity stood out at this year’s Fragrance Foundation Awards, as Firmenich won over 20 GLOBAL AND DIVERSE TEAM AND FOOTPRINT accolades around the world. Our leading Culinary Science was also celebrated at the occasion of our This year, we welcomed three new leaders to our unique “Excellence in Plants: from Biology executive team to be part of shaping our future. to Culinary” event. Prof. Geneviève Berger joined us as Chief Research Officer, effective July 1, 2015; Jane Sinclair as INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS General Counsel and Secretary to the Board, in January 2016; and Mieke Van de Capelle as Taking a leading stance on climate change, we Chief Human Resources Officer, on June 1, 2016. actively engaged in the Paris COP21 Summit and From left to right: Gilbert Ghostine, CEO; signed the Paris Pledge for Action. At this occasion, We have a diverse executive team, located across Yves Boisdron, Chairman of the Board we were elected as co-chair, alongside P&G, of all of our main business hubs and firmly dedicated the WBCSD’s1 Cluster for Sustainable Lifestyles. to creating value for our stakeholders around the world. Demonstrating our commitment to responsible sourcing, we launched our Naturals Together Pursuing operational efficiency, we successfully Campaign, sharing how we actively partner across ramped up the automation and capacity of our our value chain to source the best that nature has Per fumer y plant in Geneva. Expanding our to offer. Engaging leading sustainability and footprint in high growth markets, we inaugurated traceability practices, our work positively impacts our state-of-the-ar t plant in Argentina and the lives of more than 250,000 farming families operations in Lagos, Nigeria. To develop our around the world. business in India, we named Satish Rao as our new Country Chairman and Managing Director in this To scale up our impact in this area, we joined the key market. Livelihoods Fund For Family Farming to support sustainable farming practices around the world, PUSHING THE BOUNDARIES along with like-minded visionar y par tners. A HISTORIC YEAR OF SCIENCE AND CREATIVITY This investment builds on our successful engagement with the Livelihoods Carbon Fund, Fiscal Year 2016 (FY16) was a historic year for Advancing our world-class research and creativity, elected “Best Corporate Offsetting Program” by Firmenich, marked by our 120th Anniversary and Firmenich published 29 patent applications the market in 2016. a number of breakthrough achievements. this year to delight the senses and contribute to greater health and nutrition as well as hygiene As signatories of the United Nations (UN) Global We recorded solid growth, reaching 3.2 billion and sanitation. Compact, we are active champions of its principles Swiss francs (CHF), with an increase of 8.2% in and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). local currency. We owe this positive momentum Enriching our portfolio of ingredients, we launched To advance our work in support of the SDGs, we to all of our Business Units (BU) and regions, led AMBROX® SUPER, a highly sustainable and costhosted a panel of world experts mobilizing leading by a strong performance in Perfumery, market effective amber note. Building on the success Swiss Companies, including Nestlé, Richemont share gains in Flavors and the solid momentum of CLEARWOOD®, it further anchors our leadership and Crédit Suisse to go further together. of our Ingredients BU. in white biotechnology. Pursuing our vision to develop alternative sources SUSTAINABILITY: PATHWAYS TO POSITIVE 120 YEARS OF PASSION FOR of proteins for greater health and nutrition, DELIGHTING THE SENSES We launched ambitious and industry-leading we advanced our research in biomarine science environmental goals for 2020, supported by a We engaged all of our stakeholders to celebrate to demonstrate the many nutritional benefits CHF 15 million commitment to invest in renewable our 120th Anniversary and legacy of world-class of marine proteins. energy. This year, we also became the first research and creativity, customer intimacy, and Fragrance and Flavor House to use CDP Supply deep sense of social responsibility. To anchor the Chain Climate Change and Water Reporting. spirit of our Founding Fathers as a continuous source of inspir ation, we inaugur ated the Firmenich Museum in our global headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. 1 WBCSD : World Business Council for Sustainable Development. 02 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 We were recognized by a number of prestigious distinctions, including the DuPont “Safety and S u s t a i n a b i l i t y A w a r d 2 015 ” a n d E t h i c a l Corporation’s “Head of Sustainability of the Year”. As a result of our integrated sustainability strategy, we attained a perfect “100A” score in the CDP Supplier Climate A List, and a “Gold” status with EcoVadis, for our leadership in combating climate change. Our commitment to safety was honored by the New Jersey State Authority for operating for 10 years without any lost-time injuries at our Newark plant. Also, the Swiss Accident Insurance Organization (SUVA) recognized our industry-leading safety performance with their “Excellence Award”. TAKING OUR LEGACY FORWARD Our performance was driven by the trust of our customers, who rely on us every day to help win Board of Directors the hearts of billions of consumers; our industryleading investment in world-class research and From left to right: Mr. Michel Firmenich, Dr. Antoine Firmenich, Mr. Olivier Bazil, Ms. Barbara Kux, Mr. Yves Boisdron (Chairman), Ms. Karen Jones, Dr. Ajai Puri, creativity to offer our customers cutting-edge Mr. Patrick Firmenich (Vice Chairman), Mr. André Pometta solutions; and the passion and commitment of our colleagues, firmly focused on value creation. We thank you for your interest in our company and our journey of sustainability. We hope that you find this report engaging and informative and that you will gain a real sense of the progress we are making. On behalf of the Board and Executive Committee, we would like to thank all of Firmenich’s 6,500 colleagues for their efforts, energy and the successes that you will read about in this Performance and Sustainability Report. Warmest regards, Gilbert Ghostine Yves Boisdron Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board Executive Team From left to right: Mr. Eric Nicolas (Group Chief Finance Officer, Corporate Vice-President Strategy and Global Services), Ms. Mieke Van de Capelle (Chief Human Resources Officer), Mr. Bhavesh Shah (Chief Purchasing Officer), Ms. Jane Sinclair (General Counsel and Secretary of the Board), Mr. Gilbert Ghostine (CEO), Prof. Geneviève Berger (Chief Research Officer), Mr. Armand de Villoutreys (President Perfumery Division), Mr. Christopher Millington (President Flavor Division), Mr. Boet Brinkgreve (President Ingredient Division and President Firmenich China) 03 R&D PERSPECTIVES INGREDIENT PERSPECTIVES Geneviève Berger Boet Brinkgreve Chief Research Officer President Ingredient Division, President Firmenich China A LEADER IN MULTIDISCIPLINARY SCIENCE AND GLOBAL CHALLENGES EXCELLENCE IN INNOVATION AND EXECUTION RESEARCH Firmenich is playing a role in the world’s The Firmenich Ingredient Division achieved solid Through innovation and research, Firmenich hygiene and sanitation challenges. As an growth in FY16. We oversaw a record number of contributes to addressing global health, example, to reduce epidemics and child new processes that successfully transferred to hygiene and sanitation challenges and explores mortality, we work on malodor-counteracting production and drove significant volume growth new sustainable lifestyles. technologies to remove bad smells from toilets for established and new ingredients. Our and encourage the use of latrines instead of specialities are highly sought after by perfumers Our multidisciplinary research allows us to public spaces. In FY16, we welcomed Bill Gates around the world and we will continue to deliver differentiate our broad flavor and fragrance to our Geneva site, where he met the teams high-value, proprietar y ingredients to our ingredients portfolio. In 2014, after more who have worked with the Bill & Melinda Gates customers to delight consumers worldwide. than 10 years of research, we launched Foundation for the past four years. During this CL E A R WOOD ® , a w hite biotechnolog y 1 extraordinary collaboration, our scientists STRENGTHENED LEADERSHIP fragrance ingredient. In 2016, less than two have published several research papers, IN WHITE BIOTECHNOLOGY1 years after its release, CLEARWOOD® won the sharing their malodor control discoveries with Innovation Award from the Soap, Perfume, After launching CLEARWOOD® in 2014, Firmenich the public to ensure they benefit all. Cosmetic and Detergent Experts Association further strengthened our leading position in the (SEPAWA), one of our industry’s largest and Firmenich’s Research and Development team flavor and fragrance industry in the promising most prestigious associations in Europe. will continue developing game-changing field of white biotechnology. We successfully Firmenich published 29 patent applications for perfumery and flavor ingredients to help solve scaled-up a breakthrough production process for new ingredients and processes in F Y16, global issues. A MBROX ® SUPER, a signature Fir menich continuing on our path to conduct cutting-edge ingredient. This new industrial process will allow research and deliver breakthrough ideas us to create a sustainably-produced, high-quality and solutions. ingredient for the long term. The appointment of Chief Research Officer PERSPECTIVES ON THE FUTURE Geneviève Berger, who has a multidisciplinary background in medicine, physics and human The market for biotech ingredients will remain a b i o l o g y, h a s u n d e r l i n e d F i r m e n i c h ’s focus for the Firmenich Ingredient Division. determination to push scientific boundaries to Innovation is key to our strategy as we strive to create breakthrough ingredients that improve improve our processes and reach our well-being including: health, nutrition, hygiene environmental and economic per formance and sanitation. Firmenich’s collaborations with targets. Natural ingredients will also be a strategic leading univer sities, global non-profit focus as market shortages and increasing demand organizations, industr y associations and could create supply tensions on a number of government agencies demonstr ate our commodities or specialities. commitment to co-creating and catalyzing innovative solutions to improve quality of life INSPIRING! and protect our planet. Dedication, passion and knowledge drive our talented communities of perfumers, chemists, process engineers and regulatory experts to pioneer ex tr aordinar y ingredient s. W hen perfumers and scientists collaborate freely, inspiration and engagement soar and they deliver high-value projects to our creative communities. 1 White biotechnology uses enzymatic or fermentation processes to make ingredients, as an alternative to chemical synthesis. 04 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 PERFUMERY PERSPECTIVES Armand de Villoutreys President Perfumery Division Patrick Firmenich, Vice Chairman of the Board GROWTH AND LEADERSHIP DIGITAL EMPHASIS Perfumery grew across all categories and regions, Globally, Firmenich has embarked on an innovative INSPIRING! thanks to a well-balanced geographical footprint approach to understanding the role of fragrance I n D e c e m b e r 2 015 , t h e Fr a g r a n c e and proximity of our experts, customers and their in the digital domain and optimizing the virtual Foundation in New York honored Patrick consumers around the world. Our continued purchase experience of fragranced products. Firmenich with the prestigious Circle of success also stems from our marketing and In FY16, our teams analyzed online consumer Champions Award in recognition of “his consumer insights and our focus on creativity and behavior and preferences to capture how extraordinary impact on the fragrance innovation. fragrance aficionados value and respond to industry”. In his thoughtful and moving perfumes online. We can use these findings to help acceptance speech, Patrick spoke of the In fine fragrance, we strengthened our leadership our customers create impactful, engaging and responsibilities companies have toward position in mature regions. We extended our fine emotional online fragrance experiences. society and in respecting the planet for fragrance perfumer presence in Dubai to better meet the growing needs in the India, Middle East future generations. NATURALS TOGETHER and Africa (IMA) region. In November 2015, Firmenich held, for the first Body and home care posted solid growth. Our time in North America, our Naturals Together success came in mature regions, particularly event. This initiative aims to protect natural PERSPECTIVES ON THE FUTURE North America, and in high-growth markets, with ingredients, improve farmers’ livelihoods and double-digit growth in Latin America and strong Health and well-being is an overarching and promote biodiversity. Through this platform, progression in Asia. New fragrance delivery growing trend in both mature and developing Firmenich fosters closer collaborations between systems combined with high-quality ingredients markets. Firmenich also expects to see the f ar mer s , pr o ducer s , per f umer s and our drove higher sales in all market categories for cosmetic and personal care market expand, driven customers, building an inclusive and transparent local and global customers. by an aging population in mature countries. value chain. Our unique approach echoes To ensure this growth continues sustainably, we per fumer y consumers’ desires for a more New retail formats (including specialty retail and invested in our manufacturing facilities. Our sustainable and transparent supply chain. More e-commerce) and consumer behaviors driven by largest production site in Geneva has a high level than 200 customers and partners attended this Millennials led to a fundamental shift in the of automation to give our customers more unique multisensorial event. fragrance industry. Our “Global Millennials Code”, flexibility and improved safety and working which decodes Millennials’ buying habits and conditions for our people. FOCUS ON SANITATION preferred fragrances, provides our clients with AND MALODOR CONTROL tools to better engage these consumers in a We committed to improve the lives of 250,000 changing market. Beyond Millennials, consumer smallholder farmers who provide us with the most In FY16, Firmenich continued to improve sanitation demand for more sensorial experiences and exclusive naturals in the industr y. We also access by focusing on malodor control. We are positive emotions is also increasing significantly. reasserted our commitment to improve access to combining traditional perfumery and cutting-edge Our Global ScentMove ®2 model uncovers links sanitation through our partnerships with the research to develop a new generation of malodorbetween emotions, products and ingredients for Toilet Board Coalition and the Bill & Melinda suppressing technologies that perform in hygienic our clients. Gates Foundation. toilets and can be widely used at a low cost. More than 400 people in Kenya, South Africa, and India Firmenich will continue to advance innovation, participated in a consumer insights project to creativity and sustainability to shape tomorrow’s design a breakthrough malodor-counteracting fragrances, heighten pleasurable sensorial solution, which will be commercialized in the experiences and create memorable moments for near future. future consumers around the world. 2 The Firmenich ScentMove® tool enables us to understand how consumers describe their emotions when smelling fragrances. It is a proprietary approach our development teams use to identify scent codes that trigger consumer emotions. 05 FLAVOR PERSPECTIVES Chris Millington President Flavor Division © Lukas Gojda INCREASED SALES Flavors posted increased sales versus last year, with growth seen in nearly every region of the world and across all three segments: Beverage, Sweet Goods, and Savory. Consumer demand for healthier products has become the new business Coconut was named Flavor of the Year for 2016 reality, and Firmenich is responding through continuous innovation and creation of flavor solutions for our customers. Beverages saw impressive growth globally and ADVANCING OUR UNDERSTANDING across categories including hot drinks, juices and OF THE FLAVOR EXPERIENCE nectars, and special soft drinks. Beverage consumers were drawn to fruity tonalities such as In 2016, Firmenich announced an investment to INSPIRING! fur ther develop our Analysis of Flavor and berries and grape. Brown notes including caramel Fragrances in Real Time, or AFFIRM®, technology’s 2016 FLAVOR OF THE YEAR: COCONUT and vanilla also delighted palates around the world. flavor design process. AFFIRM ® objectively Coconut has been used for centuries in Our Sweet Goods business experienced solid measures the release kinetics of aroma molecules Southeast Asian cuisine, but embraced growth, led by mature markets. We saw strong during food consumption or preparation, allowing globally only in more recent years. Before, performance in categories such as bakery and quantification (at low level) of flavor molecules in much of the Western world, coconut cereals, confectionery and dairy. Brown notes, released from a food matrix as it is consumed would conjure up thoughts of sugary-sweet the perennial segment favorites, did not disappoint, or prepared. cocktails such as piña coladas. It wasn’t as consumers gravitate toward tonalities such as Our investment will allow us to understand more until coconut water hit the shelves en masse vanilla in their sweet goods. Mint, a bedrock of the complex flavor systems by measuring more between 2005 and 2008 that the world took confection category, was also in high demand. volatiles in real time and with higher precision, serious notice. Since then, coconut has In Savory, classic tonalities continued to be popular greater sensitivity and better refinement than ever pervaded the food and beverage world and around the world and we saw positive growth, before. This improved accuracy will allow us to its popularity shows no sign of slowing. particularly in Latin America, Southeast Asia and create consumer-preferred flavors faster and “This new generation of coconut flavors in Europe. We are building solid momentum in savory more cost-efficiently. As a result, we will move particular is modern and redefined, adding and will invest in this important segment in the from analyzing flavor performance to predicting freshness and giving a different spin to years ahead. flavor performance. products compared to the well-established ‘classic coconut’ flavors,” says Gerry Van BIOMARINE INGREDIENTS COMMITMENT TO EMERGING MARKETS Ger ven, Senior Flavorist at Firmenich in Thailand. We have entered a new era in the world of food and In FY16 we opened our first Flavor facility in Lagos, beverages, where innovation and foresight are Nigeria. The site includes offices and labs for required more than ever to meet our customers’ Sweet Goods, Beverages, and Savory product needs. We are taking a leadership role in development, allowing us to grow our business sustainable production of natural seafood across all segments in this ever-growing market. ingredients to serve the global health and nutrition Having a presence in Lagos ensures we remain market. Our biomarine ingredients show promise close to our local customers and can fully in helping maintain a healthy lifestyle. We are understand their needs and provide them with putting our innovation to work so our sustainable best-in-class service. Last year, we also increased sources of protein play an important role in our sales representation in Egypt, another focus customers’ growing demand for health and country for the Flavor Division. wellness products. 06 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AT FIRMENICH FY16 HIGHLIGHTS IN ETHICS AND FOR OUR IN INNOVATION, FOR OUR FOR OUR EXCELLENCE ENVIRONMENT SCIENCE AND PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE AND Became the first AND SOCIETY Bérangère COMMUNITIES Fragrance and RESOURCES Received first prize Magarinos-Ruchat Achieved a total Flavor House to use for innovation at named recordable case CDP Supply Chain Achieved a Sustainability 100A CDP score the 2015 SEPAWA (TRC) rate of Climate Change and award ceremony Head of the Year by 0.25 per 200,000 Water Reporting in Fulda, Germany Ethical Corporation exposure hours, a 41% improvement Received the Reached zero Published 29 patent The Livelihoods Successfully DuPont Safety waste-to-landfill applications Fund, in which we assessed 50% & Sustainability at 40% of our have invested since of our company Award for manufacturing 2014, was named against the Gender Operational sites “Best Corporate Equal Pay Principles Excellence Offsetting Programme” in 2016 Trained 99% of Sourced 61% of Hosted 100 Partnership building Extended our employees on our electricity from scientists was reaffirmed apprenticeship Code of Ethics and renewable or offset at a conference on in FY16 as the program to five Business Conduct marine peptides Firmenich countries (Austria, sustainability Germany, Belgium, signature, with six France, and board positions Switzerland) MATERIALITY UPDATE At the end of 2014, we conducted a materiality exper ts. We followed up with one-on-one our repor ting. We will evaluate materiality assessment with help from the global think tank, inter views and presented the results to our biannually to anticipate changing trends and Forum for the Future. In FY16, we updated our Sustainability Council in May 2016, to get feedback identify new opportunities and risks. materiality matrix and reassessed all material on our findings. The matrix, available on www.firmenich.com, aspects. As part of the process, we surveyed 50 The material issues identified influenced our 2020 shows the issues identified as being of utmost internal and external stakeholders including strategy and will inform how we integrate impor t ance to our inter nal and ex ter nal company personnel, global business partners, sustainability into our business strategy and shape stakeholders. All issues are covered in this report. clients, non-profit organizations and outside 07 PATHWAYS TO POSITIVE In 1991, Firmenich signed the International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter for Sustainable Development. Twenty-five years later, 2020 TARGETS our commitment has never been stronger as we set ambitious 2020 sustainability goals. Our vision is to become a carbon neutral company and positively contribute to society by setting bestin-class health and safety standards across our value chain, using our innovation and research to IN ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE FOR OUR PARTNERSHIPS improve quality of life, and implementing an 1. Audit and validate human rights across 1. Collaborate with at least 10 leading integrated responsible sourcing program to raise the Firmenich value chain academic institutions on sustainability livelihoods of smallholder farmers. innovation 2. Become the first Flavor and Fragrance Our F Y16 achievements in health and safety, House with a transparent supply chain 2. Develop sustainability projects with environmental performance, malodor control and via CDP 50 customers globally sanitation, flavor innovation and responsible sourcing are a testament to our progress and 3. Lead the industry in the Nagoya Protocol 3. E xtend our innovative Consumer Insight commitment to sustainability. program from India to Africa 4. Set the standard for product quality We focused our 2020 sustainability goals in areas 4. Generate gold standard carbon credits 5. Implement a best-in-class legal relevant to our Fragrance, Flavors, and Ingredients through collaborative investments compliance program Divisions, following five priority pathways: Ethics and Excellence; Environment and Resources; Innovation, Science and Society; Partnerships; and People and Communities. We look forward to taking our performance to the next level by 2020, and pursuing 26 sustainability goals. These five pathways comprise the framework for FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR PEOPLE this report and are discussed in the following AND RESOURCES AND COMMUNITIES sections, identifying our initiatives, achievements and challenges in FY16 against our 26 goals. 1. Reduce absolute CO2 emissions by 20% 1. Improve our industry-leading safety performance by maintaining a TRC 2. Reduce the rate of water use in stressed In 2014 and 2015, Firmenich took an active role in rate below 0.25 areas by 25% the stakeholder consultation process on the 2. Formalize a program to further integrate development of the Sustainable Development 3. Reduce waste generation rate by 15% people with disabilities in our business Goals (SDGs) with the Swiss government. 4. Ensure 100% of our manufacturing 3. Certify all Firmenich sites for gender In FY16, Firmenich participated in a workshop with sites can claim zero waste-to-landfill pay equality the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special 5. Eliminate R22 from our global Adviser on Post-2015 Development Planning 4. Build 40 responsible sourcing projects manufacturing refrigerant inventory during which she noted how companies were more with smallholder farming communities involved in the creation of the SDGs and had started 6. Obtain 100% of electricity for Level 1 sites1 5. Create a Firmenich Sustainability Academy to include sustainability in their business models. from renewable sources or offsets to further educate 100% of our workforce At Firmenich, we are inspired to be part of this on social and environmental topics global movement aiming at positively transforming 6. E xtend our apprenticeship program globally society. We have included the SDGs’ 17 social and environmental goals in the development of our 2020 sustainability strategy, especially in our focus on access to hygiene and sanitation, improved nutrition and environmental performance. IN INNOVATION, SCIENCE AND SOCIETY In May 2016, we hosted a panel discussion on the 1. Improve quality of life through nutrition, 4. Strive for industry leadership in SDGs and business in Geneva, Switzerland, with hygiene and sanitation environmental risk assessment of the UN Global Compact. our ingredients and technologies 2. Develop sustainable and cost-effective In the future, with the help of our Sustainability flavor and fragrance ingredients and 5. Accelerate go-to-market, through Council Members, we will continue being fully technologies co-innovation partnerships engaged in the SDGs and Business projects, including reporting on our progresses against 3. Deliver malodor control systems for home care consumer products 1 A Level 1 site is any manufacturing site regardless of the SDG targets. number of employees or any other site (e.g. office, labs) with greater than 50 employees. Joint ventures and tolling operations are excluded. 08 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE Raise the bar to ensure the highest standards of governance PARTNERSHIPS LEVERAGING MAXIMIZING INNOVATION, Work together collaboration innovations SCIENCE with the world’s and engagement and creativity AND SOCIETY leading experts Build on our leading and academic innovation to reach institutions the next level of Pathways to scientific excellence Positive ENABLING sustainable lifestyles and livelihoods ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Reduce and positively impact Use the knowledge, skills our environmental footprint and talent of our people and maximize efficiency and communities for a positive impact 09 Our manufacturing site in Shanghai, China Ethics and Excellence Pathways: Raise the bar to ensure the highest standards of governance © Anael Dang 10 ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE PATHWAYS Firmenich embeds ethics throughout our value chain by respecting human rights and Received the DuPont Safety biodiversity, and ensuring outstanding quality and product safety for our customers. Award & Sustainability Award for Operational Excellence On our Pathways to Positive for 2020, we commit to: • Audit and validate human rights across the Firmenich value chain Became the first Flavor and Fragrance House to 1st • Become the first Flavor and Fragrance House with a transparent supply chain use CDP Supply Chain via CDP Climate Change and Water Reporting • Lead the industry in the Nagoya Protocol1 • Set the standard for product quality • Implement a best-in-class legal Accepted an Excellence compliance program Award Award for workplace safety in Switzerland Trained 99% of our 99% employees on our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 1 The Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization (ABS) to the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international agreement that provides a transparent legal framework for the effective implementation of one of the three objectives of the CBD: the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources. Ethics and Excellence Pathways 11 Ethics and Excellence Pathways ETHICS AND EXCELLENCE IN OUR VALUE CHAIN We relentlessly pursue excellence in everything we do throughout our value chain, and collaborate with our stakeholders to set the highest standards of governance. Governmental Bodies Regulations and Laws CUSTOMERS POLICIES AND FIRMENICH POLICIES AND SUPPLIERS Excellence GUIDELINES Highest AUDITS Ethical Supply in Quality, and (Quality, Safety) Standards of (Environmental, Chain Product and Governance Health, Safety, Food Safety Biodiversity and Human Rights Practices) Non-Governmental Industry Academia Organizations Associations UN GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a Firmenich took an active role in the 21st session collaborative platform in which companies commit of the Conference of Parties (COP21) in December to align strategies and operations with 10 guiding 2015, in Paris. COP events review the framework principles on human rights, labor, environment for action to stabilize atmospheric concentrations and anti-corruption, and take action to advance of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Firmenich signed societal goals. the Business Proposals for COP21 submitted during the World Climate Summit. During the Firmenich signed the UNGC in 2008 and has COP21 meetings, political leaders signed the Paris sponsored the Foundation for the Global Compact Agreement to “hold the increase in the global since 2011. We report on our progress on the 10 average temperature to well below 2°C above preUNGC principles in our annual sustainability industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the report. temperature increase to 1.5°C.” As a private Firmenich has chaired the board of the Global company and a member of the UNGC, Firmenich Compact Network Switzerland since 2011. In FY16, fully supports this agenda. the Swiss chapter of the UNGC focused on business and human rights as a central theme for its activities. The group shared exper tise and knowledge with members, ensured respect of human rights principles in each member’s value chain and interacted with outside businesses and organizations to improve human rights practices locally and worldwide. 12 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ETHICAL GOVERNANCE UPDATED FUNDAMENTALS The Firmenich Fundamentals reinforce the values that have been the basis of our company’s culture over our 120-year history. The Fundamentals are supported by the Firmenich Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the Firmenich Social Accountability Standard. In 2015, we updated our Fundamentals to better reflect our unique legacy, creativity and our people’s passion, talent and commitment. We renewed our commitment to sustainable growth and mutual success with our customers. LEGAL COMPLIANCE In 2015, we restructured our Compliance function, regrouping under the supervision of the General Counsel and Corporate Secretary: • Product Safety and Regulatory Affairs (PSRA) • Qualit y, Health, Safet y and Environment (QHS&E) • Integrity and Legal Compliance (ILC) • Legal This new organization will allow us to strengthen our compliance culture, facilitate engagement and cross-functional collaboration, and ensure our leaders proactively address compliance risks. © Anael Dang Firmenich received the DuPont Safety & Sustainability Award for Operational Excellence in FY16 Ethics and Excellence Pathways 13 Ethics and Excellence Pathways ETHICAL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Whilst Firmenich has been established for more than 120 years, we are fresh and are entering an exciting new phase with new market and research opportunities. Being the largest family owned company in the industry distinguishes Firmenich from its competitors and allows us to stay true to our heritage and Fundamental s and maintain intimacy with our stakeholders. At the same time, the Firmenich Board has committed that we will operate at standards equivalent to Swiss public companies. We © Anael Dang have also committed to make a difference in terms of sustainability, the environment and quality and safety standards. Firmenich is passionate about building and protecting trust, both within the company Embedding ethics and excellence throughout our value chain and with our external stakeholders. As the company grows, it is more challenging to ensure that individuals have a consistent The Compliance function at Firmenich has understanding and application of our Fundamentals and our trust principles. a broad scope covering Safety, Quality, the COMPLIANCE TRAINING E nv ir onm ent , S e c ur i t y, Re gul ator y Building on the Fundamentals, the company Compliance, Toxicology, Trade Compliance Ethics and excellence are ever yone’s has implemented core elements of a legal and Legal Compliance. Compliance is not responsibility at Firmenich. In FY16, we compliance program. However, we still only about establishing and following trained all full-time Firmenich employees have opportunities to enhance our legal policies and procedures, but also about on the Firmenich Code of Ethics and compliance program and further embed making what we do understandable and part Business Conduct and on corruption and the legal compliance operating principles of everyone’s role. As Firmenich grows and harassment prevention to reinforce our in the day-to-day lives of all Firmenich evolves, we work every day to maintain and zer o -toler ance p ol ic y. We engaged stakeholders around the world. take to the next level our high ethical and employees through our online training Our customers and their consumers are operating standards. platform on corporate guidelines and demanding more transparency in terms of policies, with these results: At Firmenich, we understand that we have what is in our products, how we develop an obligation to help shape our industry and them and what impact the products might • Firmenich Code of Ethics have a positive impact not just for our and Business Conduct: have on them and the environment. As we employees and shareholders, but also for work within the industry associations to 99% of employees trained our customers, consumers and for society respond to these challenges, it is our duty at large. not only to provide appropriate information • Global Anti-Bribery and and data, but to make that information Corruption: 87% of relevant and understandable. Recognizing employees trained these challenges and assuring our clients, and ultimately consumer s , that we • Global Competition Law: under stand the complexit y and c an 80% of employees trained communicate effectively and clearly, will help maintain their trust. • Workplace Behavior and Harassment Prevention: 96% of employees in North America trained Our intention is to achieve the goal of 100% of our employees being trained on these four programs by December 2016. 14 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRATED QHS&E POLICIES, NETWORK AND AUDIT In F Y16, F ir menich l aunched a new Integrated Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Charter to reach excellence in QHS&E management. The charter sets out, in one document, our principles and ex p e c t atio n s fo r m an a gin g Q H S &E throughout the company and includes specific commitments for all employees and managers. The charter is supported by internal QHS&E © Anael Dang E xcellence net works of exper ts and representatives from the regional QHS&E communit y. They develop and share guidance and best practices on important QHS&E matters. We also developed an integrated QHS&E Reaching excellence in QHS&E management in Shanghai, China corpor ate auditing process using multiskilled QHS&E auditors working Conduct and Social Accountability Standards. alongside subject matter experts. Since FIRMENICH SOCIAL Currently, 90% of our raw material spend has 2014, we have conducted 22 integrated confirmed their compliance with these QHS&E corporate audits. ACCOUNTABILITY STANDARDS requirements. The initiative complements the Our impact lies not only in our operations, but also regular audits we conduct at our suppliers’ T he b enef it s of inte gr ating Q H S &E facilities. If a supplier violates these principles, management systems include streamlined in our suppliers’ and customers’ operations. As part of our commitment to ethical and sustainable we work with them to meet our standards. documentation, efficiencies in implementation and easier auditing. business, we developed the Firmenich Social In F Y16, an additional two sites were Accountability Standards. The Standards require cer tified with integr ated QHS&E compliance with national laws, International GLOBAL SUPPLIER Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and management systems, bringing the total recommendations, and the UN’s Universal AUDIT PROGRAM to 10 of our 25 manufacturing sites. Declaration of Human Rights in critical areas In FY16, we audited 86 raw material, packaging This year we trained 43 Firmenich personnel including: child labor, forced labor, health and and toll-manufacturing suppliers around the globe in our integr ated QHS&E Incident safety, freedom of association and collective using a new, standardized approach. In the future, Investigation and Root Cause Analysis tools bargaining, discipline, discrimination, working an independent third party will audit lower-risk (including 31 Lead Investigators) bringing hours, and wages. suppliers, and Firmenich specialists and experts the total number of people trained globally will focus on higher-risk suppliers. to 414 (and 62 Lead Investigators). In addition to applying these standards internally, we expect this same level of excellence across our Our total combined spend on QHS&E entire value chain. In FY15, we requested all of our improvements in FY16 was CHF 26.6 million, suppliers and subcontractors to formally confirm an increase of 12% from FY15. their acceptance of our Supplier Code of Business Ethics and Excellence Pathways 15 Ethics and Excellence Pathways ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Increasingly, global companies are required to demonstrate adequate due diligence on human rights risks in their supply chains. At the same time, governments and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are asking for more transparency. In Switzerland, the Responsible Business Initiative was launched in 2015 as a public petition to pass a law that would ensure Swiss companies integrate protection of human rights and the environment into their business practices. To strengthen our approach to human rights and align our policies and practices with the UN © Anael Dang Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Firmenich collaborated with Shift, an international non-prof it or ganiz ation that has wor ked ex tensi vely on human r ight s r isks in the supply chain. In February 2016, we organized a workshop in Firmenich trained cross-functional teams in Research and Innovation, Legal, Product Safety and Regulatory Geneva, Switzerland, with Shift’s support and Affairs, Perfumery, and Sustainability on the Nagoya Protocol guidance, to build our internal capacity on business and human rights, introduce tools to identify and In FY16, we continued working with EcoVadis, a In practice, a company seeking to access genetic prioritize potential leading human rights risks, collaborative platform that enables companies resources in a countr y has to go through an and apply these tools to Firmenich’s business. with global supply chains to measure and report administrative process to obtain specific contracts Twenty Firmenich employees from all business sustainability performance across 150 sectors to ensure compliance and follow national rules. units and support functions attended the session. and 99 countries. EcoVadis assessed Firmenich’s Each country may apply ABS differently. We will continue working on this important subject sustainability initiatives on 21 corporate social Firmenich trained cross-functional teams in with our main stakeholders in FY17 to identify responsibility (CSR) criteria, regrouped under four Research and Innovation, Legal, Product Safety and address primary human rights risks in our themes: environment, labor, fair business, and and Re gul ator y A f f air s , Per f umer y, and value chain. sustainable procurement practices. They analyzed Sustainability on the Nagoya Protocol. In 2014, we our policies, initiatives and results following created a working group to ensure we abide by the international CSR standards including the Global Nagoya Protocol wherever we source natural raw Reporting Initiative (GRI), UNGC and ISO 26000. TRANSPARENCY We received par ticular recognition for our materials for our flavors and fragrances. We are now building a company-wide strategy to confirm IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN achievements in environmental protection. For adherence to these new regulations. the fourth time, EcoVadis awarded Firmenich a Firmenich has been a member of the Supplier “gold” rating, placing us among the top 2% of all In 2016, we were invited to present our strategy Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) for eight years. suppliers assessed on sustainability performance. on the Nagoya Protocol at an industry meeting Sedex is a non-profit membership organization in Europe. dedicated to improving responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains. Using the Sedex platform, we share audit results and NAGOYA PROTOCOL self-assessment questionnaires from our 25 The Nagoya Protocol, in place since 2014 in most manufacturing sites with our customers. In FY15, countries, mandates that public and private we increased our Sedex membership level to organizations using genetic resources for include more suppliers and share supply chain research and development (R&D) comply with a information with customers. We now have data on new international regulatory framework: the more than 450 suppliers around the globe on the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources Sedex platform. Additionally, we use Sedex Risk and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits A s s e s s m e n t To o l s t o d r i v e c o n t i n u o u s Arising from their Utilization (ABS). These improvement at our manufacturing sites and guidelines apply to all R&D activities that aim to proac tively address potential issues with identify new bioactive compounds and natural suppliers. ingredients for food, fragrance, cosmetic and medical use. 16 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 EXCELLENCE IN QUALITY CASE STUDY: FOCUS ON FOOD SAFETY In F Y16, there were no product recalls involving products supplied by Firmenich. To continue this successful trend in a complex food market marred by crisis and product recalls, we created our 2020 Food Protection Strategy focused on food safety, food defense and food fraud. We also created a Food Protection Network of more than 30 food safet y exper ts and professionals and participated in several global food safety meetings including the © Anael Dang Global Food Safety Initiative event. Other achievements in this area include: In FY16, Firmenich delivered 99.8% of customer sales orders defect-free • Received three customer awards in the past two years PURSUING PREMIUM QUALITY ASSURANCE • Received a food hygiene PRODUCT QUALITY NETWORK excellence award from In FY16, Firmenich continued our efforts to achieve In addition to more than 200 Quality Control Japanese health best-in-class product quality performance. We colleagues, F ir menich has more than 6 0 authorities improved product quality around the world by experienced leaders working on quality assurance • Reviewed more strengthening our quality control and analytical (QA) activities at 30 sites around the world. In FY16, than 2,000 product capabilities from sourcing to final product, we established a Quality Assurance Network specifications (since working closely with our flavor, perfumery and of representatives from all manufacturing zones. 2015) for sustainable ingredient-manufacturing partners and focusing Representatives meet several times a year consumer food on defect prevention. We achieved a Customer to develop QA competencies, ensure consistency protection Quality Index (CQI) of less than 1.4 product defects and alignment and share best pr ac tices. per 1,000 sales order lines (an improvement of They develop rapid communication protocols • Achieved Food Safety 21% since FY13) and delivered 99.8% of customer an d imp r o v e co l l ab o r atio n b et w e en o ur System Certification sales orders defect-free. Our performance proves Q A exper ts on qualit y and integr ated (FSSC) 22000 in our commitment to make considerable quality management systems, ISO certification, internal 22000 20 manufacturing plants capital investments (CHF 6.59 million), leverage and external audit tools, customer questionnaires our expertise and expand strategic resources and incident investigation. around the world. Highlights include: • Development of a new operating blueprint for LEAN quality control BEST-IN-CLASS GLOBAL • Expansion of corporate quality and regulatory SECURITY AND PRODUCT analytical testing laboratory capabilities PROTECTION • Additional advanced analytical capabilities Firmenich created a best-in-class security model • Upgraded manufacturing facilities in areas of to support and protect our colleagues, products food safety, sanitation and product safety and operations worldwide. The model includes the new position of Chief Security Officer who focuses Looking forward, we have set an objective to on the physical security of our sites, travel security further improve and achieve a sustainable quality and product security throughout the supply chain. performance of no greater than one product defect We are working to develop global security per 1,000 sales order lines shipped (99.9% defectstandards for security management guidance, free) by 2020. self-assessments, third-party compliance audits and score carding of compliance performance. Ethics and Excellence Pathways 17 Firmenich Image Description set ambitious 2020 goals for water use rate, focused on our more water-stressed areas Environment and Resources Pathways: Reduce and positively impact our environmental footprint and maximize efficiency © Anael Dang 18 ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCES PATHWAYS Firmenich’s deep commitment to lead our industry in sustainability is reflected in our 100A Scored a perfect 100A in efforts to reduce greenhouse gases and the CDP Supplier Climate manage our global water use efficiently. We A List have set ambitious goals on our Pathways to Positive for 2020: • Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions by 20% Ranked in the top 2% of all • Reduce the rate of water use in stressed Top member organizations for areas by 25% • Reduce waste1 generation rate by 15% 2% sustainability performance by EcoVadis • Ensure 100% of our manufacturing sites can claim zero waste-to-landfill • Eliminate R22 from our global manufacturing Reached zero waste-torefrigerant inventory • Obtain 100% of electricity for Level 1 sites 40% landfill at 40% of our manufacturing sites from renewable sources or offset 61% of electricity from 61% renewable sources or offset 1 Waste raw materials and finished products. Environment and Resources Pathways 19 Environment and Resources Pathways OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT COMPONENTS A s a b u s in e s s to b u s in e s s co m p a n y, our environmental footprint not only matters to us, but also to our customers. We work with all stakeholders, from sourcing to disposal, to minimize our environmental impact. MANUFACTURING RESOURCES RAW FINAL Direct or indirect MATERIAL PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION WASTE WATER GREENHOUSE ELECTRICITY GASES END-OF-LIFE PRODUCT USE ENERGY DISPOSAL AND OTHER AIR EMISSIONS HOW WE MINIMIZE OUR IMPACT THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENTAL CARBON PERFORMANCE AND ENERGY In F Y16, Firmenich joined the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative, a CDP, UNGC, World Our goal is to reduce absolute Scope 1 and This year, we also approved the budget for Resources Institute (WRI) and World Wildlife Fund Scope 2 CO 2 emissions by 20% by 2020, our largest renewable energy project to date ( W W F) projec t. The initiative encour ages compared to our FY15 baseline. Additionally, – the purchase of a renewable briquette companies to set ambitious, science-based we aim to source 100% of our electricity, for boiler for process steam production in greenhouse gas reduction targets in line with the our Level 1 sites, from renewable sources Dahej, India. By burning agricultural waste global effort to keep warming well below 2°C or through purchased offsets of renewable (a renewable energy source), the boiler is compared to pre-industrial temperatures. Our ener g y gener ated el sew here in the anticipated to reduce our Scope 1 CO 2 commitment to climate action includes setting electricity grids. emissions by 2,800 tonnes annually (2% of ambitious goals for total carbon dioxide (CO 2) all of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emissions). emissions, renewable energy generation, R22 Installation will begin in FY17. elimination and sourcing renewable electricity (see previous page). We also set ambitious goals OUR PERFORMANCE To help meet our emission reduction goals, for water, waste generation and landfill to address we continued to invest in renewable energy In FY16, Firmenich’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 other critical environmental issues. and ef ficienc y projec t s in F Y16. We CO 2 emissions have reduced by 4.9%, completed eight energy efficient lighting During FY16, we invested CHF 6.91 million in a compared to FY15 (144,410 tonnes to 137,355 (LED) projects; two heating, ventilation and broad variety of projects aimed at improving our tonnes) and by 14.7% compared with FY11 air conditioning (HVAC) ventilation upgrades; environmental performance. Some of these (160,888 tonnes). three photovoltaic and solar water heating initiatives focused on improving: spill and fire Our strategy for reducing CO2 emissions is projects and three process efficiency water retention, water conservation, wastewater partly based on increasing the amounts of initiatives. treatment, renewable energy, energy efficiency, renewable energy purchased. In FY16, we emissions reduction, and waste management purchased 36,000 megawatt hours of RECs projects. Several programs are further described in the U.S. later in this section. 20 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS In 2016, Firmenich set a new target to eliminate R22 (HCFC-22) refrigerants by 2020. This exceeds the requirements of the R22 phase-out planned under the Montreal Protocol. Atmospheric releases from refrigerant gases, along with other ozone-depleting substances, continue to deplete upper atmosphere ozone. R22 use is being phased out globally due to the compound’s ozone depletion potential and high global warming potential. We have implemented initiatives to reduce © Anael Dang R22 use by 2020, including using less damaging refr iger ant in equipment upgrades and new installations. Currently 32% of our Level 1 manufacturing sites have reported that they are R22-free. Since this In FY16, 61% of our electricity came from renewable sources or offset is the first year we are taking a detailed inventory of our R22 use, comparisons with previous years are not available. CDP SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Firmenich has participated in the CDP Supply Chain Climate Change reporting program for seven Our Scope 3 emissions have been calculated for selected sources (see table below). Firmenich is CASE STUDY: years. In FY16, we achieved a perfect score of 100A considering how to achieve further Scope 3 REMOVING R22 in the CDP Supplier Climate A List. For the second consecutive year, CDP nominated us as a Global emissions reduction in future years. REFRIGERANT IN EUROPE Leader for Corporate Action in mitigating climate Scope 3 CO 2 e Emissions FY15 FY16 Our production sites and laboratories in change as a result of our leading environmental Belgium (Louvain-la-Neuve) and France All purchased raw 452,606 469,782 management and transparent information (Paris, Castets and Grasse) currently materials used disclosure. This year, CDP named Firmenich the operate a range of chiller, refrigeration, in products Best Supply Chain Responder in Switzerland out freezer, and air conditioning units. manufactured of 20 Swiss companies. by Firmenich1 Over the past few years, management teams CDP ranked our company among the top 2% of Downstream 37,093 6 50,395 have been proactively eliminating R22, in suppliers assessed for excellence in greenhouse transportation and advance of the European Union phase-out gas management. This honor reinforces our distribution2 mandate. Our Paris and Castets facilities leadership position and drives us to raise the bar are now R22-free and our sites in Belgium in environmental management. Waste generated in 11,8797 12,572 and Grasse will be free of R22 by the end of operations 3 calendar year 2016. Business travel 4 9,331 10,814 Employee commuting 5 28,507 28,483 Total 539,416 572,046 1 CO 2 e is based on CO 2 , N 2 O and CH 4 emissions data CASE STUDY: LOWERING 2 Based on purchase data for transportation 3 89% of total waste mass accounted for SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 4 Based on business air travel only. Coverage has increased from 88% in FY15 to 90% in FY16 The Firmenich flavor facility in Norway 5 Based on the number of employees and on average travel processes raw seafood materials to create distance 6 Downstream transportation and distribution data for FY15 seafood extracts and flavors. In 2015, in was recalculated from 30,072 to 37,093 partnership with our supplier, we replaced 7 Waste generated in operations data for FY15 was recalculated the original diesel-powered processing and from 11,896 to 11,879 drying facilities with new hydroelectricpowered equipment. This saved 450 tonnes of diesel corresponding to the emission of approximately 1,442 tonnes of CO2 a year. Environment and Resources Pathways 21 Environment and Resources Pathways WATER CASE STUDY: REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION IN SHANGHAI, CHINA Reducing our water footprint in Shanghai is a challenge, as we are increasing our manufacturing capabilities in line with business growth. We are installing an additional water metering system and have enlisted a multidisciplinary team to develop a comprehensive water footprint model that © Anael Dang can be applied to the new site. Opportunities to reduce water use will likely include reusing water from the reverse osmosis system and improving management at our wastewater treatment plant and cooling In FY16, Firmenich scored in the top 2% of the Supply Chain Water reporting companies towers. We will update our progress in FY17. In FY16, we participated in the CDP Supply Chain We strive for excellence in water management Water Program and were awarded a score of across our business. To this end, we set an Management B, the highest score awarded to any objective to decrease water use by 25% in watercompany in 2015. stressed areas by 2020. Six of our manufacturing CASE STUDY: DECREASING sites are in areas where water stress is higher This score reflects our actions that contribute to (although they still rank as moderately stressed WATER CONSUMPTION corporate water stewardship and puts us in the top 2% of the Supply Chain Water reporting on a global scale) and an additional four sites are IN INDONESIA in less water-stressed areas (but of potential companies. Our manufacturing site in Cileungsi, concern). We are currently collecting and analyzing During this period, there was no change in our water usage data and implementing our initial Indonesia is located in a water-stressed overall water consumption rate compared to FY15 water reduction projects. Priority for action will area. Historically all of the water (for (23 cubic meters per tonne of product). be given to our more water-stressed sites. production, domestic and garden irrigation) We anticipate the first water savings in FY17. came from a deep water well. To reduce abstraction, the site has implemented a project to reduce water use and recycle water from the wastewater treatment plant, MANUFACTURING SITES LOCATED IN WATER-STRESSED AREAS to use for garden irrigation. The project, initiated in FY13, is ongoing and in FY16 Manufacturing sites located in potentially more Manufacturing sites on a water watch list. As the water consumption (per tonne of product) water-stressed areas water risk assessment is conducted annually and was almost 50% lower than at the project’s local water supply can fluctuate, these sites could become water-stressed inception. • Anaheim, California, U.S. • Mumbai, India • Newark, New Jersey, U.S. • Toluca, Mexico • Shanghai, China • Kunming, China • Dahej, India • São Paulo, Brazil • Cileungsi, Indonesia • Karawang, Indonesia 22 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ROADMAP OF OUR 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2020 Target 2016 Performance On Track Comment Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions by 4.9% reduction against FY15 baseline Yes 20% Reduce the rate of water use in stressed areas 6.8m3/tonne produced Yes In the first year of the metric, sites have by 25% been planning and preparing projects to reduce water consumption Reduce waste generation rate by 15% No change from previous year No We are refocusing our attention on raw material and production waste generation where we are likely to achieve the greatest efficiencies and achieve most impact Ensure 100% of our manufacturing sites can 40% of sites have reported they are Yes For future reporting we are considering claim zero waste-to-landfill landfill-free compared with 28% in FY15 how individual site claims can be verified Eliminate R22 from our global manufacturing 32% of our Level 1 manufacturing sites Yes refrigerant inventory are R22-free1 Obtain 100% electricity for Level 1 sites from 61% obtained from renewable sources or Yes renewable sources or offsets1 offsets, an increase from 42% in FY15 1 A Level 1 site is any manufacturing site regardless of the number of employees or any other site (e.g. office, labs) with greater than 50 employees. Joint ventures and tolling operations are excluded. Energy FY11 FY16 FY11 FY16 GJ/t of production FY 11 11.4 -7.9% FY 16 10.5 FY11 FY16 FY11 FY16 FY11 FY16 -7.9% from FY11 to FY16 Others* Coal Oil Natural Gas Electricity CO2 Emissions CO2 Waste to Energy VOC Emissions +95.4 kg/t of production kg/t of production FY 11 % -28.6% FY 11 836 -15.9 19.5 % FY 11 1.4 FY 16 703 FY 16 38.1 FY 16 1.0 -15.9% from FY11 to FY16 +95.4% from FY11 to FY16 -28.6% from FY11 to FY16 Hazardous Waste Total Water Use kg/t of production FY 11 cubic meters/tonne of production 82.6 +9.3 % -14.5 % FY 11 FY 16 26.9 90.3 FY 16 23.0 +9.3% between FY11 and FY16 -14.5% from FY11 to FY16 *Purchased Steam, LPG, Renewable Generated Onsite, Incinerating Waste, Indirect Heat Purchased Environment and Resources Pathways 23 Environment and Resources Pathways WASTE IMPROVING SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE A priority at Firmenich is to continually reduce waste and embrace circular models. We strive to send zero waste to landfill at 100% of our manufacturing sites and reduce waste generation by 15%. This year, our waste generation rate remained stable against our FY15 baseline. In FY16, 40% (10 of 25) of our manufacturing sites reported that they sent zero waste to landfill. This compares well with FY15 (28% of sites). Our Princeton and Newark, New Jersey, sites in the U.S. are having their zero waste-tolandfill claims verified under the Green Circle scheme, which involves a detailed audit of waste disposal routes. © Anael Dang CASE STUDY: WEALTH FROM WASTE Anne Yu-Jia Zhai, Consumer Marketing Insights Analyst In 2015, employees at our manufacturing site in Dahej, India, found they were losing ingredients within a distillation waste stream. Due to the waste’s thick nature, CDP SUPPLY CHAIN PROGRAM THE FIRMENICH additional solvent was needed to increase In FY16, we became the first Fragrance and Flavor INGREDIENTS INDEX fluidity of the resulting liquid. To decrease House to join CDP’s Supply Chain Program. waste and solvent usage, the site: As a supplier to the largest consumer goods Through this initiative, launched at our suppliers companies and leading luxury brands, Firmenich’s • Revised the distillation process to recover summit, we are mobilizing suppliers to disclose environmental footprint matters to our clients. The ingredients from the waste residue their climate and water performance through CDP. main environmental impacts of many products This initiative replaces our environmental • Used waste solvent otherwise burned to occur during raw materials production and product scorecard program. make the residue more liquid use. We have responded to our clients’ demand for Dex ter Galvin, Head of CDP Supply Chain transparency by developing the Firmenich These two measures led to a one-off saving commented: “Firmenich is an established A List Ingredient Index, which analyzes the impacts of CHF 440,000 and sustainable savings of responder to CDP’s Supply Chain Program. Today of more than 400 key ingredients throughout their CHF 315,000 per year, which are expected marks another step in their climate leadership, life cycles. to increase year after year. as they drive climate and water action down their The Index was designed to help Firmenich make own supply chain. This work will help them – as key sustainability decisions on raw material well as their suppliers and customers – build sourcing, manufacturing process improvements resilience, manage risk and ensure their future and product development by measuring and prosperity.” reporting the environmental and health impacts CASE STUDY: associated with all life-cycle stages of our key HAZARDOUS WASTE ingredients. It leverages primar y data from suppliers to increase supply chain transparency REDUCTION IN CHINA and collaboration. The Firmenich Ingredient Index Firmenich China reduced hazardous waste is at the forefront of the flavor and fragrance from their perfumery spray drying operation industry and our ambition is for it to become by optimizing the clean-in-place (CIP) an industry standard. process. The first CIP rinse has a high In FY16, we shared the Index with many of our clients organic concentration and is now stored in via a short video explaining its purpose to increase liquid storage tanks for extraction and reuse transparency on the impact of our ingredients. The in future batches. The project could cut total Firmenich Ingredients Index was also the subject site hazardous w aste gener ation by of a sustainability case study by Prof. Paolo Taticchi 50% and significantly reduce the raw from Imperial College London, England. materials used. 24 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS YEAR KEY 2016 2015 OR EARLIER Manufacturing Sites Energy Emissions Waste Water Castets, France Ålesund, Norway Geneva (Meyrin), Switzerland Geneva (La Plaine), Switzerland North Yorkshire, UK Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium Grasse, France Anaheim, California, U.S. Newark, New Jersey, U.S. Lakeland, Florida, U.S. Princeton, New Jersey, U.S. New Ulm, Minnesota, U.S. St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. São Paulo, Brazil Bogotá, Colombia Buenos Aires, Argentina Toluca, Mexico Shanghai, China Dahej, India Daman, India Cileungsi, Indonesia Kunming, China Ibaraki, Japan Singapore Karawang, Indonesia Environment and Resources Pathways 25 Every year, Image Description Firmenich invests 10% of revenues in Research and Innovation Section description Additonal description Innovation, Science and Society Pathways: Build on our leading innovation to reach the next level of scientific excellence © Anael Dang 26 INNOVATION, SCIENCE AND SOCIETY PATHWAYS Firmenich is recognized for our industryleading commitment to research and 10% Received first prize for inve s tment of tur nover annually in breakthrough science. Our global research 1st innovation at the 2015 SEPAWA award ceremony team runs three centers of excellence in in Fulda, Germany Switzerland, the U.S. and China. Our team collaborates closely with a network of openinnovation partners including leading academic institutions and innovative startups. Completed 75% of On our Pathways to Positive for 2020, Firmenich commits to: 75% our malodor project with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation • Improve quality of life through nutrition, hygiene and sanitation • Develop sustainable and cost-effective f l a v o r a n d f r a g r a n ce i n g r e d i e nt s 29 and technologies Published 29 patent • Deliver malodor control systems for home applications care consumer products • Strive for industr y leadership in environmental risk assessment of our ingredients and technologies Hosted 100 scientists at • Acceler ate go -to -mar ket, through co-innovation partnerships 100 a conference on marine peptides in Norway Innovation, Science and Society Pathways 27 Innovation, Science and Society Pathways LEADING IN R&D: PRODUCT BIODEGRADABILITY Firmenich’s biodegradation research is changing the way we design new ingredients for the future. All new Firmenich fragrance ingredients are tested for biodegradation. Beyond regulatory requirement s, we proac ti vely subjec t all compounds with the potential to go to market to the same tests. We are committed to creating only biodegradable ingredients as part of our Green Gate strategy. Biodegradation is the process by which living organisms break down carbon-based substances to inorganic end products like water or carbon dioxide and biomass. It can occur in the presence (aerobic biodegradation) or absence (anaerobic biodegradation) of oxygen and can take days, weeks, years or centuries. To test biodegr adabilit y, F ir menich uses © Anael Dang established guidelines, such as Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 301 and 302 tests, for each new ingredient. When ingredients successfully break down to inorganic end products, they can be described as “readily”, “inherently” or “ultimately biodegradable”, In 2010, Firmenich committed to develop biodegradable ingredients and introduced our Green Gate concept to depending on how long the process takes. ensure that new ingredients are biodegradable Many of our ingredient structures are inspired by natural compounds. While these can contain very complex structural features, their biodegradability often fares better than compounds from other CASE STUDY: JOSENOL™ industries that might exhibit similar complexity, but lack natural counterparts for design. 120 Information on the biodegradation of chemical produc t s is a fundamental component of 100 % biodegradation environmental regulations worldwide. Firmenich 80 recognized early on that building substantial in-house exper tise on biodegradation was 60 impor tant. We assembled a team of highly 40 recognized scientists in R&D and Corporate Compliance who fully embrace our path to 20 b io d e gr a d ab l e in gr e dient s . F ir m enic h ’s 0 biodegradation laboratories are integrated in the -20 R&D Division, allowing direct scientific support in 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 state-of-the-art environmental microbiology and days biochemistry, as well as access to analytical innovation and organic synthesis labs. In FY16, we finalized what we believe to be the A great example of the work between our the microorganisms to grow and create l argest biodegr adation test database for synthetic organic chemists and the Green Gate biomass. The slope between the blue bars fragrances, enabling development of is the story of JOSENOL™, a recently launched, indicates that JOSENOL™ may well qualify to comprehensive models to assist in the design of cost-effective floral note. JOSENOL™ is one of be classified at the highest standard: “readily future biodegradable ingredients. Our scientists the novel ingredients used by our perfumers. biodegradable”. With its excellent e-factor1 of work to improve in-silico model s for The graph above demonstrates its rapid less than 2.1, this ingredient has a bright, biodegradability prediction. By challenging biodegradation in just days, in one of our insustainable future and we are committed to existing tool s and methods and proposing house tests following OECD guidelines. Such developing more and more ingredients with modifications, our scientists have gained result of over 70% is rare because the test does similar high biodegradability and low e-factor recognition and published their findings in not measure the amount of ingredient used by in our palette. research papers. Since 2013, we have published 1 E-factor can be defined as the ratio of the mass of waste per mass of product. more than six articles in five peer-reviewed scientific journals on this topic alone. 28 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 SCIENCE, SOCIETY AND INNOVATION Our sustainability strategy focuses on developing In F Y16, the Sustainable Lifestyles program ecodesign products, and fostering sustainable SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLES focused on: lifestyles through cutting-edge innovation. Companies play an important part in enabling • Revealing insights on the most important sustainable lifestyles and ensuring the planet will impacts and activities to address be able to sustain nine billion people in 2050, three ECODESIGN billion of whom will be new middle-class • Innovating and collaborating on new products, services and business models consumers. THE FIRMENICH INGREDIENTS INDEX • Inspiring, enabling and motivating individuals ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT to move toward more sustainable lifestyles The Firmenich Ingredient Index which provides us environmental information on 93% of a typical AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Firmenich teams were involved in workshops in per fumer y compound in volume, helps our I n a d d i t i o n t o r e d u c i n g t h e i r p r o d u c t s’ India, Brazil and the U.S. that focused on how perfumery team better understand ingredients environmental impact and improving social equity innovative flavor and fragrance solutions can impact, throughout their life cycle. within their supply chains, companies must enable sustainable lifestyles. Firmenich also explore more transformative innovations if we are joined a working group with other leading A unique collaboration between our QHS&E, to reach sustainable levels of global consumption. companies and academic institutions to drive Purchasing, Manufacturing, and R&D teams g r o u n d b r e a k i n g c h a n g e s i n d w e l l i n g s’ allowed us to build this tool largely with primary Since 2014, Firmenich has been an active member environmental footprint. Another example of how data, and track improvements over time (solely of the World Business Council on Sustainable Firmenich helps drive more sustainable lifestyles relying on databases would prevent us from Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led organization is illustrated by our work on sanitation and tracking improvements in our processes and our that provides a platform for companies to malodor counteractants. suppliers’ processes). collaborate and innovate on sustainable growth. In FY17, we will start further implementing the In FY16, Firmenich was elected to co-chair the Firmenich Ingredients Index in our creation organization’s Sustainable Lifestyles Cluster. This process. area fosters innovative solutions to safeguard our planet by working with companies on innovation, INNOVATIVE PERFUMES: systems, products, behaviors and infrastructure WATER-BASED FRAGRANCE to enable aspirational, environmentally and socially responsible lifestyles. Firmenich’s R&D teams and Perfumery teams have developed and patented innovative alcoholfree fragranced microemulsions, where the fragrance is solubilized in molecular aggregates that are formed spontaneously by physical interactions. Formulated without ethanol, these microemulsions may also provide secondary cosmetic benefits with the addition of bioactives and cosmeceuticals. The fragrance is solubilized by using naturally derived ingredients such as amino-acid and sugarbased surfactants, emollients, skin enhancers and biodegradable, non-volatile solvents. Cooling agents, used to mimic the refreshing effect of the removed ethanol, also help reduce the need for solubilizer. Water-based fr agr ance technologies are environmentally friendly and are free of volatile organic compounds. They contain functional ingredients originating from renewable carbon © Anael Dang s our ce s , r ely on l o w ener g y con suming technolo g y, and ar e s t abil ized natur ally by achieving physical equilibrium on a molecular level. These latest alcohol-free fr agr ance microemulsions, that can provide long-lasting Our heritage of scientific discovery has inspired a culture of innovation at Firmenich fragrance performance on skin, moisturizing effect, and a natural watery refreshing feeling, are due for market launch before the end of 2016. Innovation, Science and Society Pathways 29 Innovation, Science and Society Pathways SCIENCE, SOCIETY AND INNOVATION IN PERFUMERY To create these long-term, market-based, selfsustained solutions and bring them wherever needs exist, Firmenich is developing with its partners a solid business case, a performing technical solution and strong cross-industry collaborations. “Firmenich sent their scientists to study toilets in the developing world, and they have created a breakthrough set of ingredients that make it possible to eliminate foul odors associated with toilets. Their willingness to help fund the project with us and take risks has been ver y valuable. They are on a path to deliver an innovative product that also helps improve the world. It’s an amazing partnership.” © Anael Dang Bill Gates, Co-Chair Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation SHARING EXPERTISE ON ACCESS From left to right: Mr. Patrick Firmenich (Vice Chairman of the Board), Dr. Maria Ines Velazco (Senior Vice President Research & Development), Mr. Bill Gates (Co-Chair Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), Prof. Geneviève TO CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Berger (Chief Research Officer), Mr. Gilbert Ghostine (CEO) In May 2016, Firmenich hosted the Global Compact Network Switzerland’s (GCNS) General Assembly, Gates Foundation stresses the need for innovative followed by a panel discussion with world experts SANITATION AND tools and technologies to solve this problem and on improving access to clean water and sanitation improve public health and quality of life. In MALODOR CONTROL partnership with the Foundation, Firmenich built around the world. More than 100 participants attended, including members of the GCNS, the a unique multidisciplinary approach to discover, BREAKTHROUGH SCIENCE TO Swiss Confederation, academic institutions and develop and commercialize a new generation of IMPROVE HYGIENE AND HEALTH international organizations. toilet malodor-suppressing technologies to IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES improve sanitation and make reinvented toilets During the panel discussion, Filippo Veglio, Bill Gates and his team from the Bill & Melinda more desirable. The discovery program uses Managing Director for Global and Social Impact, Gates Foundation came to Geneva to visit our cutting-edge receptor biology to understand inWBCSD, presented the business case for the SDGs Corporate Headquarters, Research Center and depth odor perception and deliver solutions that launched by the UN to mobilize businesses to Perfumery manufacturing plant, in the context of block malodors. The absence of malodor then eradicate poverty, promote peace and equality, our ongoing partnership. Over the past four years, makes the process of using toilet s more fuel inclusive growth and protect the environment. we have been working together to Reinvent the pleasurable and more frequent, which in turns Cheryl Hicks, Executive Director of The Toilet Toilet Experience for increased hygiene and promotes improved health and hygiene. Board Coalition (TBC), confirmed the integral role sanitation at the Base of the Pyramid. businesses can play in the sanitation crisis by Engaging with our clients, partners and local focusing on commercially viable, sustainable This partnership has served as a catalyst for governments is necessary to develop and deliver solutions to deliver universal and resilient Firmenich to take our leading malodor control affordable solutions that reach needy populations. sanitation. Dr. Dimitrios Noukakis, Director science to its next level, in particular propelled by We are exploring innovative models for local Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) for Africa, our deep understanding of olfactory receptors. business opportunities that drive toilet usage and Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, promote hygienic behaviors. To make these Sanitation remains a neglected issue with financial provided insights into the importance of online projects sustainable, we must build solid business investments representing only one-fifth of all education to enable sustainable behaviors and cases at the project level and make them attractive water, sanitation and hygiene sector expenditures. accelerate change. Markus Bürli, Program for both local star tups and multinational Lack of sanitation impacts the lives of more than Manager, Global Water Initiatives, Swiss Agency companies. Focusing solely on social returns on 2.5 billion people daily. Diarrhea diseases are the for Development and Cooper ation (SDC), investment will bring temporary solutions, but second-leading cause of child deaths, and one in emphasized the importance of public-private focusing on innovation will make them sustainable. three women risk shame, disease, harassment partnerships to scale up positive impact in the and even attack because they lack access to Firmenich is not only developing long-lasting area of water. adequate sanitation. fragrances, we are identifying the right longAfter the panel discussion, the GCNS, of which l asting initiatives that will make positive Offending malodors associated with toilets and Firmenich is a member, confirmed its commitment contributions. Creating new market opportunities latrines are key obstacles to solving sanitation to promote and improve corporate responsibility will attract more partners to tackle sanitation issues in the developing world. The Bill & Melinda and sustainable business across Switzerland. issues everywhere in the world. 30 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 SCIENTIFIC INNOVATIONS IN FLAVORS BEYOND SEAFOOD FLAVORS: INGREDIENTS FROM MARINE PROTEINS For decades, the Firmenich seafood facility in Ålesund, Norway, has processed natural raw seafood material to create seafood extracts and fl avor s for food and bever age customer s worldwide. In recent years, we have explored ways to further extract value from this process and developed natural food ingredients derived from marine protein. To continue building leadership in this area, in April 2016, we sponsored a symposium in Norway to share the latest science and research on the health © Anael Dang benefits of marine proteins and peptides. The event was hosted by Legasea Biomarine Cluster, a consortium of Norwegian companies, including Firmenich, dedicated to biomarine science and technology. More than 100 leading scientists joined the Crow n Pr ince of Nor w ay in Ålesund, We held our fourth annual Culinary Science Event in Geneva, Switzerland, in partnership with the the epicenter of biomarine ingredient production, University of Geneva for the event. The symposium’s main objectives were for We held our fourth annual Culinary Science Event important scientists working with protein and EVOLUTION OF in Geneva, Switzerland, in partnership with the University of Geneva, to celebrate the intersection peptide nutrition to present and discuss their knowledge and explore the potential of using TASTE MODULATION of food, flavors and science. Attendees included protein and peptides in a health and performance Firmenich was one of the first flavor companies the University dean and vice-dean; Professor context. The event featured scientific presentations to recognize the role of taste modulation Martin Beniston, recipient of the 2007 Nobel Peace and discussions of marine ingredients related to technology in reducing sugar and salt in food and Prize; Geneva government officials; and Firmenich digestive health, blood glucose management, beverage products. Our business in this area has clients from around the world. This year’s theme satiety, weight management and muscle health. grown significantly in the past five years, and we was “Excellence in Plants: from Biology to It was an important step in advancing the science continue to pioneer this work. We provide Culinary”. behind these ingredients and fully understanding customized solutions to fit individual client’s needs Part of the event was held at the world-renowned their potential as part of a healthy diet. and consumer insights to increase market Chimiscope at the University of Geneva, where success. participants were given the opportunity to better understand the scientific challenges of today and FLAVORS FOR tomorrow. University professors and Firmenich ALTERNATIVE PROTEIN EXCELLENCE IN scientists gave presentations on the biology, aromatic chemistr y and culinar y benefits of Non-animal protein will be an integral part of CULINARY SCIENCE selected flavor ingredients. These culinary science future consumers’ diets. This year, Firmenich A strategic pillar of our innovation model is to events are part of our strategy to not only engage announced our first strategic business in this partner with leading external experts including with science and innovation experts, but to share space: adoption of a natural, vegan meat flavor a c a d e m i a . We v a l u e o u r l o n g s t a n d i n g our knowledge and discoveries with the public. and natural salt modulator in a plant-based patty collaboration with the University of Geneva in in the U.S. We are leveraging our innovation, helping us drive breakthrough research. We work looking to the future and working with our clients with Geneva’s School of Science in fields including to help shape this emerging category in the flavor analytical chemistry and olfaction, and brain and industry. human behavior. Innovation, Science and Society Pathways 31 Visiting the cardamom fields in remote Guatemala, in June 2016 Partnerships Pathways: Work together with the world’s leading experts and academic institutions 32 PARTNERSHIPS PATHWAYS Firmenich has a long legacy of sustainability Bérangère Magarinoscollaboration and partnering. PartnershipRuchat was named building was key to the success of our 20102015 Sustainability Strategy, and we continue Award “Sustainability Head of the Year” by Ethical to regularly engage stakeholders including Corporation customers, suppliers, governments, NGOs and academia. Perfumers attended a series Our vision is to partner and collaborate with of immersion and innovation other game-changing sustainability leaders weeks in the ReNEWW to create systemic change. On our Pathways ReNEWW (Retrofit Net-zero: Energy, to Positive for 2020, Firmenich commits to: House Water and Waste) House at • Collaborate with at least 10 leading Purdue University with the academic institutions on sustainability WBCSD innovation The Livelihoods Fund, in • Develop sustainability projects with which we have invested 50 customers globally • Extend our innovative consumer insight Best since 2014, was named “Best Corporate Offsetting program from India to Africa Program” in 2016 • Generate gold standard carbon credits through collaborative investments Partnerships Pathways 33 Partnerships Pathways SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Our sustainability governance relies heavily on successful partnerships. Internally, we collaborate closely with a network of sustainability champions in all our business units. Externally, we receive valuable support and input from sustainability experts who sit on the Firmenich Sustainability Council. In FY16, Firmenich welcomed three new council members: Filippo Veglio is the Managing Director for Global and Social Impact at the WBCSD. Filippo led the WBCSD’s pioneering work on inclusive business at the Base of the Pyramid, catalyzing investments and partnerships on the ground as well as conducting research and promoting advocacy. Julian Hill-Landolt is the Director of the Sustainable Lifestyles cluster program at WBCSD. Benjamin Firmenich is a Partner at Impact Finance Management SA, whose core expertise is engaging the next generation and measuring the economic, environmental, social and corporate impacts of © Com by AVM investments. Our new members’ insights in consumer behaviors and aspir ations, and expertise in driving systemic change will help Firmenich maintain our sustainability leadership for generations to come. The Firmenich Sustainability Council and the Sustainability team visited our manufacturing site in Grasse, France in 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder Type of engagement FY16 engagement level status 2020 goals We believe that in a global economy, collaborations between organizations, industries and countries Employees Training, presentation, coaching, Strong but still dependent on Reach 100% of our internal communication, field visit regions and divisions; need to workforce through are essential to addressing the challenges of become more global the Firmenich climate change, resource scarcit y and Sustainability Academy socioeconomic imbalances. Cross-organizational Shareholders Involvement in sustainability Involved dialogue and support Continue our partnerships are increasingly important to drive council, field visit, communication, engagement especially global initiative efficiency. meeting, reporting with the next generation Customers Industry conference, More than 45 engagement Develop projects sustainability event, training, sessions in FY16, and with 50 customers collaborative project, continuously growing commercial initiative Suppliers Naturals Together, Supplier Growing as fast as customer Maintain current Summit, field visit, data reporting engagement engagement Associations Conference, board meeting, Steady engagement with strong Maintain current individual dialogue potential for growth engagement Governments SDGs consultation, UN Global Collaboration with a diverse Engage more local Compact, conference, collaboration group of governments beyond governments in platform (CSR Juice, TBC) the Swiss Administration emerging markets NGOs, social Advisory service, collaboration with In-depth engagement with our Maintain current entrepreneurs implementing agencies, training long-term non-profit partners engagement Academia Research, teaching, internship Five regular collaborations in Collaborate with FY16, with an increased number at least 10 leading of requests for collaboration universities 34 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Firmenich sees tremendous value in partnering w i t h e x t e r n a l s t a ke h o l d e r s t o a d v a n c e sustainability and improve quality of life globally. PARTNERING WITH SUPPLIERS NATURALS TOGETHER Firmenich’s Naturals Together platform, created in 2014, aims to improve the livelihoods of 250,000 smallholder farmers while fostering biodiversity, minimizing environmental impact and encouraging collaboration between farmers, producers, creators (i.e. perfumers and flavorists) and consumers. The platform focuses on: • Mutual crop sale commitments that benefit growers and guarantee supplies In FY16, Firmenich participated in the Wharton Ideas for Action Competition • Responsible sourcing practices to ensure the long-term availability of raw materials • Innovation to drive quality and efficiency On November 18, 2015, producers of 40 ingredients traveled from 15 countries to participate in our first Naturals Together event in New York City, New York, U.S. It was the world premiere of our Naturals Together films on smallholder farms and Firmenich also delivered a series of sustainability highlighted Firmenich’s responsible sourcing PARTNERING WITH ACADEMIA classes at the EPFL in the Industry Dynamics strategy. course; at the Geneva Haute Ecole de Gestion in In FY16, Firmenich continued working with the the master in Luxury Management; at Science Po A panel discussion featuring industry experts Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania Paris, in the Strategic Philanthropy class; and with focused on best practices to improve farmers’ and participated in the Wharton Ideas for Action University of California Berkeley’s Institute livelihoods while ensuring the sustainable future Competition, a platform for exploring ideas on of Business Innovation. In addition, Firmenich of natural raw materials. The event, attended by sustainable development. We presented our engaged in dialogues with the INSE AD more than 200 customers and partners, concluded sustainability work to Wharton students during Sustainability Roundtable in Singapore and with the presentation of the first-ever Firmenich the 2016 winter term, using two sustainability case Fontainebleau, France. Source and Soul Awards honoring leaders in studies we co-authored in 2015. sustainable raw material sourcing. In June 2016, Xiaoke Chen, an Assistant Professor Firmenich was one of four companies invited to in the Biology department, was the first recipient RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL SOURCING the class, “Exploring Sustainability as a Strategic of the Firmenich Next Generation Fund at Stanford Opportunity”, held by the University of St. Gallen University, U.S. His long-term research goal Firmenich sources Roundtable on Sustainable in Switzerland. Students analyzed Firmenich focused on how sensor y infor mation and Palm Oil (RSPO)-certified direct palm oil for all projects, visited our headquarters and worked physiological state integrate to drive decisions active and new products. Regarding palm oil with our sustainability team to develop case and behaviors. Chen’s first major paper from derivatives, we worked to develop substitutes studies. Patrick Firmenich, Vice Chairman of our Stanford was just published in Nature (2016), and whenever possible, and when no substitution Board, was personally involved throughout a second is currently under review at Nature was possible, we asked our suppliers to either the project. Neuroscience. provide us with cer tification from RSPO or Green Trade Palm. At the end of FY16, we achieved our goal to both reduce our footprint in the palm oil industry and solely source our remaining materials from suppliers using certified sustainable palm oil. Partnerships Pathways 35 Partnerships Pathways PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY LIVELIHOODS FUND PARTNERING WITH LIKEOne of the greatest challenges triggered by climate MINDED ORGANIZATIONS change is protecting fragile ecosystems and value chains such as mint, vanilla and patchouli. We MODA FUSION IN BRAZIL began addressing this through our responsible sourcing programs launched more than 10 years Firmenich values diversity and inclusion and is ago in Haiti, Amazonia, Uganda, Madagascar and involved in several initiatives that facilitate youth Indonesia. training and employment1. In 2013, we invited Moda Fusion, a non-profit organization that runs Casa To increase the impact of our work, we joined Geração Vidigal, a fashion school in the Vidigal forces with like-minded, visionary companies in neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro that trains and the Livelihoods Fund for Family Farming (L3F). integrates disadvantaged young talent into the L3F helps companies sustainably source natural Brazilian fashion market, to join us at our products from family farmers while improving the sustainability conference in São Paulo. We were productivity, incomes and living conditions of very impressed by their commitment and decided 200,000 smallholder farmers and their to partner with them. In 2015, our local fragrance communities. Together, we are building innovative team worked with 20 students from Casa Geração support systems to further empower communities. Vidigal to design a perfume that reflects their Firmenich invests in Livelihoods Venture’s two aspirations and the Brazilian lifestyle. f unds , the L i velihoods C ar bon Fund and Firmenich donated the fragrance, and our partner, Livelihoods Fund For Family Farming participating Decoridea, provided the packaging. The final in projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America. We “R e c e n t l y , s u s t a i n a b i l i t y r e s e a r c h product, launched in 2016, is a unisex fragrance, announced our second investment at the Paris demonstrated the importance of CFOs’ Trama, commercialized by Moda Fusion in Rio de COP21 Global Landscapes Forum to reinforce our engagement in their company’s sustainability Janeiro and São Paulo. commitment to sustainability. In 2016, Livelihoods work. My involvement in the board of Carbon Fund was named “Best Corpor ate Livelihoods Carbon Fund and Livelihoods Fund Offsetting Program” by Environmental Finance in For Family Farming has been a fascinating the sixth annual ranking of the voluntary carbon journey. I believe that collaboration through markets, recognizing the benefits they provide to such mechanisms allows Firmenich to gain local communities, the scale of their projects, and scale in our positive impact on communities their ability to unite diverse partners. and on the environment.” Eric Nicolas, Group Chief Finance Officer, Corporate Vice-President Strategy and Global Services Cerro San Gil, Guatemala 1 See page 44. 36 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY WBCSD In June 2014, Firmenich signed the Water Access, FRUIT JUICE CSR Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) at the Workplace F ir menich joined the W BC SD, a CEO -led Firmenich is the only Flavor House engaged in the pledge and committed to implement access to safe organization of approximately 200 members from European Fr uit Juice A s sociation ( A I JN) water, sanitation and hygiene at the workplace at more than 3 5 countr ie s , four year s ago. Sustainability Expert Group. In 2015, we became an appropriate level for all employees in all Fir menich’s CEO sit s on the board of the a board member of the multistakeholder, global premises under our control within three years. In Sustainable Lifestyles cluster and, in FY16, we organization focused on increased sustainability FY16, we are under way to reach this goal. and several other companies were enlisted by the in the fruit juice industry. Social Impact Cluster and Deloitte’s Social Impact THE GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK The Juice CSR platform’s overall objective is to Practice to create a repor t on why and how SWITZERLAND (GCNS) support, guide and inspire juice stakeholders to companies are redefining the value they provide integrate CSR throughout the supply chain. In to society and addressing growth through social Firmenich hosted the GCNS General Assembly in FY15, Firmenich chaired a plenary session on impact. The five strategies to achieve this 2016. We have chaired the GCNS board since 2011. behalf of CSR Juice at the Antwerpen Juice ambitious goal are: In collaboration with the UNGC community Summit, the leading global annual conference for • Investing to advance external solutions already worldwide, we promote and contribute to activities fruit juice key players. demonstrating profitability and impact in Switzerland surrounding CSR, sustainability F ir menich is ac ti vely engaged in or ange and corporate citizenship. We are al so an • Engaging in collaborative problem-solving sustainabilit y working groups and was intermediary between GCNS members and the to identify and test possible solutions to scale instrumental in helping the CSR Juice Platform UNGC in New York. reinforce its partnership management. • Securing external ser vices to accelerate solution development • Advancing internal solutions into a proof-ofconcept through a shared proving ground • Advancing a pipeline of solutions developed in-house © iravgustin Firmenich is the only flavor house engaged in the AIJN Sustainability Expert Group Partnerships Pathways 37 Partnerships Pathways PARTNERING FOR SOCIAL INNOVATION THE TOILET BOARD COALITION Our criteria (TBC) The Toilet Accelerator is seeking to work with businesses that meet the following criteria: The TBC brings together leading global companies, government agencies, sanitation experts and nonprofit organizations to develop sustainable and scalable commercial solutions in response to today’s sanitation crisis. Firmenich joined the organization in 2014, bringing our leadership in © Toilet Board Coalition malodor control and expertise in multistakeholder partnerships. Market-based: Innovative/Replicable: Scalable: Emerging & Frontier Commercially viable Product offering that is The business is positioned to Markets: Firmenich is an active TBC member and sponsor. businesses, at every point in aspirational for its target market deliver sanitation at scale and We recently attended the Sankalp Global Summit, Target market includes the sanitation value chain, and provides an improved is connected to the full populations most at risk where the Toilet Accelerator in Action was delivering sanitation to those solution to the market. AND / OR valuechain of sanitation in Asia and Africa. without access, profitably. Product offering that is proven service delivery. showcased for the first time. The Toilet Accelerator and replicable. selects five businesses with the potential to be catalytic in creating a robust business sector of sanitation solutions to deliver universal access by 2 0 3 0. F ir menich and other T BC member companies provide suppor t, technological innovation, malodor solutions, business strategy and sales and marketing guidance. The five businesses selected in 2016 were: • LIXIL Household Portable Toilet, a business that • Clean Team in Ghana, a social enterprise started focuses on improving the current generation of in 2 012. Clean Team deli ver s toilet s to por table toilet solutions and explor ing households and customers pay only for toilet innovative technologies for small-scale waste unit rental and waste collection. The Clean Team treatment plants. is looking to innovate ways to reuse waste in the • RFL /iDE in Bangladesh, a par tnership to future. develop higher-quality prefabricated toilets, • Laguna Water in the Philippines, a piped-water toilet shelters and waste treatment service provider created through a joint venture (biodigesters) to build upon Bangladesh’s 100% bet ween a private utilit y and provincial sanitation coverage and mitigate risks of government. In 2014, Laguna Water started backsliding to open defecation due to poor exploring how to replicate portable toilet quality, unappealing toilets. services in its concession areas to reach lastFirmenich’s sustainability and innovation, in mile consumers. collaboration with other TBC companies, are • Svadha in India, a social business founded in mentoring the entrepreneurs going through the 2013 that identifies, trains and supports local accelerator. We are focusing on identif ying entrepreneurs who manufacture, olfactive solutions for each project and replicating commercialize, install and ser vice latrine our award-winning Base of the Pyramid (BoP) components. Svadha developed an innovative consumer insights methodology to help Svadha n e t w o r k o f v i l l a g e b a s e d “s a n i t a t i o n better understand consumers’ preferences. entrepreneurs” integrated with local and multinational suppliers/partners to build and enhance sanitation solutions. © Jorg Hackemann Firmenich joined the TBC in 2014, bringing our leadership in malodor control and expertise in multistakeholder partnerships 38 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 PARTNERING FOR SOCIAL INNOVATION CASE STUDY: OPENING A MEDICAL DISPENSARY IN MADAGASCAR Madagascar is the world’s largest vanillaproducing countr y and also one of the poorest. Health and medical care are areas where even simple efforts can make a real difference in farmers’ everyday lives. Building on our long-term commitment to responsibly source natural raw materials, Firmenich co-funded a medical dispensary in the Savanille cooperative, a community of vanilla farmers in Madagascar. We collaborated with our local vanilla partner Authentic, French chef Olivier Roellinger and a key vanilla client from the U.S. The initiative was started by local women who © Peangdao saw a need for a dispensary, as the nearest hospital is a four-hour walk away. Firmenich has a long-term commitment to responsibly sourcing vanilla. We started working with organic vanilla in the late Firmenich works with global businesses and non-profit organizations to encourage sustainable protein production and consumption 1990s, launched our first Fair Trade vanilla in 2007 and were the first flavor company to source Rainforest Alliance Certified ™ MARINE STEWARDSHIP FORUM FOR THE FUTURE’S vanilla in 2012. COUNCIL CERTIFICATION PROTEIN CHALLENGE 2040 Our future plans in Madagascar include shifting from a responsible sourcing model Firmenich became the first flavor company to In 2016, we scaled-up our involvement in Forum to a responsible business model and receive certification for the Marine Stewardship for the Future’s Protein Challenge 2040, a coalition welcoming our clients to take part in a Council’s (MSC) Chain of Custody standard for that brings the meat, plant and alternative protein dedicated ethical sourcing program with seafood ingredients produced from Northeast industries together for the first time to tackle the Authentic. We plan to build 12 more Atlantic codfish, saithe and haddock. In 2016, we question: “How can we feed nine billion people classrooms in Madagascar in the next two received certification for whitefish, shrimp and with enough protein in a way that is affordable, years, including a preschool, which will be lobster products. We are aiming for 100% MSC healthy and good for the environment?” the first in the area. certification for all of our seafood ingredients by We joined the coalition in 2014, and will continue the end of 2017. to be a strategic partner as the project moves into As a strategic partner, we will work with a group its second phase to focus on: of international businesses and NGOs to catalyze a system shift to more sustainable protein SUPPORTING THE • Increasing the proportion of plant-based protein consumption by consumers production and consumption. We believe there is COCOA INDUSTRY • Scaling-up sustainable feed innovation to meet real value in exploring the role flavor innovation can play in solving the global protein challenge. For the third time, Firmenich was present at animal protein demand Chocovision, an international, biannual conference • Closing the protein nutrient loop dedicated to addressing issues that impact the cocoa industr y, with the objec tive to find • Developing indigenous plants as protein sources sustainable solutions. for local communities Patrick Firmenich, Vice Chairman of the Board, • Scaling-up sustainable aquaculture addressed the audience of senior business • Restoring soil health leaders, government officials and other key stakeholders, in his presentation “Doing well to do good; and doing good to do well”, during which he sp oke of F ir menich ’s commitment to sustainable business practices. Partnerships Pathways 39 Mint farmers, Uttar Pradesh, India People and Communities Pathways: Use the knowledge, skills and talent of our people and communities for a positive impact 40 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES PATHWAYS We are more than a company. We are a family with a legacy. People are the heart of our company and Firmenich must attract, nurture and keep the best talent, encourage innovation 15 Involved in 15 responsible sourcing projects and draw on our employees’ diverse backgrounds to create sustainable growth. On our Pathways to Positive for 2020, we are committed to achieve and maintain best-inclass safety performance, empower women Achieved a 41% and youth and improve smallholder farmers’ livelihoods. We set ambitious goals to: 41% improvement in safety performance (TRC) • Improve our industr y-leading safety per formance by maintaining a total recordable case (TRC) rate below 0.25 • Formalize a program to further integrate Extended our people with disabilities in our business • Certify all Firmenich sites for gender 5 apprenticeship program to five countries pay equality • Build 40 responsible sourcing projects with smallholder farming communities Assessed 50% of our • Create a Firmenich Sustainability Academy to further educate 100% of our workforce on social and environmental topics 50% company against the Gender Equal Pay Principles • Extend our apprenticeship program to all geographic regions People and Communities Pathways 41 People and Communities Pathways EXCELLENCE IN HEALTH AND SAFETY In FY16, we invested CHF 13.05 million in a wide v ar iet y of projec t s to improve our s afet y performance. These included improvements or upgrades of our ventilation system, fire and explosion protection, fall protection, ergonomics, lone worker systems, pedestrian protection, confined space entr y, emergency response, hearing protection, and chemical handling. WORLD-CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE We are committed to achieving and maintaining world-class safety performance in our operations. In FY15, we reached our five-year target to improve our safety performance by 50% (against the FY10 © Anael Dang baseline). In FY16, our performance improved again. Our total recordable case (TRC) and lost time case (LTC) r ates fell to 0.25 and 0.1 respectively, a 41% and 47% improvement compared to FY15. Our TRC rate fell by 72.2% against our rolling five-year baseline (FY11). Lu Xiao, Creation Lab Technician We have worked diligently over the past 12 years to achieve a best-in-class level of safety. To improve even further, we are piloting a safety PROCESS SAFETY AWARDS awareness and empowerment project in the U.S. and Switzerland to help line managers, team Creating internal expert networks is a key part of DuPont recognized Firmenich as the Americas’ leaders and supervisors reduce risks and address our strategy to achieve a strong and positive safety r e c i p i e nt o f t h e p r e s t i g i o u s S a f e t y a n d health and safety issues as they arise. The project culture and increased safety competence across Sustainabilit y Aw ard 2 015 in Oper ational involves various tools to help teams manage and Firmenich. The newly created Process Safety Excellence. Only eight out of 134 companies in 36 challenge behaviors and reinforce core health and Network facilitates expertise sharing, safety countries received these awards. Firmenich was safety values on a continuous basis. We are also understanding and technological solutions recognized for the project, “Engaging our Teams issuing additional guidance for our Health, Safety through: through Improved Root Cause Analysis”, and and Environment (HS&E) operational codes to became the first company in the history of the • Development and deployment of updated increase awareness of HS&E best practices awards to win an award in two categories. process safety requirements throughout the company. • Review of existing tools and resources We also recognize that safe actions by individuals will not, on their own, minimize risks of a major • Implementation of new process safety indicators incident such as a fire or explosion. We uphold our • Relaunching local surveys to better understand Process Safety and Fire Protection Programs to process safety risk address these high-level risks. CASE STUDY: • Building team competencies throughout Firmenich RAISING THE BAR IN SAFETY AT NEWARK FIRE PROTECTION • Aligning processes and practices across regions and divisions Our Ingredients plant in Port Newark, New FY16 was the third year of our four-year global fire Jersey, U.S., achieved an extraordinary protection capital investment program to: upgrade 10-year safety performance record with no fire and flood protection at our largest factories, a d o pt m e a s ur e s th at e xce e d l o c al co d e UPDATED CRISIS LTC. During this period, management built a strong safety culture based on safe requirements, and reach industry best practices. MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK employee behaviors and process Significant progress w as made this year, improvements. w ith CHF 4 .6 million invested in Genev a, How a company responds in the early stages of a Switzerland; Grasse, France; Louvain-la-Neuve, crisis sets the tone for success or failure. To Remarkably, the plant’s safety performance Belgium; Cotia, Brazil; Buenos Aires, Argentina; manage and contain potential issues and crises, was achieved simultaneously with an allToluca, Mexico; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and we enhanced our crisis management framework time production record. The New Jersey Daman, India. to give all employees a step-by-step guide to deal State Authority recognized the plant for its with potential threats that could affect Firmenich’s industry leadership and excellence in safety. reputation and/or operational capacity. 42 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 ENGAGING EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES Ms. Fanny Antille Rey (Vice President, Cold Beverages Europe), Mr. Gilbert Ghostine (CEO), Ms. Carla Carlson (Vice President, Global Strategic Beverage) © Anael Dang GENDER PAY EQUALITY ENGAGING EMPLOYEES: AN HR PERSPECTIVE Firmenich suppor ts equit y and fairness in Firmenich has an excellent reputation well beyond Being the largest family owned business in the compensation for similar jobs and performance. the flavor and fragrances industry: it is a family flavor and fragrance industry, our long-term focus Our compensation plans and processes are w ith a legac y, a comp any that has been is definitely a key differentiator, positioning us in designed with equality in mind. Our website continuously growing for 120 years. a unique way to focus on sustainability projects features our compensation guidelines, including that are critical to the future of our planet and our Being a private company permits complete our commitment to gender equal pay. company. As such, we also have the opportunity independence and a focus on long-term projects to propel the broader industry we are in by taking In FY14, we conducted a study on gender equal pay like sustainability, for example, which really is in the lead on many sustainability initiatives, in our headquarters in Geneva. The study covered Firmenich’s DNA. At the same time, the levels of securing a big push forward. 1,500 employees and relied on a statistical method sophistication and integrity within Firmenich provided by the Swiss Confederation, which allow the company to share the same governance analyzes the difference in salaries between men as a public company. It is the best of both worlds and women. The Swiss Confederation certified and as such, Firmenich has attracted remarkable that we operate according to Gender Equality Pay talents, people who are the heart and soul of Principles. Firmenich. There is no doubt that Firmenich recognizes the importance of our people, and key In F Y15 and F Y16, we began reviewing our to the company’s success will be growing and compensation structure globally, using the same retaining our talent. ex ter nal methodology or relying on local governmental certifications when available. Ever ybody w ant s to be par t of a w inning organization; it helps Firmenich attract and retain At the end of F Y16, we analyzed half of the the best and brightest people. Growing as an Firmenich workforce and we expect to finalize the organization while keeping complexity under global gender pay analysis in October 2016. Action control is key. plans will be implemented if needed to ensure we reach equity and fairness in compensation for our affiliates around the world. People and Communities Pathways 43 People and Communities Pathways ENGAGING EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES © Anael Dang In FY16, we developed our existing apprenticeship programs in Austria, Germany, Belgium, France and Switzerland THE WIN NETWORK YOUTH EMPLOYMENT BUILDING A DIVERSE Created in 2014, Firmenich’s Women’s Initiative Firmenich is involved in several initiatives in WORKFORCE Net work (WIN) is a global vir tual net work Austria, Russia and Switzerland that facilitate integrated into the Senior Female Leader Program. youth employment. We are also a partner in the Firmenich signed the CEO Statement of Support Its purpose is to enrich career development and Alliance for YOUth coalition. In FY16, Firmenich: for the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) work-life balance through knowledge and in F Y12. We have suppor ted the statement • Developed our exis ting apprenticeship experience exchange among its members. throughout the past five years, especially in programs in Austria, Germany, Belgium, France leadership, training and mentorship. We are In 2016, membership in the WIN network increased and Switzerland. These programs offer work committed to live up to the principles. 61%, with 320 active members globally. Through opportunities for young people at all educational inspiring internal events and a digital platform, levels and in all job sectors. We collaborate with THE SENIOR FEMALE LEADER WIN provides opportunities for members to meet, local universities and offer a wide range of DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM discuss topics of interest and share advice and internships throughout Europe. best practices. At Firmenich, we value a diverse workforce. Three • Suppor ted the organization of common years ago, we launched the Senior Female Leader In 2016, the WIN Network hosted events to highlight “Readiness for Work” seminars with other Development Program to tackle human resources the extraordinary careers of female leaders. In Alliance for YOUth partners. These seminars challenges that could limit the development of our March 2016, Firmenich organized a panel entitled, are organized on a national or local level to top female talents. In the third session of the “Women in Boards”, which brought together our refine soft skills for apprentices from Alliance program, which began in May 2016, 22 senior Chief Research Officer and executive team partners. female executives began their collaborations with member, Geneviève Berger, along with Karen • Participated in education and skill-building members of our executive board or leading Jones and Barbara Kux, who sit on our independent programs in the local communities where we managers. Board of Directors. More than 80 senior-level operate. We provided assistance in résumé managers attended the event, including our CEO During the 12-month program, mentees from all writing, organized mock interviews, supported Gilbert Ghostine, and several members of our divisions and countries work with their mentors mentorship and job shadowing for young people executive teams. and learn from their experiences in areas such as and hosted educational visits to our facilities, leadership, personal development and people among other activities. management. This initiative is at the core of our To complement these actions, we share best human resources strategy. Our CEO takes part in practices among our locations and with other the program as a mentor, along with our executives Alliance partners to increase our initiatives’ and leaders, to assist in the growth of our female relevance and impact. talents. 44 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 COMMUNITY DAY In FY16, 3,300 Firmenich colleagues participated in 97 projects worldwide COMMUNITY DAY September 2015 marked the 11th anniversary of our Community Day event. This year, more than 3,300 employees participated in 97 projects worldwide, a 27% increase in par ticipation over 2014. Projects included: • Raising funds for the Débouchette School in Haiti • Engaging 200 employees in Geneva to plant almost 300,000 flower bulbs on the Quai Wilson in partnership with the Green Spaces Department and city gardens • Planting 80 trees in Bogotá, Colombia, in partnership with the Green Living Foundation, which aims to plant 1,500,000 trees next to the Bogotá River to aid its recovery and fight climate change • Creating an educational sensory garden at a local zoo in the Emirates to connect the 45,000 schoolchildren who visit the zoo each year with the natural sources of the tastes and smells they experience in their daily lives People and Communities Pathways 45 People and Communities Pathways RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROJECTS AROUND THE WORLD Fir menich is taking a fur ther step in our responsible sourcing program with a company commitment to engage in an impactful program: Deep Roots 2020. This program aims to secure a CASE STUDY: JASMINE CONCRETE VETIVER 437 sustainable supply of high-qualit y natural ingredients, in full transparency. In FY16, Firmenich, Jasmine Concrete and Firmenich experts are directly involved in these an international non-profit joined forces to CARDAMOM long-standing projects, along with Firmenich conduct primary research using a sample suppliers and local non-profits to ensure initiatives s ur v e y of 7 5 ja smin e f ar m er s w h o bring sustainable, long-term positive impact and collaborate with Jasmine Concrete, 15 guarantee all stakeholders, including farmers, external farmers and 21 jasmine pickers in distillers and suppliers, benefit from the changes. Mettupalayam, India. The goal was to d e v e l o p in si ght s o n th e s tr u c t ur e, We set six targets for our Deep Roots 2020 conditions, practices, and challenges Strategy: surrounding this jasmine farming • Build 40 responsible sourcing projects community. • Reach 100,000 farmers directly through our We found that: projects • 82% of jasmine farmers are small or • Improve the livelihoods of 250,000 farmers marginal farmers with plots smaller than five hectares • Work with 20 key suppliers in our Naturals Together strategic platform • 100% of farmers consider jasmine gr andiflor um f ar ming either ver y • Involve 50 suppliers in a continuous profitable or somewhat profitable improvement program • 96% of households have access to • Impact 100 supply chains electricity, and at least 89% of jasmine In FY16, Firmenich was directly involved in 15 farmers own consumer durables like a responsible sourcing projects (37.5% of our 2020 television, ceiling fan, two-wheeler or objective). Existing and new projects focus on: liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) stove • Developing inclusive business by forming • 100% of farmers have access to drinking COPAIBA cooperatives, ensuring market securit y, establishing a fair price mechanism and water and can access medical services within seven kilometers HAITI 211 encouraging direct sourcing GUATEMALA • Farmers’ children are better educated, • Implementing sustainable agriculture by a wide margin in most cases, and 23% PATCHOULI 23 practices by creating intercropping of children have completed technical opportunities and building nurseries to provide professional courses like engineering seedlings and medicine at gr aduate or postgraduate level • Improving primary transformation of raw materials by upgrading to more efficient and Areas of improvement identified were: BRAZIL environmentally friendly distillation equipment • Farm efficiency • Caring for local communities by supporting • Untapped potential for intercropping and TONKA education, health, biodiversity, and finance initiatives side revenue for jasmine farmers/pickers • Jasmine pickers’ working conditions 250 • Par tnering with suppliers, non-profits, government agencies and customers, when • Plastic bag use relevant Firmenich is working with Jasmine Concrete Deep Roots 2020 is managed by Firmenich experts to fur ther implement sustainable in natural raw materials and integrated into our agr icultur al pr ac tice s and improve overall sourcing strategy. communities’ livelihoods. ORANGE MANDARIN 50 51 46 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016 KEY FARMERS INCLUSIVE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY DISTILLATION NGO IMPACTED BUSINESS AGRICULTURE CARE EQUIPMENT PARTNERSHIPS BY PROJECT CASE STUDY: JASMINE GRANDIFLORUM FIRMENICH’S MINT 860 Firmenich’s unique mint capability provides natural and synthetic flavors to our clients, as both forms are complementary to ensure a sustainable and varied supply. MINT ARVENSIS Over the past eight years, we have developed an exclusive partnership with a U.S.-based mint producer, which resulted in a joint venture. Through this joint venture, we can ensure increased transparency in sourcing ACACIA GUMS and agricultural practices, from farmers to consumers. We also created a scientific board, which includes mint experts, to advance the sustainability of mint. Firmenich and our partner, Essex, have focused on conventional breeding programs and on using joint innovation and R&D to deliver sustainable mint production with full traceabilit y, increased yield and extraordinary varieties with the potential to become new signatures or tonalities for our clients. Sustainability is key to our partnership with Essex. We are improving distillation techniques to save energy, lower emissions, INDIA and create processes that uphold the CHAD integrity of mint. Growers are using a variety of water-saving irrigation techniques specific to the landscape of their particular farms, to reduce water usage and preserve UGANDA water quality. SUMATRA, INDONESIA VANILLA For one of its crops, Essex separates leaves 204 COMOROS PATCHOULI JAVA, INDONESIA and stems during har vest, minimizing 40 weight and volume, and reducing trips to and from the field. The distillation of leaves takes about half the time of the standard leaf and stem method, reducing the energy and w ater footpr int by 5 0 % w ithout MADAGASCAR sacrificing oil quality. VANILLA To improve local livelihoods in India, our 2,709 PATCHOULI team works on improving oil and water separation after the distillation process to 339 YLANG eliminate waste. By further separating oil 200 and water, a greater quantity of oil can be distilled from the same amount of mint, providing additional income to local farmers. People and Communities Pathways 47 Sustainability at Firmenich ABOUT THIS EXTERNAL REPORT VERIFICATION STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE REPORT BOUNDARIES – SGS SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE DE AND COMPETENCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SURVEILLANCE SA REPORT The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating This is our 11th annual sustainability report, as ON SUSTAINABILITY in more than 140 countries and providing services with the previous reports it covers the past fiscal year (FY16) starting on July 1, 2015 and ending on ACTIVITIES IN THE including management systems and ser vice certification; quality, environmental, social and June 30, 2016. It follows our 2015 annual FIRMENICH PERFORMANCE ethical auditing and training; environmental, social sustainability report. AND SUSTAINABILITY and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Sur veillance SA confirms our We have chosen to separate the GRI elements from our sustainabilit y repor t. Our online GRI REPORT FOR 2016 independence from Firmenich, being free from report, also assured by SGS, can be found at bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE its subsidiaries and stakeholders. www.firmenich.com. ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION This report and our previous reports have all been The assurance team was assembled based on SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was their knowledge, experience and qualifications fully assured by a third party in order to maintain commissioned by Firmenich to conduct an for this assignment, and comprised auditors with a level of truthfulness and insure that all the independent assurance of the Performance & Lead Quality, Environmental and SA8000 Auditor information, data and stories related to you have Sustainability Report 2016. The scope of the and experience in the flavors and fragrance not been embellished and are exactly how they assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report industry. have been implemented/observed/calculated. Assurance methodology, included all text, and This level of assurance helps us make sure that data in accompanying tables, contained in this VERIFICATION/ASSURANCE OPINION we report only the facts and that we are protected report, excluding the news on the business units from falsehoods and misinformation, whether On the basis of the methodology described and the for Perfumery, Flavor and Ingredient. intentional or unintentional. verification work performed, we are satisfied that The information in the Firmenich Performance & the information and data contained within The Materiality boundaries of this report are based Sustainability Report 2016 of Firmenich and its Firmenich Performance & Sustainability Report on the materiality analysis published in our 2015 presentation are the responsibility of the directors 2016 is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and report and updated in FY16. The boundaries of this and the management of Firmenich. SGS Société balanced representation of Firmenich repor t covers the global operations of the Générale de Surveillance SA has not been involved sustainability activities in financial year ending Firmenich Group, including affiliates in 36 in the preparation of any of the material included 2016. countries and both manufacturing and nonin the Firmenich Performance & Sustainability manufacturing locations. In the report we refer to The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report 2016. o u r 2 5 m a n u f a c t u r i n g s i te s a n d o u r 2 8 Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s manufacturing plants – as three of our sites Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation c o nt a i n t w o m a n u f a c t u r i n g p l a nt s . T h e text, data, graphs and statements within the scope has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for environmental, workplace and HR data reported, of verification set out below with the intention to this stage in their reporting. unless otherwise indicated, covers all operations inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. owned or controlled by the group (including Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale This report has been assured at a moderate level de Surveillance SA – Geneva, August 2016 production sites, sales offices, laboratories, of scrutiny using our protocols for the evaluation administrative office or combinations of such Stéphane Rombaldi of content veracity. The assurance comprised a facilities). The employee data is reported for both SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA combination of pre -as sur ance research, fixed and temporary headcount. Certification & Business Enhancement inter views with relevant employees at the To highlight our performance, the previous year’s Headquarters in Geneva; documentation and WWW.SGS.COM data and rolling five-year data are included in this record review. Data has been assured at corporate report. Some of this data may differ from figures level; original data has not been assured at site reported in previous sustainability reports. These level. Financial data dr awn direc tly from variations reflect improvements made in the independently audited financial accounts has not calculation and consolidation methods as well as been checked back to source as par t of the changes made once more accurate data became assurance process. available. Any changes in data repor ting below a 5% threshold is deemed not material to this report unless it is found to be of sufficient importance to our management team, in these cases the explanation for the variation will be detailed. 48 Firmenich / Performance and Sustainability Report 2016
