UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (CoP) 2016 Reporting Period 2015/04 2016/03 This Communication on Progress is valid for E.R. Schiffahrt GmbH & Cie. KG. The report refers to the company as E.R. Schiffahrt or as company. Contents Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact 2 E.R. Schiffahrt – Overview 3 I – Human Rights 4 II – Labour 7 IIIEnvironment 9 IV – Anti Corruption 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 1 Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board confirm and renew their commitment to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environmental Protection and Anti Corruption. Within the entire international trade the biggest proportion of transportation is seaborne. Therefore shipping is an important participant in globalization processes and also a beneficiary of the same. As a consequence E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its economic, ecologic and social responsibility at both national and international level. This fourth annual Communication on Progress (CoP) documents the measures and results of E.R. Schiffahrt‘s achievements in the aforementioned four areas of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. It also describes aims in this regard for the upcoming reporting period. The report will be made accessible to all stakeholders of the company. E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board are committed to further incorporate the Ten Principles into its business strategy as well as daily operations and to continuously develop and enhance respective objectives and measures. Nils Aden CEO E.R. Schiffahrt COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2 E.R. Schiffahrt – Overview E.R. Schiffahrt is a ship management company with more than 90 container and dry bulk vessels in service as of today. The diversified fleet makes E.R. Schiffahrt a strategic partner of the world’s leading liner companies and dry bulk operators. The company’s founder, Erck Rickmers, established E.R. Schiffahrt in 1998. The Rickmers family has been active in the shipping business for five generations. About 3500 employees on shore and at sea are committed to provide safe, environ mentally friendly and reliable ship management services to its clients. In addition to mandatory certifications according to the International Safety Management Code (ISM-Code), the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and to the International Shipboard and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS-Code) E.R. Schiffahrt developed an integrated management system certified to the following standards: • ISO 9001:2008 (quality management), • ISO 14001:2009 (environmental management), • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety management), • ISO 50001:2011 (energy management) This management system is established and maintained both on board of the operated fleet and ashore. It will continue to be audited by an external independent third party on an annual basis. Within the reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt passed successfully the renewal audits for the ISOand BS OHSAS certification. Maintaining the ISO certification is an essential part of the additional „DNV GL Excellence 5 Star“ award which is held by the company. It confirms that E.R. Schiffahrt complies with the highest state-of-the art standards for the operation of container and dry bulk vessels. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 3 I – Human Rights I – Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board are committed to support and to protect the International Bill of Human Rights within their sphere of influence and throughout their business activities. It is further the declared company’s policy neither to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent any kind of discrimination and/or harassment of its employees on board or ashore on the grounds of race or the ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Within its management system E.R. Schiffahrt has established a reporting procedure that enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint in regard to the Maritime Labour Convention and other applicable national, international or internal rules and regulations. The latter also includes the declared company’s policy statements available on the website of E.R. Schiffahrt. To encourage and simplify the reporting from female seafarers the company considers appointing a women‘s representative within the shore organization. Another goal of the company is to improve the social and environmental performance throughout its worldwide supply chain. For that purpose the company has issued a Code of Conduct for Suppliers at the end of 2015. This Code of Conduct has a very clear reference to the UN Global Compact principles. E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its social responsibility and is or was engaged in the following activities within the reporting period of 2015 in this regard: The seafarers on board of our vessels are away from their families and homes for several months. It is therefore important for them during their time-limited port stays to be able to visit places where they feel welcomed and somehow also at home. With the Seaman’s Club “Duckdalben” the German Seamans Mission has established such a place in the middle of the Port of Hamburg. This Club offers seafarers a welcome change from their everyday life on board e.g. by providing the opportunity to use telephones and the internet, to do some small shopping or to find a quiet moment in a so called Room of Silence where the seven world’s religions coexist peacefully. Starting in the year of 2012 E.R. Schiffahrt supports the “Duckdalben” with an amount of a five-digit figure per year until 2016. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 4 I – Human Rights For the seafarers it is crucial to be able to communicate with their family and friends while at sea. All vessels in the E.R. Schiffahrt fleet are providing internet access for all crew members. Cooperating with scientific institutions has a long tradition at E.R. Schiffahrt. In 2015 the company endowed a junior professorship in “Maritime Management”. In April 2015 HSH Nordbank established the “Foundation for Maritime Research” that will focus on business administration, technology and market analysis. E.R. Schiffahrt and other shipping companies with headquarters in Hamburg, Germany, donate a five-digit figure per year to establish a junior professorship in „Maritime Management“ at the Faculty of Business Administration at the University of Hamburg. The objective is to enhance close collaboration between science and industry and to support the maritime sector by means of academic research. E.R. Schiffahrt will support the professorship for at least three years. As a gesture of solidarity with its home city of Hamburg, the E.R. Group supports a different local social institution with a donation of 5,000 Euros every year. The employees of the company offer their suggestions and vote for the organisation they want to back. The project with the most votes receives the donation. In 2015 „Friends of the German Multiple Sclerosis Association“ benefited from the employees vote. The Friends’ Association enables persons concerned to keep their independence and quality of life despite of their illness. Consultation hours, workshops and joint activities help them as well as their relatives to cope with multiple sclerosis and to take courage and energy for their everyday life. Social commitment attracted also physical support amongst the staff of E.R. Schiffahrt: As in the previous years, around fourty employees participated in summer 2015 in a charity run in the City of Hamburg, the “HSH-Nordbank Run”. By their participation all runners supported the charity organization “children help children”. HSH NORDBANK RUN 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 5 I – Human Rights Despite limited space on board a charity run also took place on the high seas. The crew of 13,100 teu container vessel “MSC Cristina” helped to collect money for a young girl who needed a lung transplant to live. Together with many other Polish seamen, the Polish master supports the foundation “Gargamel’s Fund”. The foundation has set itself the task of providing financial assistance for the medical care of poor children. The foundation needed 140,000 Euros for the sick girl. The master launched his “Run for Monika” on board the 366-metre vessel. The team decided to donate at least one US dollar for every lap run on deck. And they ran to support Monika. This way, the crew collected 452 dollars on a single afternoon. Dealing with refugees is an important topic in Germany. The country hosts more than one million refugees who arrived in 2015. In December 2015 E.R. Schiffahrt donated a five-digit figure to „Children for Tomorrow“, a foundation established by former tennis professional Stefanie Graf. It supports children and adolescents who have become victims of war, persecution and organized violence. In Hamburg, Germany, where E.R. Schiffahrt‘s is located, „Children for Tomorrow“ funds the Outpatient Clinic for Refugee Children and Adolescents at the University clinic of Hamburg-Eppendorf. All treatments are aimed at promoting psychological recovery to enable refugee children to participate in societal reconciliation processes. The program can include psychological treatments, behaviour psychological treatments and art therapy. Today, the multi-professional team of ten treats about 250 patients a year. RUN FOR MONIKA M/V MSC CRISTINA COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 6 II – Labour II – Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. It is the declared policy of E.R. Schiffahrt that all employees both on board and ashore shall be treated in a fair, just and correct manner based on relevant international and national rules and regulations and applicable working terms and conditions. The company has established a grievance procedure which clearly defines the right of any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged violation of his contractual or any other rights. Conditions of contracts of employment for crew members on board of E.R. Schiffahrt managed vessels are based on collective bargain agreements and are in accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 (MLC 2006) and other applicable rules and regulations. The aforementioned MLC 2006 governs the minimum requirements for seafarers to work on a ship and the conditions of employment, the accommodation and recreational facilities as well as food and catering on board, the health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection of seafarers. The effective implementation of the MLC 2006 into the company’s management system has been verified through an audit by a recognized third party on board of every vessel under the management of E.R. Schiffahrt in 2013. The effectiveness of the system is continuously monitored through annual internal audits on board of each vessel since then. External crewing agencies are also audited by E.R. Schiffahrt on regular terms. These audits include the verification of their compliance with the MLC 2006. Under-aged seafarers are never employed on board of E.R. Schiffahrt managed vessels. Personnel documents are being reviewed during various steps of the initiation of employment and also by the Master as a representative of the company on board. E.R. Schiffahrt is committed that all identified risks to its personnel are being assessed and appropriate safeguards are established in order to ensure that no unacceptable or avoidable risks are taken. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 7 II – Labour To fulfill this commitment procedures to identify critical shipboard operations and to control substances hazardous to the health of employees are established within the management system of the company. Proper implementation of these procedures is being reviewed during internal and external audits on board and in the office ashore as part of the verification process related to the companies Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) certification. The verification in the office was carried out during the reporting period of this Communication on Progress. In order to support and promote risk based assessments of relevant procedural changes on board and ashore the company strengthens its own Management of Change procedure by additional trainings and workshops. Beside of that E.R. Schiffahrt has trained its seagoing personnel in occupational health and safety procedures in 2015 and 2016 during the well implemented Fleet Officer Meetings and dedicated briefings in Hamburg, Germany, in Odessa, Ukraine and in Manila, Philippines. More than 120 Captains, Chief Officers, Chief Engineers and Second Engineers as well as Junior Officers/Engineer were participating in these events. As a further measure to improve the effectiveness of such training E.R. Schiffahrt has set up an on-board Performance Support Team. Members of the team are recruited from the seagoing personnel. As a link between the office and the ships they are attending on board for a certain period of time and render a tailor-made training to their officer and rating colleagues. As a founding member of the Container Ship Safety Forum (CSSF) the company continues to hold a seat in the Steering Committee. Meanwhile, the CSSF consists of eleven members, all of them are major container shipping liner companies and ship owningand/or ship managing companies. These eleven companies cover about 25 percent of the world wide TEU (Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit) container capacity and they work towards their vision of creating a container shipping industry with highest safety standards, ensuring no harm is caused to people, ships, cargo, and the environment. To achieve this CSSF members collaborate to advance the continuous improvement of safety culture and performance in the container shipping industry through measurement, reporting and benchmarking, sharing best practices, and engaging with key stakeholders to develop durable solutions. The working conditions on board as well as the individual workload of the seafarers are permanently monitored by the company. One of the innovative software tools for the planning of manpower based on the ship‘s individual parameters like vessel size and port rotation is the Crew Compliance Optimizer. It was developed by E.R. Schiffahrt in 2014 in cooperation with researchers of the Fraunhofer Center for Maritime Logistics and Services (CML). The program can be used ashore and on board and ensures the safe and sensible split between working hours and hours of rest. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 8 IIIEnvironment IIIEnvironment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. E.R. Schiffahrt is assessing all identified environmental risks that may emerge within its sphere of influence or through its business activities. Further, E.R. Schiffahrt is committed to continuously improve its employees’ skills and abilities not only but also in regard to environmental protection. The company has issued instructions and procedures which ensure the safe operation of all vessels in regard to environmental protection. These instructions and procedures are established in the integrated management system which is certified in accordance with the ISO 14001:2009 standard. The renewal audit for the certification took place during this reporting period in the company‘s office. Further verification audits were carried out on board of several vessels of the fleet. During the reporting period covered by this CoP the ISO standard 50001 “Energy Management Systems” has been renewed as well after the successful completion of the relevant audit. The energy management system of E.R. Schiffahrt aims at locating fuel saving potentials and managing energy efficiency effectively on board the vessels of the company. Presently the company is working towards a harmonisation of both standards to combine the goals of managing energy efficiency effectively and to reduce green house gas (GHG) emissions significantly. Within the recent reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt has continued the successful co-operation between the office and ship staff on the one hand and with classification societies, naval architects, shipyards, research institutes, engine makers and charterers on the other hand in order to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of all vessels under management. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 9 IIIEnvironment Important measures are: Operational Slow and super slow steaming E.R. Schiffahrt’s vessels were continuing to reduce their normal voyage speeds wherever and whenever trading pattern allowed this measure. Training 15 Masters and 25 Chief Engineers were invited into the office of E.R. Schiffahrt in order to participate in specific training courses for fuel efficiency awareness and fuel consumption reduction. Computer Based Training (CBT) was carried out as an alternative additional training measure. The benefit of using the company´s own E-Learning Tool “Energy Efficiency on Board” is reaching more crew members all over the world without additional travelling and thus improving the individual carbon footprint. In 2015 further 29 Masters and 38 Chief Engineers were using this tool in order to improve and deepen their knowledge about energy efficiency on board. Redesign Within 2015 five Post-Panamax vessels of the fleet were modified by installing a new bulbous bow designed for slower speeds, and a new energy saving propeller with five blades instead of six. Supplementary, a device called Boss-Cap-Fin (ESCAP) was installed. It improved the flow around the propeller boss. Associated with that, the main engine of these vessels were de-rated from the nominal power output of more than 65,000kW to less than 45,000kW. Another four Post-Panamax vessels have been modified in the way of installing of a Boss-Cap-Fin (ESCAP). On two more vessels the company has implemented equipment for the so called “cold ironing”. It enables these vessels to be supplied by shore power when safely moored at their berth. It prevents the vessels from producing the required power by its own generators on board which helps to reduce the fuel consumption, the emission of CO2 and green house gases as well as the sound immission during the time in port. During the upcoming period of 2016 E.R. Schiffahrt will review the results of the 18-month test period of an intelligent cylinder lubricating system. The system blends cylinder oil on board on demand by using a base number (BN) 100 cylinder oil and used main engine system oil. In addition another blending-on-board system will be tested which utilises additives BN 320 in combination with used system oil. The advantage of both systems is to always have the cylinder oil with the correct BN available on demand. The vessel doesn‘t need to carry cylinder oils with varying base numbers for different sulfur contents. The fuel thus has the optimized sulfur content which leads to an optimized cylinder oil feed rate and all times` clean lubrication oil. As an alternative solution E.R. Schiffahrt will also review the implementation of a high pressure cylinder lubricating system, which allows another reduction of the cylinder oil feed rate at a reduced wear rate of cylinder units. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 10 IIIEnvironment During their dry docking E.R. Schiffahrt carried out modifications of the propeller shaft sealing on some older vessels. The sealing has been converted into an air sealed shaft sealing. That modernisation – already existing on younger vessels prevents the risk of sea water coming into contact with oil. Even in case the function of the sealing fails there will be no more hazards to contaminate sea water by oil. At locations on board where it was not possible to conduct such modification the mineral oil filling of the sealing has been exchanged by environment-friendly oil. Monitoring and Reporting During the reporting period, E.R. Schiffahrt continued to use FuelSafe, its new performance monitoring system that enables optimal efficiency with regard to fuel consumption and asset protection. The system retrieves up to 250 measured values. It not only delivers analytical data but is also indispensable for successful monitoring: It checks the ship‘s operation continuously, gathering data on energy output, fuel consumption and sailing conditions on a day-by-day basis. Its reporting features reveal where steps may be taken to increase efficiency, giving the crew specific recommendations for performance improvement. The system will be rolled out further and installed on almost a third of the E.R. Schiffahrt‘s managed fleet by the end of this year. The effectiveness of E.R. Schiffahrt‘s fuel efficiency system is backed by benchmark systems of its customers. These systems collect and monitor data with regard to vessel performance as well. The fuel efficiency benchmark system of the market leader showed that vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt saved more fuel than any other competitor. E.R. Schiffahrt is a website partner of the Shipping Efficiency initiative which was launched by the Carbon War Room program. Within Shipping Efficiency E.R. Schiffahrt maintains an up-to-date record of its ships in order to get an external energy efficiency rating of its measures and to share such rating of its fleet in a transparent way with the public. PERFORMANCE MONITORING OPTIMISED EFFICIENCY THROUGH BIG DATA COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 11 IIIEnvironment Company Policy As mentioned earlier another milestone on the way to promote a greater environmental responsibility was the implementation of the company‘s Code of Conduct for all suppliers and subcontractors around the world at the end of 2015. That step will be attended by the adoption of a software based supplier rating system. The company‘s procurement program now allows both, the office and the ship‘s side, to rate the quality of a product and its packaging. At the beginning of 2016 E.R. Schiffahrt has started to provide an environmental whistle blower hotline to its employees. This hotline provides a possibility to report any incompliance with environmental rules and regulations in an anonymous way. Office In 2015 the entire E.R. Group underwent a shore side energy audit in compliance with the latest EU environmental rules and regulations. The final audit report is still under preparation. An intermediate result confirmed that the company building can be classified as a modern and energy efficient location. Owing to – among other factors – the use of green electricity for years, the general CO2 balance is very positive. After receipt of the final report the company will carefully evaluate the potential of further recommendations to improve energy efficiency. The company continues to offer subsidized monthly passes for public transport within the metropolitan area of Hamburg, in order to encourage employees to use environmentally friendly transportation for commuting between home and work. VESSEL MODIFICATIONS EXTENSIVE REDESIGN PROGRAMME COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 12 IV – Anti Corruption IV – Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. E.R. Schiffahrt is committed to counteract fraud, extortion and bribery or any other form of corruption within its sphere of influence. The company has implemented an internal control system that ensures that business activities are checked on a regular base. This measure will be supported by E.R. Schiffahrt‘s Code of Conduct for suppliers and subcontractors which has been implemented at the end of 2015. It reads as follows: At E.R. Schiffahrt we tolerate no form of corruption or bribery and expect the same of our suppliers and subcontractors. In particular our suppliers and subcontractors are expected to ensure that their employees and subcontractors do not offer, promise or grant any advantages to any employee of E.R. Schiffahrt, public authorities and third parties, with the goal of securing an order award or any other form of preferential treatment in their business transactions. Our suppliers and subcontractors shall refrain from presenting any invitations or gifts to our employees in order to gain any form of influence. Any invitations or gifts, if any, shall comply with applicable national laws and must be reasonable and suitable. We expect our suppliers and subcontractors to fully comply with national and international rules and regulation for the prevention of money laundering and not to participate in money laundering activities. All business transactions between E.R. Schiffahrt and its suppliers and subcontractors shall be made without using money in cash. At the same time, E.R. Schiffahrt supports its business partners realizing their own Code of Conduct as well as implementing worldwide anti-corruption campaigns and strategies. E.R. Schiffahrt has established rules and regulations governing acceptance and granting of presents, corporate hospitality and other invitations and stipulating in which cases employees have to report to the company if such benefits are offered to them by third parties that uphold or are about to enter into business relations with E.R. Schiffahrt or its related companies. Any secondary employment or additional business of employees of E.R. Schiffahrt must be reported to the company and is subject to approval in order to reduce possibilities of contradictions of interest. Salaries paid by E.R. Schiffahrt are ensuring that employees are able to support themselves without the need of an additional income. Any new employee who joined E.R. Schiffahrt in 2015 has signed these rules within his contract of employment. As a project for the next reporting period the company evaluates bundling the aforementioned measures, rules and regulations in a company-wide Compliance Program. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 13 E.R. Schiffahrt GmbH & Cie. KG · Hohe Bleichen 12 · 20354 Hamburg, Germany · www.er-ship.com Managing Directors: Nils Aden, Erik Kruse, Helge Bartels, Isabelle Rickmers
