Sustainability Report 2015 1 Moving Towards Future Through Making Contents Investments Today 3 Moving Towards Future Through Making Investments Today For 91 years, we have been delivering work that 4 Chairman’s Message contributes to our country’s future and taking the 6 CEO’s Message 8 İşbank in Figures pulse of the Turkish economy while we continue to 10 İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategy take determined steps to become the pioneer in 11 İşbank at a Glance sustainability in Turkey. 11 İşbank’s Management Structure 12 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems At İşbank, we take great pleasure in sharing 14 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank 15 İşbank’s Memberships our Sustainability Report hereby with all our 16 İşbank’s Subsidiaries stakeholders to reflect the highlights of 2015 18 Sustainability at İşbank on our sustainability journey and the social and 20 İşbank’s Sustainability Approach prospective work we delivered as well as the 22 Stakeholder Communication activities targeted for the future. 24 Materiality Assessment 25 İşbank’s Sustainability Management System 26 İşbank’s Sustainability Organization 28 For Our Customers 52 For Our World 64 For Our Employees 76 For the Society 90 About the Report 91 Appendices 97 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 100 GRI G4 Content Index Chairman’s Message Esteemed stakeholders of İşbank, As Turkey’s leading private bank, we fully integrate sustainability, (Middle East Technical University) and İşbank had access to the with all components including the environment, economy, Internet in Turkey. I am fully convinced that, in the future, we will Starting 91 years ago to create long-term value for the future, our management and society, into our lending operations and other further improve the present successful results we have achieved. journey maintains its pace even today. business procedures. We create value for our country and our people through efforts we deliver together with our stakeholders I would like to thank all our stakeholders on behalf of our Board For almost a century, we have continued to extend optimal support within the scope of the ten principles of the United Nations Global and myself for their valuable contributions and the confidence they to all economic segments of our country no matter what the Compact Principles on human rights, labor, environment and antihave in us. circumstances have been. We have never compromised on the corruption. The long-term and comprehensive social responsibility principle of creating value for the society while allocating the projects we deliver, the financing we extend to renewable energy Yours sincerely, resources entrusted to our Bank. We have successfully fulfilled investments and the support we provide to female entrepreneurs our responsibilities not only economically but also, socially and are all indicators that Işbank fully internalized sustainability. In culturally. In this respect, the existence of İşbank, almost at the addition, the Sustainability Management System we launched same age as the Republic, should be deemed as one of the best in 2015 has enabled us to align our business processes with our H. Ersin Özince examples of sustainable management in our country. We are sustainability priorities. Included in Borsa Istanbul’s Sustainability Chairman of the Board of Directors pleased to see that this tradition of sustainability, a factor which Index, our Bank considers its sustainability attitude and vision as a differentiates İşbank since the day it was founded, has recently been long-term journey rather than a short-term project. acknowledged and assumed by other Turkish companies as well. Opportunities brought along by technological advancements will Sustainability requires a long-term financial perspective as well be the primary tool for sustainable development in the future. This as continuous consideration for social and environmental factors. new axis called “Industry 4.0”, which brings together industrial As we meet our current needs, we should always consider what development with digital transformation, is expected to introduce impact this would bear on the conditions of future generations. The R&D-based innovation into all services. Standing out as Turkey’s increasingly-obvious consequences of global warming on our daily largest private bank in 2015 with total assets of TL 275.7 billion, life such as natural disasters, drought and famine indicate that İşbank has long been working within an awareness of the added any steps to be taken for sustainability are urgent and critically value created for all stakeholders by technological advancement important. Taking into account the international activities and and digitalization in banking. We have been extensively investing efforts to this end, we continue to invest in a future focusing on in financial technologies since the days when only TUBITAK (The human beings and the environment. Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey), METU 4 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-1 5 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 CEO's Message goals of our Bank. We closely follow the rapidly developing and support sustainable development is an element which will gradually changing technological trends as well as the customer expectations become more important in the future strategies of our country. and needs varying on the basis of these trends. Using our digital We have launched numerous efficiency projects at our Head banking products we developed to meet changing needs and our Office buildings and branches in order to create a sustainable innovative products and services that enable us to access all working environment equipped with office amenities to maximize segments of the society, we aim to draw a prospective, sustainable employee satisfaction and reduce the environmental impact of our road map for a resilient and stable economy rather than focusing operations as much as possible. Thanks to our efforts to this end, on short-term objectives. our Head Office building obtained the international BREEAM In-use Excellent certificate. Furthermore, Tuzla Technology and Operations Esteemed stakeholders, As we support economic development, we are aware that it is Center, which is commissioned in 2015 and employs around 1,200 a must to consider environmental and social impacts. In order employees, is designed as an office complex that takes energy and Being aware of the fact that sustainability is both a responsibility to reduce the effects of environmental impact brought along by resource efficiency into account and aims to increase employee and an obligation for economic and social development, we proudly climate change on economy and society, we believe all investors satisfaction. share our sustainability efforts in our fourth sustainability report. and the world of finance need to act in line with the principle of responsible investment. In this framework, we have adopted the Creating added-value for the economy and society, our Bank will İşbank is a prominent organization standing out in the banking Environmental and Social Management Strategy and use the write new success stories and fulfill its responsibilities in the best sector due to its strong financial indicators, the long-term and Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation Tool in project finance possible way in terms of the development of the country’s economy, sound relations with customers and the responsible management deals. This model allows us to assess new investment projects efficient allocation of resources and maintenance of sustainable approach enabled by a shareholding structure in which the in need of financing based on various environmental and social growth in the upcoming period via its main business lines as well employees are actual shareholders. Founded one year after the criteria. We strictly avoid extending loans to projects falling into as social responsibility projects. Leading the banking sector, İşbank, proclamation of the Republic, İşbank is the only Turkish bank certain risk categories under the model. On the other hand, we an important financial player in the region, will continue to present among the top 100 in the “Top 1000 World Banks” rankings by the support low-carbon economy through the funds we provide to value to all its stakeholders in the long run. Tier 1 capital. renewable energy projects. This contributes to meeting the rapidlyincreasing energy demand in our country and reducing dependence I would like to thank all our stakeholders, specifically our employees, Currently, we have access to all segments of the society thanks to on imported energy. As of 2015 year-end, funds provided to customers and shareholders, who contributed to our sustainability our operations in 14 countries as well as widespread branch and renewable energy investments constituted approximately half of activities and performance in 2015. ATM networks, enabling us to provide funding for trade, production our total energy projects portfolio. and employment. We maintained our strong financial position and Sincerely, managed risks efficiently while serving the country’s economy and The Sustainability Policy we established within the scope of all segments of the society in 2015, a year marked by relatively the multidimensional sustainability approach of İşbank and the challenging conditions. As of 2015 year-end, İşbank’s cash loans Sustainability Management System we incorporated into our amounted to TL 177 billion while the total assets increased to TL business processes in 2015 helped us integrate our environmental Adnan Bali 275.7 billion. and social concerns into our corporate operations and priorities. CEO Listed in Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index, our Bank will continue At the heart of our sustainability approach is our vision to be the to manifest its long-term ambitions in sustainable banking. most preferred bank for customers, shareholders and employees by maintaining our leading, pioneering and trusted position as a We believe, an approach that ensures energy efficiency and regional financial power, a vision set in line with the long-term economic profitability and reduces resource consumption to 6 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-1 7 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 İşbank in Figures 25,157 Total number of 607 MW Installed power of the 516,800 Amount of paper recycled kg Key Financial Highlights (TL million) 2015 2014 Employees renewable energy projects under the Paper Recycling Total Assets 275,718 237,772 financed in 2015 Project by TEMA Foundation Loans 177,037 155,315 (2014-2015) Deposits 153,802 133,551 1,377 5,062 2,300 Shareholders’ Equity 32,035 29,311 Net Profit 3,083 3,382 MW Number of Branches Total installed power of the Number of ATMs with Key Financial Ratios (%) 2015 2014 financed renewable energy Audio Transaction Features Interest Earning Assets (*)/Total Assets 91.3 92.3 projects as of the end of for Disabled Customers 64.2 65.3 Loans/Total Assets 2015 Loans/Deposits 115.1 116.3 6,596 351.2 39 NPL Ratio 2.0 1.5 th NPL Coverage Ratio 75.1 76.9 million Demand Deposits/Total Deposits 22.6 22.0 USD Shareholders’ Equity/Total Liabilities 11.6 12.3 Number of ATMs Loan agreements on Session of “İş’le Buluşmalar” Capital Adequacy Ratio 15.6 16.0 sustainability signed with (Meeting with İşbank) (*) Interest earning assets include TL and FC legal reserves. international financial Meeting Series institutions in 2015 810.3 23.8% 62 Shareholding Structure (%) İşbank Personnel Supplementary Pension Fund 40.15 Free Float 31.76 Atatürk Shares (Republican People’s Party) 28.09 millon USD Total 100 Loans extended to Share of SME loans within Number of e-trainings for renewable energy projects total loans employees in 2015 8 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-9, G4-EC1, G4-EC4, G4-7 9 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategy İşbank at a Glance A leading innovative organization, İşbank’s Detailed information on İşbank’s Board of Our Vision For our shareholders; Our Values İşbank has been serving to develop Directors and Executive Committee and the »» to consistently increase the value of innovative products, services and Management Bank’s organizational chart are available in To be the most preferred bank in Turkey our shares Our values that represent our corporate practices in line with global trends the 2015 Annual Report1 (p. 54). by customers, shareholders and employees »» to operate with effective risk identity, guide us to reach our vision and since its establishment. As of endStructure by maintaining our leading, pioneering and management objectives, and that are internalized by 2015, the Bank operates in a total of 14 Detailed information on İşbank’s corporate trusted position as the regional financial our employees as their way of work and countries through its branches, subsidiaries İşbank Board of Directors is composed of governance structure is available in the power. For our employees; life, have been defined as “Leadership, and representative offices. İşbank has a non-executive members and the CEO. The 2015 Annual Report1 (p. 70). »» to be a preferred employer and to offer that is powered by a Shared Mindset total of 23 branches abroad including 16 Board has 11 members including the CEO. our employees programs and training generated in Solidarity, and that is Trusted branches in the TRNC, 2 in the UK, Iraq and The positions of the Chairman of the Board İşbank’s policies developed in compliance Our Objectives opportunities that will foster their under all conditions with a strong Service Kosovo each and 1 in Bahrain as well as and the Chief Executive Officer are separate with its vision, strategy and goals shape the personal and professional development orientation.” 1 representative office each in Egypt and and held by different persons at İşbank. Bank’s entire operational efforts. The Bank’s For our customers; »» to propagate of our customer focused China. İşbank Board Members are selected as per policies are regularly improved within »» to be the bank that is the most approach among all our personnel Article 25 of the Articles of Incorporation the framework of corporate governance preferred service provider in all the »» to support and encourage loyalty, Our Strategy İşbank plays a crucial role in shaping and within the framework of the provisions structure and corporate governance sectors and customer groups that we assuming responsibility and creativity the finance sector in Turkey through its of the Banking Law. strategy, taking into account legal target »» to deploy an employee hiring, Our strategy is achieving sustainable personal, commercial and corporate banking compliance. »» to provide our customers evaluation, appointment and and profitable growth based on “the bank products and services. Leading the sector As required by the Banking Law, the CEO comprehensive, reliable and high advancement system that is based on closest to customers” philosophy in an in terms of shareholders’ equity, İşbank of the Bank and, in his absence, his deputy Detailed information on İşbank’s Policies is quality service with our competent competencies and performance and effort to fulfill our vision and objectives. maintained its top position among private shall be a natural member of the Board available on İşbank website2. employees, extensive branch network that is fair and trustworthy banks by total assets, loans and deposits. of Directors. The Board of Directors leads and non-branch banking channels The Bank benefits from the opportunities the entire organization and specifically the »» to abide by our high business ethics In summary, İşbank’s goal is “to consistently created by a growing Turkish economy Executive Committee with its resolutions, and principles without compromise increase the value it creates for in order to expand its customer network. sets İşbank’s fundamental strategies and shareholders, as a bank that responds to İşbank serves all segments of the society policies and monitors acts of the Executive customer needs quickly, effectively and with through its widespread network of branches Committee as well as the consequences of high-quality solutions and that encourages and Bankamatiks (ATMs) that provide such acts. its employees to achieve a high level of access to financial services across Turkey performance in their jobs.” as well as its digital banking channels. 1 2 10 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-56 11 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-6, G4-DMA: Public Policy, G4-SO6, G4-FS6, G4-34, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-44, G4-49 İşbank at a Glance İşbank at a Glance İşbank’s Internal Audit, İşbank’s Internal Control and Risk Committees Management Systems Committees operating at İşbank: Considering the sector it operates in, practices, in line with the principles and Compliance is an essential responsibility for prevention of laundering proceeds of crime »» Audit Committee İşbank has to take into account various the organizational framework stipulated in the managers and employees at all levels and the financing of terrorism are duly and »» Corporate Governance Committee risk categories and efficiently manage national legislation. The internal systems of the Bank and its consolidated financial efficiently performed within the framework »» Corporate Social Responsibility the risks which the Bank and customers are composed of the Internal Audit, Internal subsidiaries. Compliance functions and of the relevant legislation and regulations Committee are exposed to in these categories. In Control, Risk Management and Corporate operations at the Head Office divisions, as well as the Bank’s Policy and Compliance »» Credit Committee this respect, the Bank manages risks in Compliance Divisions. Divisions comprising domestic and international branches and Program on the matter. »» Credit Revision Committee accordance with various regulations such the internal systems operate under the consolidated financial subsidiaries of the »» Remuneration Committee as Capital Adequacy, Credit Risk, AssetBoard of Directors, while the effectiveness Bank are monitored by the Corporate »» Risk Committee Liability Management Risk, Operational of the aforementioned divisions’ work being Compliance Division, which reports to the »» TRNC Internal Systems Committee Risk, Consolidated Risk and Information overseen by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors via the Audit Committee. Systems Management Policies. The risk Board of Directors. management process and the functions The Corporate Compliance Division within this process are among the prior The Internal Control Division continuously operates to provide maximum contribution responsibilities of the Board of Directors. checks and monitors the internal control to ensure that the compliance risk at The Bank’s risk policies and their operations which are delivered highly the Bank and its consolidated financial implementation procedures are set by the responsibly by İşbank employees. Risk subsidiaries is duly and efficiently managed Board of Directors. management operations are delivered by and that the Bank’s operations are always the Risk Management Division. İşbank’s Risk executed and managed in compliance with As per the relevant legislation, banks must Committee prepares the consolidated and the relevant legislation, regulations and establish an internal audit system covering non-consolidated risk management strategy standards in terms of the structure and all units, branches and consolidated and policies of the Bank, submits them to functioning of the Bank’s said operations. Detailed information on İşbank’s subsidiaries. In this framework, the the Board of Directors for approval and committees and operations of these compliance of operations with the monitors practices. The Risk Committee The Head of the Corporate Compliance committees is available in the 2015 legislation, articles of incorporation, internal works in collaboration with the Bank’s Division, who is also the legal “Compliance Annual Report1 (p. 61). regulations and banking principles is executive systems in order to assess Officer” of the Bank, fulfills the roles and audited by the Bank’s inspectors. potential risks for the Bank and make responsibilities assigned to the compliance suggestions on the measures and methods officer by the Law on Prevention of İşbank’s risk management, internal control to be applied. Laundering Proceeds of Crime and the 1 and internal audit systems are structured legislation in effect on the basis of the parallel to the most advanced international said Law. İşbank’s operations for the 12 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-EC2, G4-DMA: Customer Privacy, G4-PR8, G4-DMA: Compliance, G4-PR9 13 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 İşbank at a Glance İşbank at a Glance Anti-Bribery and İşbank’s »» AKUT Search and Rescue Association »» National Education Foundation »» European Association for Banking and »» METU Alumni Association Anti-Corruption Memberships Financial History (EABH) »» Advertisers’ Association of Turkey »» European Financial Management and »» Association of Risk Managers at İşbank Marketing Association (EFMA) »» Information Systems Audit and Control »» European Association of Association (ISACA) Communication Directors (EACD) »» Turkish Foundation for Combating İşbank keeps its ethical Combating bribery and corruption is a while constantly improving the knowledge İşbank actively supports civil »» The Research Institute of Banking and Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the matter that İşbank handles with utmost of experienced employees on the matter. Commercial Law Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) business approach in all care. In all business processes, the Bank During the “I Start My Career” trainings, the society efforts that accord »» The Interbank Card Center (BKM) »» Turkish Historical Society takes into consideration the fundamental section titled “Discipline and Disciplinary »» Bilkent University »» The Banks Association of Turkey fields of operation through principles and procedures included in the Penalties” of the Collective Bargaining with the Bank’s vision and »» Call Centers Association Ethics Commission Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Policy. The Agreement is handed out to the recently»» Darüşşafaka Society »» Ethics and Reputation Society its anti-bribery and antiBank also has a structure in place in which recruited İşbank employees, emphasizing corporate values. »» Turkish Marine Environment Protection »» Working Group of the Banks corruption policies and the Bank management can evaluate any the requirement to comply with disciplinary Association (Turmepa) Association of Turkey on the Role of complaints or opinions submitted in relation provisions. Career training programs As of end-2015, İşbank has extended »» Foreign Economic Relations Board of Finance Sector in Sustainable Growth in compliance with zero to the matter. specifically designed for employees, who support to and has been represented in Turkey (DEIK) »» The Institute of Internal Auditing are promoted as managers, provide grounds the following national and international »» Elginkan Community Turkey tolerance principle. İşbank’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption for knowledge and experience exchange on initiatives through the Bank’s various »» The Bankers Association for Finance »» Quality Association of Turkey (KalDer) Policy aims to ensure that the Bank’s detecting and preventing any irregularities divisions and specifically the Senior and Trade (BAFT-IFSA) »» Turkish Institutional Investment employees as well as all business partners and misconduct under the authorities Management. »» Financial Literacy and Inclusion Managers’ Association acting on behalf of or serving the Bank and responsibilities of branch managers. Association (FODER) »» Turkish Human Resources comply with the legal regulations on Furthermore, members of the Bank’s Board »» Financial Managers Association Management Association (PERYON) combating bribery and corruption. of Inspectors attend trainings on detecting (Finans Kulüp) »» Turkish Industry and Business and preventing any irregularities and »» Global Relations Forum Association (TUSİAD) İşbank does not tolerate bribery and misconduct. »» Global Compact Turkey Sustainable »» Institute of International Finance (IIF) corruption under any circumstances and Banking and Finance Working Group »» Vehbi Koç Foundation severely punishes such acts as explicitly In 2015, 1,372 employees received in»» Economic Development Foundation indicated in its current policies. class training of 8,184 hours in total on »» Istanbul Foundation for Culture and risk, control, audit and legal matters. The Arts (İKSV) The Bank utilizes awareness-raising content design of the said trainings aims to »» Credit Bureau of Turkey (KKB) programs for employees to support its encourage compliance with the Bank’s Anti»» Association of Corporate anti-bribery attitude and anti-corruption Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Communicators approach, both of which are integrated into »» International Chamber of Commerce its business processes through relevant Turkey Commission on Banking policies. Efforts are in place to instill such Techniques and Practices awareness in recently recruited employees 14 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-50, G4-DMA: Anti-Corruption, G4-SO3, G4-DMA: Anti-Competitive Behavior, G4-S07 15 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-15, G4-16 İşbank at a Glance İşbank’s Subsidiaries İşbank Group is an integrated service İşbank’s Main Subsidiaries: Comprising 77% of İşbank’s equity stake group with a large number of subsidiaries portfolio, Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş., operating in various sectors within the Financial İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., İş Gayrimenkul country and abroad. »» Anadolu Anonim Türk Sigorta Şirketi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş., İş Yatırım Menkul (Insurance) Değerler A.Ş., Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma As of 2015 year-end, İşbank holds shares in »» Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş. (Life Bankası A.Ş. and Türkiye Şişe ve Cam 25 companies directly, with the number of insurance&private pension) Fabrikaları A.Ş. are publicly held companies companies controlled by the Bank directly »» İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (Leasing) and their respective stocks are traded on and indirectly standing at 106. »» İş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. BIST. (REIT) »» İş Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. On August 3, 2015, 10.0035% shares held (Brokerage house) by İşbank Group within the shareholding »» İşbank Germany (Banking) structure of Avea İletişim Hizmetleri »» İşbank Georgia (Banking) A.Ş. were completely sold to Türk »» İşbank Russia (Banking) Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., the controlling »» Milli Reasürans T.A.Ş. (Reinsurance) shareholder. »» Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (Investment banking) Non-Financial »» Nemtaş Nemrut Liman İşletmeleri A.Ş. (Maritime transportation) Detailed information on İşbank’s »» Türkiye Şişe ve Cam Fabrikaları A.Ş. subsidiaries is available in the 2015 (Glass) Annual Report1 (p. 44). 1 16 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-13, G4-17, G4-22 Sustainability at İşbank Sustainability at İşbank Sustainability at İşbank ▶ Sustainability at İşbank İşbank’s Sustainability Approach İşbank’s work for the future and people is a strong proof that sustainability is a top priority for the Bank. Economic, environmental and social priority for the Bank. The Bank constantly line with the principles of sustainability. İşbank displays its long-term sustainability Supporting the society risks in today’s world make it improves its products and services, taking The Bank considers the long-term impact approach and vision through Policies on and its components, impossible for the banking sector to into consideration the triad of efficiency, of its operations on the society and the »» Sustainability act without considering the future. saving time and technological development, world; hence invests in practices and »» Environmental and Social Impacts İşbank plays an important Various issues such as crises arising from all arising out of the evaluation of market applications improving energy efficiency »» Human Rights and Human Resources political instability around the world as well dynamics and customers’ demands. İşbank in its buildings and encouraging resource »» Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption role in shaping Turkey’s as underdevelopment, natural disasters deems its customers to be the reason for its recovery. Under its long-term collaboration »» Gifts and Hospitality sustainable future. and drought caused by climate change, existence and always prioritizes a customerwith international financial institutions, the coupled with the issue of food security, oriented business approach. Thus, the Bank has been providing loans to renewable and applies them in its business processes. require action today rather than tomorrow. Bank offers services to facilitate the lives energy and energy efficiency projects to In this regard, İşbank shapes its efforts of its customers through digital banking contribute to the future of the world. İşbank in the light of global trends, taking into improvements. believes such investments for the future the account the future of our country and are necessary both from an economic society. Acting in line with its sustainable Human resources and employee satisfaction perspective and in terms of environmental business approach, İşbank turns the said have a vital role in İşbank’s sustainability and social responsibility. risks into opportunities and presents such approach. The Bank continues to create opportunities to the society as an added an efficient work environment focusing on value. Considering that today and tomorrow employee satisfaction, respects human are inseparable, İşbank supports the society rights and rejects all discriminating and people with its services and plays a attitudes preventing equal opportunities. significant role in shaping Turkey’s future. As a part of its sustainability approach, İşbank’s work for the future and people is İşbank aims to play an active role in the Detailed information on İşbank’s a strong proof that sustainability is a top transition to low carbon economy and Sustainability Policies is available on respond to the society’s demands in the İşbank website1. process of developing new products in 1 20 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-2, G4-14, G4-43 21 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at İşbank Sustainability at İşbank ▶ Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communication Frequency of Stakeholder Group Communication Method of Communication İşbank considers continuous İşbank’s main stakeholders are: communication with stakeholders »» Customers Customers 24/7 Branches, Instant Banking (Bankamatik, Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and mobile to be an important element in »» Shareholders and investors banking channels), customer relations representatives, meetings, surveys measuring developing the required policies and »» Employees customer satisfaction and expectations, social media structuring operations according to »» Society needs. Stakeholder communication is a »» Non-governmental organizations Shareholders and investors Annual and quarterly / General Assembly meetings, investor meetings, analyst/investor days, roadshows, two-way, transparent process overlapping »» Public authority/Regulatory agencies when necessary teleconferences, daily communication work by the Investor Relations Division, Investor with the Bank’s goal to create a long-term »» Sectoral unions, organizations and Relations web page, Public Disclosure Platform, Information Society Services Platform contribution for the society. Therefore, other sectoral stakeholders established as per the Turkish Code of Commerce, Annual Report and investor the Bank exchanges opinions with internal »» Media and presentations and external stakeholders via various »» Suppliers Employees Daily Recruitment process, employee satisfaction surveys, training events, performance communication channels and focuses on assessment, internal communication platforms, regular managers’ meetings evaluating the input from such contacts Stakeholder communication is ensured through different processes in its internal through various channels such as meetings, Society When necessary Corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects, information and collaboration meetings, organization. satisfaction surveys, complaint/opinion/ feedback mechanisms suggestion systems and events. Non-Governmental When necessary CSR projects, information and collaboration meetings, feedback mechanisms İşbank takes into account opinions and input Organizations received from stakeholder communication Public authority/Regulatory When necessary Reporting processes, meetings during the process of developing corporate agencies social responsibility projects. Sectoral unions, organizations When necessary Meetings and presentations, workshops, daily communication activities and other sectoral stakeholders Media When necessary Information communication, press meetings, special meetings, answering written questions Suppliers Daily Daily communication with suppliers of goods and services, initiatives aiming at raising suppliers’ awareness on sustainability 22 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-37 23 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at İşbank Sustainability at İşbank Materiality Assessment İşbank’s Sustainability Management System Economic Aspects Environmental Aspects Social Aspects In 2015, İşbank conducted Corporate Governance Emissions Combating Bribery and Launched by İşbank in Established to support the economic The Sustainability Management System a sustainability materiality development of Turkey, İşbank has launched in 2015 integrates the aspects assessment within the framework of Corruption 2015, the Sustainability always acted within a sense of specified in Sustainability Policies the international Global Reporting social responsibility since the day into the Bank’s operations to give Initiative (GRI) G4 Reporting Customer Satisfaction Energy and Resource Employee Rights and Employee Management System it was founded. The Bank interprets sustainability operations a structure that Efficiency Satisfaction standards. The GRI G4 disclosures were evaluated within the scope of the Bank’s established an efficient sustainability as a way of doing business and has started a corporate structuring can be monitored and improved. İşbank’s Sustainability Management System includes Financial Performance Environmental Impacts Equal Opportunities sustainability priorities and operations and Risks governance structure effort in recent years to integrate various processes in order to assess the at all business units, the impacts of such sustainability into daily operations and Bank’s environmental impact, manage operations and the objectives of the Market Share Responsible Products and Human Rights for multidimensional ensure that the concept of sustainability environmental and social risks from lending organization before setting the priority Services is handled systematically and holistically operations, improving internal capacity, aspects. Stakeholder opinions from regular sustainability efforts. within the Bank. Under the efforts to controlling and auditing all efforts, planning Information and Customer stakeholder communication have been establish a Sustainability Management of operations for the next period and Safety considered in the evaluation process and System, the Sustainability Policy covering developing strategies. Processes clearly integrated into prioritization efforts. Social Impacts and Risks Environmental and Social Impacts, Human define the roles, responsibilities and Rights and Human Resources, Anti-Bribery required business steps for each relevant Material aspects for İşbank in the field of Social Responsibility and Anti-Corruption, Gifts and Hospitality matter. Furthermore, İşbank produced sustainability are as follows*. Policies as well as supplier management a Sustainability Management System *: Material aspects are listed alphabetically. issues was adopted and launched in 2014. Handbook, which includes the Bank’s The aforementioned Policies include the sustainability approach, its organizational framework and principles that ground all structure for Sustainability Management operations of the Bank on such matters. System and the summary of the process Interaction among the material have a secondary impact on locals through The report and material aspects cover documents comprising the system. The sustainability themes of the Bank vary in the operations of companies that receive İşbank’s operations within Turkey. The Bank’s Handbook serves as a detailed guidance accordance with the field of operation. funds. Operations within the organization affiliates and subsidiaries are not included in document for use by relevant employees Retail banking operations primarily have an have an impact on stakeholders such as the scope of the report. during the application of system impact on personal customers. Corporate employees, shareholders and investors while requirements. and commercial banking operations the corporate social responsibility efforts of primarily have an impact on corporate and the Bank touch the communities everywhere commercial customers, while they may the Bank operates. 24 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 25 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at İşbank Sustainability at İşbank ▶ İşbank’s Sustainability Organization İşbank’s Sustainability Organization Corporate Governance Committee İşbank’s sustainability organization Prepared on the basis of data collected is shaped by the goal that the in relation to the Bank’s sustainability sustainability approach is adopted efforts during the reporting period, the Sustainability Indicators and owned by all İşbank employees sustainability report is approved by from top to bottom. The Head of the Sustainability Coordinator and the While setting the performance targets Sustainability Investor Relations Division serves as the Corporate Governance Committee. of the Head Office and branches in Coordinator Sustainability Coordinator in order to line with the Bank’s strategy, its establish coordination among the executive sustainability approach is taken into organs for sustainability operations consideration as well. Goals in the performed under the Corporate Governance context of sustainability cover the Committee. Having members from different maintaining and improvement of divisions, the Sustainability Team ensures Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index service quality, business continuity the management of sustainability efforts and occupational health and safety in Sustainability and efficiency in information flow. Thanks to its long-term sustainability line with the objective of satisfying Service (Investor Sustainability approach and its efforts in the field of İşbank’s customers, shareholders and Relations Divison) Team sustainable banking, İşbank is included employees. in the BIST Sustainability Index consisting of the companies listed in In 2016, efforts to ensure that Borsa Istanbul and evaluated for their sustainability goals are adopted corporate sustainability performance better by the employees through the on the basis of certain criteria. use of current and new performance Corporate Loans Construction Talent indicators and to measure Underwriting and Real Estate Management Internal Control improvement will be continued. Division Management Division Division Division 26 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-35, G4-36, G4-41, G4-47, G4-48 27 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers For Our Customers For Our Customers For Our Customers For Our Customers A New Era in Banking Throughout its history, which is as Digital Transformation long as that of the Republic, İşbank has always positioned the updating of the services it has offered in line with current requirements and Maximized use of mobile phones and The Digital Transformation Program aims the continuous delivery of excellent mobile devices in the last decade to establish a structure which is offering has led to a significant change a customer experience that continuously services at the core of its banking in customers' preferences and learns by using the customer analytics, is behaviors. This increased involvement smarter , understands customers' needs at vision since its establishment. of mobile devices in our lives brings along all contact points and solves their problems. many new needs and creates opportunities Based on work for the mentioned purposes, for new fields of implementation that will İşbank offers value propositions tailored for Arising out of the Bank's principled meet such varied needs. İşbank launched the the needs of customer groups and intends Digital Transformation Program in 2015 to create a living ecosystem using its and consistent business approach in order to meet the change in customer business partners as a strength in digital that it has been displaying since its expectations rapidly, ensure convergence on physical and specifically digital medium and transformation. establishment, İşbank Banking opens define the digital transformation journey in business models. the door to a new era in the sector even today. 30 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Economic Performance, G4-EC1, G4-DMA: Indirect Economic Impacts, G4-DMA: Product and Service 31 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EC8 Labeling, G4-PR3, G4-PR4 For Our Customers For Our Customers Digital Banking in Figures 6,582 82% in 2015 Number of Bankamatiks Share of digital banking transactions in total comparable transactions (ATMs) in Turkey 8.1 Number of customers using İşbank Bankamatiks million 24% 2.5 Number of customers using Internet Banking Share of mobile banking million transactions in total comparable transactions 2.4 Number of active 19% Mobile Banking customers million Share of mobile banking Number of active 1.5 transactions in total Mobile Banking comparable transactions customers in 2014 million as of end of 2014 32 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 33 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers ▶ A New Era in Banking Digital Transformation For Our Customers Practices Standing Out in 2015 İşCepMatik In 2015, İşbank further improved and In line with the Bankamatik oriented purchasing products at stores and dealers enriched its digital banking practices that strategy, a new generation Bankamatik of retail firms contracted with the Bank. it has long been diversifying. Developed device called İşCepMatik , which combines NakitNet allows for the completion of in order to enable the customers to Bankamatik and İşCep brands parallel all processes including loan application, easily fulfill their banking needs using the to the change in customer preferences allocation, use and signing of loan convenience of technology without losing and behaviors, was launched. İşCepMatik documents at the sales point and makes time, based on the assumption that time devices are manufactured domestically and loans with a maturity of up to 36 months will be the most valuable asset in the future, interact with mobile phones to highlight available without visiting the branch at the products and services that stood out in mobile experience, offering a user-friendly all. NakitNet offers personal customers a the given period are summarized below. design that has no integrated card readers new long-term payment option at points of or keyboards. sales. Sosyal Hesap Internet Banking for SMEs (Social Account) İşCep Apple Watch of September, the Instant Loan product İşbank offers applications and facilities İşCep users are provided with the Application makes loans available for customers 24/7 catering to all customer groups, thus opportunity to save their mobile phone Offered simultaneously with the launch without visiting any branches or submitting diversifying its digital banking services. contacts in the Social Account Contacts of the product in Turkey, the application documents including weekends and public Using the personal Internet branch, İşbank's that is exclusive to the Social Account allows monitoring updated exchange or religious holidays. Instant Loan is highly SME natural person merchant customers application and simultaneously get SMS or rates, accessing information on the closest favored specifically by customers who do can not only utilize personal menus but instant notifications from these contacts Bankamatik and branch and obtaining not have the opportunity to visit branches also perform commercial transactions such and request remittances of any amount to information on the nearest Maximum Card during working hours. The share of Instant as POS financial provisions and viewing a specified account for organizations such campaigns according to location. Loan within all personal loans stood at 6% member merchant account statements. as dinners, gifts and so on. Likewise, İşCep at year-end. SME customers, on the other hand, can users who are sent requests can easily send Anında Kredi (Instant Loan) enjoy features of the commercial Internet money from the accounts they specified for The Instant Loan product was launched NakitNet branch which facilitate the lives of Social Account and thus rapidly participate in 2015 to ease customers' lives and cater NakitNet, a web-based loan platform commercial users such as multiple money in organizations. to their cash needs most rapidly and easily developed in order to offer fast financial transfers, checks and promissory notes, in order to provide a positive customer solutions to İşbank customers during POS, commercial loans, salary transactions experience. Offered on the Personal shopping, provides loans in a couple of and direct debit system. Internet Branch as of June and on İşCep as minutes during shopping to customers 34 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 35 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers ▶ A New Era in Banking Digital Transformation For Our Customers Retail/Private Banking Easy Access to İşbank received many awards in At Web Awards 2015, İşbank Private Banking İşbank delivers services in Life Stage Banking is a deposit account that children can open e-Government 2015 thanks to the innovative website (privia.com.tr) received the Best and transact with on their own behalf. İşbank Retail Banking Internet Branch approaches it adopted in digital Bank Website award in the category of consideration of both the İşbank's service approach is based Children having a First Signature Account allows users to access the e-Government banking applications. Banking . needs of its customers on supporting customers at every can enjoy basic banking transactions such Gateway, the one-stop-shop for electronic stage of their life cycle. Within the as shopping with their debit card, paying services offered by public institutions At Stevie International Business Awards At the Altın Örümcek 2015 jury voting, the arising in different stages framework of the life stage banking bills, sending remittances, buying funds and and organizations, without need for an 2015, “Touch ID Login to İşCep” application Retail Banking Internet Branch received approach, the Bank offers services for using Internet and mobile banking contact e-Government password. received the Golden Stevie award in the the first prize in the category of “Internet of their lives and the future children, young people, adults and the points. This also serves to equip children Fırsatla Application category of “Best New Product/Service in Customer Services , “İşCep” application Banking” and the Bank's corporate website (www.isbank.com.tr) won the third prize in through products supporting pensioners. with the competence to manage their own accounts and develop a habit of saving Customers can use the Internet branch received the Silver Stevie award in the the category of “Corporate Website”, while the society and nature. Providing tailored services for children, money. to join the Fırsatla application, which category of “Best New Product/Service in the Bank's corporate website (www.isbank. young people and pensioners, the Bank allows them to match their Facebook and/ Financial Services”, İşbank Private Banking com.tr) received the Public's Favorite award aims to be their life stage bank, to offer Products Tailored for Young or Twitter social media accounts with their website (privia.com.tr) received the Bronze in the categories of Corporate Website and solutions catering to their needs and People customer records at the Bank and enjoy Stevie award in the category of “Bank Best Mobile Website at the Golden Spider to establish long-term relations with İş'te Üniversiteli Banking Service Package the exclusive campaigns and opportunities Website”, 2015 public SMS voting. customers. aims to respond to all financial needs offered by the Bank. of young people. İş'te Üniversiteli Credit At MMA Smarties 2015, İşbank's promotional Products Tailored for Card sets the first step in the credit card campaign for “Touch ID Login to İşCep” Children relation which will continue and develop for received the silver award in the category of Children’s accounts offer products like the a lifetime. İşbank maintains the relations “Mobile App” in Turkey and the bronze award Children’s Account and the “Kumbara Fonu it establishes with young people when in the category of “Product/Services Launch” (Money Box Fund)” Account which include they are students and continues to update in MMA Smarties-EMEA region. various features for children between the customer card limits following graduation. ages of 0 and 18. The Children’s Account İş'te Üniversiteli, İşbank's brand under which serves as a TL currency demand deposit it delivers its banking services for university account while the “Kumbara Fonu (Money students, also organizes and delivers Box Fund)” Account contributes to the various campaigns and events that appeal future of children as a mutual fund account. to young people. Available for customers between the ages of 12 and 18, the First Signature Account 36 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 37 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-EC8, G4-SO1, G4-FS7 For Our Customers ▶ Retail/Private Banking For Our Customers ▶ Retail/Private Banking Products Tailored for Value-Added TEMA Credit Cards cards are made of recycled materials used energy efficiency. In this framework, İşbank interest-backed loans to individuals who Pensioners Maximum TEMA Card holders contribute to for the first time in Turkey, with all paper aims to increase demand in green buildings are right holders for the purposes of the Under the Package for Pensioners, İşbank Products for the TEMA Foundation, which delivers activities materials used for the card being obtained and therefore encourage nature-friendly law. İşbank started to extend loans to continues to offer high added value, to protect natural assets, and to the efforts without causing any harm to nature and buildings in the construction sector. right holders within the framework of the personal banking services to customers, Community to protect the environment while they the ecological life. As it is the case with all financing models it developed under the whom it delivered a wide range of personal enjoy installments and MaxiPuan collection İşbank credit card owners, Maximum TEMA Urban Transformation Loans protocol signed on January 19, 2013. The products during their active working life, Müzekart (Museum Card) opportunities offered by the Maximum Card holders can also request to get their The Urban Transformation Project is a Urban Transformation Loans are exclusively after they retire. The Package for the Giving special care to reflecting social world as well as special campaigns credit card statements via e-mail to prevent project contributing significantly to the extended to right-holding owners of risky Pensioners includes a rich selection of responsibilities in its line of operations, and all other privileges offered to other paper waste. housing stock of our country in terms buildings and tenants holding rights in risky personal banking products and services for İşbank delivered a first-of-its-kind practice credit card holders. The contributions are of sustainability since it aims at the buildings and areas. To provide the resource people retired from SGK (Social Security in the sector when all Maximum credit calculated at a certain rate over each Performing business development construction of reliable buildings that are for these loans, İşbank signed a framework Institution). Customers who are paid their cards were equipped with Müzekart shopping transaction using the card but operations to support the activities of equipped with social and recreational areas loan agreement of EUR 200 million with the pensions via İşbank can enjoy exclusive features in 2013. This allows İşbank credit are not deducted from the benefits the TEMA Foundation, İşbank provides its and are in compliance with legislation in European Investment Bank. opportunities such as complimentary card holders to pay free visits to more customers obtain from the card and are corporate customers with Maximum terms of energy efficiency. MaxiPuan and exemption from annual card than 300 museums and archaeological then transferred to TEMA Foundation via TEMA Corporate Credit Card, which has fee for their credit cards, exclusive interest sites affiliated to the Ministry of Culture İşbank's own resources. This contribution to all the features that Maximum TEMA Card The Law No. 6306 on Transformation of rates for their term deposit accounts and and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey for a TEMA Foundation is used by the Foundation incorporates. Areas under Disaster Risk, which entered free remittance/EFT at specific contact period of one month each year. This unique in activities for combating soil erosion into force in 2012 upon its publication in points. service by İşbank not only distinguished and for reforestation, for instilling a love Environmentally-Friendly the Official Gazette aims at renovating Maximum Card from others in the sector for trees, forests and nature in people, for Housing Loan buildings that pose a risk in cases of but also enabled the Bank to have the pride protecting and improving the status of İşbank extends full support to initiatives to natural disasters, have completed their life of contributing to the protection, promotion natural assets, human health, ground cover, improve energy efficiency and encourages span and are not environmentally friendly. and entrustment to future generations waters and forests and for raising further its customers to do the same. Under the It is provided in the Law No. 6306 that of the cultural heritage of our country as awareness and training individuals on such Environmentally-Friendly Housing Loan, loans to be taken from banks in order to well as offering an unprecedented value matters. the Bank extends a total of USD 75 million finance the renovation of such buildings proposition to customers. it obtained from the European Bank for shall be interest-backed loans. On this Maximum TEMA Card is a card supporting Reconstruction and Development and the matter, İşbank turned out to be the first TEMA Foundation and stands out with its Clean Energy Fund to finance the housing bank to sign a protocol with the Ministry environmentally friendly features including loans to be used by customers who would of Environment and Urbanization of the the production process. These plastic like to buy a flat in buildings with high Republic of Turkey in relation to extending 38 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-FS7, G4-FS8 39 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers ▶ Retail/Private Banking For Our Customers ▶ Retail/Private Banking İşbank considers raising savings awareness within the society and The size of the encouraging savings practices as a part Money Box Fund 380.8 of sustainable development. million TL Savings Products İşbank believes that financial The Money Box Fund allows regularly The total value of the risk of physical storage and liquidate to support environmental activities. TEMA planning at an individual scale investing in our children’s future, starting their gold whenever they want. Customers Environmental Flexible Fund is one of the investment funds contributes to the development of with small amounts today, and has an can enjoy the Gold Remittance facility most unique investment instruments in the society. Considering that raising the outstanding role in improving the savings purchased under to transfer gold in grams among various the sector and the resources allocated savings awareness within the society and culture in our country. Üstü Kalsın service Demand Deposit Gold Accounts in the Bank. to TEMA Foundation via this fund are 51.9 encouraging savings practices through used to extend sustainable financing a prospective view are parts of social Üstü Kalsın Gold banking allows customers to place support to environmental projects. Using development and sustainable development, (Keep the Change) monthly regular gold purchasing orders some of its assets, the fund invests in the Bank maintains its leading position in Üstü Kalsın is a service that aims at from their TL currency demand deposit companies that integrate environmental savings products in 2015. İşbank strongly encouraging customers to make savings accounts or İşbank credit cards and make management systems into all stages of retains the practice of giving out money without changing their spending habits. million TL regular gold savings in their demand production and underlines the projection boxes to its little customers to raise an The service allows for rounding the total deposit gold accounts. that environmentally aware companies will awareness of savings within the society, a debt in the account statement up to a attain more successful financial results in practice originally launched back in 1928. preferred upper limit so that the difference Under the protocol signed with Istanbul the long run. in between can be transferred to an Gold Deposit Account Gold Refinery, “Gold Meetings at Branches” Kumbara Fonu (Money Box investment fund. It has proven that credit İşbank plays an important role in the practice was launched as of June 7, 2012. The fund is managed by the expert staff at Fund) cards, mainly offering opportunities in development of gold banking in Turkey By December 2015, “Gold Meetings” were İş Asset Management taking into account The savings approach İşbank initiated via shopping, can also be used as a savings through the efforts to bring physical gold held in 1,077 branches. the financial and environmental criteria and money boxes is now reinforced with the instrument that makes savings possible. such as gold bullions, bracelets, necklaces, provides customers with the opportunity to Money Box Fund, a fund established in line half and quarter-gold coins, historically İşbank maintains its top position in the support environmentally aware companies with changing needs. The Money Box Fund An innovative credit card practice marking named as “under-the-mattress” savings, sector in gold deposit accounts and has and environmental projects while investing. makes a significant contribution in instilling the first of its kind in Turkey, Üstü Kalsın into the economy via banks. Pioneering a market share of 17.3% as of the end of and improving long-term investment encourages customers to make small gold banking in Turkey starting from 1997, 2015. Private Pension awareness. An instrument for both investing savings while shopping with their credit İşbank offers a diverse range of gold The Private Pension System enables getting in our children’s future and adopting cards. As of the end of 2015, the total value products to its customers and continues to TEMA Environmental additional income during retirement by a stable management and long-term of investment funds purchased under Üstü develop new products in line with the Bank’s Flexible Fund making savings at times when individuals investment strategy, the Money Box Fund Kalsın service stood at TL 51.9 million. projections and the customers’ demands. Marking a first in the sector, TEMA have income. Savings are managed by is one of the most preferred investment Environmental Flexible Fund enables professional asset management companies. instruments that parents opt for. The size The gold deposit account allows customers environmentally aware companies to The system is supported with advantageous of the Money Box Fund stood at TL 380.8 to make gold savings without bearing evaluate their savings on the long run and state contributions and is also subject to million as of the end of 2015. 40 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-FS7 41 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers ▶ Retail/Private Banking For Our Customers Commercial/Corporate Banking audits. The share of accounts sold by İşbank considered in the “New Marketing Solutions” Effie Award in the category of “Bank-Card Always standing by the industrialists Sector-Specific sector-specific loans and other banking within the total number of private pension category for the 2015 Stevie Awards and Payment Systems” for its advertisement and merchants, in order to products to farmers. Plans are under way accounts of Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik received the Bronze award for its Marketing campaign called “Maximum Cinema contribute to the development of Specialized Banking to improve these tailored services further (Anadolu Life Insurance & Private Pension) Optimization application. Session”. Turkish economy in line with its in the upcoming period. The amount of establishment philosophy, İşbank rose to 80% in all sales and to 92% in sales completed during 2015. In the Customer Satisfaction Index of Furthermore, the Bank received two Bronze continued its support without any İşbank adopts a “problemcash commercial loans extended to farmers reached TL 1.9 billion as of the end of 2015. Turkey published by the Turkish Society for Stevie Awards in the categories of “New interruptions in 2015. As of the end of free and sustainable As of November 20, 2015, Anadolu Hayat Quality (KalDer), Maximum Card retained its Product or Service Introduction of the Year” 2015, corporate and commercial banking İşbank started to use the Agricultural Emeklilik was crowned the first private leading position in “customer satisfaction” and “Best New Product or Service of the loans constituted 49.7% of the total loan growth” strategy in its Loans Assessment System (TARDES), which pension company to have more than 1 in the credit cards sector and became the Year Media & Entertainment Service” for the portfolio of the Bank. was launched by Kredi Kayıt Bürosu A.Ş. million contributors with an exact number brand that most satisfied its customers “Maximum Cinema Session” communication, services to cover sectoral (Credit Bureau) in 2014, in order to get all of 1,001,598 contributors. The company in 2014 and it received an award in 2015. which announced the privilege of Maximum needs taking into account branches to perform the most accurate maintains its lead in terms of the number of Adding a new title to the 4 previous titles cinema sessions launched in February under assessment of financial needs pertaining contributors in the sector since July 3, 2015. among the card programs of private banks, the main sponsorship of Cinemaximum. Corporate and sustainable development. to a wide range of agricultural activities Total number of contributors at Anadolu Maximum Card was selected as the best commercial such as dairy and cattle farming, apiculture, Hayat Emeklilik stood at 1,026,467 as of card program for a fifth time in total. banking loans İşbank develops products specifically mixed plant production, orcharding and 49.7% 2015 year-end while the company’s market tailored for sectoral needs within the scope greenhouse cultivation. In this framework, share was 17%. At the “Crystal Apple Creativity Festival”, of its tailored service approach. the requirements of all agricultural loans one of the most remarkable organizations of the Bank were revised and new products İşbank maintained its leading position in in Turkey, the Bank was awarded not only Products and services for agriculture and are still added to the product range. 2015 through its personal banking practices, the Crystal Apple but also the Silver and tourism sectors take into consideration products and service quality. Bronze awards for more than one creative the “problem-free and sustainable growth” Tailored services for the tourism and product including the Private Pension, strategy. To this end, the sector-specific agriculture sectors, two sectors contributing İşbank received the Global Gold award in Personal Loan and Instant Loan products in specialized banking operations are a greatly to the development of the country’s the category of “Best Use of Technology in addition to Maximum, Maximiles and İş’te significant element in establishing longeconomy, are summarized below: Banking, Financial Services and Insurance Üniversiteli brands. term and more efficient relations with Sales Activities” for its sales operations customers. driven by its innovative CRM infrastructure At the Effie, Turkish Advertising Event in the 2015 Stevie Awards, one of the most Competition organized by the Association Through agricultural banking services prestigious awards in the international of Advertising Agencies and the Association available at 14 branches for farmers, İşbank business world. The Bank was also of Advertisers’, İşbank was given the Bronze delivers the fastest and most accurate 42 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 43 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-DMA: Indirect Economic Impacts, G4-EC7 For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking SME Banking Services Agricultural Loans conditions at many member merchants İş'le Buluşmalar Meetings consultancy services so far. Furthermore, as In addition to loans for the financing of such as contracted sectoral unions and İşbank attaches great importance to Held in various cities in cooperation of the end of 2015, more than 10 thousand inputs (diesel fuel, fodder, fertilizer, seeds cooperatives, chambers of agriculture, supporting SMEs and entrepreneurs, with Dünya Newspaper since 2008, İş’le companies used the SME Market section and so on) required by farming customers, fuel companies and firms selling other thereby improving its relevant products and Buluşmalar sessions host successful and of the website, which allows the member the Bank extends various agricultural agricultural inputs. services uninterruptedly. The share of SME experienced speakers specialized in their enterprises to promote their businesses loans to satisfy investment needs such loans within total loans stood at 23.8% in respective fields and aim to support the easily and free of charge. as tractors, farming land, greenhouse Corporation and Investment 2015. commercial development of attendees in building and modernization and purchasing Loans for Tourism addition to coming up with solutions for Thanks to the innovative SUNUMATİK of livestock. All producers registered in In addition to seasonal preparation loans Exclusive services to their commercial needs. The 39th session of application, İş’te KOBİ provides member relevant producer registries such as the allowing flexible repayment in line with the “İş’le Buluşmalar” was held in Izmir in March SMEs with the opportunity to prepare Farmer Registry and Apiculture Registry can income generation periods of the sector, SMEs, the backbone of 2015. About 700 participants attended the efficient company promotion presentations use loans that conform to their own type of production. İşbank offers insurance, corporate business card and various cash management the Turkish economy, meeting, the main theme of which was “Creativity and Innovation in Competition”. in Turkish and English without worrying about foreign language competence and products to its customers in tourism sector continued in 2015. computer skills. The number of SMEs İmece Card within the scope of tourism support and İş’te KOBİ preparing presentations using SUNUMATİK Offering farmers repayment maturities in tourism tariff packages. The amount of The Website for SMEs and efficiently promoting their companies, line with their harvesting periods as well cash commercial loans extended for the İş’te KOBİ1 is a web portal offering products, services and campaigns in both as providing a 0% interest advantage tourism sector reached TL 4.2 billion as of users a wide range of written and visual the domestic and international markets with maturities up to 6 months, İmece the end of 2015. contents such as current news, articles, reached almost 5 thousand by the end of Card allows farmers to meet their needs sectoral reports, exclusive video interviews 2015. for agricultural input on advantageous and expert comments. The number of subscribers to İş’te KOBİ website exceeded 76 thousand as of the end of 2015. The website exclusively allows the subscribers to ask written questions to experts of 17 different fields ranging from tax to business law, foreign trade to entrepreneurship, technology to farming and animal husbandry, thus benefiting from free consultancy services. More than 8 thousand SMEs have been provided with free 1 44 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 45 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1, G4-FS7 For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs Having faith in women’s ability to make a Specifically formulated for female difference in economy, İşbank aims to reach entrepreneurs on İş’te KOBİ website, a great number of female entrepreneurs “Kadın Girişimci”1 (Female Entrepreneurs) through products and services tailored for page shares current news and articles on them. The Bank makes efforts to support female entrepreneurship, videos on success female entrepreneurs for all their business stories and exclusive interviews with needs as well as the loans it extends to experts in addition to information on the them. In this framework, the Bank sponsors special products and services of İşbank for training events for female entrepreneurs female entrepreneurs. Furthermore, female and provides consultancy over İş’te KOBİ entrepreneurs subscribing to İş’te KOBİ can website. ask online questions to experts on the same page and exclusively enjoy free consultancy İşbank sets the required backdrop for services on entrepreneurship. female entrepreneurs to attain their goals and aims to make sure qualified female For long years, İşbank has been providing workforce finds its rightful place in business considerable financing support to many »» Natural person female merchants, Program on Finance and determined together with the consultancy life. In 2015, KOSGEB Applied Female female entrepreneurs from its own »» Companies with a female shareholding Advice for Women in firm. It is planned to create an e-training Entrepreneurship Trainings were held in resources. Moreover, the Financing Program structure of 51%, Business to raise awareness on female businesses Kayseri, Bursa and Samsun in cooperation for Female Entrepreneurs was launched »» Female businesses with at least one İşbank is one of the stakeholders in the among employees. with KOSGEB and TOSYÖV. Female in 2014 and has since been facilitating woman holding one of the top executive “Program on Finance and Advice for Women entrepreneurs attending the training gained access to financing, a specific problem positions and has a minimum female in Business”, a joint initiative with the insight into basic entrepreneurial subjects mentioned by female entrepreneurs the shareholding structure of 20%. EBRD, Delegation of the European Union such as testing their entrepreneurial skills, rising stars. Coupled with other relevant to Turkey, Ministry of Labor and Social exercises for developing business ideas products and services offered together For extending these loans, funds from Security of the Republic of Turkey and and creativity, market research, production, with financing, this program contributes international financial institutions such Turkish Employment Agency extending management and financial plans. The to the sustainability and growth of female as European Bank for Reconstruction financial and technical support to facilitate attendees received certificates at the end businesses. Under the program, female and Development and Overseas Private female entrepreneurs’ access to finances of training. entrepreneurship loans are extended to: Investment Corporation, which provide and render them more competitive. funding for female entrepreneurs, are also Frankfurt School of Economics provides used in addition to the Bank’s resources. consultancy support to the Bank for the (See International Funds for a Sustainable purposes of the program. The Bank’s current Future) status regarding female businesses was 1 46 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1, G4-FS7 47 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking For Our Customers ▶ Commercial/Corporate Banking in 2015 Financing Renewable Energy Projects 607 MW installed power İşbank supports low-carbon economy through the funds 43 number of renewable energy it provides to renewable projects energy projects. 810.3 The share of İşbank attaches great importance to the renewable energy economic, social and environmental impact million of its efforts when financing the energy projects in total USD sector. In terms of credit risk, renewable energy projects energy projects constitute 45% of the total portfolio 45% energy projects portfolio. Solely considering the production projects portfolio, the share Supporting renewable energy projects not of renewable energy projects in risk balance only improves energy supply to meet the Number Loan Amount Installed Power stands at 58%. constantly increasing energy demand of the USD million MW country but also reduces carbon emissions in favor of an environmentally-friendly energy production process. 2 Geothermal 513.0 356 The share of renewable energy In 2015, İşbank extended a total loan projects in amount of USD 810.3 million to 43 7 Wind 121.7 96 renewable energy projects with a total production projects installed power capacity of 607 MW. The portfolio projects financed in 2015 include 29 solar 5 Hydro 104.0 95 58% power plants (SPP), 7 wind power plants (WPP), 5 hydroelectric power plants (HEPP) and 2 geothermal power plants (GPP). 29 Solar 71.6 60 48 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-4, G4-8, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-FS8 49 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our Customers For Our Customers ▶ International Funds for a Sustainable Future International Funds for a International Financial Institution Date of Signature Amount Maturity (years) Purpose of Extending Loans Sustainable Future European Investment Bank (EIB) 30.10.2015 $221,200,000 10 Financing SMES and businesses with 250 3,000 employees European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 30.03.2015 $60,000,000 7 Financing energy efficiency projects for residential (EBRD) buildings European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 30.03.2015 $15,000,000 15 Financing energy efficiency projects for residential (EBRD) buildings European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 30.03.2015 $55,000,000 5 Financing female entrepreneurs (EBRD) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 19.12.2014 $12,500,000 5 Financing female entrepreneurs Cooperation with international The following table provides details İşbank considers its financial institutions stably on the agreements İşbank signed with (EBRD) cooperation with continued in 2015. In 2015, the Bank international financial institutions in the last European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 19.12.2014 $90,000,000 5 Financing energy efficiency projects signed loan agreements with international three years in order to finance sustainability (EBRD) international financial financial institutions amounting to USD and sustainable development projects in 351.2 million with a focus on sustainability Turkey. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 19.12.2014 $25,000,000 5 Financing of working capital and investments in institutions to be a and sustainable development. Loans under (EBRD) agricultural sector milestone for investing in these agreements are extended in order to meet the funding needs of smalland Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) 10.12.2014 $220,000,000 14 Financing SMEs and female entrepreneurs the future. medium-size enterprises including female European Investment Bank (EIB) 09.05.2014 €200,000,000 10 Financing of the loans to be extended to residential businesses and those businesses operating buildings that fall into the scope of Law No. 6306 and in priority development cities and to finance conform to the EIB criteria, in order to improve earthquake renewable energy and energy efficiency safety and energy efficiency in residential buildings projects. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 18.12.2013 €50,000,000 12 Financing energy efficiency and renewable energy projects (EBRD) Funds from international financial institutions are used to support European Investment Bank (EIB) 04.12.2013 €150,000,000 8 Financing SMES and businesses with 250 3,000 entrepreneurs and thus contribute to employees projects that will strengthen Turkey’s future. Therefore, collaboration with international KfW 01.10.2013 €17,640,000 3.5 Financing small-size enterprises in 49 provinces of Turkey financial institutions maintains its European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 09.05.2013 €25,000,000 7 Financing female businesses significance for İşbank. (EBRD) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 09.05.2013 €15,000,000 7 Financing energy efficiency projects (EBRD) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 09.05.2013 €10,000,000 7 Financing of working capital and investments in (EBRD) agricultural sector Proparco 01.03.2013 €50,000,000 10 Financing of loans extended to residential buildings conforming to domestic energy efficiency criteria in Turkey 50 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Indirect Economic Impacts, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-FS8 51 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our World For Our World For Our World ▶ Loan Evaluation Process – ERET Environmental and Social Risks Project's ERET Category Minimum Liabilities As an integral part of İşbank's diverse customer portfolio covering Loan Evaluation scoring. Outcomes of the ERET model are C Checking environmental permissions and approvals every field and every segment of the classified into 4 categories as A, B+, Band İşbank's deep-rooted economy enriches the Bank while increasing Process – ERET C, with category A indicating the most risky BMeasures pertaining to the control and management of the Bank's environmental and social risks projects while category C refers to the environmental risks in addition to C liabilities corporate culture, respect simultaneously. Financed projects, potential In the lending process, İşbank systematically least risky projects. Monitoring methods for environmental risk and environmental measures and evaluates the possible assigned to projects also vary in line with B+ Structured processes (Environmental and Social Management for nature, the society and pollution arising from climate change environmental and social impacts of the these categories. Detailed Environmental Plan) regarding the control and management of environmental human beings is the source pose financial risks for İşbank due to all kinds of negative impact they may have projects it will finance. and Social Management Plans are prepared to minimize risks inherent to projects and risks in addition to Bliabilities of the Bank's sense of on people in the area as well as having The new projects by corporate customers project owners are expected to comply A Preparing the detailed Environmental and Social Evaluation Report and appointing an Environmental Advisor in addition the potential to give rise to consequences that are evaluated within project financing with the measures specified in these plans. responsibility. that may affect the Bank's reputation. and apply for loans with a value of more Environmental and Social Management to Bliabilities Therefore, both environmental and social than USD 10 million are included in the Plans involve actions on compliance with risks are evaluated meticulously through evaluation and monitoring system of the international standards and best practices various processes as part of İşbank's risk Environmental and Social Management beyond the requirements of legislation and management approach. Team. Such projects are evaluated under the compliance of investor companies with 26 different headings through a special these plans are guaranteed through loan İşbank reflects its environmental and environmental and social risk measurement agreements. social awareness in internal operations model called the Environmental and Social and lending processes via miscellaneous Risk Evaluation Tool (ERET). During the The minimum liabilities for each project practices and mechanisms. evaluation process, each project is given a in line with the ERET risk category are score in consideration of factors such as provided below: the risk factors, probability/frequency and manageability of risks. In 2015, the model was rendered richer through the addition of new criteria focusing on social impact. Each project is assigned an appropriate action plan in line with the risk category calculated automatically at the end of 54 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Energy, G4-EN4, G4-DMA: Water, G4-DMA: Emissions, G4-DMA: Effluents and Waste, G4-DMA: Products and Services, G4-DMA: Overall, G4-2, G4-DMA: Compliance, 55 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN29, G4-DMA: Marketing Communications, G4-EC2, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-EN27, G4-DMA: Investment, G4-HR1 G4-SO2, G4-FS8, G4-DMA: Audit, G4-FS10, G4-FS11 For Our World ▶ Environmental and Social Risks For Our World ▶ Environmental and Social Risks In 2015, two of the projects evaluated The main commitments İşbank received via the ERET model were rejected due to from investors in order to eliminate, environmental reasons and the ERET risk minimize or compensate for the negative level breakdown of the 15 financed projects environmental and social impacts in Unfunded Planned Future are provided below. projects the Bank financed in 2015 as well as the benefits obtained are provided below. Operations Work »» To abate and offset carbon emissions, »» Commitments are made to ensure that In the delivery of all products and services, There are plans to expand the scope C afforestation efforts were carried out, indigenous species are preferred fluids extracted in geothermal projects are absolutely re-injected to protect İşbank acts in compliance with the legislation and regulations in Turkey and the of İşbank's Environmental and Social Management process. Primarily, the project 0% Bwhile planting trees, trees are carried to appropriate spaces in the project surface water as well as to reserve the quality and sustainability and to international agreements to which Turkey is a party. Under the İşbank Exclusion loan demands of commercial customers which are not classified in the scope of site as much as possible and endemic prevent negative impacts through the List , İşbank monitors the operations project financing are intended for inclusion 10.1% species are protected. use of tailing impoundments during the that are prohibited and restricted by the in evaluation. A testing stage. national legislation and/or the international »» Investors are asked to prioritize the agreements to which Turkey is a party 35.5% negotiated purchasing of land, prepare »» Instruments such as stakeholder and turns down loan applications for a resettlement plan and develop participation plan and complaints such operations without giving them any compensatory and income-generating mechanism are devised and employed consideration. Furthermore, hydroelectric 54.4% social responsibility projects. in order to consider the project-related views of employees, locals and other power plant projects with an installed power of less than 25 MW are not evaluated »» Additional work such as cumulative stakeholders and eliminate their since they cause severe harm to nature B+ impact analysis and ecosystem analysis is carried out while paying discomfort. and restrict access to water resources in the geographical areas where they are special attention to the taking of Compliance of companies with the developed. ERET Category Distribution additional measures to this end in project-based Environmental and environmental and social management Social Management Plans and the said (Percentile in the Scaled plans. commitments are monitored through Portfolio According to Financing regular field visits during both construction Environmental and Social Impacts Amount in 2015) »» Required plans and assignments and operation stages. Warning notices are Policy and the accompanying Exclusion on occupational health and safety issued to non-compliant companies. List of İşbank are available at İşbank are prepared, implemented and website. meticulously monitored. 56 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 57 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Audit, G4-FS10 For Our World For Our World TEMA Foundation Paper Paperless Recycling Project Banking İşbank adopts the paperless banking approach in its internal practices. The Bank relies on the paperless »» Content and design work to reduce improvement of about 7% is expected in the banking approach to mitigate the the Banking Services Agreement to 5 archives of branches. İşbank has collaborated with Since 2012, a total of 896 tons of paper direct and indirect negative impact pages from 30 pages is still going on. TEMA Foundation to alleviate the has been sent for recycling and 8,968 on the environment. The Bank enriches Calculations indicate that TL 511 thousand operational workload caused by saplings have been planted within the its paperless banking practices each and will be saved from every 1 million Planned the destruction of paper wastes in framework of the project. The amount of every day, making use of all possibilities agreement printed in branches and TL 521 individual branches and to provide paper wastes donated in 2014 and 2015 offered by technology. thousand will be saved from every 1 million Future Work a proper system for paper disposal increased by 36% in comparison to the agreement printed in the head office. practices. A project has been prepared two previous years and reached a total of »» In order to encourage the reduction of İşbank shows effort to reduce printed with TEMA regarding the disposal 516,800 kg. Donated papers enabled the unnecessary paper consumption, printed »» It is also planned that 1,980,000 pages will account statements sent to customers. of outdated documents pending for planting of 5,168 saplings comprised of documents that are produced within the be saved when foreign exchange buying The effort aims at sending via e-mail the destruction. With the project, a sapling is 2,664 saplings planted in Nicosia in North Bank but used no longer are not printed and selling documents are re-designed and credit card, overdraft account, commercial planted on behalf of İşbank for every 100 kg Cyprus and 2,504 saplings in Çanakkale anymore. Furthermore, documents eligible printed on size A5 paper. overdraft account and/or member merchant of paper donated to TEMA. Ulupınar. for electronic use are not printed anymore, account statements that are currently either, with their electronic versions made In addition to primary efforts to reduce sent to customers in print although these This practice eliminated previous methods available on the Bank’s portal. paper consumption, work on physical customers have their e-mail addresses 36% which were not environmentally friendly archive management to apply in the Bank registered in the Bank’s system. The such as the incineration of outdated »» İşbank also provides employees with as a whole is under way. This will enable project will both lead to paper savings and documents, thus contributing not only to access, on its intranet page, to the processes such as following up, requesting, increased operational efficiency. paper recycling but also to afforestation electronic version of the Technical Subjects sending and destroying documents in the efforts in our country thanks to the saplings Book Set, which is comprised of 5 books physical archive to be performed by the planted for the purposes of the project. and sent to each branch, region and head Physical Archive Management Application The amount of paper wastes office division one set during exam periods to be used by the Head Office divisions donated in 2014 and 2015 in order for employees to take the internal and branches. Furthermore, banking exams to study. The book set is no longer services agreements and information increased by 36% in comparison sent to the libraries of branches, regions forms signed by customers and delivered to the two previous years and and the head office in hard copies. On to branches by couriers will be stored in reached a total of 516,800 kg the other hand, the book sets are still the physical archives of Tuzla Technology forwarded to employees in hard copies if and Operations Center rather than they specifically place a request for printed branches. This practice is projected to versions. increase operational efficiency and bring along workforce savings. Moreover, an 58 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN7, G4-EN31, G4-FS8 59 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN7, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 For Our World For Our World ▶ Efficiency Efforts Efficiency Efforts İşbank optimizes resource In 2015, İşbank carried out various Efficiency Practices in system, with the air being taken through Efficiency work at branches are extended »» High-efficiency equipment and efforts in terms of efficiency. double filters to ensure the most efficient over time. In this framework, LED lighting materials are preferred during the utilization through the Efficiency work is delivered through Service Buildings ventilation system and adjust the outdoor fixtures, water-saving faucets and Class selection of all technical equipment renovation efforts in currently-used air rate for each person in a way to provide A air conditioning systems with highly and machinery. efficiency practices it has buildings as well as preferring practices İşbank Head Office Tower 1 (Head Office optimal comfort. The outdoor air rate at the efficient inverter technology are used in all »» Lighting system is supported by that will minimize environmental impact Building) in Levent, Istanbul, has BREEAM Head Office Building is above the European renovated or new branches. daylight sensors. Furthermore, LED developed and delivers and ensure energy efficiency during the In-use Excellent certificate. and American standards defined in ASHRAE lighting fixtures are used at points of its operations to achieve construction of the data center that will be commissioned. The Head Office Building incorporates 62-2004 Standard. The system functions on a minimum fresh air of 30%. A large Tuzla Technology and concentrated usage such as offices to minimize power consumption. efficiency and profitability. an advanced building automation system portion of heat in the air coming out of the as well as heating, air conditioning and system is recovered and fed into the system Operations Center ventilation systems. The advanced building through heat recovery devices to ensure automation system features smart maximum comfort and consume minimum (TUTOM) detectors with microprocessors which energy. automatically start working in cases such Tuzla Technology and Operations Center as fires, breakdowns and short circuits in Environmentally-friendly refrigerant gases (TUTOM)1, İşbank’s new operations center addition to the fire detection and alarm that do not cause any harm to ozone layer launched in the last quarter of 2015, is a mechanism comprising a self-activated are used in the cooling systems at the Head campus designed in consideration of energy digital announcement system in cases of Office Building. Furthermore, moisturizing efficiency and equipped with smart building emergency. 15,000 separate points within units that increase comfort are deployed in technologies. the building are checked separately for air conditioning systems. factors such as temperature and humidity TUTOM is designed under a green building to ensure maximum ambient comfort and Lighting systems are digitally turned off vision and is expected to get a LEED v3 operational power economy in offices. from the building automation center at Gold certificate. At TUTOM, pre-set time frames and can be turned on Automatic, computer-controlled air by employees using local keys out of the »» All air conditioning plants in offices has conditioners on office floors adjust the working hours. Special care is given to using the heat recovery feature. ambient temperature to secure optimum the LED technology in the lighting system »» Rain water is collected and used in comfort. Air quality sensors perform during comprehensive renovation work at garden irrigation and toilets. measurements in the building automation the Head Office Building. 1 TUTOM is leased by İşbank from İş REIT. 60 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN6, G4-EN19, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 61 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For Our World ▶ Efficiency Efforts For Our World ▶ Efficiency Efforts The New Meeting Model: Video Teleconferences TL 3,843,132 The savings amount created ATLAS Project through the meetings held on 4 new TelePresence devices are purpose and reduce carbon footprint due increased by about 20% while the use of the WebEx platform A decision was made to renew İşbank data comissioned and 3 old-generation to travels following the moving of some TelePresence more than doubled. center considering the recent technological 5,010,509 TelePresence devices are reactivated to divisions from the Head Office Building developments, needs and environmental make video teleconferencing possible in to TUTOM. Video teleconferencing has factors. Launched in order to enforce this order to reduce costs of traveling between become significantly common after TUTOM decision, the ATLAS Project involved the the Head Office and TUTOM for internal building became operational. In 2015, the construction of a new data center and the meetings, prevent time loss for this use of WebEx, an online meeting platform, TL moving of the current data center at the Head Office Building to this new center. The savings amount created through the meetings held The project prioritizes energy efficiency TelePresence Usage (2015) Webex Usage (2015) and resource efficiency as well as resource via TelePresence technology recycling practices. The data center is 25.000 specially designed in consideration of 20.000 energy efficiency and is expected to Total reduce power loss rates. In addition to 15.000 Time In 2015, a total of 1,683 meetings were all operational and security capabilities (min) 10.000 held on the WebEx platform, creating a it has, the new data center building is 5.000 savings amount of TL 3,843,132 when designed as a highly energy efficient and compared to holding these meetings environmentally sensitive structure in 0 physically. In addition, a total of 2,428 consideration of the LEED Gold certificate meetings held via TelePresence technology standards. Furthermore, the building is 500 brought along a savings amount of TL expected to qualify for the LEED v4 Gold 400 5,010,509. certificate, which will be issued for a data center for the first time in Turkey, in Number of 300 addition to Uptime Institute Tier IV Design, Meetings 200 Tier IV Facility and Tier IV Gold Operational Sustainability certificates. 100 0 January March May July September November January January March May July September November January 62 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN31 63 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For our Employees For our Employees For our Employees ▶ İşbank Human Resources Policy İşbank Human Resources Policy İşbank not only updates its policies and business processes to maintain the quality of work at all times, increase employees’ motivation, and improve operational and economic efficiency but also continuously renovates and improves the physical infrastructure of the Head Office, branches and technical services. Considering all efforts to this end as an investment From compensation policies enters into force in line with a Board of March 31, 2016 and the process for a new Occupational Health As of the end of 2015, the representation into the future, İşbank seeks to fulfill Directors Resolution and covers the Bank’s Collective Bargaining Agreement to apply rate of İşbank’s total human resources in the requirements of time from both the to recruitment processes, managers and employees at all levels. At from April 1, 2016 is now under way. and Safety Practices OHS Committees stood at 30%. Systematic technological and humanitarian points of İşbank, it is essential that the compensation risk analyses for occupational health and view and offer its employees a sustainable İşbank adopts an egalitarian of employees is determined in compliance Under the Collective Bargaining Agreement Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) is a safety are performed at all buildings where working environment where labor peace reigns. and anti-discrimination with the ethical values, internal balances and strategic objectives of the Bank and in signed with BASISEN, employees enjoy healthcare assistance as per the principles matter İşbank handles with due diligence regarding its employees, whom the Bank employees are assigned. Improvement measures covering all employees are attitude in all human relation to İşbank’s long-term performance. laid down in the Implementing Regulation considers to be a family. To İşbank, the taken on the basis of findings from risk İşbank also endeavors to create a modern It is the Remuneration Committee under on Healthcare Assistance at İşbank. Bank’s OHS efforts are not merely legal assessment efforts. working environment where human rights resources practices. the Board of Directors that is responsible obligations but important arrangements are respected, and social justice and for roles and operations regarding the to prevent occupational accidents and Regular trainings within the Bank serve as employee rights constantly improve. Having The equality approach of İşbank is monitoring and auditing of remuneration diseases and establish an occupational a means to continuously improve the OHS a widespread network of branches, İşbank shaped by a vision that involves senior practices. health and safety culture within the Bank. awareness of employees. In 2015, 1,595 attaches great importance to regional management as well as all employees. employees attended in-class Occupational recruitment in all locations it serves. Adopting the principle of transparency in İşbank acknowledges its employees’ Human Resources Management Division Health and Safety Trainings totaling 6,380 human resources practices, İşbank shares freedom of association and right to is responsible for compliance with OHS hours. In addition, all employees were basic processes such as recruitment, collective bargaining, thus setting a legislation and for the efforts to give provided with 4 hours of OHS e-training. performance and career management, precedent in Turkey. İşbank employees occupational health and safety culture 2,502 employees completed a total of management of employee personal rights are members of the Union of Banking, within the Bank a more common basis. 10,008-hours e-training on Occupational and resignation with employees in an upFinance and Insurance Workers (BASISEN). To plan and coordinate the OHS activities Health and Safety. to-date, open and clear manner. The Bank A Collective Bargaining Agreement is at İşbank, the Bank established an stands against all kinds of discrimination signed between the Bank and BASISEN Occupational Health and Safety Unit that in recruitment and employment processes every two years. The financial and social reports directly to the Directorate General. and supports all relevant initiatives in the rights of employees are determined under Moreover, Occupational Health and Safety business world. the Collective Bargaining Agreement Committees are established in 27 buildings in consideration of market conditions. where more than 50 employees work. In The compensation of employees is Compensation upon recruitment is set addition, occupational safety experts and performed in line with the Bank’s equally on the basis of business titles and occupational physicians are employed at Remuneration Policy, a product of the without discriminating genders. The current the Head Office building and the buildings equality vision. The Remuneration Policy Collective Bargaining Agreement expired on where OHS Committees are established. 66 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-11, G4-51, G4-52, G4-54, G4-55, G4-EC3, G4-DMA: Market Presence, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-LA2, G4-LA4, G4-DMA: Diversity and Equal Opportunity, G4-DMA: Equal 67 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Occupational Health and Safety, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 Remuneration for Women and Men, G4-LA13, G4-DMA: Non Discrimination, G4-HR3, G4-DMA: Freedom of Associaton and Collective Bargaining, G4-HR4 For our Employees For our Employees ▶ Constant Interaction with Employees Constant Interaction with Employees Employee Negative Feedback Feedback Line is accessible online on the Events for In 2015, İşbank maintained its policy to İşbank also holds sports events for Bank’s system and enables the Bank to support events to increase the motivation employees to reinforce the feeling of “us” Satisfaction Surveys Line make room for its employees to submit all Employees and engagement of employees. among its employees. The Bank encourages issues without any concerns, including but its employees to participate in team İşbank employs systematic surveys to Interacting with employees is of great not limited to reporting breaches regarding Under the Human Resources practices, sports organizations within and outside regularly measure employee engagement significance to İşbank. The Bank provides acts that they consider to be suspicious İşbank holds events and activities to: the Bank, thus contributing to uniting and satisfaction as well as human resources employees with an opportunity to give or misconduct as well as their opinions İşbank aims to strengthen »» Strengthen the sense of belonging, its human resources for a common cause. To practices and employees’ satisfaction with feedback on their opinions and complaints on points to improve. Issues raised by strongest cultural trait, this end, the tournament now called “İş’te managers. Measurement results are used through various complaint and grievance employees on the Negative Feedback Line the feeling of “us” and »» Improve its brand perception as the Turnuva”, which originally started back in for efforts to improve human resources practices and guide managers on their mechanisms. Employees are able to convey their opinions and demands on personal can only be seen by a limited number of senior managers defined in the system. employee motivation preferred employer, »» Increase employee motivation. 1974 with football games played on soil, hosts basketball, women’s volleyball, men’s personal and managerial development. issues such as family and health via the Negative Feedback Line is a communication through various events for volleyball, chess, tennis and table tennis First launched in 2009, the survey was Human Resources Information System. All channel where the privacy and Based on this vision, “İş Theater games and continues to grow further each conducted for a seventh time in 2015. complaints, opinions and suggestions by the confidentiality of the reporting employee employees. Community” has been established to use year. In 2015, 1,264 athletes in 7 branches employees represent significant feedback are given utmost care while the issue raised the artistic activities İşbank employees attended “İş’te Turnuva”. The closing in terms of the Bank’s decision-making is being assessed. Employees reporting to pursue outside the office as a uniting ceremony for the tournament was held at processes. the Negative Feedback Line in good faith element and strengthen sense of corporate Çamlıca facility with the participation of the never experience a negative treatment for belonging. The Community continued to families of athletes as well as employees. Negative Feedback Line is an important such reporting. stage plays in the 2015 season. In 2015, communication channel based on the the play named “Spring Equinox”, an Sports events boosting the spirit of unity of mutual trust between employees and the adaptation of William Shakespeare’s “A the workforce are also facilitated through Bank. Negative Feedback Line allows Midsummer Night’s Dream”, was staged Corporate Teams. In 2015, İşbank Men’s for the reporting of violations identified seven times, with the proceeds from ticket Volleyball Team played in Fonex Corporate in relation to all legislation, principles, sales being donated to charities. The League of Men’s Volleyball for the first policies and procedures from İşbank’s staging of the play will continue in 2016. time and ranked the third to win the banking practices to service delivery, ethical bronze medal. The corporate tennis team principles to policies and procedures as competed in Istanbul Tennis Champions well as the reporting of deficiencies to Cup and ranked the third in overall rankings. correct, change or improve in relation to the The chess team participated in Corporate field of operations of the Bank. Negative Games-Istanbul for the third time and won 68 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms, G4-57, G4-58, G4-LA16, G4-DMA: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms, G4-HR12 69 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For our Employees ▶ Constant Interaction with Employees For our Employees İşbank: The Bank Revealing the Potential of Employees the title. The chess team also won the 2015 during the closing ceremony for İş’te Assessing scorecards is conducted by assessment championship title in the 9th Interbank Turnuva. Around 800 guests attended the managers at the beginning of the Chess Tournament by TCMB (Central Bank concert that the Turkish Folk Music choir Employee performance period over the goals which of the Republic of Turkey). The Bank’s perfomed at İş Sanat (İş Art) stage at the are set in compliance with the terms of football, basketball and women’s volleyball end of 2015. Performance reference of employees and are shared teams represented İşbank in various with the employees before being defined corporate organizations. Performance Management Practices at in the system. Out of 22,457 employees İşbank aim at measuring the contribution of for whom performance assessments were Attaching significant importance to adding employees to business outcomes as well as completed in 2015, 11,187 (50%) were value to the social lives of its employees, revealing their strengths, points to improve male and 11,270 (50%) were female. Out İşbank organizes campaigns offering and potential talent. In line with this of the said 22,457 employees, 9,517 (42%) various privileges and advantages to the understanding, Performance Management held supervisor and managerial titles while Bank’s employees at contracted merchants Practices cover planning, monitoring and 12,940 (58%) held other titles. and also holds “Hobby Workshops”. In feedback activities throughout the year. January and June 2015, various workshops Performance measurement supports At İşbank, a “Sample Set of Goals” are were announced to employees. personal and professional development and prepared with the business units and thus contributes to improving employee shared with all employees each year in In addition to sports and theater events motivation and engagement. order to guide managers in setting the for employees, İşbank Turkish Folk Music goals and make sure the right goals are choir is established in 2015. The choir held At İşbank, employee performance is targeted for the right positions. Employees its first concert at Çamlıca facility in June assessed once a year on the basis of have access to articles, presentations and competencies set in line with business other supporting documents to improve titles and of goals measuring contribution the efficiency of performance assessment to business outcomes. On the other hand, process on the “Employee Assessment performance scorecards produced via the Platform” available on the Bank’s corporate balanced scorecard method constitute portal. the basis of managers’ performance assessment. Performance assessment of employees having titles that are not associated with any performance 70 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 71 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-LA11 For our Employees ▶ İşbank: The Bank Revealing the Potential of Employees For our Employees Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents Assessing Manager Since its establishment, İşbank has been Through the wide range of of the Bank’s corporate culture. In this appointing employees rising through the framework, employees find the opportunity Performance ranks at all executive positions. At İşbank, trainings it offers, İşbank to attend various career trainings as well executives are not appointed from outside as academy programs designed in line with the Bank. Successfully sustained thanks aims to improve and business needs. In line with the training It is an essential element of to the planning and development of the support employees’ talents requests from employees, the Bank enables workforce on a long-term and strategic employees to have access to a diverse İşbank’s culture to ensure approach and constantly improved, this within an understanding of range of learning opportunities via online culture allows the future middle and senior platforms such as “Training Catalogue” the Bank’s managers rise managers of the Bank to rise through the “continuous learning”. and “Development Campus” and plans its through the ranks. The Bank ranks. activities in a way to satisfy the training İşbank considers training activities needs of its employees. considers this tradition Each year, İşbank’s senior management to be precious, since the Bank Total Training reviews all data and information on believes each employee is a “talent”. In previous years, the Bank received the Hours per Person to be an investment 26.4 managers (performance assessment of In training and development activities, BEST 2014 award, one of the world’s in the future of both managers, assessment results in reports on managers issued by the Board of Inspectors, İşbank aims to improve and support employees’ talents within an understanding respected training awards for corporations given by The Association for Talent the employees and the administrative resolutions, information on of “continuous learning” in order to Development (ATD), thanks to its efforts rewards and fines, employee satisfaction maintain the Bank’s leading role and values to improve the continuous learning culture organization. survey results, goal accomplishment rates, in the sector. Convinced that investing in within the organization and its innovative performance scorecard results, loan risk the future is only possible through investing applications creating a difference in the Men hours assessments, and so on) obtained from in employees, İşbank positions a peoplefield of training. 22.9 various sources and an annual assessment oriented approach in the heart of its is performed. training design processes. In 2015, total training hours per person stood at 24.6 hours. Total training hours per İşbank offers its employees various learning person is affected by the training received and development opportunities throughout by the private security personnel. their careers within the perspective of “continuous development”, a concept hours Women that has already become an integral part 72 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 73 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Training and Education, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-HR2, G4-SO4 For our Employees ▶ Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents For our Employees ▶ Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents İşbank supports training opportunities with distance learning applications. Planned Future Activities İşbank complements in-class training In 2015, 62 different e-trainings were Mentor, the distant learning tool of the that integrates various development Supporting the making of more accurate events with alternative development tools delivered to employees, with the 141 Manager school, throughout the year. approaches to prepare them for decisions through the current technology and ensures that development continues videos available on “İştube” and around the managerial positions they are and analysis methods and attaining on various platforms via corporate tube 20,000 employees viewing the videos. The Development »» The Bank also collaborated with candidates for. innovation that will create added value are (”İştube”) and corporate wiki (”İşpedia”) number of employees logging into İştube Boğaziçi University to launch the only possible through end-to-end analysis applications as well as online books, online for the first time was 5,945 in 2015. Total Programs “Marketing Academy” in order to »» Open for the participation of of large and varied data. In this framework, guides, e-games and regular information number of views increased by 38% on a bring in a management perspective both branch managers and Head İşbank plans to launch a development e-mails. year-on-year basis and stood at around 73 A far-reaching leadership culture focusing as an important element of the Bank’s Office managers, “İşbank Series of program that focuses on application thousand. on “continuous development” is significant strategy and promote marketing Management Development Seminars” of information and data analytics in terms of sustaining İşbank’s competitive information to managers. bring together experts from Turkey and differentiated on the basis of roles in order power in the banking and finance sector. the world with the Bank’s managers to to improve the competencies of the Bank in Current executives and executive candidates »» The “Development Academy” is exchange their opinions. the field of Data Analytics . are supported with different and structured designed and launched in order to 62 141 instruments in order to establish such a equip the Head Office managers with These seminars equip participants with In 2016, İşbank will start delivering training culture and entrust it to the next generation of a branch perspective and contribute different sets of knowledge and skills in the events at the new TUTOM Training Center. executives to position İşbank’s leadership as a to an improved quality of service to face of challenges they will encounter in The new training campus will offer a modern brand. branches as well as to branch empathy the business world. This makes a positive learning medium to support new generation at the Head Office. contribution to the leadership skills and learning opportunities. It will host İşbank Under the Leadership and Management managerial abilities of managers and employees in Life Workshop halls where different videos Development, processes and development »» Regarding field management, an potential managers as well as setting the employees will have fun while learning and e-trainings programs varying in line with the target orientation and development program basis for establishing networks among in Training Branch halls where employees audience are applied. to support the executives, who are participants working in different branches, will have branch experience without actually first-time branch managers, in their cities and markets. The exchange platforms assuming their roles. In parallel with the reached around 20,000 »» İşbank collaborates with the Harvard career development and prepare them created by such network of relations allow change in the in-class training concept, the Business School (HBS), one of the most for business and processes stipulated for the sectoral know-how to be delivered infrastructure of the portal where employees prestigious business schools in the world by their new terms of reference is into the organization of the Bank, the access learning opportunities will be and enables Division Heads to attend the implemented. On the other hand, managers of which has historically come up renewed and it will be equipped with a level “HBS Advanced Management Program”. the submanagers at branches, who through the ranks, creating in return a of quality that will enable Bank employees Furthermore, all requesting managers serve as potential branch managers, positive impact to improve the efficiency of to access new generation learning tools employees can have access to the Harvard Manage are offered a development program general ways of doing business. wherever and whenever they wish. 74 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 75 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society For the Society For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility İşbank continues to invest Social Responsibility create social added value in 2015. Viewing İşbank’s Corporate Our Mission Our Priorities social responsibility related activities as a Contribute to social progress through social In line with the current needs of our in the future of society Approach Based on way to intelligently contribute to the future Social Responsibility responsibility activities structured in a country and our people, İşbank attaches through corporate social Creation of Lasting of Turkish society, İşbank undertook efforts in this area under the guidance of the Approach long-lasting, far-reaching and sustainable framework. priority to the following fields in its social responsibility initiatives: responsibility projects Corporate Social Responsibility Committee »» education that it considers as an Value and the supervision of the Board of Our Strategy »» environment Directors. İşbank’s corporate social responsibility »» arts and culture activities are carried out in accordance with integral part of its principal Pursuant to the planning completed by the The İşbank Corporate Social Responsibility a strategy molded at the center of the basic operations. Social Responsibility Committee, which Committee; principles spelled out below2: operates under the Board of Directors, »» determines policies, »» contribute to the advancement of our İşbank carried on the projects that create »» evaluates demands, project proposals country’s people and to enhance their social added value in 2015. and terms of contribution, quality of living, »» creates success and supervision »» aim to preserve and further the social İşbank, which maintains a highly criteria, and values created by the Republic, reputable corporate culture in line with »» monitors the results. »» support bringing up generations that the principles of the Republic of Turkey, espouse the principles of Atatürk, and views corporate social responsibility which will play a role in advancing our activities as inseparable from the Bank’s society to the level of contemporary main business activities. The Bank closely civilization, follows society’s needs and expectations, »» provide opportunities for the progress of ranging from culture to arts, and thereby Turkish art and culture, and to promote continues with its social responsibility the same across the world, efforts in a long-term, integrated, wide»» bring our people together with world art ranging, and sustainable fashion. Pursuant and culture, to the planning completed by the Social »» undertake a pioneering role in 2 The principles set out under the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which operates protecting the environment and raising Responsibility Implementation Guidelines released under the Board of Directors, the Bank environmental awareness among people. by the İşbank Board of Directors resolution dated implemented projects and initiatives that November 7th, 2007 and numbered 33785 78 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-DMA: Local Communities, G4-SO1, G4-FS13 79 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility İşbank’s efforts in the areas of İşbank encourages interaction with education, environment, art and culture stakeholders through the social continued in 2015. responsibility activities it conducts. Education Chess The Main Sponsor of Turkish Chess Main Sponsor of Northern Cyprus Issuing Chess License Cards at İşbank Federation Chess Federation Branches To transform chess into a common, mass Following the completion of İşbank's 10th In parallel with the main sponsorship of Licenses allocated to players by TCF have and easily accessible sport in the country, year as the main sponsor of TCF, the TCF, İşbank became the sponsor of the form and features of Bankamatik cards İşbank collaborated with the Turkish Chess »» the number of licensed chess players Northern Cyprus Chess Federation (KKSF) in since 2007 in order to establish a prospective Federation (TCF) in December 2005 and increased to 629,931 from 30,000, 2013 to pursue the same goals. Following relationship with players and their families became a sponsor for chess across Turkey. »» the number of chess coaches rose to the sponsorship agreement, chess earned under the support extended to chess. License 75,863 from 2,000, itself a place in primary schools in the TRNC cards allocated are: The sponsorship process initially aimed »» the number of chess tournaments one day a week as an educational branch. »» Electron Bankamatik Card for players at popularizing chess specifically among increased to 4,260 from 400, over 18, children, transforming it into an easily »» and the number of chess clubs rose to Establishing İşbank Chess Classes in »» Maestro “First Signature” Bankamatik accessible sport, eliminating issues 2,104 from 600. Primary and Secondary Schools Card for players between 12 and 18, regarding chess training, transforming it Chess classes are established at schools »» and non-magnetic, plastic cards for into a popular and in-demand sport and The number of medals won in international in order to make chess a more accessible players under 12. improving success in this field by accessing tournaments stood at 312. sport in primary and secondary schools, to a higher number of skilled children. encourage children to play chess, to attract Playchess.com So far, teachers' and parents' attention to this In 2008, İşbank entered into a collaboration »» 15 world championship titles, 25 world sport and to eliminate any lack of materials with Playchess, the world’s largest online runner-up titles and 28 world thirdin schools with limited opportunities. chess platform with some 250,000 registered place titles, users. As a result, the content on the website »» 44 European championship titles, 43 In 2015, 3,000 chess classes were opened was translated into Turkish and the site European second-place titles and 39 and the total number of chess classes in became accessible through tsf.org.tr. European third-place titles schools reached 14,841. have been won. More than 7,000 licensed chess players who log on to Playchess.com from Turkey can now play online chess via the website, free-ofcharge. 80 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 81 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility For the Society İşbank Chess Festival for Children Turkish Youth Chess Championship “81 Students from 81 Cities” One Million Books, One The 8th of the campaign was held at the Book Donations to Schools Under 8 (U18) Project Million Children Campaign end of the 2014-2015 education year, with and Public Libraries To present children with an entertaining Turkish Youth Chess Championship (U18) Under a mission to ensure “equal At the end of the 2007-2008 education a total of 10 million books being rendered As a part of the Bank's corporate social environment they can enjoy with their was held in Konya in 2015. 296 young opportunities in education”, Darüşşafaka year, İşbank launched the “One Million accessible for children. responsibility initiatives in education, İşbank families, “İşbank Chess Festival for Children chess players, ages 13-18, from 37 cities Society offers full scholarships for high Books, One Million Children” campaign, one donates books published by the İş Bankası Under 8” has been held every year since in Turkey and the TRNC participated in the quality and contemporary education in its of the most significant book campaigns For the purposes of the project, books were Kültür Yayınları publishing house to schools 2006, following the end of academic year. championship. boarding schools providing education from organized so far in Turkey. gifted to children who brought their school and public libraries around Turkey. In 2015, the fifth grade up to high school graduation reports to İşbank branches in Turkey, TRNC, more than 12 thousand books were donated The Festival has also been organized in İşbank Chess League for children in need who have lost one or The campaign aims to: Georgia, Iraq, England and Kosovo as well to 1,289 schools and libraries. Ankara and Izmir every year since 2014 Chess games continued in the İşbank both of their parents. as İşbank Germany and İşbank Russia. As thanks to the huge interest it has received. Turkish Chess League. In the 2014-2015 »» Support the development of children’s it had been the case in previous years, a Golden Youth Awards Furthermore, for the first time in 2015, the season, Beşiktaş Gymnastics Club won In the 2008-2009 education year, İşbank cognitive and cultural skills, certain number of books were printed in Every year since 1971, a number of festival was also organized in the TRNC. the championship title in the İşbank Chess collaborated with Darüşşafaka to launch »» Support the emergence of a curious Braille for visually handicapped children students equal to the age of the Bank who A total of 726 little players attended the League. the project “81 Students from 81 Cities”, generation that loves reading books, and sent to the libraries of schools for are successful in the university entrance festival. one of the most comprehensive and long»» Contribute to the establishment of visually handicapped students. Furthermore, exam are awarded under the “Golden İşbank Chess League is the top flight of term education projects in the country. close communication at an early age books were gifted to students studying at Youth” program. To date, more than 3,000 Turkish Youth Chess Championship chess in our country and one of the major Each year, İşbank dedicates itself to cover between children and İşbank. Regional Boarding Secondary Schools and students have received Golden Youth (U12) leagues in Europe. all education expenses of 81 successful children living in the Homes of Affection awards. Turkish Youth Chess Championship (U12) students, one from each province, who pass affiliated to the Directorate General of was held in Manavgat, Antalya in 2015. the exam held by Darüşşafaka Education Services for Children. 1,570 players between the ages of 7 and 12 Institutions, starting from the fifth grade from Turkey’s 65 provinces as well as the until their high school graduation. Visits were paid to students who studied at TRNC attended the championship. private education centers and did not have İşbank not only extends financial support to the chance to visit İşbank branches as well these children but also contributes to their as students who had to take a break from social development through various events school to receive treatment in hospital. and activities. 82 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 83 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility Environment Art and Culture 81 Forests in 81 Cities İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project was İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları is a publishing İş Sanat Art Galleries In the 2014-2015 season, Kibele Art Gallery launched in 2008 in collaboration with house that was established in 1956 by İşbank has been opening art galleries since hosted a total of 21 thousand visitors for TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating Hasan Âli Yücel, a former Minister of 1976 to exhibit the Bank’s collection items. the exhibition “Letters from Bedri Rahmi Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Education, and continues publishing by Eyüboğlu and His Contemporaries We Protection of Natural Habitats) and Ministry providing rich content and high quality Paintings, sculptures and ceramic works Used to Write Letters” in addition to the of Forestry and Water Affairs. printing services to customers. of both masters and promising artists are retrospective exhibitions of Özdemir Altan, currently exhibited at İş Sanat Kibele and Fevzi Karakoç and Muzaffer Akyol. During The project aims at protecting the Kültür Yayınları attracts much attention İzmir Art Galleries. İşbank’s Art Collection is the same season, İzmir Art Gallery hosted environment and raising society’s and with the works, and thereby has become an expanding each and every day thanks to the 7 exhibitions displaying many works of children’s awareness on the environment. indispensable publishing house, first and works donated by artists exhibiting at the painting, printing and ceramics, all deeply Under this project, 2,205,000 saplings were foremost for researchers, but also for all Bank’s galleries. treasured and enjoyed by visitors. planted on a land of 1,500 hectares in all readers. İş Sanat Concert Hall world to get all its funding from a bank and provinces and 35,200 saplings were planted İşbank’s exhibition and performance arts be affiliated to one single institution at the on a land of 22 hectares in the TRNC. In 2015, more than 2.5 million books activities have been held under the roof same time, İş Sanat has hosted more than Expected to continue for a five-year period published by Kültür Yayınları united with the of İş Sanat since 2000. İş Sanat is a most 1 million art lovers in approximately 1,200 following the planting, maintenance efforts readers. important arts platform in Turkey, where events so far. for the planted saplings continued in 2015. leading artists from Turkey and the world The survival rate of saplings as of the end perform, children’s plays are staged, and Celebrating its 15th anniversary last of 2015 is 82%. poetry readings as well as exhibitions are season, İş Sanat held 41 concerts, 7 held. children’s events and 5 poetry readings in 2015. During the 15th season, events were İş Sanat makes efforts to take Turkey’s followed by an audience of 29 thousand artistic life forward and the events people. organized by İş Sanat are considered to be Istanbul’s most prestigious. Standing out as the only platform in Turkey and in the 84 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 85 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility For the Society ▶ Corporate Social Responsibility Mimar Sinan Fine Arts Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi cultural site in Turkey located by the banks University Laboratory of (İşbank Museum) of Birecik Dam in Nizip district of Gaziantep. Art Works Conservation and Opening its doors to visitors in November Archaeological finds from excavations are Restoration 2007, İşbank Museum tells the Bank’s deepexhibited in Zeugma Open Air Museum. Restoration efforts required for pieces from rooted corporate history as well as the The “House of Muses” founded in 2007 is the İşbank collection are carried out at story of economic development of Turkey one of the excavation sites at the Ancient the Laboratory of Art Works Conservation through documents, banking instruments, City of Zeugma, each of which is a separate and Restoration. Furthermore, 30 students communication tools, photos, advertisement project site. İşbank has considered that study at the Art Works Conservation and and promotion materials and films. The excavation work at the ancient city will Restoration BA program established in the collection at the museum is composed provide significant contributions for the university during the 2013-2014 education of three-dimensional objects which have protection of our country’s cultural heritage year. been used since the foundation of the »» Towards the Republic The Way to Various workshops for children such as and thus assumed the sponsorship for Bank, reflect the evolutionary stages of Freedom and Independence (1919Budget Economy and Savings, Money, excavation at the “House of Muses” for a the Republican Period and are an integral 1923) My Memory of a Museum and Reading period of five years starting from 2012. part of daily life. Pieces in the collection »» “Atatürk and the Republic in with Authors are held at the Museum. are collected from İşbank branches and Photographs A Nation in the Making Furthermore, Financial Literacy trainings İstanbul Foundation for added to the collection under conservation (1923-1938)” are delivered for adults. About 10 thousand Culture and Arts The conditions that match international »» “From Depths to Trenches: Çanakkale people attended the workshops in the İstanbul Music Festival museology norms in order for them to be 1915” 2014-2015 education year. The museum İşbank sponsored the concert “Magdalena entrusted into the future in a sound form. welcomed 171,735 visitors during 2015, Kožená, Emmanuelle Haïm & Les Solistes The centennial of Çanakkale Victory, an with the total number of visitors since the du Concert d’Astrée”, put on at Hagia Irene So far, the Museum has hosted the important milestone in world history, establishment of the museum exceeding Museum during the 43th Istanbul Music following exhibitions. was commemorated through a special 550 thousand. Festival by Istanbul Foundation for Culture »» “History on Glass: From 1935 until exhibition at the Museum. The stories of the and Arts, of which the Bank is a member of Today” land battles and naval battles are told in Zeugma Ancient City “House the Board of Trustees. »» “The Grand Bazaar in 10 Steps” separate sections in the exhibition curated of the Muses” Excavation »» Alexandria and Hamburg: The First Two by Savaş Karakaş and advised by Prof. Sponsorship Branches as İşbank Opens Up to the Haluk Oral. The exhibition opened its doors Excavations that started in 1987 have been World 1932 on March 7, 2015 and hosted more than going on since then at the Ancient City of »» “The Story of a Money Box” 102 thousand visitors until August 15, 2015. Zeugma, a most significant historical and 86 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 87 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 For the Society For the Society İşbank delivers services in line with the society's needs and operates with a business approach prioritizing people. Environmental & Social Impacts Services for Internet for We Listen in the Procurement Process and the Disabled Everyone to You Relations with Suppliers In 2015, İşbank continued its efforts İşbank provides free Internet access Placing customer needs and Bringing together working life and social İşbank displays the same İşbank considers criteria such as cost to facilitate the access of disabled in certain branches and more than expectation at the heart of service life under the same roof, social media is an environmental and social sensitivity advantage, application standards, customers to banking services. 5 thousand Türk Telekom WiFi processes through a customer-focused important element for İşbank in its efforts in its relations with suppliers. transportation cost and duration of In 2015, the number of Bankamatiks hotspots. 'İşCep' is the first brand to offer service approach, İşbank reflects in to strengthen customer relations. In 2015, Products that cause the least adverse service delivery while performing central enabling visually-handicapped customers exclusive and free Internet service to its all operations its strategy to be the the Bank operated a total of 40 social effects on the environment are preferred. In procurement procedures. In addition, to do audio transactions exceeded 2,300. customers at Türk Telekom WiFi hotspots. bank that is closest to its customers . media accounts on 8 different platforms. the procurement process, this assessment the Bank also delivers local procurement Efforts continue to increase the number İşbank listens to customers on a 24/7 basis via The Bank ensures one-on-one and speedy is made on the basis of criteria such as procedures as much as possible in order to of Bankamatiks that are suitable for use its Telephone Branch, Call Center, websites, communication with its followers through the emission values and fuel consumptions support local development and employment. with wheelchairs and available for service Internet Branch, social media accounts or Maximum, Maximiles, Instant Banking and of vehicles and energy efficiency levels The rate of working with local suppliers in to facilitate accessibility of disabled letter or fax, with the principle of customer İş'te Üniversiteli brands and the interactive of products such as white goods; with procurement processes for support services customers. satisfaction. İşbank's Customer Relations contents exclusive to each brand. efficient products being the main preference. is 99%. Team works studiously to respond to shared Furthermore, recyclable paper is used in the Visually-handicapped customers can use the opinions, suggestions and complaints at production of some printed products. İşbank Internet branch on computers that an appropriate speed and with appropriate have narrator software installed. Customers content. As a reflection of this approach, In the selection of suppliers, İşbank prefers using the iOS version of İşCep can perform İşbank received the gold award in the category businesses fulfilling their responsibilities in audio transactions on İşCep application of Customer Services Team of the Year terms of occupational health and safety. The when they turn on accessibility mode on in Banking and Finance Sector at the 2015 Bank's supply approach is shaped within the their mobile phones. Stevie Awards. framework of universal working conditions. 88 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-FS14, G4-DMA: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms, G4-HR12, G4-PR7 89 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-12, G4-HR4 Appendices About the Report Appendix 1. Environmental Data* İşbank views electricity, natural gas and water usage in addition to carbon emissions as significant environmental aspects. In order to keep resource usage under control, consumptions are measured and monitored on a regular basis. * Includes the Head Office buildings located in İstanbul. Carbon Footprint Breakdown of scope (tons)1 2013 2014 2015 The fourth sustainability report by 2015 Sustainability Report aims to provide Scope 1 3,504 2,770 3,431 İşbank presents the sustainability current information to all stakeholders performance of the Bank for the oneincluding but not limited to investors, Scope 2 14,361 14,280 19,799 year period between January 1, 2015 shareholders, customers, employees, and December 31, 2015. business partners and non-governmental Scope 3 organizations on the sustainability Out-of-scope 2 efforts of İşbank. The report is issued in accordance with the Comprehensive level Total carbon-equivalent emissions (tCO2e) 17,865 17,050 23,230 requirements set forth in the G4 Reporting Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative 1 GHG emission results have been calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. (GRI). The report also includes G4 Financial 2 GHG not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, HCFC-22 Services Sector Disclosures. Emission Ratios per Employee, Consolidated Assets This report also represents the annual and Revenue 2013 2014 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 within the scope of the UN Global Compact, which Emission per employee (tCO2e/total number of employees) 3.513274 3.441645 4.282028 İşbank is a signatory of. The UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Emission according to total consolidated assets (tCO2e/USD thousand) 0.000156 0.000142 0.000204 2015 is provided on page 97-99. Emission according to consolidated net profit (tCO2e/USD thousand) 0.010463 0.009813 0.017797 In the upcoming years, İşbank plans to Number of employees (Head Office buildings in İstanbul) 5,085 4,954 5,425 report its sustainability performance and operations on an annual basis as it has Total consolidated assets (USD thousand) 114,375,924 119,737,784 113,612,207 been the case so far. Consolidated net profit (USD thousand) 1,707,389 1,737,432 1,305,295 90 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-23, G4-28, G4-30 91 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN22, G4-EN23 Appendices ▶ Appendix 1. Environmental Data Appendices ▶ Appendix 1. Environmental Data Resource Usage 2013 2014 2015 In addition to the consumption values presented above, additional Electricity (KWh) 31,061,752 29,624,209 34,913,010 resource consumption data is shown in the tables below. Natural gas (m3) 1,237,672 1,022,875 1,325,969 Consumption in Vehicle Fleet Water Footprint (Head Office Vehicles) 2015 Diesel Consumption 211,174 Water (m3) 2013 20141 20152 Gasoline Consumption 11,901 Mains water (Blue) 67,365 58,970 112,466 Waste water (Grey) 33,683 47,678 4,028 Spring water (Green) 0 66,498 12,271 Paper Consumption 2015 Total 101,048 173,146 128,765 Paper Consumption (Tons) 8,520 1 In the report of the World Water Forum 2014, new criteria (co-efficients) were set by adding spring water (green) to measurements in Istanbul. Calculations for 2014 are reported in line with the related co-efficients. Total actual consumption for 2014 is 125,468 m3. 2 For 2015, total consumption values are presented for each breakdown item without the use of coefficients 2013 2014 2015 Amount of mains water used (m3) 67,365 58,970 112,466 Number of employees 5,085 4,954 5,425 Area of usage (m2) 207,087 200,534 367,903 Amount of mains water used per employee (m3/employee) 13.25 11.90 20.73 Amount of mains water used per area of usage (m3/m2) 0.33 0.29 0.31 Relative increase in 2015 compared to 2014 in resource usage, hence carbon emissions, was affected by the transfer of Head Office divisions to TUTOM Facility. Head Office divisions that are located in different districts of İstanbul and undertaking operational activities have been gradually moved to TUTOM Facility starting from the 3rd quarter of 2015. In this process, operations and resources usage took place concurrently in both the buildings that are phased out and TUTOM Facility. 92 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 93 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 Appendices Appendices ▶ Appendix 2. Human Resources Data Appendix 2. Human Resources Data Number of Staff 2015 Gender Breakdown of Board Members Women Men Women 12,864 Chairman 1 Men 12,293 Deputy Chairman 1 Total 25,157 Member 1 8 Gender Breakdown of Committee Members Women Men Breakdown of Staff on Head Office/Branch/Region Age Groups* 2015 Breakdown of Staff 2015 Gender breakdown of Audit Committee Members 1 1 0-30 6,013 Head Office 6,362 *Breakdown of age Gender breakdown of TRNC Internal Systems Committee Members 1 1 groups does not 31-45 18,320 Branch 18,089 include 10 Board Gender breakdown of Credit Committee Members 1 2 Members. 46-65 811 Region 706 Gender breakdown of Credit Revision Committee Members 2 2 66+ 3 Total 25,157 Gender breakdown of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Members 2 3 Total 25,147 Gender breakdown of Corporate Governance Committee Members 1 2 Gender breakdown of Risk Committee Members 3 3 Gender breakdown of Remuneration Committee Members 2 Breakdown of Staff on Education 2015 Geographical Breakdown of Staff 2015 Number of Staff Recruited During the Period Middle School 95 Turkey 24,877 Women 852 High School 4,410 Abroad 280 Men 864 Graduate School (for 2and 3-Years) 555 Total 25,157 Total Recruitment 1,716 University 19,100 Master’s Degree 988 PhD Degree 9 Total 25,157 94 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-10, G4-EC1, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA12 95 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 Appendices Appendix 3. Loan Portfolio Data UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Loan Portfolio 2015 TL Thousand % Corporate and Commercial Loans 88,036,505 49.7 SME Loans 1 42,203,323 23.8 Consumer Loans 2 36,402,557 20.6 Credit Cards 3 10,394,235 5.9 Total Loans 177,036,620 100.0 Brought up on the agenda for the Extending unconditional support to first time during the World Economic initiatives aiming to bequeath a more 1 SME definition includes companies with turnover or total assets <= TL 40 million and number of employee < 250. Forum in 1999, the Global Compact livable world to future generations, İşbank 2 Includes retail overdraft accounts. aims to bring together business declared its support and commitment to the 3 Includes retail credit card balances only. leaders, companies, the United Global Compact before the United Nations Nations, labor unions and nonon March 7, 2012. In different sections, this governmental organizations in line report refers to the Bank’s efforts under with the “Millennium Development the Global Compact and the improvement Goals” announced by then UN it achieved during this reporting period. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The Summary table and index are provided ten principles comprising the United below. Nations Global Compact are brought to the world’s attention at the UN Headquarters in 2000, making a call on the civil society and public agencies as well as actors from the private sector to contribute to global sustainability efforts within the framework of these principles. The principles of the Global Compact are grouped under four main areas, namely human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Under the Global Compact initiative, participating companies are expected to comprehend, support and apply these principles. 96 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EC1, G4-EC8, G4-FS6 97 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-14 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Additional Information Additional Information Principle İşbank’s Approach Available in Section Page Principle İşbank’s Approach Available in Section Page Businesses should support and respect the İşbank always seeks to ensure full compliance with For Our Employees 43-50 Businesses should uphold the effective İşbank stands against child labor and supports all relevant For Our Employees 43-50 protection of internationally proclaimed national and international norms regulating human rights, abolition of child labor. initiatives in the business world. human rights. specifically the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN, and employs the required practices. Businesses should uphold the elimination of İşbank stands against discrimination in recruitment and İşbank’s Memberships 14-15 discrimination in respect of employment and employment processes and supports all relevant initiatives For Employees 43-50 Businesses should make sure that they are not İşbank supports the protection of human rights in the For Our Employees 43-50 occupation. in the business world. complicit in human rights abuses. business world. Businesses should support a precautionary İşbank comprehensively sustains interactive work on the İşbank’s Memberships 14-15 Businesses should uphold the freedom of İşbank acknowledges its employees’ freedom of For Our Employees 43-50 approach to environmental challenges. environment with its stakeholders. For Our Customers 22-35 association and the effective recognition of association and right to collective bargaining, thus setting the right to collective bargaining. a precedent in Turkey as a company. As of the date of this report, the Bank has 24,709 employees covered by the Businesses should undertake initiatives to İşbank supports many operations and organizations İşbank’s Memberships 14-15 collective bargaining agreement. İşbank employees are promote greater environmental responsibility. in order to improve environmental responsibility and For Our Customers 22-35 members of the Union of Banking, Finance and Insurance awareness on environmental challenges in our country. For Our World 36-42 Workers. Businesses should encourage the development İşbank supports the development and expansion of For Our Customers 22-35 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Equal opportunities and diversity are two major building For Our Employees 43-50 and diffusion of environmentally friendly environmentally friendly technologies through the finances For Our World 36-42 all forms of forced and compulsory labor. blocks of İşbank’s human resources policy. Providing technologies. it extends to different sectors, specifically the renewable equal opportunities for all employees is one of İşbank’s energy and energy efficiency projects, as well as its basic responsibilities towards its employees. Treasuring banking products. diversity in the workforce, İşbank considers diversity Businesses should work against corruption in İşbank extends full, true and active support to combating İşbank’s Internal Audit, 12-13 to be an essential component of its intellectual capital. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. corruption and preventing the financing of terrorism in line Internal Control and Risk This perspective allows for developing and sustaining with the relevant legislation and the Bank’s policies. Management Systems a modern working environment that provides the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 13-14 opportunity to think and act differently, to engage in at İşbank innovation and to improve individual competences at İşbank. In addition, under the Bank’s human resources policy, İşbank stands against; »» all forms of discrimination, »» all forms of forced and compulsory labor and child labor in the world and in Turkey. 98 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 99 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL PAGE EXTERNAL STANDART ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GENERAL PAGE EXTERNAL G4-13 On August 3, 2015, 10.0035% shares held by İşbank Group within the shareholding structure of Avea İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. were No STANDART ASSURANCE completely sold to Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., the controlling shareholder. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 48 http://www.isbank.com. DISCLOSURES tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf İşbank's Georgia organization consisting of Batomi and Tblisi branches began to operate under the umbrella of İşbank Georgia as of 3 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS August 2015. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p.11 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/ annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-1 Chairman's Message, p.4 No İşbank’s Subsidiaries, p. 16 CEO's Message, p. 6 G4-14 In all its activities, İşbank supports the precautionary approach of the UN Global Compact. In conformity with this principle on possible No G4-2 İşbank's Sustainability Approach, p. 20 No environmental problems, the Bank has adopted a risk based approach that is implemented in its activities. Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 İşbank's Sustainability Approach, p. 20 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015, p. 98 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-15 İşbank's Memberships, p. 15 No G4-3 Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. No G4-16 İşbank's Memberships, p. 15 No G4-4 Retail/Private Banking, p. 37 No Commercial/Corporate Banking, p. 43 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Value-Added Products for the Community, p. 38 G4-17 İşbank’s Subsidiaries, p. 16 No Savings Products, p. 40 SME Banking Services, p. 45 G4-18 The report boundary and the boundaries of the material aspects include İşbank's operations in Turkey. Bank's subsidiaries and affiliates No Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 are not in the scope of the report. Financing Renewable Energy Projects, p. 48 Materiality Assessment, p. 24 G4-5 İş Kuleleri 34330 Levent/İstanbul, Türkiye No G4-19 The report boundary and the boundaries of the material aspects include İşbank's operations in Turkey. Bank's subsidiaries and affiliates No are not in the scope of the report. G4-6 İşbank at a Glance, p. 11 No Materiality Assessment, p. 24 G4-7 Shareholding Structure, p. 8 No G4-20 The report boundary and the boundaries of the material aspects include İşbank's operations in Turkey. Bank's subsidiaries and affiliates No G4-8 Retail/Private Banking, p. 37 No are not in the scope of the report. Commercial/Corporate Banking, p. 43 Materiality Assessment, p. 24 Value-Added Products for the Community, p. 38 G4-21 The report boundary and the boundaries of the material aspects include İşbank's operations in Turkey. Bank's subsidiaries and affiliates No Savings Products, p. 40 are not in the scope of the report. SME Banking Services, p. 45 Materiality Assessment, p. 24 Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 Financing Renewable Energy Projects, p. 48 G4-22 On August 3, 2015, 10.0035% shares held by İşbank Group within the shareholding structure of Avea İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. were No completely sold to Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., the controlling shareholder. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 48 http://www.isbank.com. G4-9 İşbank in Figures, p. 8 No tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-10 Human Resources Data, p. 94 No İşbank's Georgia organization consisting of Batomi and Tblisi branches began to operate under the umbrella of İşbank Georgia as of 3 G4-11 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No August 2015. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p.11 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/ G4-12 Environmental & Social Impacts in the Procurement Process and Relations with Suppliers, p. 89 No annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf İşbank’s Subsidiaries, p. 16 G4-23 There has been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. No About the Report, p. 90 100 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 G4-32, G4-33 101 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL PAGE EXTERNAL GENERAL PAGE EXTERNAL STANDART ASSURANCE STANDART ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE G4-24 Stakeholder Communication, p. 22 No G4-46 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No G4-25 Stakeholder Communication, p. 22 No G4-47 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No G4-26 Stakeholder Communication, p. 22 No İşbank's Sustainability Organization, p.26 G4-27 Stakeholder Communication, p. 22 No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 65: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/ Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-48 İşbank's Sustainability Organization, p. 26 No REPORT PROFILE G4-49 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No G4-28 Reporting period covers the 1 year period between January 1 2015 and December 31 2015. No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 61: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/ About the Report, p. 90 Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-29 2014 No G4-50 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank, p. 14 No G4-30 Annual, About the Report, p. 90 No G4-51 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No G4-31 You can submit your inquiries on additional information on the sustainabilitiy report to musteri.iliskileri@isbank.com.tr. No G4-52 Remuneration Committee has been established in the scope of the Remuneration Policy, which has been put into force by the Board of No G4-32 Comprehensive, GRI G4 Content Index, p. 100 No Directors. Remuneration policy and benefits including remuneration policy under trade unions become valid by the recommendation of G4-33 The report has not undergone through an external assuance process. İşbank has been constantly audited due to relevant legislation the Remuneration Committee and the approval of the Board. especially the Banking Law. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 71: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-53 İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 63: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annualNo GRI G4 Content Index,p. 100 reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-54 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No GOVERNANCE G4-55 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No G4-34 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 58: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/ ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-56 İşbank adopts the Code of Banking Ethics of the Banks Association of Turkey and publishes these principles on its corporate website. No G4-35 İşbank's Sustainability Organization, p. 26 No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 73 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/corporate-governance/ethical-principles/ G4-36 İşbank's Sustainability Organization, p. 26 No Documents/BankingEthics.pdf G4-37 Stakeholder Communication, p. 22 No İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategy, p. 10 G4-38 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No G4-57 Negative Feedback Line, p. 68 No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 54 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/ G4-58 Negative Feedback Line, p. 68 No Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf G4-39 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No G4-40 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No G4-41 İşbank's Management Structure, p.12 No İşbank's Sustainability Organization, p.26 G4-42 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No G4-43 İşbank's Sustainability Approach, p. 26 No G4-44 İşbank's Management Structure, p. 12 No http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/our-processes/Pages/our-processes.aspx G4-45 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No 102 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 103 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA For Our Customers, p. 28 No Commercial/Corporate Banking, p. 43 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE International Funds for a Sustainable Future, p. 50 G4-DMA For Our Customers, p. 28 No G4-EC7 Commercial/Corporate Banking, p. 43 No G4-EC1 İşbank in Figures, p. 8 No SME Banking Services, p. 45 For Our Customers, p. 28 Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 Loan Portfolio Data, p. 96 Financing Renewable Energy Projects, p. 48 Human Resources Data, p. 94 International Funds for a Sustainable Future, p. 50 G4-EC2 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No G4-EC8 A New Era in Banking Digital Transformation, p. 31 No Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 Retail/Private Banking, p. 37 G4-EC3 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No SME Banking Services, p. 45 İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 154: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ Financing Renewable Energy Projects, p. 48 Isbank_2015.pdf International Funds for a Sustainable Future, p. 50 G4-EC4 İşbank has received no financial assistance from the government during the No Loan Portfolio Data, p. 96 reporting period. İşbank in Figures, p. 8 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-DMA İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No ENERGY G4-EC5 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No G4-EC6 All senior management of işbank including the CEO, Deputy Chief Executives and No G4-EN3 Environmental Data, p. 91 No Managers are Turkish citizens. İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 G4-EN4 For Our World, p. 52 No İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 54: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ Environmental Data, p. 91 investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ G4-EN5 Environmental Data, p. 91 No Isbank_2015.pdf G4-EN6 Efficiency Efforts, p. 60 No G4-EN7 Paperless Banking, p. 59 No TEMA Foundation Paper Recycling Projects, p. 58 WATER G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No G4-EN8 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN9 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN10 Environmental Data, p. 91 No 104 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 105 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE EMISSIONS MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No G4-EN15 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN22 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN16 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN23 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN17 Environmental Data, p. 91 No G4-EN24 Omitted Spills are not Ommitted No G4-EN18 Environmental Data, p. 91 No applicable to not applicable G4-EN19 In the scope of the project which aims at protecting the environment and No İşbank's activfor İşbank's increasing awareness of our society starting with children, 2,205,000 saplings ities. products and have been planted on 1,500 hectare area in the cities covered by the project and services. 35,200 saplings on 22 hectare area in T.R.N.C. The maintenance period for the 5 G4-EN25 Omitted Hazardous Ommitted No years following planting continued in 2015 as well. The survival rate of saplings waste is not not applicable as of end of 2015 is 82%. applicable to for İşbank's Efficiency Efforts, p. 60 İşbank's activproducts and G4-EN20 Omitted ODS emissions Ommitted No ities. services. are not signifinot applicable G4-EN26 Omitted Water discharge Ommitted No cant for Bank's for İşbank's is not applicanot applicable operations products and ble to İşbank's for İşbank's therefore are services. activities. products and not applicable. services. G4-EN21 Omitted NOx, Sox and Ommitted No alike emissions not applicable MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES are not signififor İşbank's G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No cant for Bank's products and G4-EN27 Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 No operations services. Paperless Banking, p. 59 therefore are Efficiency Efforts, p. 60 not applicable. G4-EN28 Omitted Packaging Ommitted No material is not not applicable applicable to for İşbank's İşbank's activproducts and ities. services. 106 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 107 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 No G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety Practices, p. 67 No G4-EN29 There have been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonNo G4-LA5 As per law, places with number of employees higher than 50 are in the scope No compliance with environmental laws and regulation during the reporting of OHS practives, and the percentage of the total workforce represented period. in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees in these Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 places are currently 30%. Occupational Health and Safety Practices, p.67 MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-LA6 There has been no injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism, or work No related fatalites during the reporting period. G4-DMA For Our World, p. 52 No Occupational Health and Safety Practices, p. 67 G4-EN31 TEMA Foundation Paper Recycling Project, p. 58 No G4-LA7 As per the scope of Bank's activities there are no workers who are involved in No Paperless Banking, p. 59 occupational activities who have a high incidence or Efficiency Efforts, p. 60 high risk of specific diseases. The New Meeting Model: Video Teleconferences, p. 62 Occupational Health and Safety Practices, p. 67 G4-LA8 As per the trade union signed with BASISEN, all the employees under the trade No CATEGORY: SOCIAL union can benefit from the health benefits under the İşbank Medical Care Governing Regulations. SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational Health and Safety Practices, p. 67 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents, p. 73 No G4-DMA For Our Employees, p. 64 No G4-LA9 Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents, p. 73 No G4-LA1 Human Resources Data, p. 94 No G4-LA10 Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents, p. 73 No G4-LA2 There are no temporary or part time workers. All employees can benefit from G4-LA11 İşbank: The Bank Revealing the Potential of Employees, p. 71 No social benefits set by the trade union agreements. İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 G4-LA3 Human Resources Data, p. 94 No MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-LA12 Human Resources Data, p. 94 No G4-DMA For Our Employees, p. 64 No G4-LA4 In case of significant operational changes that could substantially affect No MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN employees, necessary precautions are taken to prevent employees getting G4-DMA İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No negatively affected by these changes. G4-LA13 There is no gender discrimination in İşbank's Remuneration policy. No İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Constant Interaction with Employees, p. 68 No G4-LA16 There have been no grievances about labor practices filed through formal No grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Negative Feedback Line, p. 68 108 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 109 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 No G4-DMA For the Society, p. 76 No G4-HR1 Loan agreements for investments that İşbank provides financing are evaluated No G4-SO1 For the Society, p. 76 No and processed in review of international human rights. Retail/Private Banking, p. 37 Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 SME Banking Services, p. 45 G4-HR2 General trainings provided to employees include topics on human rights as well. No Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents, p. 73 G4-SO2 Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 No MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No G4-DMA Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank, p. 14 No G4-HR3 There have been no incidents of discrimination observed during the reporting period. No G4-SO3 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank, p. 14 No İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 G4-SO4 Discipline and Disciplinary Actions part of the trade agreement are distributed No as a part of the Starting my Career Trainings at İşbank and the training puts MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING emphasis on compliance with the discipline policies. In Career Advancement and Management Career trainings, newly promoted managers are provided G4-DMA İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 No with knowledge and experience on spotting and preventing abuse and non G4-HR4 There have been no operations or suppliers in which employee rights to exercise No compliance in the scope of branch managers' responsibilities. In addition, Bank freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant offers the members of Board of Inspectors trainings on spotting and preventing risk during the reporting period. abuse and compliace regularly in their career. İşbank Human Resources Policy, p. 66 Talent Management through Training Programs Applicable for All Talents, p. 73 Environmental & Social Impacts in the Procurement Process and Relations with G4-SO5 İşbank adopts a customer satisfaction oriented business model and puts great Omitted Confidentiality Omitted No Suppliers p. 89 emphasis on constant improvement of customer experience. İşbank customer MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS data privacy G4-DMA Negative Feedback Line, p. 68 No confidentiality We Listen To You, p. 88 G4-HR12 There have been no grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal No MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. G4-DMA İşbank at a Glance, p. 11 No Negative Feedback Line, p. 68 We Listen To You, p. 88 G4-SO6 İşbank does not use its tools and resource in any case to endorse a political No candidate or institution. There has been no political support during the reporting period. İşbank at a Glance, p. 11 110 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 111 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank, p. 14 No G4-DMA Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 No G4-SO7 There have been no legal actions filed during the reporting period regarding No G4-PR6 In the delivery of all products and services, İşbank acts in compliance with No anticompetitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation the legislation and regulations in Turkey and the international agreements during the reporting period. Developments on 2 cases from previous periods are to which Turkey is a party. Under the List of Unfunded Operations , İşbank publicly announced when needed. Current disclosures on the said 2 cases are monitors the operations that are prohibited and restricted by the national available on: legislation and/or the international agreements to which Turkey is a party http://www.kap.gov.tr/bildirim-sorgulari/bildirim-detayi.aspx?id=522268 and turns down loan applications for such operations without giving them any http://www.kap.gov.tr/bildirim-sorgulari/bildirim-detayi.aspx?id=171600 consideration. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at İşbank, p. 14 Environmental and Social Impacts Policy: http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/aboutisbank/sustainability/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 G4-PR7 There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship during the reporting period. Environmental and Social Risks, p. 54 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING We Listen To You, p. 88 G4-DMA For Our Customers , p. 28 No G4-PR3 İşbank is in line with relevant laws and regulations for the services and products No MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY it offers. G4-DMA İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No For Our Customers, p. 28 G4-PR8 İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No G4-PR4 There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunNo tary codes concerning product and service information and labeling during the reporting period. MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE For Our Customers, p. 28 G4-DMA İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p. 12 No G4-PR5 İşbank adopts a customer satiscation oriented business model and puts great Omitted Confidentiality Omitted İşNo G4-PR9 The Ministry of Customs and Trade initiated an investigation under Law No: 6502 and now-abolished Law No: 4077 and has imposed No emphasis on constant improvement of customer experience. bank customer an administrative fine of TL 110,110 to the data privacy Bank pursuant to this investigation. The Bank paid TL 82,583, which is the amount calculated by benefiting from the discount within confidentiality the framework of Article 17 of Misdemeanor Law No: 5326, provided that the Bank reserves its right to litigate against the related decision and to claim for refund. The Bank has filed a lawsuit in İstanbul 11th Administrative Court for the cancellation of administrative fine imposed against the Bank in due time. The court proceedings are not finalized as of reporting date. İşbank Annual Report 2015, p. 149 (i.5.4.): http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-andresults/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank_2015.pdf İşbank’s Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management Systems, p.12 112 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 113 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index DMA AND PAGE IDENTIFIED REASON(S) FOR EXPLANATION FOR EXTERNAL INDICATORS OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) OMISSION(S) ASSURANCE FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR DISCLOSURES TÜRKİYE İŞ BANKASI A.Ş. FS-6 Loan Portfolio Data, p. 96 No İşbank at a Glance, p. 11 Head Office FS-7 Life Stage Banking, p. 37 No İş Kuleleri 34330 Levent/İstanbul Value-Added Products for the Community, p. 38 Phone: (+90 212) 316 00 00 Savings Products, p. 40 Fax: (+90 212) 316 04 04 Sector-Specific Specialized Banking, p. 43 Call Center: (+90 850) 724 0 724 Banking Practices for Female Entrepreneurs, p. 46 SME Banking Services, p. 45 E-mail: musteri.iliskileri@isbank.com.tr FS-8 Financing Renewable Energy Projects , p. 48 No International Funds for a Sustainable Future , p. 50 TEMA Foundation Paper Recycling Projects, p. 58 Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 TEMA Credit Cards, p. 38 Denetim Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 No DMA Unfunded Operations, p. 57 FS-10 Under project finance, financing over USD 10 billion (such as energy No infrastructure, health, construction) are evaluated in the scope of İşbank Sustainability and Environmental and Social İmpacts Policies. Projects are evaluated via ERET an environmental social risk evaluation tool specific for our Bank, and are subjected to relevant procedures based on their ERET model risk degree. Environmental and social management plans are prepared based on the risk level and İşbank follows the compliance with the plan and undertaking of necessary actions. Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 Unfunded Operations, p. 57 FS-11 Loan Evaluation Process ERET, p. 54 No FS-13 İşbank has a wide service network that offers access to financial services in No every region of Turkey via wide branch and ATM network and digital banking services. For the Society, p. 76 FS-14 Services for the Disabled, p. 88 No Produced By Escarus – Sürdürülebilir Danışmanlık A.Ş. www.escarus.com ✆ 00 90 212 334 5460 114 İşbank Sustainability Report 2015 www.isbank.com.tr
