TANNER Vietnam ltd. 43D/8 Ho Van Hue, Phu Nhuan, HCM, Viet Nam COP Report 2016 Date: 30 June 2016 To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that TANNER Vietnam Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. It has been 2 years since the date TANNER Vietnam registered to the United Nations Global Compact. From then until now, TANNER Vietnam still In 2014 TANNER Vietnam sets the pace to become a role model in sustainable corporate responsibility participating in the United Nations Global Compact initiative. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. 1 1, Human rights: TANNER Vietnam applies the Vietnamese law and suitable German law for all employees and implements all articles in the labor contacts with employees Besides applying the updated law and provisions to grant employees the full benefits as well as rights, we also announce the latest news for whole employees for updating the most exact information on time.. The HR workshop on Apr 14, 2016 at TANNER Vietnam is an example. Info updated from the workshop on Apr 14, 2016 2, Labors: Every year TANNER Vietnam organizes or send employees to many training courses to improve the employees’ skills, knowledge including sending employees to the head quarter in Germany for training. From Jun 2015 to Jun 2016, TANNER employees have joined many training courses: ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Awareness Training Course – by TUV Rheinland Vietnam ASIM training for new version and new project – Training in Germany by TANNER AG Software Testing Professionals training Project management Fundamental (Based on the PMI Global Standard) 2 ISO 9001:2015 Awareness training on Apr 25, 2016 3, Environment Being the 1st German corporation and the 8th corporation in Vietnam awarded the Green Office certificate by the World Wide Fund for Nature, Vietnam (WWF Vietnam) in August 2010, TANNER Vietnam has successfully implemented an accredited environmental and energy management plan in the workplace. Each employee in Tanner himself could define the importance of environment protection and acknowledge the role of green environment against our current lives; thus, although not conducting the big changes (breakthroughs), we usually complete many small but useful daily actions to prevent our environment. For ex: saving energy from aircon consumption by planting to cover the rooftop to prevent the heat; turning off motorbike’s engine when stopping at traffic light over 20 seconds 3 TANNER Vietnam also encourages our employees by launching Green Contest for our little garden in the rooftop at TANNER Vietnam. The award is sponsored by our Managing Director, Mr. Elmar Dutt. Harvest from TANNER rooftop garden 4 Green Award TANNER regularly welcomes many visits from companies in town for Green office. These visits were part of a series of activities of Song Xanh – Live Green Vietnam a project promoting sustainable consumption in Vietnam, focusing on sustainable living and working of middle-income consumers in urban areas. 4, Anti-Corruption TANNER Vietnam aims to create value for its stakeholders, its employees and society as a whole. We can only sustain an increase in corporate value if we act within the law and in accordance with ethical principles. Every employee is responsible for ensuring that his or her conduct is legally and ethically compliant. This applies to employees at all levels. All our actions must be consistent with our name and reputation. After all, business partners, investors and the public expect us to be competent, fair and reliable. Due to the growing importance of good and responsible corporate governance, TANNER Vietnam has decided to issue the Corporate Compliance Policy, based on the proven principles that characterize our business operations and clearly explains where and how you can obtain help with compliance questions. 5 Our Principles of Business Conduct Why be concerned about corporate compliance policy? 1. We are committed to fair competition – no antitrust violations. 2. We are committed to integrity in business dealings – no corruption. 3. We are committed to the principle of sustainability – no inappropriate risks for human health and the environment. 4. We are committed to upholding national and foreign trade laws – no import and export infractions. 5. We are committed to proper record-keeping and transparent financial reporting – no deception. 6. We are committed to fair and respectful working conditions – no discrimination. 7. We are committed to protecting the fruits of our own endeavors and respecting the legally recognized rights of others – no infringement of our own or others’ property rights. 8. We are committed to keeping corporate and personal interests separate – no conflicts of interest. 9. We are committed to cooperating with the authorities – no misinformation. 10. We are committed to protect and safeguard the environment. 6
