Every day is a journey Sustainability Report 2015/16 A warm welcome! OKQ8 Sweden and Q8 Denmark work under different brands, but are one and the same organi­ sation, OKQ8 Scandinavia. The organisation has common goals, values and a management with a holistic view on sustainable development. Through our activities we affect society in many 317 million Swedish kronor The sustainable fuel, were OKQ8 Scandinavia's earnings for the financial year 2015/16. different ways. In this report, we describe how we work with social responsibility, environment and economy to HVO (Hydrogenated be relevant to customers now and in the future. Global challenges such as a growing popula­ Vegetable Oil), can now tion and urbanisation require a high degree of flexibility, since more people are in motion. This means, amongst other things, that there are more cars in circulation. Today, CO2 emissions from be found both in our transportation already contribute with one third of the global greenhouse gas emissions. With Diesel Bio HVO and in this report we want to clarify how we can help to minimise this environmental impacts by making the drive as sustainable as possible for our customers, through providing sustainable products our standard diesel. This year, we launched a website in and services. In 2015, Diesel Bio HVO Denmark to help our business custo­ In a materiality assessment, we have identified the areas where we have the greatest impact on had a CO2 reduction of mers to report how far their vehicle society and where our stakeholders believe that we should focus our resources. To name a few: up to 90 percent and can drive per litre and their CO2 environment and climate change, customer satisfaction, community involvement, health and safety. You can read more about the materiality assessment on page 7. Here, you can also read standard diesel up to 35 emission. On page 15 you can read more about GRI (G4), Global Reporting Initiative, which we use as our reporting framework. We percent. Read more on more about the website and other are proud to announce our sustainability efforts in a global perspective. page 20. digital efforts we have made to We want to be an enabler for people in motion – also in the future. Therefore we have an obvious responsibility to continue to work with sustainable development. ease the everyday life of our Please feel free to contact Alexandra William­Olsson, Head of Communications at OKQ8 Scandinavia, customers. if you have any questions or if you would like more information about the report. Contents Welcome 2 CO2e Statement from the CEO 4 Sustainability goals 5 Our business 6 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment 7 Our vision of a service station 8 Fuel Denmark Sweden Services and products 10 Petrol • • The future service station 12 Diesel • • E85 • Customer satisfaction and customer service 14 Increased accessibility for all customers 15 Electricity • During 2015 our total CO2e emissions were reduced Ethanol for low admixture • • by 3.5 percent compared to the previous year. Which fuels we offer and why 16 Autogas • Supply Chain 18 HVO • Renewable fuels 20 HVO for low admixture • • Energy use and CO2 emissions 21 RME • How we avoid spill and leaks 22 Transportation and storage 23 RME for low admixture • • We are proud to present our initiative for helping young people in to education, internships or Hydrogen • Our employees reflect who we are 24 jobs. In Denmark, 150 young people took part in Break Youth Unemployment Now! and in Sweden Training – the way to success 25 Our fuel product range is we helped 74 interns from Youths On Their Way in to different departments of our company in Sustainability is safety 26 Anti­discrimination and equality 27 different in Denmark and 2015/16. Read more on page 25. Sweden. Read more about Ownership, management and organisation 28 Economy 29 which fuels we offer and GRI index and Global Compact reference table 30 why on page 16. This report covers the requirements from the Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a and b. A selection of the accounts can be found in the report on page 29. The full annual report for the financial year 2015/16 is available on okq8.se and q8.dk from the end of May 2016. 2 Photo: Creon, GoMore, OKQ8 Scandinavia, Mathias Martinsen mfofo.se, Renova. Sustainability Report 2015/16 3 Sustainability goals Statement from the CEO – an instrument We are an enabler for people in motion. management for approval. The approval also that we are proud of. Some of these can be Today and tomorrow. This requires that takes into account the ISO certification re­ found in the table below. One area of improve­ quirements applicable to certain areas of the ment is our range of products, where we now we constantly improve our position and organisation. The materiality assessment and have several sustainable alternatives, such as increase our ambitions. our stakeholders' priorities are also included in fuels and car wash products. We would like the decisions. to extend our product range with food that How can a fuel company be sustainable corresponds to our values of ​​ being quick and when we operate in an industry where oil We are actively working to reduce green house flexible, and which is also sustainable, healthier and other fossil resources are of great impor­ gas emissions, especially by informing our and good. tance? The answer is that in a world where customers and by contributing to the deve­ people are becoming more mobile, we are lopment of fuels that have less environmental UN Global Compact principles convinced that opportunities to do something and climate impacts. We are also working on We are proud to have signed the UN Global good outweigh the negative. Our task is to optimising the use of energy at our service Compact, which comprises of ten principles. help customers act sustainably by offering stations and depots, and on increasing the These guide us on how to work with human sustainable products and services. share of sustainable products in our stores – rights, labour, environment and anti-corrup­ everything from lubricating oil and car wash tion in relation to our sustainability goals. The Our journey has only just begun The Sustainability Council is an internal group products to coffee and meals. principles correspond with our own values and within OKQ8 Scandinavia with representa­ we rely on them in various decisions. tives from the entire organisation. The council We have taken several actions towards re­commends strategy, goals and actions to achieving our sustainability goals for 2015/16 How can we help our customers make their journey as sus­ Despite these challenges, we see opportunities. In our efforts to re­ tainable as possible? This is a question that we constant­ duce CO2 emissions, we continuously contribute to the development ly ask ourselves. It is by creating optimal conditions for of new technology. At the moment, we are actively involved in seve­ Our sustainability goals mean that Results ral development projects within e.g. electricity, hydrogen, biogas and we must (examples of initiatives) our customers that we can continue to be a relevant and second generation ethanol. sustainable choice for people in motion – also in the future. Besides seeing climate change as a global issue, social sustainability Increase the proportion of sustainable alternatives in the Diesel Bio HVO Somewhat simplified, you can say that OKQ8 Scandinavia’s sustaina­ is something that is important to me personally. Therefore, I am both product range and encourage customers to choose them Standard diesel with higher addition of sustainable fuels bility efforts are about how we can reduce our own energy use, as well as proud and impressed by our systematic efforts to get young people Swan labeled car wash products helping our customers choose sustainable alternatives. We put a lot of into work through our initiatives Youths On Their Way and Break Youth Fairtrade coffee resources in to developing energy efficient fuels, services and products. Unemployment Now! I truly hope that other companies will be inspired Read more on page 8, 11 and 16 We do this because sustainability is key to all activities in the company. to make similar efforts. As the CEO of one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel companies, I am some­ All in all, we have successfully reached a number of sustainability goals Support the development of more sustainable fuels Natural gas to the Samsø Ferry times asked why sustainability is at the top of my agenda. It is quite during the year. Thanks to our focus on efficiency, we have removed Biofuel based on vegetable oils and animal oils simple – there is no other alternative. No matter where in the world and costs that do not generate economic, social or environmental value. Biogas in which industry we operate, we must move in the same direction. For It gives us insights regarding sustainable and intelligent investments. The infrastructure for electric charging stations us at OKQ8 Scandinavia, it is about social, economic and environmental Developing areas where we see opportunities are, amongst others, healthier Read more on page 20 sustainability. Therefore, I am very proud that we have set goals regar­ food and biofuel. ding sustainability in all these areas. OKQ8 Scandinavia is a strong company with common goals, and together Help to reduce unemployment Break Youth Unemployment Now! and Youths On Their Way An example of how we have developed the area of sustainable fuel with customers, suppliers and employees, we continuously need to Read more on page 25 during this financial year, is our new and improved diesel with make efforts towards a more sustainable world. It is an everyday jour­ a high level of HVO, which is gentle on both the environment and ney that has only just begun. Work for a safe and secure workplace SSHE management system: How we do it engines. We take considerable pride in the result; in 2015 we had a CO2 – free of accidents Read more on page 26 reduction of up to 35 percent on our diesel. The development of fuel requires collaboration with car manufacturers. The interest from our customers in sustainable alternatives also plays an important role. It Reduce the CO2 emissions from our own activities Measurement of energy use at stations is all about timing, supply and demand. Investing in the develop­ment Steffen Pedersen Cooperation with distributors to optimise the transportation of fuel will not be profitable if there is no demand from the custo­ CEO, OK-Q8 AB and of our products mers. Another major challenge is high taxes on biofuels in Denmark, Q8 Danmark A/S Read more on page 21 and 23 which limits the opportunity of incorporating renewable products. 4 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 5 The business and Stakeholder dialogue and stakeholders materiality assessment Based on the Global Reporting Initi­ we should focus our resources in order to with alternative fuels for heavy traffic, which ative, GRI, we conducted a materia­ achieve a sustainable society. When identify­ aim to make it easier for the commercial traffic ing the most important aspects, we have not to make sustainable choices. lity assessment with selected Swedish only assessed the impacts from our own acti­ and Danish stakeholders to test our vities, but taken into consideration the imprint Based on GRI's revised guideline, G4, we decided key sustainability aspects. The assess­ of the entire value chain in order to get a com­ primarily to communicate on sustainability in ment shows how we can meet our plete assessment of the situation. However, the areas that proved to be the most relevant. stakeholders' expectations now and in we primarily account for the direct impact that Concerning our efforts towards sustainability, the future. our business has on society. we still see opportunities to influence and make a difference in these areas. All our sustainability The goal of sustainable development is to “fulfil In 2014, we developed a clear priority list of aspects are shown in the model below. In this the present needs without compromising the our most significant sustainability aspects. work we have followed the current legislation Our business ability of future generations to achieve their This was done in dialogue with our key stake­ for the area in which we have made decisions own needs”. We will achieve this by helping holders, investors, private and public customers, on our sustainability goals. our customers to make new and innovative suppliers, partners, environmental organisa­ choices and to think in new ways. tions and other interest groups. This past year – an enabler for people in motion we have continued to prioritise the dialogue “ The starting point has been to define the are­ with our stakeholders in several areas. One as where we have the greatest influence on example is the conversations with the City of society and where our stakeholders find that Stockholm and Järfälla County about stations The need for movement and travel is significant and will continue to in­ crease in the future. We exist for all We exist for all the people who wants to transport them­ These are our most significant sustainability aspects. the people who wants to transport selves, and our goal is to offer our customers a quick and They also form the core of our sustainability report. See our GRI index on pages 30-31 • Sustainability in the fuel supply chain • Origin of fuels themselves, and our goal is to offer • Spills and leaks flexible stop to meet their needs on the way to their final destination. • Climate impact – fuel mix • Fuel range and choices our customers a quick and flexible Our stakeholders' priorities • Occupational health and safety • Customer health and safety stop to meet their needs on the way • Healthy product range As a Scandinavian organisation, we operate Today we are bigger and better equipped than to their final destination. We offer a in two strong markets. Thanks to the diffe­ ever with the focus that every day is a journey wide range of services and products rences between Sweden and Denmark, – both for us and for our customers. • Lobbying • Equality and diversity • Customer satisfaction • Community engagement • Anti-discrimination • New construction and reconstruction for the car, but also food, coffee and we learn a lot along the way, and thanks • Monitoring the product range (environmental • Anti-corruption • Anti-competitive behaviour and social requirements) other products that make the trip a to the similarities, we win through synergies. • Economic performance • Waste water • Energy use little more enjoyable. • Water use • Transportation (excl CO2) The Danish Owners • Road safety By maintaining an ongoing dialogue with our and Swedish governments • Local sourcing • Customer privacy customers, suppliers, employees and other • Whistleblowing – system for handling non-compliances • Career and development of employees stakeholders, and at the same time being re­ Media Employees sponsive to the needs and changes affecting • Training of employees our industry, we are able to make intelligent investments. We are also able, as far as pos­ Labour associations Politicians sible, to offer alternative and more sustaina­ Other GRI aspects that are considered d non-essential ble solutions, so that people can continue to or non-relevant for the company. be on the move in a future with less environ­ Interest groups and NGOs Private and public customers mental impact than today. It is important for OKQ8 Scandinavia's priorities (based on influence and importance) us and for our stakeholders that we operate in an economically and environmentally sustai­ Industry associations Business customers nable way. Business partners Suppliers 6 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 7 The Station “ The ambition of what we call ‘sustainable service stations’ is that they operate with minimal environmental impact and use 50 percent less energy than traditional service stations. SUSTAINABLE SERVICE STATIONS We continue to establish sustainable service stations. Our vision of a service station In the past financial year we opened two new stations in Trelleborg in October 2015 and in Malmö in January 2016. This means that we have built a total of seven manned stations according to our People in motion affect the geogra­ honest. Although we are a stop on the way Our stations are becoming more energy efficient between two destinations, we focus on the in order to reduce the environmental impacts principles of sustainability. The ambition fical location of our service stations, of what we call ‘sustainable service sta­ stations being meeting places where peo­ple that our activities contribute to. When we the services we offer and our product tions’ is that they operate with minimal in motion actively choose to take a break for rebuild or build a new station, it is important range. The most important thing for a cup of coffee, to eat a salad, refuel the car that it is done in a sustainable way. All of our environmental impact and use 50 percent us is to provide the best possible ser­ or for bicycle service. In other words, a service stations use 100 percent eco-labelled products less energy than traditional stations. vice in relation to customer needs. station is much more than fuel. for car wash, and all of our car wash facilities We provide renewable fuels and char­ That is why our stations offer so much are connected to oil separators and wastewater The customers’ needs are often different de­ treatment plants. Our most modern stations ging stations for electric cars at our su­ more than fuel. This will become even stainable stations. The foundation of the pending on the location of the station. In a have solar panels, green roof with sedum more evident in the future. station is constructed of glulam beams, city, there is a higher need for services such plants, geothermal heating /free cooling and as package delivery and bicycle service, while are built on a foundation of glulam beams. In which is an energy efficient and renewa­ As society changes, our preconditions change. along a highway it is typically more important Denmark, we have conducted successful tests ble material. Cold storage rooms, freezers Several environmental factors make the de­ for the customer to quickly refuel and get a with sensors in refrigerated counters and free­ and fast-food coolers use carbon dioxide velopment more difficult to predict, such as bite to eat. The same applies to our automatic zers, which give a more even energy use and or propane as a refrigerant with signifi­ people increasingly being in motion. We must stations, which are open 24 hours a day, have this results in 15-20 percent energy savings. cantly less environmental impact than create opportunities to be flexible so that we high-speed pumps, plenty of swing space and These will now be implemented in Sweden. fluorinated refrigerants. can continue to be relevant to our customers. safe entrances and exits. We continuously test and develop new tech­ Our sustainable service stations have sedum roof consisting of an eight centimetre Sustainability naturally plays an important niques to make our stations more sustainable thick mat of sedum plants, also called stone crop. The sedum roof has many bene­ Energy used for heating is self-produced role in our work and in our efforts to make a and relevant to the customer. fits beyond the purely aesthetic. It absorbs air pollution and isolates the building by solar cells, solar panels, free cooling and geothermal heating; the rest comes  difference. against heat and cold and makes the temperature in the building steady. It reduces noise and absorbs rainwater that might otherwise strain the drain. Furthermore, the from district heating. With sedum plants Our entire station network consists of 274 sta­ maintenance is minimal and contributes to a longer lasting fundament beneath the on the roof, the buildings are isolated, tions in Denmark and 732 stations in Sweden, sedum plants. and the roof even helps to cool the sur­ including IDS, F24 and Volvo Tanke. A com­ plus of heat in the summer. The most important thing for us is mon feature of our manned stations is that each station is based on our values; customer to provide the best possible service focus, quick and flexible, expertise and open and in relation to customer needs. 8 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 9 The Station initiative continued by transforming Danish looking for better and healthier options based pastry into other pastries to reduce food was­ on freshness and quality aspects, including te. We sold 29 tons of pastry during 2015. vegetarian and gluten-free products. In the pursuit of a broad, sustainable range for eve­ In Denmark, we work with The Whole Grain ryone in motion, our work is based on the prin­ Partnership, which is behind a national cam­ ciple “the healthier alternative” and recognises paign to make it easier to find whole grain that healthiness means different things to dif­ foods and thereby live healthier. Since November ferent people. For some, it means organic and 2015, Q8 Denmark has also collaborated with Fairtrade, for others it means fresh and locally Starbucks for a 100 percent Fairtrade-­certified produced products, while for others it's about coffee. Likewise, we have Fairtrade-certified cof­ fewer calories. Whatever you lean towards, the fee and organic milk in Sweden. food that we offer will fulfil our values of be­ ing quick and flexible, while being sustainable, Although we already offer healthier and sus­ healthier and good. tainable alternatives – such as fresh salads, sandwiches and fruit and vegetables in snack bags, we see a great potential in expanding the healthier range further. We are constantly PETRA WADSTRÖM WE COLLABORATE WITH VI-SKOGEN Services and products The founder of Solvatten We have been able to help more than – in a more sustainable society 1,000 families in Uganda to get clean and hot water by connecting the innovation project Solvatten with our car wash offe­ “ rings. A Solvatten tank holds 10 litres and with the help of the sun, the tank can rinse op to 30 litres of water per day. No batteries or chemical additives are neces­ It is important for us to ease every­ sary – just the sun. W  ithin our car rental business, we reduced day life for people in motion. We do this by having a wide range of sus­ our CO2 emissions with 7 percent in 2015. Petra Wadström, founder of Solvatten: tainable products and services. “What does the collaboration with OKQ8 mean for you?” Our product range is determined by the loca­ to make sustainable choices. The ambition is more about how we work with sustainable de­ We support Vi-skogens work on tree planting and combating poverty in Africa. An important aspect is that the project tion of the station and the type of needs. In to increase the share of sustainable products, velopment in relation to fuels on page 16-20. We do this through our work with Returpack, thereby increasing the recycling becomes visible, so that more people will urban areas, for example, there is a need for whether it's fuel, food or other products. In of cans and bottles found along the Swedish roads. In 2015, a total of 160,000 engage. We have been in Uganda since fuel, but also services such as package delivery 2015/16, we had 214 eco-labelled products Over the last two years, we have expanded Swedish kronor was collected, which resulted in 8,000 new trees being planted. 2009 and work with several local orga­ and bicycle service. The shopping place, which in our shops out of a total of 4,550 possible our stations in Sweden with our new food con­ nisations. Our collaboration with OKQ8 is accessible by public transportation or car, products within retail and car industry. We cept Quick To Go. The concept already exists Scandinavia has contributed to a lot of offers car rental and car wash as well as con­ continuously focus on reducing CO2 emissions. in Denmark. It includes several new healthier families receiving clean water. It has also venience food and fuel, while the traffic portal Within our car rental service, we reduced our alternatives of high quality. It has been a suc­ led to a reduction in the energy require­ focuses on fuel and a meal. In all cases, it must emissions by 7 percent in 2015. This was due cess and sales are increasing. However, we ment, because the water is heated and be quick and flexible for our customers. In our to more vehicles driving on renewable fuels, have a challenge to reduce waste in relation can be used for cooking and hygiene. In product range, different sustainability labels but also since our smaller trucks now have to the increased supply. In 2014 we began a other words, the effort delivers very ob­ are found on the products enabling the customer more environmentally efficient engines. Read food waste project in Denmark. In 2015, the vious and direct results. 10 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 11 “ We helped develop the cities already in the 60s, 70s and 80s, and we want The Station to continue doing so. We see it as an important part of our social responsibility. Illustration showing how OKQ8 Scandinavia’s service stations may look in the future, designed by the architectural firm Snøhetta. MARIANNE SÆTRE We believe in the future service station Architect at Snøhetta You have been involved in developing the concept for the future service station. What challenges and opportunities do you see for service stations in urban areas? The future service station is both a level. This is to avoid creating so-called “sleeping When we talk about the future service station, work method and a project, which aims towns”. In an effort to make cities more vibrant, we primarily focus on three types of stations: – Above all, I see that transportation, housing more shops at street level becomes a priority. the Eco city, the Shopping centre and the Traffic to identify and explore the expecta­ and the environment must be more integra­ portal. Together, they cover the places where we tions, weaknesses, potentials and ide­ Our stations are open every hour of the day to are and where we want to be. The Eco city has ted. It is important to create natural spaces as for how service stations should look and places for people to be able to fulfill help make the city vibrant. We helped deve­ a small but well-tailored selection and service for exi­sting needs. For example fuel, car wash, and function in the future. Each small lop the cities already in the 60s, 70s and 80s, people on-the-go in a densely built-up area. bicycle service, shops, cafes and training cen­ step is a step towards long­-term sus­ and we want to continue doing so. We see it Meanwhile, the larger station, the Shopping tres will be in one place. tainable development. as an important part of our social responsibility. centre, also offers fuel and car wash and is We work on getting politicians and govern­ located near public transport and roads. The In the future, tailored solutions, where mul­ It is difficult to predict the development 15 ments to see us as a “good neighbor” rather Traffic portal is located at traffic hubs and of­ tiple players are involved, will become more years into the future, as people will be more than “dirty and noisy”. We do this through fers, in addition to fuel, something to eat, the and more common. Customers, architects, con­ mobile and development often occurs stepwise. partnerships, transparency and dialogue with possibility to retrieve packages and various tractors, transportation companies and muni­ At a time when urbanisation is at its peak and stake­holders from other businesses, who also services. cipalities will have a much closer relationship cities are filled to their limits, it is a challenge contribute to a positive social development. than today. It will be important for OKQ8 to to get decision-makers to take into account As we always adapt to local conditions, we be proactive, offering solutions and to be the type of service that we deliver; either be­ Most urgent is the situation in Stockholm, but also run hybrids of the three types of stations. part of the early planning process. The futu­ cause they do not include service stations in the development is also seen in other areas An example is the station that we will open on re service station is a good example of this. urban planning or by not allowing new large-­ of Sweden, as well as in Copenhagen. We be­ Svea­vägen in 2016 in direct connection to OKQ8 scale construction. lieve that there will always be a high demand on Scandinavia's head office in Stockholm. The sta­ service to people in motion, no matter how fast tion offers various in-store products and rental However, the need for our services becomes even urbanisation develops in Sweden and Denmark. cars, but not fuel. Thus, it becomes our first fuel-­ bigger when more people move to the cities. We free facility opening in Sweden. know that in cities there is a wish to build more accommodation, but not including at ground 12 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 13 Customer satisfaction is crucial to our Increased accessibility The costumer existence. We actively work towards for all customers building trust and improving our servi­ ce offerings, based on customer needs and expectations. Every one and a half years, we measure customer satisfaction in order to evaluate whether we Every day is a journey, and we want to be an enabler for people in motion. are living up to our own and our customers' Our goal is to make all our customers visible and to feel secure and welcomed. expectations. It is an operational and strate­ gic tool in the development and management We always strive to offer personal and helpful service. We offer Service Assistance on the first of our company. The survey is carried out at Thursday of every month, where our customers can get extra assistance in changing wiper blades, selected stations. 47 manned stations and checking tire pressure and oil level. Service Assistance is much appreciated by our customers, and nine unmanned stations are part of the survey furthermore, a well-kept car has less impact on the environment. with a total of 2,374 collected answers. Wheelchair users often find it difficult to use credit card machines when refuelling. Naturally, our OKQ8 BANK We also use so-called “mystery shoppers” who staff at the manned service stations will assist, and we appreciate a phone call before arrival, Our bank businesses are changing from are people pretending to be customers; the so we can assist with refuelling and other services. Other steps taken to increase security at our paper to electronic invoices and in general “mystery shoppers” assess how well we are service stations are easily accessible toilet facilities and good lighting in the evening and during we focus on the automation of our pro­ able to meet customer needs. Here, we get many the night. cesses. In Sweden, we have launched good results. In our industry, we are ranked in the an app on which all our Visa and cre­ top within the criteria “active contact”, “providing Digital solutions dit card customers can easily see their concrete suggestions”, “questioning”, “friendly During the year, we have continued to develop our digital platforms. One large and positive account balance. We have a responsible welcome” and “overall impression”. One weak­ change is that our portfolio of products can now be found online in both Sweden and Denmark. credit policy, which of course follows cur­ ness is that these results are not as good When the registration number of a car is entered, suggestions are made for products that are rent legislation. Furthermore, we work during holidays and around Christmas, when suitable. In Denmark, we have also launched a webpage where companies can follow and opti­ actively on compliance issues. employees are often holiday substi­tutes. We mise their fuel use and CO2 emissions. This is an example of how we are working to be a strategic are working on getting better at living up to partner for companies and their sustainability efforts. We are currently considering possibilities the high demands from our customers in the­ of launching a similar webpage in Sweden. se periods. CSI index Sweden CSI index Denmark 81 77 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) for manned stations. The customer satisfaction index has improved by three percentage points in Sweden since 2012. We are very happy – mineral water and pastries with this. 2015 is the first year we have measured customer Q8 Denmark collaborates with GoMore, a satisfaction in Denmark. digital platform for private transportation and car rental in Scandinavia. Previously, Customer service all GoMore customers who took a break at Besides the employees at our service stations, Q8 stations could get free coffee. After we, Customer we have a customer service function, which in 2015, introduced Starbucks coffee at customers can contact for help. On a daily basis, the majority of our stations in Denmark, a there are large amounts of e-mails, phone calls change has been made to offer a choice of and Facebook messages that we try to answer satisfaction and either a mineral water or a pastry. as quickly and accurately as possible. We stri­ ve to have a high availability, short waiting A similar pilot project is taking place at se­ time, high solution rates and always a friendly veral OKQ8 stations in Sweden. 21,548 cups customer service approach. During this year, more than 86.9 of coffee and 1,105 bottles of water were percent of the inquiries have been answered. given to our customers who travelled More than 100 employees in our customer service with GoMore in 2015. function have undergone training to ensure a uni­ form and high level of service. 14 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 15 regarding Diesel Bio HVO (Hydrated Vegetable liability and power ability, combined with Oil)) consisting of 100 percent renewable fuel, improved environmental properties, it is also Fuel has been finalised between OKQ8 Sweden, Re­ an attractive alternative for heavy transport nova, DHL Freight and Volvo. CO2 reductions vehicles. This is the reason why Renova deci­ reached up to 90 percent compared to tradi­ ded to change to non-fossil fuel (see the article tional diesel. below). It is a very big and important step that paves the way for more large transport com­ Besides the significant CO2 reduction of HVO, panies to follow. the fuel has characteristics that are almost identical to traditional diesel. With good re­ The company that became fossil independent with HVO Renova is one of the largest waste Renova works with waste and recycling and is Which fuels we offer and why and recycling companies in Sweden. owned by 10 municipalities in west Sweden: Göteborg, Mölndal, Kungälv, Partille, Ale, Ste­ Every year, the company drives dis­ nungsund, Lerum, Tjörn, Härryda and Ökerö. tances that are comparable to 140 With 220 heavy vehicles in the fleet, they are times around the world. Thanks one of the largest companies in the industry. to our Diesel Bio HVO, Renova has Therefore, it is very positive that the company A strong incentive for our sustaina­ the flexibility to choose alternatives, which we Sweden's first non-fossil vehicle fleet. made a decision in May 2015 to make a com­ % Fuels sold bility work is the reduction of CO2 regard as superior without tying ourselves to This is an example of how we colla­ plete transition to a fossil-free fleet with HVO Denmark 2014 2015 a certain variation or type of raw material. We (also including 30 vehicles which completely emissions from the fuels we sell, and borate with other companies in the Diesel 61.8 59.1 want it to be a natural and individual choice or partly use biogas). The government's vision Petrol 24.5 23.8 the reduction of the impact that our whether to use traditional or alternative fuels search for more sustainable solutions. is that Sweden must have a completely fossil­ Fuel oil and other oils 8.6 12.1 own company has on the environment. such as bio gas, E85, electricity, HVO and RME. independent vehicle fleet – something that HVO (addmixture) 2.2 2.1 We continue to offer traditional fuels which Throughout the last couple of years, we have Renova has already achieved. RME (admixture) 1.6 1.5 OKQ8 Scandinavia's ambition is to supply the are necessary for customers, but at the same been running a project with our sustainable Ethanol (admixture) 1.2 1.2 most sustainable fuel possible. Most cars in time we keep investing in sustainable alternatives alternative, Diesel Bio HVO together with Re­ – Diesel Bio HVO has played an important LNG 0.2 the Nordic countries are still petrol or diesel and improvement of existing fuels. Therefore, nova, Volvo Trucks and DHL Freight. This fuel role in working to achieve a fossil-free fleet. driven. The sale of renewable alternatives is we have a responsibility to invest resources is manufactured from animal fat from slaugh­ The fuel can be used in existing diesel vehi­ LPG <0.1 <0.1 increasing, albeit from a low level. This is where in supporting and developing renewable fuels terhouse waste products, and works well in cles which has enabled a quick development Sweden 2014 2015 we play an important role, together with our and other relevant solutions for future mobility. the diesel motors of existing vehicles. Tests towards reducing CO2 emissions from our Diesel 43.6 42.6 customers and car manufacturers. Already have shown good results in terms of reliability, transportation, says Lester Johnsson, Garage Petrol 39.6 37.3 when choosing and purchasing a car, the deci­ Our new and improved standard diesel in power ability and environmental benefits. CO2 Manager at Renova Logistics. HVO (admixture) 4.7 7.4 sion is made as to which type of fuel to use. Sweden contains up to 40 percent renewa­ emissions can be reduced by up to 90 percent Fuel oil 5.0 5.2 We consider it an obligation to inform our ble raw materials, and at the same time the compared to traditional diesel, which means Thanks to Renova and increasing customer in­ Ethanol (admixture) 2.0 2.9 customers about the impact of different fuels new diesel keeps the motor clean. Another that emission levels for vehicles can be redu­ terest, we have opened more pumps with Diesel RME (admixture) 2.4 2.4 on the environment. This is something that example is the close dialogue we have with ced drastically and at the same time econo­ Bio HVO for heavy goods vehicles. The project E85 2.2 1.2 both we and others can continue to improve. customers and the car industry about coope­ mically effiently. has also led to Volvo Trucks certifying all of their HVO 0.1 0.6 rating on identifying innovative ways of redu­ motors for synthetic diesel, and Arla aims to We consider it a strength that we do not refine cing CO2 emissions and other environmental completely remove fossil-based diesel from their RME 0.4 0.4 LESTER JOHNSSON oil ourselves, or own oil refineries. It gives us impacts. During this year, a perennial project, Swedish fleet. Autogas * * Garage Manager at Renova * I n Sweden we have also sold autogas (around 14,500,000 Nm3), LNG and biogas. At certain *From 1st March 2016, we have temporarily lowered the quantity of HVO in our standard diesel in Sweden. The Logistics stations we have also supplied electricity for charging cars and in Denmark we have sold reason for the reduction is that access to HVO is limited because of the high requirements we place on the hydrogen. quality of the products, whilst demand has increased. The amount of RME remains at 5 percent. 16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 17 Fuel Supply chain Trading Trading This is where we come into the picture. This is where we come into the Production We buy oil products and have no production picture. We buy biofuel products Refining of our own. Usually we buy raw materials and have no production of our own. on long term contracts. Usually we buy raw materials on Sales long term contracts. Distribution Distribution Extraction Transport Transport Transport Transport Agriculture 10 10 Depot storage Depot storage 0 100 0 0 10 0 10 0 10 We strive to take responsibility for and We negotiate agreements with our suppliers In the contract with suppliers, we always include This means that we can trust the suppliers we tion of renewable fuels. The act aims, among second generation HVO based on animal fat work with sustainability across the once a year. In order to qualify as a supplier our code of conduct, which is based on the ten use. Having negotiations once a year ensures other things, to protect soil and areas of high from slaughterhouse waste. From a supplier of they must meet a number of basic requirements principles of the UN Global Compact. As an that if we discover irregularities, we are able biodiversity and guarantee a specific reduction diesel we also have a small percentage of HVO supply chain – from raw materials and follow the guidelines of the ten principles of important part of the contract, we require that to quickly end our collaboration. Until now we of greenhouse gas emissions compared to fos­ based on palm oil. This HVO is certified accor­ to finished products. To ensure that the UN Global Compact in the areas of human the fuel is produced under conditions that do not have not had any reason to do so. During the sil fuels. All our suppliers of biofuels are certified ding to the ISCC (International Sustainability and we are environmentally and social­ rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. violate for example human rights. We also consi­ past year, we have completed third-party audits according to the European Commission’s stan­ Carbon Certification System) and RSPO (Round­ ly responsible, we have an ongoing We also evaluate any certifications, which the der it important that our suppliers complete a with two of our nine suppliers, mainly focusing dards, or approved according to national stan­ table on Sustainable Palm Oil) standards. The dialogue with our suppliers. supplier may have, their ownership, size and the risk assessment of their own suppliers according on their ability to follow up on subcontractors. dards. This means, for example, that producers certifications are steps towards more sustainable extent to which we estimate that the supplier to our code of conduct or according to their own The audits showed that the internal sustainabi­ of raw materials must have a system for the pro­ fuels. We are committed to always delivering fuels can meet our requirements. Finally, a risk as­ similar rules. How far back we can trace materials lity efforts work well, with no major deviations. tection of biodiversity. According to Europ­ean that are as sustainable as possible. Since we do sessment is made in relation to origin and raw in the supply chain depends on its complexity. However, we have identified a number of risks legislation, the requirements for biofuels also Besides fuel, we choose products in our portfolio not produce fuel – and instead purchase finis­ materials. Particularly, suppliers of fossil fuels We have not yet reached a point where it is pos­ and flaws in relation to certain subcontractors, include reducing CO2 emissions by at least 35 that are controlled by a third party such as Fair­ hed products from our suppliers – we are not constitute a high risk, and therefore we assess sible to trace the traditional fuels back through which we have followed up on, so we can conti­ percent compared to traditional fuel. trade and The Swan. Our work with traceability tied to a specific product range. This gives us such suppliers even further. The origin of su­ the entire supply chain. Our suppliers often know nue improving our product sustainability. There and control of supply chains, however, is focused the freedom to sell the fuels that the market de­ stainable fuels is easily traceable, and today we which countries the oil comes from, but the final is a lack of knowledge in the fossil fuel supply In Denmark, there is a quota requirement which on fuels. mands, and fuels which we believe in. This may have a well-functioning system to do so. We have product often consists of mixed raw materials chain and we intent to work with suppliers to states that 5.75 percent of the total volume of make the process towards more sustainable al­ a su­stainability approval from the Energy Autho­ with various origins. improve this. fuel sold needs to be from biofuels. This is mainly ternatives faster. When more sustainable fuels rities, which ensures that all our biofuels are su­ achieved by the addition of ethanol to petrol are in demand and used by our customers, our stainable in accordance with current legislation. Follow-up is important For biofuels, there are clear definitions of what is and FAME in diesel. A smaller share of HVO environmental impacts and CO2 emissions will We continuously monitor and review our sup­ considered as renewable fuel. The Sustainability from one of our suppliers is also used to meet be reduced. This is the development we aim for. pliers' certifications and management systems. of Biofuels Act set requirements for the defini­ this requirement. In Denmark, this year we used 18 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 19 Energy use (MWh) Energianvändning CO2e emission related to our own businesses Renewable fuels Energiförbrukning 200 200 Total CO2e emission (ton) MWh 183,272 183 272 Category 2014/15 2015/16 176,732 175 694 197 757 150 150 175 694 Direct CO2e emission ­ Scope 11) 5,050 3,462 100 100 Indirect CO2e emission­ Scope 22) 33,739 32,510 The fuel industry has a major responsibility to reduce environmental Fuel Other indirect CO2e emission impacts. Therefore, we are working on developing and increasing the 50 50 – Scope 33) 13,638 14,559 proportion of renewable fuels. Total CO2e emission 52,427 50,531 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 We offer five biofuels: ethanol, biogas, RME, HVO and electricity. The sale of these CO2e emissions per area (ton) products has increased with 15 percent since 2014, and accounts for 14 percent Energiförbrukningen i våraof egna verksamheter i Danmark och Sverige. I förbrukningen Energy use from our businesses in Denmark and Sweden. The use includes office, stations, Energianvändningen i våra egna verksamheter Total CO2e emission i Danmark och Sverige. I användningen Area 2014/15 2015/16 our total sales of fuel in 2015. In 2015, the total average sale of renewable innefattas fuel atdepåer, drivmedel kontor, stationer, depot storage, fuel and distribution. innefattas kontor, stationer, depåer, drivmedel 8,590,448 ton CO 2e 2015/16 och energiförbrukning i distribution. och energiförbrukning i distribution. 8,616,727 ton CO2e 2014/15 Service stations and IDS 31,924 30,748 stations in Sweden was 26.5 percent for diesel and 4.95 percent for petrol. In Den­ mark, biofuel made up 5.80 percent of the total amount of fuel sold. Distribution 14,511 13,991 CO2e emission relates to our Lubricant production 2,341 2,324 costumers' fuel use (scope 3) In 2012, we launched Diesel Bio+ in Sweden and in 2015 a further improvement Business travels 1,769 1,722 on diesel took place. The renewable proportion in Diesel Bio+ was increased to 40 8,539,917 ton CO 2e Depot storage 4) 1,440 1,391 percent and at the same time the product became available in a wider geographic Offices 442 355 area*. At the service stations, where we do not supply Diesel Bio+, we sell traditional 1) Scope 1: Direct CO2 emission from company­controlled diesel mixed with five percent RME. In certain parts of Sweden, we had to remove buildings and vehicles. RME from our diesel, because some car models made of certain materials did not 2) Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emission from electricity and heat pro­ duced by another company. tolerate contact with RME. This was in spite of the fact that our diesel was, and still Energy use and 3) Scope 3: Other indirect CO2 emissions that are not Scope is, developed according to European standards and adapted to the requirements 1 and 2. 4) Including VOC and guarantees of car manufacturers. During 2015/15 our total CO2 e emission was reduced with 896 ton, 3.6 percent, compared to 2014/15. The reduction is CO2 emissions related to increased sales of HVO and a reduced emission facWith the next step in the development of Diesel Bio HVO, we are using diesel pro­ tor of electricity in Denmark by 20 percent. We assume that CARSTEN KRUSE duced from 100 percent waste and other residues. Hopefully this fuel will be app­ the contribution to biogene CO2 is neutral since the amount of biogene CO2 that is released during use of fuel equals the Director of Ferries at Samsø Shipping roved by more car and truck manufacturers in the future, enabling diesel powered amount of biogene CO2 taken up by plants (and animals) in the primary production. vehicles to use Diesel Bio HVO. Today, for instance, all Volvo trucks are approved to We have supplied LNG to the Samsø ferry since use Diesel Bio HVO. Scania and Mercedes have also given their approval for HVO for 1st March 2015 and this ferry is the first Danish some of their models. Diesel Bio HVO can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 90 percent We have a responsibility to reduce 100 percent HVO. Furthermore, we will conti­ with new LED lights. In previous years, we ferry to sail on liquid natural gas. compared to traditional diesel. nue to inform our customers about the environ­ have installed surveillance systems through our own climate impacts, but also mental benefits that our current alternatives which we can follow the development in energy In Denmark, there is a quota system (due to current legislation) meaning that bio­ CO2 emissions in general. – Everything was new when we started. A new have. In Denmark, we do not have the same use, and thus also the CO2 emissions at our shipping company, new ferry, new fuel and fuels must constitute 5.75 percent of the total amount of fuel sold. For cost reasons, possibilities to increase the share of renewable service stations, IDS stations and depots. Bu­ new technology. After 5,000 departures we only few companies exceed the statutory level, limiting the possibility for further Climate change is a big problem in our time. fuels since legislation in the industry is different, siness travels, in the form of kilometres per concluded that the project was a success. It addition of biofuels. The quota is primarily achieved by mixing five percent bio­ Reducing CO2 emissions is therefore impor­ compared to Sweden. The task is mainly focused customer visit, have been reduced by 41 per­ requires higher flexibility from the supplier, ethanol in to petrol and about seven percent renewable fuel in to diesel. With tax tant for all fuel companies. We must constant­ on meeting the legal quota requirements, but cent in Sweden. This has been accomplished and Q8 has shown that supremely. We are exemption on renewable fuel in Sweden, ambitions have been stronger and clearer. ly ask ourselves how we can reduce emissions obviously also to optimise our business. Read through more effective sales processes, but very pleased with that, says Carsten Kruse, In Denmark the focus has been on second generation biofuels instead. through development in the right direction. more on page 20. also through increased use of telephone­ and Director of Ferries at Samsø Shipping. On the one hand it is about how we can video conferences. Electricity is a growing area with the potential to reduce CO2 emissions as well as reduce energy use and CO2 emissions from Less emission from our own operations So far, 22,000 MWh have been supplied to reducing traffic noise. A well considered infrastructure for charging stations is an im­ our own operations, on the other hand how To measure and report energy use and CO2 The distribution of our products is handled by Samsø Shipping. A relatively small amount comportant factor in achieving this. We are involved in support and development pos­ we can help our customers choose more su­ emissions from our own operations, we use external suppliers. Read more on page 23. pared to the remainder of the fuel industry, but sibilities of electric powered cars by, amongst other things, establishing charging stainable alternatives, which will benefit the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, an international stan­ with a high degree of innovation. Several comstations at our service stations, and through a close cooperation with the electric environment. dard of reporting. It is the second year that Some of our departments currently have their panies and associations have visited Samsø car manufacturer, Tesla. We also consider gas for cars (biogas and natural gas) and we are using this standard. Therefore, for the own goals to reduce the energy use and CO2 Shipping to learn more about the project and its hydrogen to be interesting areas of development. Through cooperation with E.ON Reduced emissions from our fuels first time we can compare our data with the emissions from our own operations, but until advantages. In spite of its fossil origin, LNG has a we supply gas to our customers. In Sweden, our customers have access to 58 gas Our fuels account for our absolute largest previous year. Our total energy use increased now no overall goals have been set. Our ambi­ very positive effect, as the energy content per supply stations, 26 of which are established at OKQ8 service stations. In 2015, the footprint on the environment. In 2015, the by 3.7 percent during 2015/16 compared to tion is to establish overall sustainability goals volume is high. This means that refueling is less sale of gas increased by 23 percent compared to 2014. Our business customers initiative that gave the best results for redu­ 2014/15. The increase comes from distribu­ for OKQ8 Scandinavia in 2016. This work will frequent, and therefore involves less transportahave the option to purchase biogas through a gas certificate. In 2016, we plan to cing CO2 emissions was an increased mixture tion and from our service stations. be driven by our Sustainability Council. tion of fuel to the ferry dock. establish four to five new gas stations north of Stockholm. of renewable fuels in our own diesel. We are still working on making our existing fuels more The CO2 emissions connected to our own * From 1st March 2016 we have temporarily reduced the amount of HVO in our standard diesel in – We are only in harbour for 15 minutes, which Sweden. The reason for the reduction is that access to HVO is limited according to the specific sustainable, but also to find new solutions and operations primarily come from the depots, means that every minute counts. I'm surprised requirements we place on the quality of the products, while demand has increased. The amount products and to offer a broader and more su­ operation of our service stations and business by the simple solution in spite of the advanced of RME remains at five percent. stainable product range. travels. In 2015, we have optimised and esta­ technology, says Carsten Kruse. blished leakage­free compressors at depots to We will also be opening more stations with reduce energy use, installed new, more effec­ completely sustainable alternatives such as tive heating systems and changed old lighting 20 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 21 Transportation Fuel and storage We have a total amount of ten de­ In the area of lubricants and other chemical pots for storage of fuels in Sweden products, Petrolia has implemented a number of energy saving initiatives. They have, among and Denmark, and we have further other things, invested in a new plant for water­access to depots through corporation cooling systems and a completely new ventilation agree­ments with other companies. How we avoid spills system in Söderfors. Our lo­gistic area is quality certified according to the ISO 9001 standard External suppliers handle our transportation and environ­mentally certified accor­ of fuels. In order to minimise our environmental and leaks impacts, we encourage our suppliers to train ding to the ISO 14001 standards. their drivers in eco-driving, which includes In order to make our service stations and focusing on choice of fuel, engines, fuel use depots safer, we have completed a number and the planning of routes so they are as short of initiatives throughout the year. In Denmark, as possible. Every three months, we follow up we have, among other things, improved the on the distributors' CO2 emissions. This gives We have clear procedures in place in order to prevent spills and leaks. us the opportunity to react and respond in personal safety equipment for drivers, and All our employees at the service stations have been trained to handle increased surveillance at the service stations. case the emissions increase to an unaccepta­ spills, and every incident is reported and followed up on. In Sweden, we have increased protection when ble level. refueling, improved safety for class three tanks As a major player in the fuel industry, we have an important responsibility and we consis­ THE SPILL IN PADBORG and fireproofed the service stations in collabo­ tently work to reduce our impact on the environment. Preventative work is the source ration with rescuers. to reducing spills and leaks. Handling of these issues is subject to strict rules and active In autumn 2014, we discovered a leak at risk assessment. Daily routines, safety measures, tests and mandatory training of our our IDS-plant in Padborg, which turned employees prevent the occurrence of spills and leaks as much as possible. out to be a leak in the ground pipeline. The leakage occurred very slowly, so it In order to avoid spills when refuelling diesel, we have applied DripStop on all our diesel was impossible to notice in our volume pumps – a function in the nozzle that prevents the remaining drops of diesel from spilling control system. Since the leakage had been to the ground after refuelling. When our costumers hold the nozzle for five seconds after going on for a longer period of time, it refuelling, the remaining diesel drops will run back into the tank, and spill is thereby eli­ unfortunately resulted in a significant minated. Although, if any spill should occur, a special coating has been applied to the contamination of 3,100 m2. ground surface which captures the liquid and directs it to oil separators. This is comp­ limented by the fact that our employees are trained and have the necessary skills to The dialogue with the municipality, and handle minor spills. the current requirements regarding pu­ rification means that pollution down to Even with strict safety measures, spills can occur and can be difficult to avoid, for instance 10 meters of depth will be excavated, when making deliveries to forestry and other places where spill is difficult to dispose of. and underlying pollution will be limited During 2015/16, around 290,000 deliveries to our customers and service stations were by in situ cleaning combined with large completed. Twice, significant spills of a total of 100 litres occurred, and both spills were format drilling. Subsequently, an in situ fa­ handled without permanent damage to the environment. Significant spill is defined as cility will be established for the treatment incidents where discharge to the environment has occurred and require clean-up with for and biological degradation of the residual instance mechanical excavation, pumping and/or chemical treatment. contamination left in the ground. The fa­ cility will be operated until it is documented, Depending on the magnitude of the spill, and where it occurs, the need for clean-up to a high degree of certainty, that residual varies. At larger incidents, we contact the fire authorities and notify the environmental contamination does not spread in to the office of the local authorities. In these cases, we ensure a close dialogue with the autho­ groundwater, exceeding the water quality rities so that we can agree on a plan for the clean-up procedure. criteria. If a service station is to be closed, it requires particular procedures. In such cases, we examine if pollution has occurred – if so, we clean the soil. In some cases, we remove the station building before the cleaning procedure begins. We are aware of the consequen­ ces of our own business, but we also consider previous business activities that have taken place in the area. 22 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 23 Training Employees – the way to success With a transparent and clear career plan, employees are motivated to develop within the company. Through our competency portal Performance in Motion, we have a large amount of customised company training pro­ grammes at all levels. We offer both online courses and instructor-led courses. One example is the 122 leaders, who during the year completed training in our leadership programme. In this programme, they learned about leadership and how to lead the company towards the agreed goals based on our values. Likewise, in our customer service we have made a large training effort. More than 100 employees have been trained in securing a uniform and high level customer care. During the year, we have completed training in the area of health, safety and environment for employees working at our service stations. The training was “ Our employees reflect who we are focused on our impact, as well as improvements and initiatives which we have committed ourselves to in relation to the climate and environment. Our values are key to attracting the February 2016 an employee survey was com­ tive as an advantage. Our employees eagerly More than 100 employees have been right competencies, generating low pleted, where 540 employees responded to share their experiences with one another in trained in securing a uniform and high questions regarding their wellbeing. The satis­ the entire company and across borders. employee turnover and ensuring that level customer care. faction level was 3.09 out of 4, which is an we deliver the highest possible ser­ improvement from last year, where this was vice to our customers. Every single 3.01. When we feel secure and happy at work employee is the foundation for our we become more innovative, efficient and MICHAEL KNUDSEN success. proud of the company we work for. Break Youth Unemployment Now! and Youths On Their Way Participant in Break Youth Break Youth Unemployment Now! in Denmark and Youths On Their Way in Sweden are initia­ Unemployment Now! As a value-driven company, it is important that Working with sustainability needs to be un­ tives to improve the self-esteem of young people and to reduce youth unemployment. Young words and actions go hand in hand. Every­ complicated. Along with a general desire to people in Denmark at the age of 15-30 are offered a mentor and the participation in boot I got in contact with Break Youth Unem­ one needs to know what is right and what is move towards a more sustainable world, a lot camps in collaboration with the organisation Break Youth Unemployment Now!, which provide ployment Now! through the local au­ wrong. We have a code of conduct, which all of employees in the company want to engage insight into how the labour market works. During the last year, six boot camps have been thorities. Right away I knew that it was our employees have to follow and which in­ with and contribute to this cause. As a fuel held for 150 participants, 70 percent of whom have since moved on to studying or working. something I was interested in. At the forms them about equality, diversity, employee company, we have the opportunity to make a In Sweden, young people under the age of 25 are offered a three-month internship with boot camp I received information about rights, environment and anti-corruption. This difference and actively drive the development instruction. In Avesta in Sweden the internship programme Youths On Their Way has been a how the labour market works and what is is a part of the introduction for new employees. towards more climate-friendly and effective success from the beginning, with continuous positive results during last year. A local invest­ required from employees. I was actually Step by step, we become clearer on our values fuels, services and products. By integrating ment in the development of Youths On Their Way in Södertälje focuses on collaborating with able to practice going to interviews. Break and thereby we become more efficient in our sustainability into our daily work, all employees THE ANNUAL CHRISTMAS the employment services. If this turns out to be a success, the goal is to expand this activity Youth Unemployment Now! has meant daily work. We attach a lot of importance to are part of ensuring a more sustainable world. GIVE-AWAY WENT TO to the rest of Sweden. In 2015, 74 young people completed an internship through Youths On a lot to me. It has given me energy and complying with our rules and values. The more UNHCR Their Way in Sweden. helped me consider things in a new way efficient we are, the more successful we are in In order to strengthen our competencies and and most importantly I have got a job. our work and in relation to our customers. meet future needs and demands, we provide This Christmas, we decided to donate a wide selection of internal training program­ a Christmas present of 90,000 DKK After Break Youth Unemployment Now! Being a large company of 5,000 employees mes and courses regarding company culture, and 90,000 SEK to UNHCR – The UN's Michael received a three-month intern­ allows for internal career opportunities. We sales, conflict management as well as environ­ Refugee Council, which supports re­ ship at a Q8 service station and as of value that our employees feel that they are ment, health and safety. In 2015, we comple­ fugees in urgent need of help. The right now he has been able to prolong his good at their jobs and that they continuously ted a number of courses for all our employees decision to support this cause was internship. develop. We want to give our employees the and managers at both service stations and in made by the Sustainability Council opportunity to further develop competencies customer service. This helps us develop a cor­ and adheres to our overall stra­tegy benefitting the company. Almost 80 percent porate foundation for our values and goals, en­ regarding sustainable development. of all employments are internal recruitments suring that they are implemented in everything – this shows that we have made progress. In we do. We also see our Scandinavian perspec­ 24 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 25 Sustainability is safety In Denmark, we have met the requirements in the Danish Financial State­ ments Act called equal representation in the Board of Directors. We have two women and three men in the Danish Board of Directors (exclusive employee representatives). Two women and four men represent the Swedish Board of Employees Directors (five men inclusive employee representatives). Throughout our en­ tire organisation, we actively work towards accomplishing gender balance at other leadership levels. Through our work for an improved gender balance, we have in the past year hired two women at middle management level repre­ Sustainability is about the environment, but it is also about health, safety sented by the head of communication and the head of SSHE. SSHE is a new position at OKQ8 Scandinavia. and security. 2015/16 Safety means e.g. avoiding accidents and threatening situations for both employees and custo­ 100% mers. Our goal is that everyone should feel safe and secure at our service stations, and therefore 2014/15 we work with both the physical design of the service stations, personnel equipment and training. 100% 2015/16 During the past year, we conducted an information campaign on conflict management for our Of our 3,885 employees (exclusive franchise and associa­ 83% employees, and we improved our equipment and instructions on firefighting, removal of environ­ tions), 100 percent are covered by collective agreements in Sweden and 83 percent in Denmark. The reason for it 2014/15 mental spills and waste and on first aid. During the year, we have also developed a new emergen­ % not being 100 percent in Denmark is due to the fact that managers at the service stations and offices 82% cy response plan as a supplement to our central emergency manual. Every employee must at all negotiate their contracts by themselves when they are employed. times be able to give first aid assistance in a given situation. 29 36 35 71 We continuously work on improvements and strive to be a learning organisation through 50 64 65 52 our integrated SSHE management system “How we do it”. All incidents are reported through our 55 EXTRACT OF OUR POLICIES system “Oops & Ouch”. This helps us to understand what needs to be improved and corrected, 50 48 45 ON HEALTH, SAFETY AND why things happen, and what is required in order to avoid that they occur again. ENVIRONMENT 2015/16 We have goals and action plans in place in Women order to prevent injuries and illnesses and Occupational injuries with absence per 200,000 working hours Men Denmark Sweden IDI* frequency to reduce the environmental impacts rs en en s s er s re t t er oy The development of 1,0 ct o em em ag an ag ee an Total workforce created by our activities. This must pl health & safety 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 Di ag an an ag rm m m of n re ar M m he io he happen through: Deaths 0 0 0 0 0,8 Bo d dl id e Ot Stat Ot Amount Women Men Total M Sweden Occupational injuries with absence Anti-discrimination Focusing on, for us, important environ­ LWC*, own employees 6 10 4 9 Number of 0,6 mental aspects Occupational injuries with absence 1 1 1 5 employees 1,183 1,006 2,189 LWC*, contractors Full-time 596 502 1,098 Part-time 587 504 1,091 Developing and delivering products LWC* Severity Rate **, own employees 2.0 5.6 4.8 5.4 0,4 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Permanent 777 678 1,455 with improved environmental and equality LWC* Severity Rate **, contractors 1.1 3.5 0.0 7.5 employment properties *An industrial Disabling Incident (IDI) is defined as an accident Temporary 399 302 701 Robberies and attempted robberies 5 8 1 10 resulting in at least one day's absence from work. The IDI employment Reducing the environmental impacts frequency is calculated as the number of injuries with absence Sickness absence (%) based on the per 200.000 working hours. Contract­ors 7 26 33 2.7 3.3 4.9 5.7 of production, storage and distribution number of working hours of our products Safety walks 996 1,392 1,661 1,377 Denmark Reducing the environmental impacts Incidents reported/near misses 80 51 344 390 Everyone should feel welcomed and In 2015, like previous years, we have completed a Amount Women Men Total of the construction, operation and visible. We treat everyone equally. It salary assessment in order to eliminate unju­ Incidents/accidents, customers Number of 9 9 30 32 closure of our facilities (eg. slipping, collision) stified differences in salaries and conditions is important that we see each other employees 839 857 1,696 * Lost Workcase Days between men and women. In the spring of Full-time 212 228 440 Ensuring that all employees and ** Number of days absence / number of hours worked x 200 as equals and that we base our work 2016, the Swedish government will most likely Part-time 627 629 1,256 partners have necessary training on the same values. present the Riksdagen with a legislative pro­ Permanent 819 814 1633 employment posal that includes annual and improved All functions in OKQ8 Scandinavia Temporary 19 40 59 We strive for gender balance and for securing assessments. The proposal also includes new employment having health, safety and environ­ equal treatment in the recruitment process, parameters, which companies have to take Contract­ors 1 3 4 ment (HSE) on the agenda at staff employee development and salaries. Openness into account in the salary assessment. meetings and honesty is an integrated part of our orga­ Total number Providing relevant requirements for nisation and this includes treating each other We strive to meet the expectations and of employees* 2,022 1,863 3,885 our suppliers and business partners with respect and not distinguishing people requirements that exist for fair and competi­ * Exclusive franchise and associations and following up on their efforts based on gender, skin colour or sexual orienta­ tive salaries, regardless of gender. The collabo­ tion. This is part of our code of conduct, which ration with unions has been constructive in this Providing information about the SHE all employees agree upon – even though process and we look forward to meeting the work to external stakeholders such as every­one should see equality as a given, potential new directives from the government. customers, partners and authorities without having to follow a code of conduct. 26 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 27 Organisation and economy Economy Economic stability gives us the prere­ and high volume. External factors of influence quisites to work with our social and have been increasing taxes on fuel, increasing employer taxes and above all oil prices. environmental responsibilities in the long term. Prices on raw materials for our fuel are affected by several factors that are difficult to control, Our overall financial result for 2015/16 was 317 such as the state of the market and supply. This million Swedish kronor. Even though the amount is influenced in turn by global politics, natural of investments towards renewing our service station phenomena and political disturbances. Fuel prices network has been high, generating higher de­ are also affected by the legislation on renewable preciations than in previous periods, the result fuels as well as how these are taxed. OKQ8 Scandinavia’s main economic goal is profitability is very satisfying. We have had good margins and financial stability. The financial department follows Danish law and internal policies, which includes credit Economic value – generated and distributed MSEK check, risk management as well as authorities and respon­ sibility. In 2015/16, a new finance and reporting system Revenue (customers) 33,206 has been introduced, which has further improved the Purchase of goods -17,760 monthly reporting to those responsible for the outcome management and the Board of Directors. Point Taxes Denmark (The state society) -3,428 Point Taxes Sweden (The state society) -10,909 Salaries and benefits (employees) -721 Corporation tax Denmark (The state) 5 Corporation tax Sweden (The state) -100 OKQ8 SCANDINAVIA’S Financial costs (Lenders) 24 BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Donations (Community) -2 Result (In the company) 317 MEMBERS, OK EKONOMISK FORENING The above financial result corresponds to the result of the year after taxation and other financial items. The result before net financial items and taxes was 388 million Swedish Göran Lindblå kronor. The commodity price of oil in 2015/16 dropped significantly, which explains the decreased revenue and lower purchasing costs. Since point taxes are not linked to the Britt Hansson price, but to the volume, the picture in regards to paying the state is despite this increasing. Ines Uusmann Community donations give an overall view of our direct donations to nonprofit organiza­ tions and exclude the resources we dedicate in terms of our working hours to community engagement. Total capitalisation (the sum of assets) amounted to 10,071 million Swedish MEMBERS, kronor. The basis of the above table is taken from the company’s financial result and can be found as a whole in the annual report. KUWAIT PETROLEUM INTERNATIONAL Ownership, management and organisation Anthony Saunders Azzam Almutawa Khaled AL-Mushileh EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Berndt Nilsson OK-Q8 AB is owned by OK ekono­ our work with sustainability is integrated in our sustainability work. These recommendations As part of our systematic focus on sustainabili­ misk förening and Kuwait Petroleum actions and is not seen as a separate process. are approved by management before they ty, we conduct internal audits and safety walks Our board provide strategy, goals and gui­ are cascaded in to the organisation through to follow up on whether our procedures work in International, with 50 percent each. delines that ensure an effective monitoring the council. The chairman of the council is our practice and not just in theory. OK-Q8 AB in turn owns Q8 Denmark system and that legislation, agree­ments and Director of Sustainability & Communication. A/S, but we see ourselves as one ethical guidelines are followed. At each board Managers of the following functions are repre­ OK ekonomisk förening is the largest of seven company – OKQ8 Scandinavia – with meeting the Board of Directors review recent sented in the Sustainability Council: Communi­ OK associations in Sweden with close to one shared values. developments in the company regarding health, cation, SSHE, HR, Operations, Direct Market, million members. Kuwait Petroleum Interna­ safety, environment and security. Distribution, Marketing and Engineering. tional is headquartered in The Netherlands Our owners have a strong commitment to and is owned by Kuwait Petroleum Corpora­ sustainability, which is an integrated part of Our Sustainability Council is made up of Besides the council, we have a group, the SSHE tion, which is owned by the Kuwaiti state. In the entire company. The directive from our representatives from the company and hand­ Focus Group, which handles questions focusing 1999, a joint venture between OK ekonomisk owners is clear – we must work as a sustaina­ les environmental and social aspects and our on security, environment, safety and health. förening and Kuwait Petroleum International ble company socially, environmentally and impact on the environment and society. The Senior staff from our divisions make up this was established. On 1st August 2012, OKQ8 economically. This is seen through several of council makes recommendations in relation group. Sweden and Q8 Denmark together formed our initiatives. We actively work to ensure that to strategy, goals and activities within our one of Scandinavia’s largest fuel companies, OKQ8 Scandinavia. 28 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 29 Global Reporting GRI väsentliga aspekter och indikatorer Aspects and Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) and indicators Comment Omission Page boundaries ECONOMIC Economic performance – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia Initiative index G4-DMA Sustainable management 28-29 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 29 revenues, opera­ting costs, employee compensation ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia and outside OKQ8 Scandinavia at customers G4-DMA Sustainable management 5, 10, 16, This sustainability report covers the financial year from 1st March 2015 to 29th February 2016. It is OKQ8 Scandinavia's second joint sustainability 19-22, 28 report, and thus the second joint report for OKQ8 in Sweden and Q8 in Denmark. The sustainability report has been prepared based on the Global G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 21 Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines, at “Core” level. The report covers the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and describes our stakeholders' G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 21 priorities within sustainability. The report has been reviewed by an external auditor to make sure that it meets the legal requirements of CSR reporting G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 21 in the Danish Financial Statements Act, sections 99 a and b. The report has not been subject to any other external review. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 21 G4-EN24 Significant spills 22 SOCIAL Work environment (health and safety) – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia and outside OKQ8 Scandinavia at contractors GRI generic indicators G4-DMA Sustainable management 5, 26, 28 G4-LA6 Occupational injuries, work related illness, lost workdays, Includes customer 26 Indicator Description Comment Page absenteeism and fatalities accidents. Injuries and absence are not G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainable development 4 reported by region or G4-3 Name of the organisation OK-Q8 AB and Q8 Danmark A/S 30 gender. Explanation: data not available. G4-4 Primary brands, products and services IDS, OKQ8, Q8, Q8 Oils, F24, OKQ8 Minipris, OKQ8 Visa 10-11, 30 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Stockholm 30 Products and services – boundary outside OKQ8 Scandinavia at customers G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates Sweden and Denmark 30 G4-DMA Sustainable management 14, 28 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 28 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction 14 G4-8 Markets served Sweden and Denmark 30 OTHER G4-9 Scale of the organisation 27, 29 Community engagement – boundary outside OKQ8 Scandinavia in society G4-10 Employment data by employment contracts and gender 27 G4-DMA Sustainable management Self-formulated aspect. Our materiality assessment has resulted in this 5, 25, 28 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 27 aspect and we work on further initiatives G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain 18-19 Number of young people involved A key element of our community engagement is our work with “Young 25 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, No significant changes 30 people on the way” and “End Youth Unemployment Now”. We have there­ structure, ownership or value chain fore produced our own indicator for this work G4-14 Description of how the precautionary principle is addressed The precautionary principle is incorporated into Swedish legislation in Miljöbalken, the 30 Other sustainable supplier range – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia and outside OKQ8 Scandinavia in the supply chaint Swedish Environmental Code. In Denmark there are similar requirements in the Danish G4-DMA Sustainable management Self-formulated aspect. Our materiality assessment has resulted in this 10-11, Environmental Protection Act. We consider the precautionary principle when purchasing aspect and we work on further initiatives 18-19, 28 goods and materials Number of products within stable goods and motorist products Own indicators 10 G4-15 External regulations, standards or principles to which the organisation United Nations Global Compact 30 with ecolabelling subscribes or which it endorses Traceability of fuels – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia and outside OKQ8 Scandinavia in the supply chain G4-16 Memberships of associations Svenska Petroleum och Biodrivmedel Institutet (Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute), 30 G4-DMA Sustainable management Self-formulated aspect. Our materiality assessment has resulted in this 18-19, 28 Klimatneutrala godstransporter på väg (On the Road to Climate Neutral Freight aspect and we work on further initiatives Transportation), Energiog olieforum (Danish Oil Industry Association), Danske olieberedsk­ Own indicators – abslagre (Danish Central Stockholding Entity), Dansk Industri (Danish Industry), KFO Healthy products – boundary within OKQ8 Scandinavia and outside OKQ8 Scandinavia at customers G4-17 Business units included in the financial statements All companies are included in the sustainability report 30 G4-18 Process for defining report content and delimitation of aspects 7 G4-DMA Sustainable management Self-formulated aspect. Our materiality assessment has resulted in this – aspect and we work on further initiatives G4-19 List of essential aspects 7 Inga indikatorer. – G4-20 Delimitation of the essential aspects within the organisation 30 G4-21 Delimitation of the essential aspects outside the organisation 30 Customer health and safety – boundary outside OKQ8 Scandinavia at customers G4-22 The effect of changes and restatements of information provided in previous No significant changes 30 G4-DMA Sustainable management Reformulated aspect 26, 28 reports Number of customer accidents Own indicators 26 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect No significant changes 30 Boundaries G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Customers – both private customers and business customers, authorities, municipalities, 7, 30 governments, suppliers, environmental organisations, consumer organisations, business Global Compact reference table organisations, trade unions, owners, lenders, neighbours of the service stations and Princip Page employees HUMAN RIGHTS G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The groups that are impacted by and/or impact the company’s operations, such as mem­ 7, 30 bers, customers, interest groups, authorities and suppliers, and that have a vested interest Principle 1 The company should support and respect the protection of international human 5, 18-19, rights within its sphere of influence. 24, 28 in contributing to the sustainability work of OKQ8 and Q8 Principle 2 The company should ensure that they do not participate in the violation of human 5, 18-19, G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including the process of Ongoing dialogue includes association meetings at which our owners/customers (the 7, 30 rights. 24, 28 sustainability reporting OK members) have great opportunities for dialogue. Dialogue is also conducted with, for example, neighbours and other stakeholders at our depots – here with particular focus on LABOUR RIGHTS safety issues. Through our sales staff we have continual dialogue with our business custom­ Principle 3 The company should maintain the freedom of association and effectively recognise 5, 27 ers. We take part in seminars and conferences at which many stakeholders (NGOs, custom­ the right for collective bargaining. ers, other sectors, authorities) are represented and where we then conduct a dialogue Principle 4 Support the elimination of all forms of forced labour. 5, 18-19, 28 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 7 Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labour. 5, 18-19, 28 engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5, 27 and concerns ENVIRONMENT G4-28 Reporting period Financial year March 2015 – February 2016 30 Principle 7 The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental 5, 18-19, 30 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report May 2015 30 challenges. G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual 30 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 5, 10-11, G4-31 Contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 16-17, 18-19 G4-32 GRI Content Index 30 Principle 9 Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly 5, 7, 16-17, G4-33 Policies regarding external assurance for the report 30 technologies. 20 G4-34 Governance structure 28, 29 CORRUPTION G4-56 Values, principles and codes of conduct 5, 24, 25 Principle 10 The company should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion 5, 18, 24 and bribery. 30 Sustainability Report 2015/16 Sustainability Report 2015/16 31 Drive carefully! Design by CC Projects ccprojects.se • Content by Rippler Communications
