Driving LongTerm Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2015 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo plc is the world’s leading silver miner and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. Across precious metal price cycles and changing foundations of a strong balance sheet, high quality market conditions, we aim to optimise current assets, low cost and flexible operations, disciplined performance and uphold our commitment to approach to development, and a commitment to long-term growth and profitability. This value sustainable business practices. creation strategy is supported by our solid Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 01 Performance Highlights Strategy 98 Chairman’s Letter of Governance 140 Independent Auditor’s Report 02 Who We Are 12 Chief Executive’s Letter 100 Corporate Governance Overview 147 Consolidated Financial 04 Where We Operate 16 Market Overview 101 Leadership Statements 06 Chairman’s Statement 18 Business Model and Strategy 102 The Board of Directors 152 Notes to the Consolidated 08 Our Investment Case 24 Key Performance Indicators 104 Executive Committee Financial Statements 36 Managing our Risks 106 Nominations Committee Report 198 Parent Company Financial 48 Viability Statement 108 Effectiveness Statements 112 Relations with shareholders 202 Notes to the Parent Company Performance 114 Audit Committee Report Financial Statements 124 Directors’ Report 50 Review of Operations 126 Directors’ Remuneration Report Additional Information 66 Social and Sustainability Report 137 Statement of Directors’ 87 Financial Review 225 Reserves and Resources Responsibilities 230 Operating Statistics 232 Shareholder Information Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Performance Highlights Fresnillo Today Operational highlights Strategic Report Silver production1 Total attributable silver resources2 >> Annual silver production at upper end of guidance, 47.0 moz 1,970.7 moz primarily driven by Saucito II ramp-up >> Annual gold production surpasses both 2015 guidance and 2018 target, steady state reached at Herradura 4.4% 1.9% >> San Julián phase 1 commissioning revised to 2Q 2016 >> Gold resources increased 4%, silver resources and gold reserves relatively stable, silver reserves decreased 6% Gold production3 Total gold resources2, 3 >> Redoubling safety measures following fatalities in late 761.7 koz 35.5 moz 2015 and early 2016 Corporate Governance 27.8% 4.2% Read more about Read more about operations: p50–59 1 exploration: p62–65 3 Financial highlights Financial Statements Adjusted revenue4 Profit from continuing operations >> Adjusted revenue4 of US$1,583.3 million, 2.5% above 2014 $1,583.3m $200.4m as higher volumes more than offset lower metal prices >> Gross profit and EBITDA of US$433.1 million and US$547.5 million, down 16.9% and 3.5% 2.5% 18.4% >> Profit from continuing operations of US$200.4 million, down 18.4% >> Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from Gross profit Adjusted EPS5 continuing operations of US$9.6 cents, 34.7% lower $433.1m $6.9 cents >> Adjusted EPS5 of US$6.9 cents, down 6.8% >> Net operating cash flow of US$542.9 million, up 346.5% on 2014 16.9% 6.8% >> CAPEX of US$474.7 million; exploration expenses of US$140.2 million; US$37.5 million of dividends paid EBITDA Total dividends paid >> Healthy balance sheet, strong cash position of US$500.1 million $547.5m $5.1 cents 3.5% 56.8% 1 Including 4.0 moz from Silverstream contract. 4 Adjusted revenue is the revenue shown in the income statement adjusted to add back 2 Resources reflect attributable 56% ownership in Juanicipio. treatment and refining costs and gold, lead and zinc hedging. The Company considers 3 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines (Herradura, this is a useful additional measure to help understand underlying factors driving Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena). revenue in terms of volumes sold and realised prices. 5 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract. 01 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Who We Are Fresnillo plc is the world’s leading silver mining company and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. Headquartered in Mexico City, we are a FTSE 100 company with shares trading on the London and Mexican Stock Exchanges. Alberto Baillères (left) Octavio Alvídrez (right) Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer p6–7 p12–15 Business Model and Strategy We seek to create value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines. Maximise the potential Extend the growth 1 3 of existing operations pipeline Optimise capacity, replenish reserves, continuously improve Invest continuously across price cycles to ensure a pipeline of productivity and cost structure, and leverage expansion growth projects at different stages. opportunities. Deliver growth through Advance and enhance the 2 4 development projects sustainability of our business Develop, build and commission projects that meet stringent Prioritise safety and health, responsible environmental criteria for mineral content and associated costs. stewardship, the wellbeing of our communities, and best governance practices. Performance Committed to delivering on our production goals, profitably and sustainably. Silver production Gold production 47.0 moz 761.7 koz 687.5 761.7 662.8 47.0 610.9 595.9 42.1 42.9 45.0 41.1 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Graph illustrates silver production from our own mines, with shaded portion representing All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines (Herradura, Soledadadditional ounces accrued under the Silverstream contract. Dipolos and Noche Buena). 2015 EBITDA margin 2015 EBITDA 37.9% US$547.5m 02 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report Fresnillo Today Our Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) performance was recognised with the inclusion of Fresnillo plc in the Euronext-Vigeo EM 70 Index. Read more about sustainability: p66–86 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Our Business Model Our value creation strategy is intrinsically linked to the business 1 model 2 Financial Statements 3 Read more about our business model: p18–23 4 2015 Silver production by mine 2015 Gold production by mine Fresnillo 33% Fresnillo 5% Saucito 47% Saucito 11% Ciénega 10% Ciénega 11% Herradura 1% Herradura 52% Noche Buena 0% Noche Buena 21% Silverstream 9% 03 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 6 USA Where We 11 8 4 Operate 5 MEXICO Historically, Mexico has been a 9 mining friendly country, with significant geological resources, 7 strong potential for continued 3 growth, robust mining laws in 12 place, a skilled workforce and solid infrastructure. We will 1 continue to seek and evaluate 10 2 growth opportunities in Mexico but also consider opportunities USA elsewhere in Latin America. Mines in operation  evelopment and advanced D 1 2 exploration projects 1 Fresnillo 2 Saucito 7 San Julián 8 Centauro Extension Silver reserves 201.6 moz Silver reserves 130.7 moz Silver reserves 146.0 moz Evolution of main pit at Herradura; Gold reserves 525.0 koz Gold reserves 730.0 koz Gold reserves 420.0 koz resources included therein Read more p50–51 Read more p52–53 Read more p60 Read more p56 3 Ciénega & San Ramón satellite 4 Herradura (incl DLP) 9 Orisyvo 10 Juanicipio Silver reserves 69.2 moz Gold reserves 5.34 moz Indicated and inferred resources: Indicated and inferred resources Gold reserves 810.0 koz Gold 8.9 moz (attributable): Silver 12.6 moz Silver 126.2 moz Read more p54–55 Read more p56–57 Gold 578.0 koz Read more p64 5 Noche Buena 6 Soledad-Dipolos Read more p63 Gold reserves 1.01 moz Gold reserves 0.71 moz 11 Centauro Deep Indicated and inferred resources: 12 Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Read more p58–59 Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are Reported as part of Ciénega currently suspended. Gold 4.3 moz Read more p63 Read more p63 Expected delivery of growth Investment Expected avg. Project 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 (US$m)1 annual production2 San Julián 515 10.3 moz Ag 44 koz Au Fresnillo 9,000 TPD 30 3 moz Ag (Optimisation project) Pyrites Plant 3 155 3.5 moz Ag (Optimisation project) 13 koz Au 3054 10 moz Ag Juanicipio 30 koz Au Centauro Extension 120 Extended LoM of 390 koz Au Ciénega 5,000 TPD 55 15 koz Au (Optimisation project) 1.3 moz Ag Centauro Deep 200 125 koz Au Orisyvo5 350 136 koz Au 1 Estimated 2 Total average annual production Construction flotation plant, Construction tailings flotation Construction leaching plant, Plant adequation, Plant construction 3 On hold post detailed engineering 4 Total investment (of which 56% Fresnillo plc; 44% MAG Silver 5 On hold Production Mine development Basic engineering Detailed engineering 04 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today A strong growth pipeline Our goal is to profitably and sustainably maintain the Group’s position as the world’s leading silver Strategic Report producer and one of Mexico’s largest gold producers. We have an extensive portfolio of projects and prospects. Corporate Governance 1 Mines in operation Mine operations Maximise the potential of 1 Fresnillo, 2 Saucito, existing operations 3 Ciénega & San Ramón, 4 Herradura (incl. DLP), 5 Noche Buena, 6 Soledad-Dipolos1 Financial Statements 2 Development and advanced exploration projects Deliver growth through development projects Development projects 1,2 Pyrites Plant, 7 San Julián Advanced exploration 9 Orisyvo, 10 Juanicipio, 11 Centauro Deep, 12 Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster 3 Exploration Extend the growth pipeline Prospects in drilling Mexico: Fresnillo District, Rodeo, Lucerito, Tajitos, Candameña, Guachichil, Guanajuato, San Nicolás, Guazapares, Coneto, Cebadillas, La Yesca, Cairo, Dátil, Norias Peru: Pilarica Early stage exploration Sonora and Sinaloa: San Javier, Nudo, Carina, Cerritos, Dorado, Olivos Chihuahua: S. Brígida, Rosetillas, SJPinal, Lucero, Tempisque, Uruachic Durango: Pereñita, La Huerta, El Carmen Zacatecas: Urite, Atotonilco, Corredor Concha-Nieves, Argentum, Villa García Peru: Huacravilca, Sto. Domingo, La Pampa, Supaypacha 4 Sustainable development Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business 1 Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended. 05 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chairman’s Statement In the past year we have witnessed a continued gold from old and current tailings of the Fresnillo and Saucito mines. The Juanicipio downward trend in precious metal prices, to levels not advanced exploration project in the Fresnillo seen in five years. This has led to short-term operational District is moving closer to the development and financial challenges and raised long-term strategic phase, with production expected to begin in 2018. questions for our industry. Exploration results were mixed, with a 4.2% rise in total gold resources and 1.9% decrease in silver resources. Gold reserves remained relatively stable while silver reserves decreased 6.0%, mainly However, we have seen periods of increased the 2015 gold production to a at Fresnillo and San Julián. Our resource uncertainty and low prices before and record of 762 koz, 28% above the previous base remains exceptionally sound, believe that, with our high quality assets, year and strongly ahead of guidance. particularly given the lower silver prices conservative financial structure and ability Notably, at the time of our IPO in 2008 we used for the estimates. to adjust operations and investments, had set a ten-year gold production target of Fresnillo plc has demonstrated its capacity 400 koz, which has been revised upward The maturity of the Company’s Health, to meet these challenges, maintain solid several times due in part to the acquisition of Safety, Environment and Community profit margins and continue to pursue its the remaining 44% of Penmont in 2014, and Relations (HSECR) System progressed toward long-term goals. we have surpassed even that target. its 2016 targets, as determined by an independent assessment. Notwithstanding Within this context we successfully ramped Development projects advanced largely the significant reduction in fatalities over the up the Saucito II expansion, significantly according to plan. In the second quarter past few years, it is with much sadness I ahead of the original three-year timeframe. of this year we will commission the first report one fatal accident in 2015, and two This was essential to achieving the 4% rise in stage of the US$515 million San Julián mine, fatalities in early 2016, a disturbing reversal silver production year over year, to the upper the key growth project to achieve our silver of our safety record. It is the Company’s range of our guidance. In addition, we production target of 65 moz by 2018. responsibility to ensure that everyone who reached steady state at Herradura, which Detailed engineering neared completion for works at our operations returns home safely combined with higher throughput at Saucito, the pyrites plant, which will recover silver and to their family every day. The Board will “Fresnillo is well placed to withstand volatility and lower precious metal prices” Alberto Baillères Non-executive Chairman 06 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today always give the highest priority to safety Our goal is to create long-term shareholder It is with these priorities in mind that we issues and has overseen investigation of value, and I believe that this can be achieved scaled down our capital expenditures and Strategic Report these accidents, ensuring that management by balancing growth, corporate social exploration budget in 2015, and have begun takes action to improve safety systems and responsibility and attractive returns for our to implement our contingency plan in 2016 to practices. I encourage you to review our shareholders. The Group’s dividend policy safeguard our financial position at a time of social and sustainability performance set out takes into account the profitability of the cyclically low precious metal prices. on pages 66 to 86 for a deeper look at our business and underlying earnings, as well as Specifically, we have deferred equipment programmes and progress, as well as how its capital requirements and cash flows, orders for the planned pyrites plant and we intend to support the UN’s sustainable whilst maintaining an appropriate level of development work at Orisyvo. We will development goals. dividend cover. A total dividend of between continue to monitor market conditions closely 33 and 50 per cent of profit after tax is paid to evaluate the timing of reinstating these Revenues increased mainly as a result of out each year in the approximate proportion projects, or if further deferrals are required, higher production volumes and productivity of one-third to be paid as an interim dividend, and will act accordingly. We have also directed improvements, which more than two-thirds to be paid as a final dividend. This management to focus on further cost Corporate Governance compensated for the 10.4% and 16.1% gives us the required flexibility to consider the reductions, productivity improvements and declines in our average realised gold and underlying cyclical behaviour of precious value preservation measures. silver prices, respectively. As a result, total metal prices. adjusted revenues of US$1,583.3 million were The challenges we face today are real and 2.5% above last year. Furthermore, the 19.2% The Board’s governance agenda in 2015 was evolving, as we detail in our Market Overview average devaluation of the Mexican peso focused on the action plan based on the and Risk sections (pages 16 to 17 and 36 to benefited peso-denominated production 2014 External Board Evaluation and in 47). While there is little consensus on when costs. However, profit attributable to equity response to UK Corporate Governance Code we might next see upside, I believe that our shareholders was US$70.5 million, down changes taking effect this year, most low cost operations, development project 35.0%, mainly due to the non-cash significantly conducting the assessment of pipeline and portfolio of exploration projects accounting effect of the devaluation of the viability for the preparation of the Viability constitute the solid foundations to drive Mexican peso on deferred taxes. Statement. The Corporate Governance long-term shareholder value. Report set out on pages 98 to 136 illustrates Financial Statements EBITDA of US$547.5 million was 3.5% lower the full range of Board actions in pursuit of Fresnillo is well placed to withstand volatility than in the previous year, while cash flow long-term shareholder value creation. and lower precious metal prices and to reap from operations was a healthy US$542.9 the benefits of an eventual upturn. For now, million, 346.5% higher mainly due to a The Board also continued to take an active we will focus on ensuring that our operations reduction in accounts receivable. Our role in setting strategy, reviewing progress are working to their full potential, bringing year-end cash balance was US$500 million, against plan and ensuring management our new San Julián mine on line as planned, and net debt was US$300 million. retains sufficient flexibility to respond to replenishing reserves and continuing to market dynamics and operational explore core districts. After a comprehensive review of the developments. Our role is perhaps most Company’s financial situation, capital vital in the allocation of capital, and my It is in these challenging circumstances requirements, growth targets and the colleagues and I are aligned in seeking a when strong leadership is most deeply precious metal markets, the Board declared balance between growth, returns to our appreciated, and for this reason I wish to an interim dividend of 2.1 US cents per share shareholders and maintaining a strong recognise our management team and the and a final dividend of 3.35 US cents per financial position. people of Fresnillo for their endurance, and share, totalling US$24.7 million. my fellow Directors for their invaluable advice and support. Alberto Baillères Non-executive Chairman 07 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Our Investment Case Our solid foundations provide a competitive advantage in the mining industry and position us to drive long-term value. p95 p50–65 Strong balance sheet High quality assets How this drives value: operational flexibility, How this drives value: long-term visibility, investments for growth, returns to shareholders long life returns We aim to maintain a strong financial position with a healthy cash We are amongst the largest concession holders in mineral-rich balance and a low leverage ratio. This enables us to balance Mexico. We hold a portfolio of low cost gold and silver mines, high investment in profitable growth with returns to our shareholders, potential development projects and advanced exploration prospects, while optimising our operations. Even in the current metal price with a focus on district consolidation that allows us to leverage our environment, we were able to invest US$474.7 million in capex, local knowledge and achieve significant synergies through shared US$140.2 million in exploration and pay out US$37.5 million in infrastructure. dividends, and still close the year with a strong cash position of US$500 million and low leverage. HERRADURA NOCHE BUENA TAJITOS CENTAURO DEEP ORISYVO Net debt: EBITDA GUAZAPARES 0.55x SAN JULIAN As at 31 December 2015 CIENEGA RODEO (US$m) CONETO SAN RAMON GUACHICHIL Cash 500 balance FRESNILLO COYOTES JUANICIPIO Senior Exploration at operating units SAUCITO -800 notes Exploration at development projects HUIZACHE GUANAJUATO Exploration projects under drilling Net -300 Exploration prospects LA JOYA debt Interesting results 2015 -800 -700 -600 -500 -400 -300 -200 -100 0 100 200 300 400 500 08 Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today p50–59 p60–61 p66–86 Strategic Report Low cost Disciplined Commitment and flexible approach to to sustainable operations development business practices Corporate Governance How this drives value: healthy How this drives value: long-term How this drives value: licence to Financial Statements margins, adaptability across profitable growth operate price cycles Our high quality assets allow us to extract Our development projects meet stringent We understand the needs of our local mineral profitably even in depressed metal viability criteria, including environmental and communities and prioritise local goods and price environments, with all-in sustaining social impact, sustaining capital expenditures service for our operations, continue to work costs below average realised prices at each and rates of return. Delivery timelines and to ensure the safety and health of our of our mines in 2015. We benefit from the budgets are optimised to allow us to advance people, and strive for continuous ability to tailor mine plans and leverage towards our production targets whilst improvement in minimising our expertise, and within our districts to share adjusting for adverse market conditions to environmental footprint. This is essential not personnel and plant capacity accordingly. We maintain a healthy financial position. only for operational continuity but in order to optimise performance with a focus on drive value for all our stakeholders. We continuous improvement in productivity and invested US$19.06 million in our HSECR efficiency, and lower unit consumption of initiatives in 2015, following an investment of operating materials and energy. In 2015 cost US$20.54 million in 2014. per tonne decreased at four of our five operating mines. Total hours of safety training 355,635 Vibrating screens at Saucito result in capacity Construction of milling area at San Julián increase nears completion 114,817 101,468 37,155 12,459 26,057 63,679 355,635 Fresnillo Saucito Herradura Noche Ciénega San Total Buena Julián 09 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Strategic Report Strategy  Chief Executive’s Letter 12 Market Overview 16 Business Model and Strategy 18 Key Performance Indicators 24 Managing our Risks 36 Viability Statement 48 Performance Review of Operations 50 Social and Sustainability Report 66 Financial Review 87 10 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chief Executive’s Letter The mining industry faces significant pressures and challenges today: We remain prepared to act, of course, favouring actions that accelerate cash flow depressed prices, technical difficulties in accessing mineral resources while deferring investments that do not and rising demands of multiple stakeholders. Many in our industry compromise the optimal timing of our critical have responded by increasing productivity, innovating processes and growth projects. Such was the case in 2015 when we lowered our capital expenditure technologies, and improving their response to competing interests. and exploration spending from their original By necessity, best industry practices have been redefined. budgeted amounts. We also encountered some internal challenges of our own in the year. At the But many miners have rationalised These foundations uphold our commitment Fresnillo mine, we fell short of our own portfolios, curtailed production, cancelled or to balancing growth and returns, together expectations of operational excellence deferred investment in new projects and with maintaining a strong financial position, following development delays that had reduced exploration. Such cash preservation allowing us to optimise performance in begun in 2013 concurrent with the natural measures may be critical in the short term current market conditions while pursuing and expected decline in silver ore grade. but, taken to the extreme, could undermine profitability and sustainability across precious These delays, which limited access to richer the foundations of long-term value creation. metal price cycles. stopes, were caused by a combination of factors including narrower veins, which In that regard Fresnillo is well placed, with Indeed, we continued to generate solid profit increase dilution and require additional solid foundations on which to drive longmargins in 2015, albeit lower year on year, development to maintain throughput levels, term value creation: a strong balance sheet while all-in sustaining costs (AISC) for many poor rock quality necessitating additional that enables us to invest across cycles, high of our mines remain amongst the lowest in shotcreting and anchoring, issues with quality assets, low cost and flexible the industry. We advanced our development contractors, and insufficient implementation operations, a disciplined approach to projects and by investing in exploration of in-mine infrastructure. development, and a commitment to across price cycles, we generated increases sustainable business practices. in gold resources over 2014, whilst silver resources remained relatively stable despite lower price assumptions. “Our commitment to balancing growth and returns, together with maintaining a strong financial position, allows us to optimise performance in current market conditions” Octavio Alvídrez Chief Executive Officer 12 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today We continue to see the results of the Gold production of 762 koz increased 27.8% Exploration mainly focused on areas of measures we implemented at the Fresnillo over the same period of 2014, against our influence at current operating mines and Strategic Report mine gradually come through, with grades target of 715-730 koz and surpassing the 2018 key exploration sites, with our advanced and throughput increasing in the final gold production target of 750 koz. This was a exploration projects all progressing according months of the year, whilst lowering dilution; I result of Herradura and its dynamic leaching to plan. At Juanicipio, mining works am confident of a turnaround in 2016 with a plant being fully operational for the year, and continued at a good pace and drilling target of a double-digit increase in ore milled. installation of a second Merrill Crowe plant showed positive results with a 10% increase that was key in increasing capacity and in silver resources. We saw increases in At Herradura, our focus this year centred on reaching steady state. silver-gold resources at the Huizache, San increasing our processing capacity to cater Julián Sur, Guanajuato and Rodeo projects. for both the solution produced at the By-product lead production increased 48.3% leaching pads and the dynamic leaching on 2014, to 42,413 tonnes, as a result of Our resources and reserves reflect lowered plant (DLP). We installed a second Merrill increased ore throughput and higher ore price assumptions: the silver price Crowe plant and made technical grade at Saucito and higher ore grades at assumption decreased to US$15 per oz (2014: Corporate Governance modifications to the DLP, which allowed us to Ciénega and Fresnillo. Similarly, by-product US$18). The gold price assumption for open reach steady state production by year end. zinc production increased 45.2% to 46,022 pit resources was lowered to US$1,300 per oz tonnes due to higher ore throughput and ore (2014: US$1,350), consistent with the price Safety continues to be our highest priority grades at Saucito and higher ore grades and used for the purpose of the design of the pit and I am deeply saddened to report one recovery rates at Fresnillo. We expect base shell, allowing for adequate long-term design fatality in late 2015 and two in early 2016, as metal production to continue to increase as flexibility. The gold price assumption for well as an increase in injury rates. Failure to we extract at deeper levels of the Fresnillo underground reserves and resources and for meet our targets in this regard has profound mine, and our capacity to process these reserves in open pits was unchanged at human implications, more than any other lead and zinc ores will increase following the US$1,150 per oz. Notwithstanding these goal we set ourselves. We must continue to plant expansion. reductions, our high quality asset base strengthen our safety culture and address remains healthy. Gold resources increased the human factors involved in the majority of Our development projects and high quality 4.2%, whilst silver resources and gold accidents in order to safeguard our workforce growth pipeline remain a key pillar of our reserves decreased by 1.9% and 1.5% Financial Statements and retain our licence to operate. long-term growth strategy. We significantly respectively. Silver reserves decreased, advanced development of the San Julián mainly at Fresnillo and San Julián, to In each of these areas above, we have taken silver-gold project, and despite delays in 547.6 moz. important steps to improve performance in permitting, weather-related issues, security 2016 and we will hold ourselves accountable concerns and a high rotation of contractor We continued to advance our HSECR for the targets I outline below. personnel arising from the project’s remote framework in the year, and saw location, execution delays were relatively improvement in many key areas outside of Operating and financial performance minimal. The commissioning of the stage 1 the aforementioned safety issues. A notable We produced a record 47.0 moz of silver in leaching plant is now expected in the second highlight was the introduction of renewables 2015 (including the Silverstream contract), at quarter of 2016, only months after the in our energy portfolio as we move to the top end of our guidance range and 4.4% revised target date. decouple growth from carbon emissions. over 2014. This primarily reflected the Moreover, our progress in terms of carbon ramp-up of Saucito II that resulted in higher Detailed engineering continued at the pyrites emissions reporting transparency earned a ore throughput, as well as milling efficiencies project, which is expected to increase silver 93 rating from the Carbon Disclosure Project at the Saucito I plant. Higher silver ore grade and gold recovery rates by processing against our initial rating of 58 in 2010. The at Ciénega also contributed to the increase in tailings, both historical and ongoing, from the response to climate change and the need production. These factors more than offset Fresnillo and Saucito mines. Once to build resilience in a carbon-constrained lower ore grade and volumes processed engineering is completed in mid-2016, economy, particularly in light of COP21 at Fresnillo. further work on the project will be put on commitments, will require our considerable hold as part of the contingency plan focus. Also notable was our inclusion as implemented by the Board to safeguard our a top emerging markets performer by financial position; equipment orders and Vigeo, an international research group on construction work will resume as market environmental, social and governance issues. conditions warrant. While our financial performance in the year was impacted by the decline in precious metal prices, with our average realised silver and gold prices 16.1% and 10.4% lower than in 2014, respectively, this was more than compensated by the higher volumes of metal produced and sold in 2015. 2015 silver production 2015 gold production +4.4% +27.8% 13 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chief Executive’s Letter continued 2015 adjusted revenues 2015 EBITDA +2.5% -3.5% As a result, adjusted revenues totalled Our near-term focus remains on controlling I am humbled by and grateful for the US$1,583.3 million, 2.5% above the previous expenditures, optimising performance and confidence placed in us by our people and year. Higher cost of sales that included a delivering returns, even as we hold firm to our our communities, our suppliers and significant hedging loss weighed on gross belief that value creation requires sustainable contractors, and our clients and profit, which declined by 16.9% to US$433.1 growth through the disciplined development shareholders, and feel a deep personal million. Lower exploration expenses helped of new projects and ongoing investment in responsibility to meeting our commitments stem the decline in EBITDA to 3.5%, resulting exploration across prices cycles. As such, and on sustainable value creation. I look forward in an EBITDA margin of 37.9%. The 16.9% in consideration of the contingency plan, we to working together in 2016 to drive that devaluation of the Mexican peso against the have budgeted US$600 million in capital vision ever forward. US dollar resulted in non-cash charges to the expenditures for 2016, to be allocated income statement and affected the primarily to San Julián and sustaining capex at monetary position and value of certain current operations, and US$135-140 million for Octavio Alvídrez assets and liabilities, resulting in a much exploration. However, we will continue to Chief Executive Officer higher deferred tax charge. A detailed review monitor market conditions and may adjust of our performance is set out in the Financial the budget accordingly. Review (pages 87 to 95). We aim to produce 49-51 moz of silver, Moving forward: our 2016 outlook and including 4 moz from the Silverstream, and objectives 775-790 koz of gold in 2016. In addition, we While we see long-term fundamental will continue to pursue a favourable support for precious metals as we outline in resolution on Soledad-Dipolos, where mining our Market Overview (pages 16 to 17), we do and beneficiation were suspended in 2013 not expect significant shifts in the factors following contested ownership of some driving current volatility, nor does there surface lands; since that time, we have appear to be a clear catalyst that would fostered strong relationships with other support a return to higher prices. neighbouring agrarian communities that have led to the signing of new agreements. Fresnillo remains well positioned to weather such volatility, with sufficient financial and As always, we will seek additional efficiencies operating flexibility. Our long-term strategic at all our operating mines, investing in goals are unchanged: to profitably and productivity and controlling costs to maintain sustainably maintain the Group’s position as our cost position and solid margins. I the world’s largest primary silver company personally benchmark our success by the and a leading gold producer in Mexico. ability to meet our objectives within a Having already attained our 2018 gold framework of maturing sustainability and production and reserves targets, we remain good governance, and continuous committed to our silver targets of 65 million improvement in our safety culture. ounces production at that time, and 650 million ounces in reserves. 14 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2016 silver production guidance 2016 gold production guidance 49-51 moz 775-790 koz Strategic Report 2015 objectives 2015 performance See more Zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety One fatality in 2015 (vs. one in 2014); two in January 2016 p70–73 45-47 moz silver, including Silverstream Met guidance at 47 moz mainly due to higher throughput p2 Corporate Governance at Saucito, offsetting lower ore grade at Fresnillo 670-685 koz gold, later revised upwards to 715-730 koz Exceeded guidance at 762 koz mainly due to Herradura p2 and its DLP being fully operational for the year, and steady state having been reached at the mine post the installation of the second Merrill Crowe plant San Julián phase 1 start-up in 4Q15 Deferred to Q2 2016 following delays in permitting, p60 weather-related issues, security concerns and a high rotation of contractor personnel Launch next phase of growth at Ciénega: start construction Following positive exploration results, capacity expansion p54–55, 61, 63 of plant expansion, build tailings dam #3, conduct preat Ciénega was deferred in order to evaluate need for feasibility study of mine expansion for Board approval; finalise increased milling levels, permitting process underway for Financial Statements detailed engineering of the pyrites plant and commence tailings dam; detailed engineering works continue at the construction pyrites plant Exploration budget of approximately US$170.0 million, Risk capital invested in exploration reduced to p62–65 focused around current mines and advanced exploration US$151 million projects Evaluate mine plan option for Centauro Extension; continue At Centauro Extension, development of optimal pit design p56–57, 63 exploration of Centauro Deep was concluded; mining works continued at Centauro Deep, geological model being revised Adapt water stewardship and biodiversity strategies Collaborating internally to forecast future energy p74–79 demands and identify reduction opportunities Further advance maturity of HSECR system towards fully Maturity of HSECR system reached an overall level of p66, 68 integrated system by 2016 target 92.3% Our commitments and targets for 2016 See more Maximise the potential of existing operations p50-59 >> Fresnillo: Stabilise the rate of development at 4,500 metres per month, improve ore grade and production levels; advance engineering on the capacity optimisation project >> Produce 49-51 moz of silver, 775-790 koz of gold >> Increase efficiency and control costs Deliver growth through development projects p60–61 >> San Julián: Commission leaching plant to process ore from the veins (phase 1) in 2Q16, flotation plant to process ore from the disseminated ore body (phase 2) in 4Q16 >> Pyrites plant: Complete engineering; equipment orders and construction on hold as per contingency plan Extend the growth pipeline p62–65 >> Deploy US$135-140 million in exploration investment Advance and enhance the sustainability of our operations p66–86 >> Continue to strive for zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety >> Conclude advancement of HSECR system towards its 2016 target 15 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Market Overview As a major silver and gold mining company, Fresnillo plc is exposed to the market dynamics common to the global precious metals industry. In addition, given that the majority of our people and operations are located in Mexico, countryspecific factors can affect our strategy and outlook. Market size and position 2015 2014 2013 In silver, our peer group are other primary Primary silver producers (production in moz) silver miners, although it should be noted that much of global silver production is Fresnillo plc 47 45 43 derived as a by-product of gold, lead, zinc Polymetal International plc 32 29 27 and copper mines. Fresnillo plc has long Coeur Mining, Inc. 16 17 17 been amongst the top three global producers of silver, both by-product Hochschild Mining plc 15 16 14 and primary, and we aim to maintain Hecla Mining Company 12 11 9 our leadership position amongst Silver Standard Resources, Inc. 10 9 8 global producers. Silver Corp Metals Inc. 4 5 5 Global silver producers, by‑product and primary (production in moz) Fresnillo plc 47 45 43 KGHM Polska Miedz S.A. 41 40 37 Goldcorp Inc. 40 37 30 Pan American Silver Corp. 26 26 26 South 32 Limited 22 N/A N/A BHP Billiton 11 34 37 In gold, we benchmark our performance Medium-size gold producers (attributable production in koz) against medium-sized global gold miners Agnico Eagle Mines Limited 1,671 1,429 1,100 with similar levels of annual production. Randgold Resources Limited 1,211 1,147 910 Polymetal International plc 861 945 805 Fresnillo plc1 762 596 611 Petropavlovsk plc 504 625 741 OceanaGold Corporation 419 307 326 Coeur Mining Inc. 328 249 262 Hochschild Mining plc 166 101 116 1 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines (Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena). Average annual silver prices 1969-2015 Average annual gold prices 1969-2015 US$ in nominal prices US$ in nominal prices 15.7/ounce 1,160.1/ounce 40 2,000 30 1,500 20 1,000 10 500 0 0 1969 1978 1987 1996 2005 2015 1969 1978 1987 1996 2005 2015 16 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Key trends shaping our industry Challenges in securing land access and Maintaining our competitive position The mining industry faces a number ownership. In Mexico specifically, mining across the cycle Strategic Report of underlying trends that impact concessions confer no rights to the surface To assess our competitiveness within competitiveness and viability. land above the mineral resources in the our peer groups, we look primarily at the subsoil. Concession holders must negotiate following two factors, neither of which are Declining metal prices are putting pressure private agreements with landowners, materially influenced by the aforementioned on revenues and profitability. The average including communally held land as market dynamics: gold price was lower for the third consecutive recorded in the National Agrarian Registry. year, largely due to a strengthening US dollar Inconsistent registration and enforcement of Our average cash cost per metal: We track and an improving US economy that presages inherited ownership rights for communal all-in sustaining costs (AISC) as a means to higher interest rates. Similarly, the average land has led, in some cases, to renegotiation monitor current production costs and price of silver reached a six-year low, despite of land agreements, and increased rent for preparations for future production; however, indications of rising industrial demand. There land, water and occupancy agreements. we continue to use the traditional cash cost is no clear consensus on the timing and metric as we believe it is more representative Corporate Governance likelihood of a return to higher prices. Continued insecurity in Mexico. Crime and of the production costs incurred during the violence, much of it fuelled by drug cartels, period, eliminating distortions caused by Metal supply is limited, and ore grades are continues to affect many parts of the non-recurring sustaining costs. We define declining. The industry’s investment in country. Federal police and armed forces cash cost as the total cash cost (cost of sales exploration has declined in line with reduced have increased their enforcement activities, plus treatment and refining charges, less capital inflows, and junior miners, upon as have private citizen groups. Despite the depreciation), less revenues from by-products, whom much new exploration has been escalation of enforcement, the security divided by ounces of silver or gold sold. Our dependent, are even more sensitive to situation in Mexico remains a critical issue, strategic objective is to remain in the lowest capital constraints. No new major deposits particularly in remote areas. quartile of the cost curves, which we again have been identified in recent years, thus achieved in 2015 at most of our mines. mine life will be reduced if volumes are Responding to these challenges sustained at current operations. Miners Our business model and strategic priorities The quality and quantity of our mineral will increasingly rely on lower grade deposits have remained relatively unchanged over assets: Cash costs provide a picture of a Financial Statements or those with more complex metallurgy, time. The Group’s conservative approach to company’s current ability to extract its while the search for new deposits may take growth and leverage, combined with a resources at a reasonable cost, but longmore time and be in less hospitable and commitment to operational excellence, term competitiveness is dependent on the secure areas. responsible business practices and disciplined actual size of the resource base. A strong capital allocation provide valuable downside indicator of future production is the ability to Due to limited supply and declining ore protection, allowing us to deliver shareholder convert measured, indicated and inferred grades, some costs are rising. Given the returns and strengthen stakeholder relations resources into proven and probable reserves. aforementioned trend regarding deposits, even in the current environment. At the and the lack of economies of scale that same time, upside potential remains high We continuously invest in exploration across bigger and richer deposits would allow, the given our continued investment in price cycles to expand and strengthen our costs associated with the additional time exploration across price cycles. asset base, using strict cost criteria to ensure and materials needed to extract and process that extraction will be economically viable deeper and lower grade metals are higher. Costs in most of our mines remain below even in low metal price environments. As a In addition, the environmental and social current and projected market prices for gold result, our total resources and reserves have costs of maintaining mining operations and silver, thus we continue to operate in line grown at a fairly steady pace and we have a have increased. with our stated 2018 production targets. range of organic growth projects that extend Nonetheless, lower prices have coloured our across the prospecting, drilling and resource Viability for many miners in the current budget considerations in areas such as definition stages, ensuring that we can environment relies on rationalising exploration and the timing of certain capital benefit from the next cyclical upswing. portfolios. Gains from productivity expenditures, and we remain open to the improvements and process innovations have possibility of adjusting investment in capex Our 2015 resource estimate indicates helped drive down costs, but at insufficient and exploration in accordance with precious continued growth in gold resources, whilst levels to sustain capital requirements across metals markets conditions, but without silver resources were relatively stable despite much of the industry. Layoffs, suspended changing our long-term production targets. lower price assumptions. See pages 62 to 65. operations and divestitures have all increased, which will likely force a new On trends specific to Mexico, including land round of industry consolidation. access and security, we have put in place a range of risk mitigation measures to ensure Anti-mining activism and government operational continuity. See pages 39 to 41. regulation and nationalisation continue to rise. In Mexico specifically, no new duties or restrictions were placed on the industry in 2015, although there is an emerging initiative towards indigenous consultation. Pressure to amend environmental laws remains high domestically and industry-wide. 17 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy We seek to create sustained value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world class mines. Our value creation strategy is intrinsically linked to the business model. At the heart of our business is gold and silver mining. We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process; to generate sustainable growth and ensure our longevity, we rely on a business model that creates value for all our stakeholders. 1 Operate Maximise the potential of existing operations while maintaining our position as a leading low cost producer 1 Operate Assets 2 Develop Deliver profitable growth by advancing new 2 projects towards commissioning, while Develop optimising cash flow and returns Projects 3 Explore 3 Ensure business continuity and growth Explore by replenishing depleted reserves and Prospects maintaining a robust growth pipeline 4 Sustainability Uphold our licence to operate 4 Sustainability Licence to operate Strategic resources Financial strength Experienced management Technology Strategic and relationships and control and skilled personnel relationships Safeguard, deploy and invest in our strategic resources, and nurture and strengthen our strategic relationships Risk Management Framework Risk management framework Embed a culture of risk awareness through an effective risk governance structure 18 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Precious metal value chain Fresnillo plc Exploration Development & Mineral Smelting for mineral construction of extraction and Brokers Buyers and refining resources new mines beneficiation Strategic Report Corporate Governance Value creation Job creation Infrastructure Payment for Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue Knowledge goods and refining Wages and Education/ services charges Capital gains GDP Increased benefits healthcare contribution influence Financial Statements Support for Profit sharing Arts/athletics local economy Professional Conservation development Quality of life Strategic relationships p22–23 Shareholders Membership Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Government and Partners organisations Productivity Access Quality Timely intake Capital Concessions Best practices and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Increased Flexibility influence Respect Technical Access to support capital markets Stakeholder support 19 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy continued Business model components 1 Operate 2 Develop The extraction and beneficiation of ore from our operating mines The development and construction of new operating mines and facilities Strategic focus: Maximise the potential of existing operations Strategic focus: Deliver growth through development projects Priorities: Optimise capacity and recovery rates by adjusting Priorities: Adhere to strict delivery timelines and capex mining methods and beneficiation processes; budgets generate continuous improvements in productivity and cost controls; leverage expansion opportunities KPIs: Production by metal, cost per tonne by mine, KPIs: Project delivery against budget/timeline productivity by mine (ore milled or moved per person) Competitive In most of our mines, AISC on a life of mine basis Competitive All projects meet stringent viability criteria, advantages: are significantly lower than current and projected advantages: including environmental impact, sustaining capital market prices for gold and silver, positioning our expenditures and rates of return; our district cost performance competitively amongst consolidation strategy offers synergy potential industry peers with our other prospects and projects, reducing total capex requirements; engineering and construction are carried out by our in-house teams Key assets Key assets Asset Type Main Metal Year In progress: San Julián Fresnillo district Underground mine in the Estimated 10.3 moz silver and Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 prospective San Julián district. 44,000 oz gold per year Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 Phase 1 start‑up 2Q16; Phase 2 Ciénega district 4Q16 Ciénega Underground Gold/Silver 1992 Pyrites treatment plant San Ramón Underground Gold/Silver 2012 Facility to process historical and On hold post detailed engineering. (Ciénega satellite) ongoing tailings from Fresnillo Annual production expected to Herradura district and Saucito mines to increase average 3.5 moz silver and 13,000 Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 metal recovery rates oz gold; production less than two Soledad-Dipolos1 Open pit Gold 2010 years from reinstatement pending Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 market conditions 1 Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended. Key risks: Key risks: >> Impact of global macroeconomic developments >> Impact of global macroeconomic developments >> Access to land >> Access to land >> Potential actions by the government >> Potential actions by the government >> Security >> Security >> Public perception against mining >> Public perception against mining >> Union relations >> Projects (performance risk) >> Human Resources >> Union relations See pages 50–59 for a detailed review >> Human Resources of our mining operations. See pages 60–61 for a detailed review of our development projects. 20 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 3 Explore 4 Sustainability development Strategic Report The search for ore deposits that expand our resource base and Policies and practices that ensure the responsible operation of our replenish reserves business Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline Strategic focus: Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business, today and for future generations Priorities: Allocate funding across metal price cycles; Priorities: Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and advance prospects and projects along the behaviours; improve and maintain the health of exploration pipeline in accordance with strict our people; minimise the environmental impact criteria (from early stage to drilling to advanced); of our activities; engage with and support the convert resources to reserves development of our communities; secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair workplace; fully integrate the HSECR system across the Corporate Governance organisation KPIs: Total attributable resources by metal KPIs: Fatalities and injuries, greenhouse gases, water, community investment Competitive We hold one of the largest sets of mining claims Competitive Deep understanding of our home market culture advantages: in Mexico; prospects must meet strict criteria on advantages: and communities, enabling us to meet best ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and practices domestically and in line with environmental impact, and have a minimum international standards potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of gold equivalent in order to advance along the pipeline Financial Statements Key assets Key pillars Asset Main Metal Fresnillo district Health Safety Juanicipio Silver Ciénega district Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Silver and gold Herradura district Environment Community relations Centauro Deep Gold Chihuahua (greenfield) Orisyvo Gold People Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru Key risks: Key risks: >> Impact of global macroeconomic developments >> Potential actions by the government >> Access to land >> Security >> Potential actions by the government >> Public perception against mining >> Security >> Safety >> Public perception against mining >> Human Resources >> Exploration >> Environmental incidents >> Human Resources See pages 66–86 for a detailed review See pages 62–65 for a detailed review of our sustainability practices and performance. of our exploration pipeline. 21 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy continued Risk management Strategic relationships Customers Partner with refiners and smelters who help framework Our key stakeholders for and with whom we create shared value. maximise our revenue stream. The identification, evaluation and mitigation of the principal risks that could affect the Strategic focus All the primary products originating from our Company’s ability to execute its strategy Nurture and strengthen our strategic mines in 2015 were sold to the Met-Mex and deliver on its commitments. relationships. Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. refining and smelting facility in Torreón, Coahuila (Mexico) under a Strategic focus Contract and unionised labour series of supply agreements that enable us Embed a culture of risk awareness through Provide a safe, equitable and fair work to benefit from relatively low transport costs an effective risk governance structure. environment. associated with the proximity of their operations. The terms of the supply Priorities See pages 84–86. agreements with Met-Mex are set on an Identify, assess and mitigate risk at all levels arm’s length basis based on international of the organisation, including the Board. benchmarks. The Group has sold to other Communities refiners and smelters in the past and may Competitive advantages Invest directly and through partnerships in do so in the future if conditions warrant. Our conservative approach towards risk, and a range of initiatives that aim to enhance ability to mitigate and manage it, supports quality of life and long-term wellbeing, with a Shareholders and note holders our long-term value creation strategy. focus on environment, education, health and Balance returns with investment in long-term social integration, entrepreneurship and growth. See pages 36–47 for a detailed review of social infrastructure. our risk management programme See pages 80–83. Peñoles holds 75% of the issued share capital of Fresnillo plc and has been the principal investor in Group assets for over 50 years, as Strategic resources Suppliers well as a significant supplier to and customer The key inputs required to sustain our value Negotiate long-term purchase agreements of the Company, as described above. We creation model. to secure better pricing and ensure timely believe Peñoles is committed to our long-term availability of key equipment, materials growth and development. The remaining 25% Strategic focus and services. of Fresnillo plc shares trade on the London and Safeguard, deploy and invest in our strategic Mexican Stock Exchanges, and bondholders non-mineral resources (human, financial, IT) The Group contracts Servicios own US$800 million of Senior Secured Notes and nurture and strengthen our strategic Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. (SAPSA), due 2023. The Group maintains a regular relationships (stakeholders). a subsidiary of the Company’s controlling dialogue with its independent investors and shareholder, Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. note holders as described in the Corporate Experienced management and skilled (Peñoles), to supply administrative services. Governance Report. personnel The relationship is regulated by a Services Select, recruit, train, develop, compensate Agreement (NSA, or New Services Partners and retain personnel with the requisite Agreement), ensuring that all services are Enter into and execute mutually beneficial knowledge and experience to execute delivered at arm’s length and on normal business agreements. our strategy. commercial terms as per the Relationship Agreement with Peñoles. The Group owns a 56% interest in Minera Technology Juanicipio S.A. de C.V., with MAG Silver Deploy systems and methods that support See page 111. Corporation holding 44%; the agreement exploration efforts, increase productivity, was entered into for the development of the reinforce sustainability, enhance Juanicipio concession. We also partner with accountability, and support decision-making a number of junior exploration companies and financial planning processes. to conduct early stage prospecting. Financial strength and control Maintain strict control of cash, assets, costs and expenses to maintain our solid balance sheet and competitive position as a low cost producer, ensure resources to finance growth opportunities and guarantee operational continuity, and deliver shareholder returns. See pages 87–95. 22 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today “Social acceptance of our Strategic Report projects is our most valuable Engagement of community in reforestation at Ciénega intangible asset” Rafael MacGregor Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee Corporate Governance Authorities and regulators In Mexico and Peru, secure mining concessions and adhere to the laws and regulations governing all companies, and those for natural resources and mining companies in particular, including environmental, construction, explosives and labour laws, among others; in Mexico and London, adhere to issuer requirements of the London and Mexico Stock Exchanges, as well as financial and regulatory oversight from securities regulators. Financial Statements Membership organisations Learn about, advocate for and advance initiatives that support our strategic objectives. We belong to a number of industry and trade groups: CAMIMEX, the Mexican Mining Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates industry positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector; CESPEDES (Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE), which coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the country; and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development of economic, social and environmental best practices across the supply chain. 23 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators 1 Operate Our performance in the year: Silver production increased, mainly driven by throughput at Saucito, whilst gold production also rose, exceeding both 2015 guidance and our 2018 target, as a result of Herradura and its dynamic leaching plant being fully operational for the year. Continued focus on efficiency and controlling costs led to lower cost per tonne at almost every mine this year. See pages 50–59 Steady state reached at Herradura 24 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 silver production 2015 gold production 47.0 moz 761.7 koz Strategic Report 1 2015 objectives 2015 performance 2016 objectives Corporate Governance Optimise capacity and recovery rates >> Saucito II: continue to ramp-up >> Saucito II: concluded ramp-up in 2Q15, significantly ahead of the three-year timeframe previously anticipated >> Fresnillo: increase average development >> Fresnillo: increased average development >> Fresnillo: further increase average rate to 4,000m/month rate to over 4,000m/month development rate to 4,500m/month >> Herradura: install second Merrill Crowe >> Herradura: second Merrill Crowe plant plant and increase solution processing commissioned in 4Q15 and solution capacity processing capacity increased; steady state reached in 4Q15 Financial Statements Leverage expansion opportunities >> Ciénega: evaluate capacity expansion >> Ciénega: following positive exploration >> Ciénega: continue exploration at areas of alternatives results, capacity expansion was deferred in influence and evaluate optimal order to evaluate optimal milling levels and configuration of additional capacity plant location >> Herradura: pit evaluation for Centauro >> Herradura: pit design work was concluded >> Herradura: evaluate construction of second Extension milling line at the DLP Increase efficiency and control costs >> Seek continuous improvement >> Lower cost per tonne at Saucito, Ciénega, >> Seek continuous cost improvements Herradura and Noche Buena through dedicated work teams at each >> Productivity indicators improved at Saucito business unit and Ciénega Replenish and increase reserves >> Ongoing >> Gold reserves remained stable, whilst silver >> Ongoing reserves decreased due mainly to lower price assumptions For mine specific information see pages 50–59 25 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators continued 1 1 Operate KPIs Production Sum of ounces produced, plus ounces Silver production Gold production accrued through the Silverstream contract. Millions of ounces Thousands of ounces 47.0 761.7 This indicator monitors total production levels at our mines and contributions from advanced development projects. 42.1 41.1 42.9 45.0 47.0 662.8 687.5 610.9 595.9 761.7 40.4 43.0 38.2 37.1 39.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Graph (left-hand side) illustrates silver production from our Higher ore throughput at Saucito more than offset lower Herradura and dynamic leaching plant fully operational, own mines, with shaded portion representing additional production at Fresnillo. steady state achieved. ounces accrued under the Silverstream contract. Cost per tonne Adjusted production costs (total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects) divided by total volume of tonnes processed. This monitors variations of costs directly related to the production process; the analysis of such variations improves management’s decision-making. Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega & San Ramón US$/tonne milled US$/tonne milled US$/tonne milled 48.2 42.5 63.0 43.0 44.5 45.6 47.3 48.2 51.8 60.9 61.0 59.1 42.5 73.4 77.1 70.8 70.8 63.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Inefficiencies generated by lower throughput, and to a lesser Economies of scale from higher throughput, lower unit energy Foreign exchange benefits, lower unit energy prices and extent, increased wages to unionised employees and prices, and foreign exchange benefits. efficiencies achieved. additional contractors hired, mitigated by foreign exchange benefits and lower unit energy prices. Herradura Noche Buena US$/tonne deposited US$/tonne deposited 8.7 7.9 6.0 6.2 8.4 9.3 8.7 – 6.6 7.8 10.0 7.9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The positive effects of the lower stripping ratio and foreign Increased volume of ore processed; efficiencies achieved and exchange benefits were partly offset by the lower average foreign exchange benefits. volume deposited per month. 26 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Productivity Strategic Report Tonnes of ore milled per person, including contractors, at underground mines; and tonnes of ore deposited and waste material moved per person, including contractors, at open pit mines. Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega & San Ramón Ore milled per person (tonnes) Ore milled per person (tonnes) Ore milled per person (tonnes) 911 2,326 1,697 1,620 1,703 1,616 1,492 911 1,006 969 1,112 1,230 2,326 1,230 1,230 1,369 1,626 1,697 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Corporate Governance Lower volumes of ore processed and increased number of Increased volumes of ore processed and milling efficiencies. Unchanged volume of ore processed by fewer personnel. contractors hired to increase development rates. Herradura Noche Buena Ore/waste moved per person (tonnes) Ore/waste moved per person (tonnes) 71,098 87,717 Financial Statements 92,231 85,931 70,370 78,097 71,098 – 89,005 101,125 87,724 87,717 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lower volumes of ore/waste material moved in 2015 due to Broadly unchanged from 2014. optimisation of the pit design. Proven and probable reserves A measure of the quality of the Group’s operating assets and our ability to extend the life of operating mines at profitable levels. Our goal is to have 650 million ounces of silver and 7.5 million ounces of gold in reserves by 2018. Silver reserves Gold reserves Millions of ounces Millions of ounces 547.6 9.5 403.4 502.4 480.1 582.3 547.6 6.8 8.1 6.7 9.7 9.5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Silver reserves decreased 6.0% due mainly to lower silver price Gold reserves relatively stable, decreasing 1.5% mainly due to assumptions. a decrease in reserves at Noche Buena. 27 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators continued 2 Develop Our performance in the year: Despite a combination of challenging external factors, we are on track to commission phase 1 of our new San Julián mine only a matter of months after the target date of the revised timeline, in 2Q 2016. See pages 60–61 Dynamic leaching plant at San Julián 28 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today San Julián phase 1: leaching plant San Julián phase 2: flotation plant 2Q16 (est.) 4Q16 (est.) Strategic Report 2 2015 objectives 2015 performance 2016 objectives Corporate Governance San Julián >> Conclude construction of leaching plant; >> Delays in permitting, weather-related >> Commission the leaching plant (phase 1) in continue mining works at the veins; issues, security concerns and a high 2Q16 advance construction of water reservoir rotation of contractor personnel due to the >> Flotation plant (phase 2) expected to be and initiate construction of the flotation project’s remote location resulted in concluded in 4Q16 plant execution delays Pyrites plant >> Pyrites plant: finalise detailed engineering >> Detailed engineering neared completion >> Conclude detailed engineering and commence construction >> Equipment orders and construction on hold; Financial Statements project to resume pending Board approval as market conditions warrant For optimisation projects at current operating mines see pages 50–59 2 Develop KPIs Project delivery Ability to adhere to forecasted schedules and budgets. This measures management’s forecast strength and execution capabilities. San Julián Pyrites plant Original capex budget Revised capex budget Whilst work continued in 2015 on detailed US$ US$ engineering, the next stage of the project – equipment orders – was put on hold in early 500m 515m 2016 in line with the Board’s contingency plan; the project will resume pending Board approval as market conditions warrant. When reinstated, the US$155 million project Total capex to date Original timeline is expected to take less than two years to US$ reach production. 361m 2012–2014 Variation from original timeline: +18 months, or +6 months from revised timeline, to optimise capex allocation, ensure sufficient water supply for two plants, reinforce security, and take into account delays relating to permitting, weather and personnel rotation. 29 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators continued 3 Explore Our performance in the year: Our 2015 exploration programme was mainly focused on areas of influence at our current operating mines and key exploration sites. See pages 62–65 Exploration activities at Herradura 30 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 exploration investment 2016 exploration budget US$151m US$135-140m Strategic Report 3 2015 objectives 2015 performance 2016 objectives Corporate Governance >> US$170 million budgeted for exploration, >> US$151 million invested in exploration, >> US$135-140 million budgeted for including capitalised expenses including capitalised expenses exploration, including capitalised expenses >> Juanicipio: continue construction of the >> Juanicipio: construction advanced, >> Juanicipio: detailed engineering, further decline and further geological investigation exploration resulted in 27.3% and 10.1% exploration increase in gold and silver resources; project will be developed on a stand-alone basis >> Orisyvo: conclude preliminary economic >> Orisyvo: completed PEA; project currently assessment (PEA) deferred >> Continue our exploration programme to >> The conversion from resources to reserves >> Ongoing exploration to convert resources gradually convert resources into reserves in our mines was insufficient to replenish into reserves at mines and at key projects at our mines and at key projects silver reserves, except at Saucito. Resource Financial Statements upgrade at Candameña increased measured and indicated resources by 0.6 million gold ounces For project and prospect specific information see pages 62–65 3 Explore KPIs Total resources (attributable) Quantifies measured, indicated and inferred resources at all our assets; an indicator of the Group’s growth potential and ability to discover and develop new ore bodies. Attributable silver resources Attributable gold resources Millions of ounces Millions of ounces 1,970.7 35.5 1,811.1 2,038.8 2,140.3 2,008.4 1,970.7 27.5 31.2 33.5 34.1 35.5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Silver resources decreased by 1.9% mainly due to changes Gold resources rose 4.2% as a result of increases at Rodeo, in vein modelling and deep drill-hole results at Saucito and Guachichil, Candameña, Guanajuato and Saucito. lower silver price assumptions at San Julián. This was partly mitigated by increased silver at Huizache, Juanicipio, Ciénega and Guanajuato. 31 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators continued 4 Sustainability Our performance in the year: 2015 objectives We further advanced our HSECR system towards the >> Further advance the maturity of the 2016 target of full maturity, increased community HSECR system towards a fully integrated investment and reduced the level and intensity of our system by the 2016 target greenhouse gas emissions. We have also renewed 2015 performance our focus on safety following our recent track record, and hold ourselves accountable to our zero fatalities >> Maturity of HSECR system reached an commitment. overall level of 92.3%, as audited by PwC See pages 66–86 2016 objectives >> Achieve full maturity of HSECR system as planned For pillar specific information see pages 66-86 4 Sustainability KPIs Fatalities and Injuries Fatal injuries Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 1 0.03 5.87 2 11 6 2 1 1 0.36 0.08 0.04 0.03 5.93 2.16 3.30 5.87 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors. Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of lost-time injuries and fatalities per 1,000,000 1,000,000 hours worked. hours worked. Lost-time injuries are work-related injuries rendering any of the Group’s employees – full or part-time, direct or subcontracted, union or non-union – unable to perform his/her regular duties for one shift or more. 32 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 HSECR system maturity 2016 HSECR system maturity 92.3% 100% (est.) Strategic Report 4 Greenhouse Gases Water Community Investment Corporate Governance GHG emissions Water input Community investment Kt of CO2e Megalitres US$m 795 11,624 2.54 Scope 1 Scope 2 7,905 8,452 11,624 3.14 2.14 2.21 2.54 412 374 329 325 Financial Statements 413 421 375 363 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions estimated in kilotonnes (kt) of CO2 The volume of water received by a facility for intended use by Contributions (cash, in-kind support and administration costs) equivalent. its operations. It includes groundwater from aquifer made to support the communities where we operate, develop Scope 1 (Direct Emissions): Combustion of fuel (mobile and interception (dewatering), bore fields, ore entrainment and projects and explore, using five strategic levers: education, stationary sources). third party wastewater. social welfare (public health, social interaction and sports), Scope 2 (Indirect Emissions): Electricity purchased from the environmental awareness, community capacity building and Mexican National Grid (CFE), Thermoelectric Peñoles (TEP) and infrastructure. Wind Force Peñoles (FEISA). In spite of lower profits we increased our social investment. GHG intensity Water intensity Tonnes of CO2e per tonne of mineral processed M3 per tonne of mineral processed 0.017 0.25 0.013 0.018 0.019 0.017 0.20 0.19 0.25 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of mineral processed. Water input per tonne of mineral processed. 33 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Key Performance Indicators continued Financial KPIs Cash cost per ounce Total cash cost (cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges, less depreciation) less revenues from by-products divided by ounces of silver or gold sold. Used to compare profit margins and economic competitiveness amongst peers. Fresnillo cash cost: silver Saucito cash cost: silver Ciénega cash cost: gold US$/ounce US$/ounce US$/ounce 5.60 1.15 245.49 34.75 31.43 22.83 18.62 15.56 34.75 31.43 22.83 18.62 15.56 1,585.33 1,674.14 1,401.32 1,257.66 1,126.54 84.9% 97.7% 92.4% 105.1% 82.2% 98.4% 97.3% 77.1% 74.3% 84.2% 78.2% 71.6% 86.7% 64.0% 92.6% 288.00 245.49 5.24 5.59 5.87 5.29 5.60 121.06 3.61 2.48 1.15 –84.84 37.68 0.81 0.49 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Increase in cash cost mainly explained by lower volumes sold, Decrease in cash cost driven by lower cost per tonne due to Decrease in cash cost explained by higher by-product credits higher treatment and refining charges per silver ounce, and economies of scale achieved; and higher by-product credits. and decrease in cost per tonne, partly offset by lower ore grade. higher cost per tonne. Herradura cash cost: gold Noche Buena cash cost: gold US$/ounce US$/ounce 472.53 972.74 1,585.33 1,674.14 1,401.32 1,257.66 1,126.54 – 1,674.14 1,401.32 1,257.66 1,126.54 71.9% 65.7% 33.8% 77.2% 24.8% 13.7% 53.5% 63.0% 58.1% 945.63 972.74 928.03 651.23 574.16 470.56 465.42 472.53 362.19 – 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Increase in cash cost resulted from an adverse inventory Increase in cash cost per ounce driven by an adverse inventory Gold/silver price valuation effect and lower by-product credits. valuation effect and lower gold ore grade. Cash cost See page 91 See page 91 % figures represent margin between cash cost and gold/silver price 34 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today EBITDA, EBITDA margin and cash flow from operating activities Strategic Report before changes in working capital EBITDA is gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales, less administrative, selling and exploration expenses. EBITDA margin is EBITDA divided by total revenue. Both EBITDA and cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital measure the Group’s ability to generate cash from its core business. EBITDA and EBITDA margin Cash flow generated from operations before US$ working capital adjustments US$ 547.5m 537.5m Corporate Governance 1,538.5 1,315.3 729.8 567.3 547.5 1,612.1 1,356.7 750.2 568.5 537.5 70.2% 61.0% 45.2% 40.1% 37.9% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Decrease mainly as a result of lower gross profit; partly Lower profits resulted in a decrease in cash generated from Financial Statements mitigated by lower exploration and administrative expenses. operations before working capital adjustments. Earnings per share excluding post-tax Silverstream revaluation effects Attributable profit available to equity shareholders, excluding the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. Monitors net profit levels generated for equity shareholders. Earnings per share US$ 0.069 1.098 0.916 0.381 0.074 0.069 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lower profits divided across an unchanged weighted average number of shares in issue. 35 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks Risk is inherent in all business activities. We maintain a comprehensive risk management framework that serves to identify, assess and respond to our principal risks. Our approach is not intended to eliminate risk entirely, but rather to provide the structural means to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in our activities in order to support our value creation objectives. Governance In accordance with our governance practices, Executive Management reviews strategic The Board of Directors is responsible the Audit Committee supports the Board of objectives and risk appetite, assesses the for maintaining the Company’s risk Directors in monitoring the Company’s risk level of risk related to achieving these management and internal control systems. exposures and is responsible for reviewing objectives, and incorporates controls into The Board’s mandate includes defining risk the effectiveness of the risk management the strategic and operating plans to mitigate appetite and monitoring risk exposures to and internal control systems. The Risk them. This top-down risk identification and ensure that the nature and extent of Manager and Internal Audit support the assessment process helps to ensure that significant risks taken by the Company Audit Committee in evaluating the design the bottom-up process performed at the are aligned with our overall goals and and operating effectiveness of the risk business unit level is aligned with and strategic objectives. mitigation strategies and the internal focused on current strategy and objectives. controls implemented by management. Risk management framework diagram Top-down The Board Oversight, identification, >> Has overall responsibility >> Sets strategic objectives >> Monitors the nature and >> P  rovides direction on the assessment and for the Group’s risk and defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure importance of risk mitigation of risk at management and against risk appetite for management and risk corporate level internal control systems our principal risks management culture Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit >> Assesses and mitigates our risks >> Supports the Board in monitoring >> Supports the Audit Committee in Company‑wide risk exposure against risk appetite reviewing the effectiveness of our >> Monitors our risk management >> Reviews the effectiveness of our risk management and internal process and internal controls risk management and internal controls systems controls systems Bottom-up Identification, Operational level assessment and >> Risk management process and >> Risk identification, assessment >> Risk awareness and safety culture mitigation of risk at internal controls embedded across and mitigation performed across embedded across the business business unit level and functional areas, mining operations, the business across functional areas projects and exploration sites 36 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Risk management system The annual and ongoing elements of Strategic Report Severe the Group’s risk management process 2 are controlled by well-established risk identification, assessment and monitoring 2 1 processes. We have progressed in embedding a risk management culture amongst all employees, however this is an 7 3 7 ongoing process and we are still working to 4 4 demonstrate this with evidence collected 6 3 through the monitoring of our controls to 5 mitigate risks. 11 9 We have continued to build on our existing Impact Corporate Governance risk management framework, enhancing risk management and internal control systems 8 8 10 across the business in line with changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code. In addition to the permanent risk management activities, our priority for 2016 is to continue promoting a ‘monitoring environment’ which consists of validating the effectiveness of our current controls Very low in order to support the Board in their responsibilities, which include monitoring and reviewing risk management and the Likelihood Financial Statements internal control systems. Unlikely Almost certain 2015 risk assessment The annual risk assessment exercise across X 2015 X 2014 all our operations, advanced projects, exploration offices, support and corporate Risk* areas identified and evaluated 104 risks in 1. Impact of global macroeconomic developments (silver and gold prices) (v) 2015. This universe was narrowed down into major risks monitored by Executive 2. Access to land (v) Management and the Audit Committee, and 3. Potential actions by the government (e.g. taxes/more stringent regulations) (v) then further consolidated into 11 principal 4. Security risks closely monitored by Executive Management and the Board of Directors. 5. Public perception against mining 6. Projects (performance risk) (v) For the bottom-up process, the teams in 7. Safety charge of each business unit determined the 8. Union relations perceived level of risk for their individual unit. Executive Management then reviewed and 9. Exploration challenged each perceived level through the 10. Human resources evaluation of certain controls and relative risk 11. Environmental incidents (v) levels, and compared it to Fresnillo plc’s risk universe as a whole. The result of this * Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2015. exercise is used as another input for the (v) Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on page 48. selection of the principal risks of Fresnillo plc. The same risk analysis was conducted on We believe there were a number of impacted and also profit sharing to advanced projects, detailing the specific risks developments in 2015 that have the employees and union workers has faced by each project according to the potential to adversely impact the entire decreased. As a result of these changes we unique characteristics and conditions of each Mexican mining industry. These include determined that the following risk rating site. The risk heat map for each business unit Mexico’s transition towards indigenous levels facing Fresnillo plc have increased: and development project is included in the consultation (which is an emerging initiative ‘potential actions by the government’, Review of Operations (pages 50 to 61). but worth monitoring); the perceived level ‘security’, ‘access to land’ and ‘union of corruption across Mexico remaining relations’. As with all our key risks, the Board high; continued legal challenges to the and the Executive Committee continue to mining industry by individuals and local closely monitor them. communities who may seek to disregard previous land agreements; and due to lower metal prices, profit levels have been 37 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Impact of global macroeconomic developments Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy There could be an adverse impact on our Fresnillo’s hedging policy remains guided by the High >> Mines in operation sales and profit, and potentially the principle of providing shareholders with full >> Development projects economic viability of projects, from exposure to gold and silver prices. However, macroeconomic developments such as: following shareholder approval for the acquisition Risk rating (relative position) >> Growth pipeline of 44% of Penmont (and associated companies) in 2015: Very high (1) >> A decrease in precious metal prices 2014, we initiated a specific hedging programme to 2014: Very high (1) (primary driver of the risk); this was the protect the value of the investment made in the Key risk indicators case for silver and gold in 2015, with a acquisition, using a collar structure to allow partial >> Gross profit sensitivity decline of 16.5% and 8.5% respectively, continued exposure to gold prices. The volume Change in heat map: to percentage change in their annual average price over the associated with this phased hedging programme in metals price and to previous year. was strictly limited to up to the 44% of production associated with the acquired Penmont assets and = Mexican peso/US dollar >> Gold and silver prices continued to show will not be extended to other assets in the Group. exchange rate high volatility in 2015. The total volume hedged was 1,559,689 oz of Description of risk change >> EBITDA sensitivity to >> Most currencies suffered a devaluation vs which 266,760 oz matured in 2015 with a profit of Most industry and financial percentage change in US dollar, including the Mexican peso, in US$1.0 million. (For more details, see Financial analysts who follow metal metals price and to 2015. Review on pages 89 and 93) prices continue to foresee Mexican peso/US dollar lower average silver and gold exchange rate >> General inflation in Mexico was 2.06% in Fresnillo is not precluded from entering into prices for 2016 and high Mexican pesos in 2015; the specific derivatives to minimise its exposure to changes in volatility in their long-term deflation affecting the Company was the prices of lead and zinc by-products. As in forecasts. 8.4% in US dollar terms. previous years, the Group entered into a hedging structure in 2015 to mitigate the risk related to the >> A decrease in the price of by-products. sale of lead and zinc. See note 31 in the Financial This was the case for lead with a decline Statements on page 192. of 13.6% and for zinc with a decline of 15.2% in the annual average price over Furthermore, we have hedging policies in place for the previous year. foreign exchange risk, including those associated with capex related to projects. The Company entered into a number of foreign exchange contracts of euros and Swedish kronas denominated forward contracts. See note 31 in the Financial Statements on page 191. In response to a reduction in the price of certain of our main inputs due to a deflationary environment, we have started to renegotiate long-term conditions for our contracts in order to benefit from the current low prices. Change in heat map: Vertical movement indicates impact Horizontal movement indicates likelihood 38 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Access to land Strategic Report Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Given our strategy and exploration plan, To maximise our opportunities for successful land Medium >> Mines in operation failure or significant delays in accessing the access we actively manage our mining rights and >> Development projects surface over our mineral concessions and surface land hectares focusing on relevant areas; other land of interest is a persistent risk with at the end of 2015, after adding required areas and Risk rating (relative position) >> Growth pipeline a potentially high impact on our objectives. divesting areas of less interest we held 2.0 million 2015: Very high (2) Potential barriers to land access include: hectares, a 3% decrease vs 2014. Other initiatives 2014: Very high (2) include: Key risk indicators >> Rising expectations of land owners. >> Refusal to acknowledge prior land >> Plan well in advance for land requirements and >> Percentage of land acquisitions (e.g. anticipating any issues with a Change in heat map: required for advanced acquisition terms and conditions by members of an agrarian community. potential land purchase before intensive exploration projects exploration). In certain areas of interest, leasing that has been >> Influence of multiple special interests in Corporate Governance agreements with purchase options are purchased (overall and land negotiations. negotiated. Description of risk change by project) >> Conflicts in land boundaries with an >> Foster strong community relations through >> Total US$ and The mining industry has been often arduous resolution process. investment in community programmes and percentage of project facing legal challenges by >> Succession issues among land owners infrastructure. Such investments totalled individuals and local budget spend on resulting in a lack of clarity about the US$2.5 million in 2015. communities who may seek to HSECR activities, legal entitlement to possess and sell >> Always seek tri-party cooperation between the disregard previous land including community land. agreements. relations (at projects government, community and ourselves in >> Litigation risk i.e. increased activism by securing access to land. and exploration) In addition, there is an judicial authorities. >> Early involvement of the community relations industry-wide increase in the teams during negotiation and acquisition number of cases where access processes, including the exploration stage. to land by the inhabitants is Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts in our denied. Financial Statements exploration and operation areas increase the >> Comprehensive review of the legal status of the complexity of land access. Company’s land rights in order to mitigate or Combined with the previous eliminate litigation risk. This review is risk described, Mexican substantially concluded and certain areas of governmental authorities are opportunity have been identified. We are in the beginning to grant certain process of implementing measures to manage permits (such as this risk on a case-by-case basis. environmental permits) only if the land owners also give their >> Continue working with our land negotiation express consent, and not solely teams, comprising negotiators hired directly by depending on whether a Fresnillo and also provided by Peñoles as part of Company complies with the service agreement. environmental or construction requirements for permits. Thus, the perceived level of this risk has increased. 39 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Potential actions by the government e.g. implementation of more stringent regulations for obtaining permits, etc. Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We face the risk of implementation of new Indigenous consultation is an ongoing topic, thus Low >> Mines in operation governmental requirements that will have we will continue monitoring developments and >> Development projects an adverse impact on us, or other potential, working with the Mexican Mining Chamber to try not yet materialised, new or more stringent and reach agreements that will benefit both Risk rating (relative position) >> Growth pipeline ecological or explosives regulations or more parties going forward. 2015: Very high (3) >> Sustainable difficult processes to grant permits. 2014: Very high (4) development Nevertheless, such a huge change in the Mining During 2015, Mexico’s Supreme Court of Law could take time due to the complexity of the Justice heard a case relating to an injunction terms and proceedings yet to be discussed. Key risk indicators which analysed the merits and relevance of the right of indigenous communities to prior We continue collaborating with other members of >> Number of media and informed consent within the overall the mining community via the Mexican Mining Change in heat map: mentions related to process for granting mining concessions. Chamber to lobby against new detrimental taxes/ mining regulations (i.e. Should the Court find in favour of the royalties or regulations. We also support the tax/royalties/banning indigenous communities, a step towards industry’s lobbying efforts to improve the general of mining activities in creating precedent in this regard will have public’s understanding of the Mining Law. protected areas/legal Description of risk change been taken that could eventually affect the We uphold strict controls on receiving, handling, precedents) and profile granting of new concessions in Mexico. The indigenous consultation storing and dispatching explosives in each of of those quoted topic is being given greater our operations and projects to maintain our focus in Mexico. This topic is (political parties, explosives permits. currently not yet regulated by government officials, the Mexican Mining Law as etc.) such, however Mexico ratified the “Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention” issued by the ILO (International Labour Organisation) which states: “... governments shall establish or maintain procedures through which they shall consult these peoples, with a view to ascertaining whether and to what degree their interests would be prejudiced, before undertaking or permitting any programmes for the exploration or exploitation of such resources pertaining to their lands. The peoples concerned shall wherever possible participate in the benefits of such activities, and shall receive fair compensation for any damages which they may sustain as a result of such activities.” Another factor to increase the level of this risk is the perceived level of corruption across Mexico, which remains high. We share a general industry view that local and regional government levels in particular have regrettably worsened notwithstanding the national effort of the anti-corruption system, which as of today is not yet fully deployed. This situation might as a result cause a delay in obtaining permits for certain operations and/or projects. 40 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Security Strategic Report Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people, contractors and suppliers face We closely monitor the security situation, maintain Low >> Mines in operation the risk of kidnapping, extortion or harm due clear internal communications and coordinate >> Development projects to security conditions in the regions where work in areas of higher insecurity, along with the we operate. We face the risk of restricted following practices to manage our security risks Risk rating (relative position) >> Growth pipeline access to operations/projects and theft and prevent possible incidents: 2015: Very high (4) >> Sustainable of assets. 2014: Very high (3) development >> We maintain close relations with authorities, The influence of drug cartels, other criminal including army encampments installed nearby elements and general lawlessness in the Key risk indicators certain of our operations. We also reinforce our regions where we operate, combined with our exploration and project activities in relationship with the army secretariat at the >> Total number of areas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, regional level in order to align and coordinate Change in heat map: security incidents makes working in these areas of particular efforts. affecting our workforce Corporate Governance risk for us. >> Travel management e.g. travel in convoy, use (thefts, kidnapping, aircraft versus land travel (when possible) and extortion, etc.) avoid known insecure areas. Description of risk change >> Number of sites >> In 2015 we developed the engineering for the Continued increased state of affected and work standard of technological and physical security insecurity in the regions where days lost, by region measures for all of our business units. We we operate. and type of site started the implementation of this engineering >> Number of media We have suffered minor which is expected to be concluded in 2016. mentions related to security incidents to contractor >> We contracted security personnel (internal and personnel; that said, incidents security issues contractors) to improve the efficiency of our are getting closer to our affecting the mining security strategy. operations and more frequent. industry >> We continued to utilise logistics controls in 2015 Financial Statements to further reduce the probability of theft of mineral concentrate, including the use of real-time tracking technology and the use of guard services and control checkpoints in a “safe corridor,” and reduced authorised stops in order to optimise delivery times and minimise the convoys’ exposure. >> We invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts. >> In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access to the San Nicolas del Oro prospect remains suspended because of the state of insecurity in Guerrero state. >> Rotation of personnel to reduce their exposure to certain regions. >> Promote reporting to authorities amongst our contractors. 41 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Public perception against mining Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Public opinion globally is increasingly Communities are our strategic partners and having Low >> Mines in operation concerned with the potential adverse social their trust requires understanding and engaging >> Development projects and environmental consequences of with them effectively and being accountable for opening and developing mining operations. our impact. Our programme for community Risk rating (relative position) >> Growth pipeline This sentiment manifests itself through engagement includes: 2015: High (5) >> Sustainable increased regulatory obligations for mining >> Conducting community perception studies 2014: High (5) development companies and increased social activism by across all our operating units. These perception communities and other grass roots audits have allowed each of the business units Key risk indicators organisations. to update their social risks and opportunities. In 2016 we will focus our efforts on improving the >> Number of local specific areas of value for our communities. Change in heat map: actions by NGOs or other local social >> Following the guidelines set out by the = groups against mining, International Finance Corporation and the by region International Council of Mining and Metals. Description of risk change >> Number of actions by >> Developing a new portfolio of proposals for The continuous exacerbated NGOs or other local institutional projects and alliances with social activism within the social groups against non-governmental organisations (NGOs). global mining sector has the mining in the Americas >> Implementing a state-of-the-art information potential to impact all our >> Number of media system to support community relations and strategic areas as well as our mentions related to social investment, which includes analysis and ability to maintain the social manifestations against logs of activities organised by the Company for licence to operate within the the mining industry the communities, and contribution requests communities near our made by the communities. operations. >> Monitoring public opinion within local and international media (newspapers, radio stations, local channels). >> Working with communities at an early exploration stage to understand their needs and communicate the benefits of developing and operating a mine in terms of social welfare and quality of life. >> Flawless environmental behaviour key to maintaining communities’ trust. >> The Company collaborates with peers in the international and Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response to this risk. 42 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Projects (performance risk) Strategic Report Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Pursuing advanced exploration and Our investment evaluation process determines Medium >> Development projects development opportunities, which are core how to best direct available capital using technical, to meeting our strategic goals, carry certain financial and qualitative criteria. project-related risks: >> Technical: we assess the resource estimate and Risk rating (relative position) 2015: Medium high (6) confirmed resources, metallurgy of the mineral >> Economic viability: impact of capital cost 2014: Medium high (6) bodies, investment required in general to develop and maintain the mine, future infrastructure (e.g. roads, power, general Key risk indicators metal prices and operating costs through services, housing) and infrastructure required the mine’s life cycle. >> Earned value (rate of for the mine and plant. >> Uncertainties associated with developing Change in heat map: financial advancement >> Financial: we look at risk relative to return for and operating new mines and expansion vs physical projects: fluctuations in ore grade and proposed investments of capital. We set = advancement) Corporate Governance expected internal rates of return (IRR) per project recovery, unforeseen complexities in the >> Percentage of major as thresholds for approving the allocation of mining process, poor rock quality, Description of risk change equipment ordered capital based on the present value of expected unexpected presence of underground Our strict investment and received according cash flows from the invested capital. water or lack thereof, lack of community governance process and to plan support, and inability to obtain and >> Qualitative factors: e.g. alignment of the system of capital project >> Percentage of maintain required operating permits. investment with our strategic plan and controls remain in place, completion of mine business model; synergies with other safeguarding our ability to >> Delivery risk: projects may go over development investments and operating assets; implications deliver growth through budget in terms of cost and time, or may for safety, security, people, resourcing and development projects on not be constructed in accordance with community relations. time and on budget. We are the required specifications, or major mining equipment may not be delivered We closely monitor our project controls to ensure prepared to defer certain we deliver approved projects on time, on budget projects based on on time. and as per defined specifications. The Executive macroeconomic adverse Financial Statements Management team and Board of Directors are conditions. regularly updated on progress. Each advanced Overall we feel there is exploration project and major capital development sufficient availability of project has a risk register containing the identified equipment, machinery and and assessed risks specific to the project. contractors within the industry, In 2012, the Board approved the San Julián and with the information silver-gold project with an investment of US$515 available we do not expect million; San Julián is expected to produce an additional cost pressure. average of 10.3 million ounces of silver and 44,000 ounces of gold per year once at full capacity. At the end of 2015, the physical advance was 83% in line with the revised plan; the expenses incurred and committed were on budget. The major risk factor specific to this project is to obtain the environmental permits for the expansion of the tailings dam, however management does not expect this factor to impact the planned start of the project. 43 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Safety Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk of We are committed to offering a safe workplace to Low >> Sustainable incidents due to unsafe acts or conditions our workers and contractors. We aim for a safety development causing injuries or fatalities to our people. culture where our personnel and contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work Risk rating (relative position) Our people face risks inherent in the safely. Our strategy is based on: 2015: High (7) operations, such as fire, explosion, 2014: Medium high (7) electrocution and carbon monoxide >> Managing our knowledge of safety through poisoning, as well as risks specific to each identifying and analysing risks, evaluating Key risk indicators mine site and development project, for controls, performing situational assessments, example rock falls caused by geological and monitoring performance. Change in heat map: >> Safe behaviour index = conditions, collisions of equipment in percentage of work >> Engaging our stakeholders through the “No large operations, cyanide contamination, observed that is More Accidents” process, which has become a collisions between equipment and people executed safely (in permanent programme to reinforce the safety and smaller vehicles. accordance with the culture. This programme includes “Leaders for Description of risk change Company’s safety Safety”, “Behavioural Change”, “Operational We have continued to reinforce procedures) Discipline”, “Rules that Save Lives” and our safety strategy; regrettably comprehensive accident investigation. >> Unsafe conditions we have not reached all our eliminated index = >> Launching initiatives to embed safety in our safety goals during the year as one of our contractors suffered percentage of unsafe culture. Safety culture is routinely monitored to a fatal accident at the Fresnillo conditions observed assess the attitudes, behaviours and disciplined mine due to a breach of safety and recorded that elimination of unsafe conditions. protocol. have been eliminated In 2015 the Total Recordable Injury Frequency >> Operational rate increased to 20.98 (2014: 18.84) and the Lost procedures availability Time Injury Frequency Rate increased to 5.87 index = percentage of (2014: 3.30). required safety Other mitigating activities include: procedures that are >> The “SafeStart” programme was implemented available in Ciénega, Fresnillo and Saucito. This programme focuses on the human factors that are involved in the majority of incidents and injuries. >> Training, for both employees and contractors. The average of workforce training in 2015 was 100 hours, of which 69 were related to HSECR training. See Safety pages 71–73 for more on our safety strategy and programmes. 44 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Union relations Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Although we have a risk of union action or We have clearly assigned responsibilities and Low >> Mines in operation degradation of union relations at some programmes for maintaining close relationships >> Development projects sites, our overall relationship continues to with unions at mine sites and at the national level. strengthen; however, internal union politics We have maintained a close communication with Risk rating (relative position) could impact us negatively as well as pressure the union leaders at various levels of the 2015: Medium low (8) from other mining unions which want to take organisation to raise awareness about the over the Fresnillo labour contract. economic situation the industry is facing. We 2014: Medium low (9) engage experienced legal counsel, both internal Key risk indicators Strategic Report and external, to support us. We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs of the unions, >> Union members’ level and experienced no labour-related work stoppages Change in heat map: of satisfaction in 2015. >> Number of media We will continue closely monitoring union and mentions related to labour developments. mining union Description of risk change developments Because of the lower price cycle in the industry, profit levels have been impacted thus profit sharing to the workers has decreased. This might be a concern for the unions. Corporate Governance Union leaders’ attitudes have become more challenging. In addition to this, a new labour contract was signed with Saucito, as agreed with the union leader. Internal struggles for leadership between certain sections of the union occurred as well as between different mining unions. Financial Statements Exploration Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We are highly dependent on the success of Risk capital invested in exploration in 2015 totalled Medium >> Growth pipeline the exploration programme to meet our US$151 million, below budget; this was in targets in terms of strategic value-creation accordance with the Group’s decision to reduce Risk rating (relative position) and our long-term production and reserves exploration expenditures in light of current market 2015: Medium (9) goals. conditions. Our exploration objectives for 2016 include a budgeted risk capital invested in 2014: Medium (8) Risk factors that may impact prospecting exploration of approximately US$135-US$140 and converting inferred resources (apart million, with the approximate spending split of 27% Key risk indicators from the growing level of insecurity and for operating mines, 27% for advanced exploration access to land) include not having a robust Change in heat map: >> Drill programmes projects and the remaining 46% for prospects, completed (overall and portfolio of prospects in our pipeline with regional prospecting and mining rights. We also sufficient potential in terms of indicated and ensure we have: = by project) inferred resources, and insufficient >> Change in the number concession coverage in target areas. >> A focus on increasing the regional exploration Description of risk change of ounces in reserves drilling programmes to intensify exploration and resources Also there could be a risk of losing purchase efforts in the districts with high potential. Reasonable investment in opportunities due to insufficient speed in exploration, even at the low >> Rate of conversion decision making. >> For local exploration, aggressive in-field metal cycle, puts this risk on a from resources to exploration to upgrade the resources category stable level, and we foresee no reserves As our production escalates and more mines and to convert inferred resources into reserves. change in status based on approach the end of their lives, it becomes >> A team of highly trained and motivated available information. increasingly challenging to replenish their geologists, both employees and long-term reserves. contractors. >> Advisory technical reviews by international third party experts – up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote sensing imagery and software for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and districts to be field-checked by the team. >> Drill-ready high priority projects. During 2015 we revised our portfolio of concessions See Exploration pages 62–65 for and determined that some did not have the more on our exploration expected potential; thus we voluntarily programmes and investment. relinquished 62,873 hectares in order to focus our efforts on areas of greater potential. 45 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Human Resources Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people are critical to delivering our Recruitment: We assessed our hiring requirements Medium >> Mines in operation objectives. We face risks in selecting, for key positions for 2015, and aim to meet >> Development projects recruiting, training and retaining the people openings through internal training and promotion, Risk rating (relative position) we need. and by recruitment through: 2015: Low (10) >> Growth pipeline 2014: Low (10) >> Sustainable A lack of reliable contractors with adequate >> Our close relationships with universities offering infrastructure, machinery, performance development earth sciences programmes (we have and skilled people is also a risk that might dedicated programmes to identify potential affect our ability to develop and construct candidates based on performance who may Key risk indicators mining works. be hired as interns and/or employees on Change in heat map: >> Number of positions graduation). filled by area of >> CETEF (Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo) = specialty, for vacancies which teaches specific mining operational skills; and new positions 12 graduates from 2015 joined the Company as Description of risk change >> Employee turnover full-time employees. rate Competition for skilled >> CETLAR (the Peñoles Centre for Technical personnel has become less >> Average hours of Studies) which trains mechanics and electrical intense and we continue to see training and technicians; seven of the 2015 graduates joined results from our ongoing professional the Company as full-time employees. university recruitment activities development per and employee retention employee Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strategies. strong corporate culture committed to our people, >> Number of contractor good working conditions, competitive benefits and Due to the metal price low personnel relative to career development opportunities. In 2015, cycle, there are more unionised personnel Fresnillo plc was recognised by the Great Place to contractors available; however per business unit Work® Institute, and it currently ranks 17th among they have also been affected companies with more than 5,000 employees. by the current economic situation. As a result it Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining continues to be a challenge to contracts. We invest significantly in training maintain the best available contractors, particularly on safety and contractor personnel. environmental requirements. We have supported the enrolment of 49 of our contractor companies in their integration into the Self-Management Programme on Safety and Health at Work (PASST), promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare (STPS). 46 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Environmental incidents Strategic Report Risk description Response/mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk of Our environmental management system ensures Low >> Sustainable environmental incidents such as overflow/ effective compliance with Mexican regulations, development collapse of tailing dams, cyanide spills and ensures transparency and supports initiatives that Risk rating (relative position) dust emissions, among others, any of which reduce our environmental footprint. The Group was 2015: Low (11) could have a high potential impact on our recognised with the GEI2 national award for the 2014: Low (11) people, communities and business. disclosure and auditing of its greenhouse gas inventory. Additionally, we disclosed our performance in the water and climate change programmes of the Carbon Disclosure Project. See Key risk indicators Environment pages 74 to 79 for more results on our Change in heat map: >> Number of business environmental strategy and indicators. units (BUs) with ISO At the beginning of December 2015, a minor = 14001:2004 Corporate Governance incident occurred due to the rupture of a pipeline certification while non-toxic solution was being pumped from Description of risk change >> Number of BUs with the beneficiation plant to the tailings dam of Clean Industry Saucito. Authorities concluded that the situation Our environmental management system, certification was of limited scale, and as a result operations were not suspended. The affected area was environmental expenditures, >> Number of BUs with completely cleaned and remediated. In May 2015, and training of personnel are International Cyanide Herradura experienced a partial collapse of a small key factors which reduce the Code certification section of the embankment of a pond containing risk of major preventable incidents. >> Number of pregnant (gold bearing) solution. This failure was environmental quickly detected and contained with a dyke, and permits for all extra pumps were set up to speed up the transfer advanced exploration of the solution to the contingency pond. The projects (according to incident was reported to PROFEPA and Financial Statements schedule) environmental monitoring since the incident shows no negative environmental effects. All our mining units are certified under ISO 14001 and have Clean Industry certification except for Saucito, which advanced in the process of obtaining both (to 90%) and is expected to conclude in 2016. The Herradura mine is certified in the International Cyanide Management Code while at Ciénega the process is on hold, set to resume once expansion at the processing plant is complete. Noche Buena launched its certification process in December 2015; this is expected to be concluded in 2016. We rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each project’s environmental permit (Environmental Impact Manifest). We also continue to support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems. See Environment pages 74–79 for more on our environment strategy. 47 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Viability Statement In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Scenario 3 Corporate Governance Code, and taking into account the Group’s Tailings dam breach at a mine current position and its principal risks for a period longer than the A tailings dam collapses and tailings are twelve months required by the going concern statement, the Board released into the surrounding area, causing environmental damage. A fund is established a working team to make recommendations on the created by the Company to be used to preparation of the viability statement. remediate and compensate for any damages caused. The investigation into the causes of the event is drawn out and further time is needed for all environmental permits to be reinstated. As a result the mine remains closed This team included two designated Directors, It was determined that none of the individual throughout the viability assessment the CEO, CFO, COO, Head of Business risks, except for prices, would in isolation period. (Principal risk E) Planning, and Head of Risk, with the Audit compromise the Group’s viability. The Committee overseeing the process. Directors therefore went on to group principal risks into the following severe but plausible After analysing various options, a period of scenarios, in each case determining the risk Scenario 4 five years, to December 2020, was chosen for proximity (how soon could the risk occur) and Flooding at a mine the purpose of the viability assessment, in velocity (the speed with which the impact of A mine floods as a result of cutting into an line with the Company’s five-year forecast a risk will be felt): unforeseen fault containing water, which period normally used to evaluate liquidity then enters the mine and exceeds and contingency plans which is key to us pumping capacity, thereby halting given that Fresnillo covers the full value chain Scenario 1 production. Production ramp-up to from exploration to mine operation. It allows Impact of global macroeconomic pre-event levels commences once for modelling of capital expenditure and developments management determines that it is safe development programmes planned during to do so. (Singular event) the timeframe and reflecting cash flows Over a period of a year, precious metal generated by the projects currently under prices fall and then remain at a low level development. Due to the long business for the following four years of the viability cycles in the mining industry, the Directors period, varying between US$972Scenario 5 believed a shorter time period would be US$1,033/oz for gold and US$14.0Action by the Government at a mine insufficient to perform an in depth analysis US$14.8/oz for silver. To create this Explosives are stolen on site causing of viability. impartial projection for the future low authorities to suspend the explosives metal price environment, an average of permit at the mine. Production is halted at Reporting on the Company’s viability requires the three lowest forecasts from each year the mine whilst an investigation into the the Directors to consider those principal risks of the assessment were used, based on matter is completed. Once permits have that could impair the solvency and liquidity consensus estimates published by been restored, production ramps back up of the Company. In order to determine those Bloomberg at the end of December 2015. to pre-event levels. (Principal risk C) risks the Directors robustly assessed the This low metal price environment was Group-wide principal risks and operationdeemed to be the most significant risk specific risks by undertaking consultations and pervasive across the Company. with Executive Management, mine (Principal risk A) Scenario 6 managers and other personnel across the Access to land at a mine operations. Through these conversations the Conflicts with local communities arise Directors also identified low probability, high resulting in the Company having to cease Scenario 2 operations, until negotiations can be loss scenarios – ‘singular events’ – with the Bench collapse at an open pit mine finalised and the land can be re-occupied. potential magnitude to severely impact the solvency and/or liquidity of Fresnillo. A landslide occurs covering the lower pit (Principal risk B) of one of our mines. Due to the For the purpose of assessing the Group’s unexpected nature of the event, fatalities viability, the Directors identified that of the occur. Production is gradually then principal risks detailed on page 37 the ramped back up and re-established to full Scenario 7 following are the most important to the capacity. (Singular event) A project suspension due to assessment of the viability of the Group: Government actions Due to local opposition, sufficient pressure A. ‘Impact of global macroeconomic is mounted on the Government by developments’, specifically volatility in environmental groups leading to the the prices of gold and silver over a period Government declaring the zone of time surrounding the project a protected area B. Access to land and withdrawing all environmental C. ‘Potential actions by the government’ permits, thereby resulting in the project which could include a delay in obtaining being suspended for the duration of the permits and/or new restrictive regulations viability period, while mitigating actions D. Project delivery risks can be established. (Principal risks C & D) E. Environmental incidents 48 Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today The scenarios on the previous page are All scenarios were first evaluated using Strong risk management and internal hypothetical and extremely severe for the average metal prices1, and modelled to occur control systems are in place (see page 36) Strategic Report purpose of creating outcomes that have the when each scenario would have the most throughout the Company. Through the ability to threaten the viability of the Group; significant impact on cash resources. Once internal control systems, the Directors however, multiple control measures are in the mitigation plans of deferring capital monitor key variables that have the ability place to prevent and mitigate any such expenditure had been applied to the extent to impact the liquidity and solvency of occurrences from taking place. In the case of necessary, there was no threat to the viability the Company and are confident that these scenarios arising, various options are of the Group. To create a more stringent test management is able to sufficiently mitigate available to the Company in order to and further challenge the resilience of the any situations as they might occur. maintain liquidity so as to continue in Group, all scenarios were then overlaid with Nevertheless, as a result of this assessment operation, such as suspending some or all of scenario one, (low metal prices) and then certain actions for the reinforcement of the following capital expenditures: Pyrites re-evaluated. controls and their monitoring have been plant (US$176.3 million), Orisyvo (US$393.3 identified and will be implemented to further million), Centauro Deep (US$363.8 million) After these had been modelled, the only strengthen the control environment. Corporate Governance and Centauro Extension (US$155.0 million), scenario that caused a certain degree of which are described in more detail on pages stress to cash flows was scenario number Based on the results from these scenarios, 50 to 65. A further option available to the three in combination with the low metal and having considered the established Company is the reduction of exploration prices scenario (number one), albeit the controls for the risks and the available expenses by up to 50% on an annual basis Directors consider the assumptions used for mitigating actions, the Directors have a (USD$71 million annual average). To quantify this scenario were greatly amplified for the reasonable expectation that the Group will the impact on the Group’s viability from the purposes of this assessment. In addition to be able to continue in operation and meet its expected financial impact and remediation suspending capital expenditure, a further liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period for each of the above risks, mitigating action could include a 50% period of their detailed assessment. This management benchmarked its own reduction in the exploration budget for the longer-term assessment process supports experience against publicly available first three years. the Directors’ statements on both viability, information on relevant and similar incidents as set out above, and going concern, in the mining industry. made below. Financial Statements 1 Analyst consensus, Bloomberg, December 2015: Analyst Gold & Silver Forecasts. Going Concern Statement The Group’s business activities, together US$14.2/oz and US$973/oz respectively concentrate on production with a higher with the factors likely to affect its future throughout this period, whilst maintaining margin in order to accelerate cash development, performance and position current budgeted expenditure and only generation without affecting the integrity are set out in the Strategic Review on considering projects approved by the of the mine plans. pages 10 to 95. The financial position of Executive Committee. This resulted in the Group, its cash flows and liquidity our current cash balances reducing over After reviewing all of the above position are described in the Financial time, but maintaining sufficient liquidity considerations, the Directors have Review on pages 87 to 95. In addition, throughout the period. a reasonable expectation that note 32 to the financial statements management has sufficient flexibility includes the Group’s objectives, policies The Directors have further calculated in adverse circumstances to maintain and processes for managing its capital; prices (US$12.8/oz and US$920/oz for adequate resources to continue in its financial risk management objectives; silver and gold respectively), which operational existence for the foreseeable details of its financial instruments and should they prevail to the end of 2017 future. The Directors, therefore, continue hedging activities; and its exposures to would result in cash balances decreasing to adopt the going concern basis of credit risk and liquidity risk. to minimal levels by the end of 2017, accounting in preparing the annual without applying mitigations. financial statements. In making their assessment of the Group’s ability to manage its future Should metal prices remain below the If the necessity arose to employ any or cash requirements, the Directors have stressed prices above for an extended all of the above mitigations for an considered the Company and Group period, management have identified extended period, it may be that these budgets and the cash flow forecast specific elements of capital and could impact the Company’s ability to for the period to 31 December 2017. exploration expenditure which could be achieve its targets for production and/or In addition, they reviewed a more deferred without adversely affecting reserves by 2018. conservative cashflow scenario with production profiles. Finally, management reduced silver and gold prices of could amend the mining plans to 49 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations 1 1 Mines in Operation Fresnillo Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc In operation since: 1554 Facilities: Underground mine and flotation plant Location: Zacatecas Mine life (years): 8 (2014: 10.2) Fresnillo is one of the world’s oldest Milling capacity (2015): 8,000 tpd / 2,640,000 tpy continuously operating mines; it Workforce: 946 employees, 1,698 contractors produced 33% of the Group’s total silver in 2015 and generated 20.1% 2015 2014 % change of total adjusted revenue. Mine production Ore milled (kt) 2,410 2,625 (8.2) Silver (koz) 15,612 20,098 (22.3) Gold (oz) 34,120 35,676 (4.4) Lead (t) 16,248 13,888 17.0 Zinc (t) 19,029 15,199 25.2 Silver ore grade (g/t) 220 258 (14.9) Total reserves Silver (moz) 201.6 229.3 (12.1) Gold (oz) 525,000 550,000 (4.5) Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 296 266 11.3 Gold (g/t) 0.77 0.64 20.3 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 231 165 40.0 Total resources Silver (moz) 747.02 752.98 (0.79) Gold (oz) 1.62 1.56 3.8 Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 359 354 1.4 Gold (g/t) 0.78 0.73 6.8 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 122 103 18.4 Key developments in the year declines in order to access higher ore grade million) including the adjustments necessary Silver production decreased 22.3% in the veins at lower levels and regain flexibility at to process higher lead and zinc ore grades as year, due to lower ore grade resulting from our operating stopes, and we plan to we descend further into the mine. Once limited access to the higher ore grade San increase development rates further in 2016, development rates and ore grades warrant, Alberto, San Carlos and San Mateo areas of to over 4,500 m/month. the project is expected to produce an the mine, and lower volume of ore processed additional 2-3 moz of silver per year upon due to the delay in development activity in We have begun to see an improvement commissioning. these areas caused by a combination of in grades and production levels as a result factors. These included: i) narrower veins at of the measures we have taken, and expect The decline in silver contained in reserves the deeper zones of the mine which require to see further increases in 2016, with a was caused by some marginal blocks being additional development and also lead to double-digit increase in ore milled removed from the model due to the increased dilution; ii) poor rock quality anticipated. Silver ore grades are expected decrease in silver price used to estimate the necessitating additional shotcreting and to average approximately 240 g/t in 2016, figures and the results of the infill drill holes anchoring; iii) issues with contractors; and iv) and around 260 g/t in the long term; this campaign. lack of necessary infrastructure in certain compares to an average of 220 g/t in 2015. areas of the mine. It should be noted that development ore Capital expenditures has lower grades which in turn decreases Total capex allocation in 2015 was US$205.6 To address these issues, we enhanced overall production grades. million, primarily for mine development, and contractor supervision, brought on additional sustaining capex preparatory works for the contractors, took technical measures to We evaluated options for the optimisation San Carlos shaft deepening and sustaining manage stope instability and called on the project and now plan a smaller capacity capex preparatory works for the San Carlos expertise of engineers from our Ciénega increase to 9,000 tonnes per day from the shaft deepening (see page 95). In 2016 capex mine where we have dealt with narrow veins 10,000 tonnes previously anticipated. will largely be allocated to mining works, for many years. This enabled us to increase Notably, we expect to achieve this with less sustaining capex and deepening of the San our development rate to an annualised than one-third of the previously anticipated Carlos shaft, which will reduce haulage costs average of over 4,000 m/month, advancing capex requirement (US$30 million vs US$100 and increase access to ore reserves at deeper levels of the mine. 50 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 objectives Financial performance >> Increase rate of development to 4,000 Financial highlights 2015 2014 % change metres per month Adjusted revenue (US$m) 318.6 460.3 (30.8) >> Continue preparatory works to deepen Adjusted production costs (US$m) 116.2 124.2 (6.4) San Carlos shaft Segment profit (US$m) 150.0 271.9 (44.8) >> Expand tailings dam Capital expenditure (US$m) 205.6 175.9 16.9 2015 performance Exploration (US$m) 10.1 5.6 80.4 Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 911 1,492 (38.9) >> Development rate increased over the Strategic Report course of the year, with an annualised Cost per tonne (US$) 48.2 47.3 1.9 average of over 4,000 metres per month Cash cost ($/oz silver) 5.6 5.3 5.9 >> Preparatory works for deepening of San Margin ($/oz) 10.0 13.3 (24.8) Carlos shaft progressed Margin (expressed as % silver price) 64.0% 71.6% >> Revised capacity optimisation plan to 9,000 tpd Adjusted revenue, excluding inter-segment Cash cost per silver ounce increased 5.9% to >> Permitting process delayed tailings dam sales, declined 30.8% to US$318.6 million due US$5.6 (2014: US$5.3). Margin per ounce expansion to the 25.0% decline in silver volumes sold decreased 24.8% to US$10.0, and expressed and 16.1% decrease in the price of silver. as a percentage of silver price declined to 2016 objectives 64.0% in 2015, from 71.6% in 2014 (see page >> Further increase rate of development to Productivity decreased due to the lower 91). Corporate Governance 4,500 metres per month volume of ore processed. Cost per tonne increased 1.9% over 2014 to US$48.2 mainly Sustainability >> Advance engineering for plant as a result of the lower ore throughput. Other Our facilities were visited by the head of the optimisation and place long delivery factors impacting this indicator, although to Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA) time equipment a lesser extent, were the higher cost of to enhance their knowledge of compatible >> Continue deepening of San Carlos shaft personnel resulting from the 5.5% rise in mining in practice. In health, our >> Move forward with tailings dam wages in Mexican pesos to unionised physiotherapy unit has resulted in shortened expansion by concluding land personnel, the higher number of contractors injury recovery times. acquisition hired to increase development rates, and See pages 66–86 for more social and increased fees paid to contractors in Mexican sustainability highlights. pesos. 88% of these factors were offset by the 19.2% devaluation of the Mexican peso/ US dollar exchange rate and lower diesel and Financial Statements electricity prices. Business unit risks Due to the scale of Fresnillo’s operation, delays in mining development and insufficient ventilation of infrastructure are among the key risks, along with those common to all Severe the operations (metal prices, safety, security). 1 Description of risks 3 2 5 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over a period of time. 4 6 2.  Safety incidents impacting personnel, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being 8 struck by falling rock. 10 7 3.  Natural disaster, flooding or any catastrophe resulting in operational interruption for reasons Impact 9 not attributable to personnel. 4. Mining development delay caused by inefficiencies. 5. Accidents occurring while personnel are transported. 6. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including explosives) or equipment. 7. Insufficient ventilation compromising operational continuity or causing physical damage to personnel or equipment. Very low 8. Lack of necessary land access. 9. Security risks including damage to staff or contractors, or that result in restricted access to Likelihood projects/operations. Unlikely Almost certain 10. Unusual increases in labour costs required for the operation of the business unit. Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs Gold 11% Personnel 20% Silver 72% Maintenance 14% Lead 8% Operating Materials 20% Zinc 9% Diesel 3% Electricity 13% US$318.6m US$116.2m Contractors 24% Freight 1% Other 5% 51 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 1 1 Mines in Operation Saucito Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc In operation since: 2011 Location: Zacatecas Mine life (years): 5.2 (at 7,500 tpd capacity) (2014: 6.0 at 4,600 tpd capacity) Saucito, including the Saucito II Facilities: Underground mine and flotation plant expansion, is becoming one of the Milling capacity (2015): 6,600 tpd / 2,200,000 tpy Group’s most important assets and Workforce: 379 employees, 906 contractors is critical to achieving our 2018 production target of 65 million 2015 2014 % change ounces of silver. It produced 47% Mine production of the Group’s total silver in 2015 Ore milled (kt) 2,339 1,535 52.4 and generated 29.6% of total Silver (koz) 21,984 15,397 42.8 adjusted revenue. Gold (oz) 84,884 57,227 48.3 Lead (t) 20,740 9,967 108.1 Zinc (t) 21,023 10,501 100.2 Silver ore grade (g/t) 327 339 (3.3) Gold ore grade (g/t) 1.42 1.40 1.8 Total reserves Silver (moz) 130.70 115.57 13.1 Gold (oz) 730,000 500,000 46.0 Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 313 389 (19.5) Gold (g/t) 1.75 1.70 2.9 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 224 216 3.7 Total resources Silver (moz) 373.72 447.18 (16.4) Gold (moz) 1.80 1.64 9.8 Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 283 352 (19.6) Gold (g/t) 1.36 1.29 5.4 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) 134 136 (1.5) Key developments in the year In 2016, the average silver ore grade at Capital expenditures Annual silver production rose 42.8% from Saucito is expected to be around 295 g/t and Capital expenditures in 2015 totalled its 2014 level mainly due to the start-up of going forward, is expected to average US$108.3 million, primarily allocated to Saucito II in late 2014, milling efficiencies at approximately 300 g/t. in-mine development and sustaining capex, the Saucito I plant, higher volumes of ore with around US$3.5 million invested in the processed from the Jarillas, West and East Silver reserves increased due to conversion installation of the vibrating screens at Saucito areas, and improved dilution control. These of resources into reserves, despite the I. In 2016, capex will be allocated primarily to factors more than offset a lower recovery lower silver price assumption, albeit with a mining works, deepening of the Jarillas shaft rate. Post commissioning in late 2014, Saucito decrease in the silver ore grade. However, and sustaining capex, and the installation of II fully ramped up by 2Q 2015, significantly changes in exploration and modelling vibrating screens at Saucito II. ahead of plan thanks to expertise gained at affected silver ore grade and decreased Saucito I, and on budget. silver resources. Gold reserves and resources rose as a result of the increased tonnage We increased milling capacity at the Saucito and higher gold ore grade encountered I plant to 3,600 tpd, from its original nominal at the mine. It should be noted that a capacity of 3,000 tpd, with the installation considerable portion of ore produced of vibrating screens, and plan to similarly comes from development and mining optimise capacity at the Saucito II plant in 1H works, thus production grade is lower 2016. The total nominal capacity of Saucito is than grade in reserves. expected to increase to 7,500 tonnes per day following this installation. 52 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 objectives Financial performance >> Continue development at Saucito II to Financial highlights 2015 2014 % change support ramp-up Adjusted revenue (US$m) 468.4 372.5 25.7 >> Continue converting resources into Adjusted production costs (US$m) 99.4 90.8 9.5 reserves Segment profit (US$m) 295.2 235.0 25.6 >> Initiate construction of the third tailings Capital expenditure (US$m) 108.3 114.4 5.3 dam Exploration (US$m) 8.6 3.2 2.7 >> Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certifications Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 2,326 1,230 89.1 Strategic Report Cost per tonne (US$) 42.5 59.1 (28.1) 2015 performance Cash cost ($/oz silver) 1.2 2.5 (52.0) >> Concluded ramp-up of Saucito II in Margin ($/oz) 14.4 16.1 (10.6) 2Q15, significantly ahead of three-year Margin (expressed as % silver price) 92.6 86.7 timeframe previously anticipated >> Increased development rates to 3,600 metres per month to convert resources Adjusted revenues at Saucito increased obtained from the increased ore throughput, into reserves by 25.7% to US$468.4 million as a result of and to a lesser extent, the lower diesel and the increase in sales volumes, which was electricity prices, and the favourable effect of >> Construction began on third tailings dam partly offset by the adverse effect of lower the exchange rate. >> ISO 14001 certification process 90% metal prices. The mine’s contribution in complete consolidated silver revenues rose to 51.3% Cash cost per silver ounce decreased to Corporate Governance >> Technical adjustments made at Saucito in 2015 (2014: 37.7%), representing now the US$1.2 per ounce (2014: US$2.5 per silver I that increased capacity to 3,600 tpd main contributor to consolidated silver ounce). Margin per ounce decreased 10.6% revenues. Gold remains an important to US$14.4 in 2015 (2014: US$16.1), whilst revenue driver for the mine, with an 18.5% expressed as a percentage of silver price the 2016 objectives participation to Saucito’s revenue (2014: margin increased from 86.7% to 92.6%. >> Technical adjustments to Saucito II to 17.8%) and representing 10.4% of the increase overall Saucito capacity to Group’s gold revenues. Sustainability 7,500 tpd Our “walking together” programme reinforced >> Continue converting resources into Productivity increased in the year reflecting the key safety activities to be performed reserves the successful ramp-up at Saucito II and regularly by mine supervisors. Environmental milling efficiencies achieved at the Saucito I efforts included planting vegetation on tailings >> Obtain ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 & Clean plant. pond slopes to prevent erosion. Industry certifications Financial Statements See pages 66–86 for more social and Cost per tonne decreased 28.1% to US$42.5 sustainability highlights. mainly as a result of the economies of scale Business unit risks Due to the presence of faults containing water, and in light of previous experiences at this mine, an unexpected presence of water in areas of operation is perceived as a high Severe risk, in addition to those common to all operations. 1 3 Description of risks 2 5 4 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over a period of time. 2. Unexpected presence of water in areas of the operation. 6 8 7 3. Safety incidents impacting personnel, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling rock. 9 Impact 4. Natural disaster, flooding or any catastrophe resulting in operational interruption for reasons 10 not attributable to personnel. 5. Accidents occurring while personnel are transported. 6. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including explosives) or equipment. 7. Lack of necessary land access. 8. Security risks including damage to staff or contractors, or that result in restricted access to Very low projects/operations. 9. Inordinate increases in labour costs required for the operation of the business unit. Likelihood 10. Major mechanical failure, fire, explosion or any catastrophe resulting in operational Unlikely Almost certain interruption. Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs Gold 18% Personnel 7% Silver 68% Maintenance 13% Lead 7% Operating Materials 18% Zinc 7% Diesel 1% Electricity 12% US$468.4m US$99.4m Contractors 38% Freight 1% Other 10% 53 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 1 1 Mines in Operation Ciénega Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc In operation since: 1992 Location: Durango Mine life (years): 10.0 (2014: 11.4) Facilities: Underground mine, flotation and leaching plant Ciénega has long been classified as a Milling capacity (2015): 4,000 tpd / 1,340,000 tpy gold mine, but silver revenues have Workforce: 470 employees, 314 contractors risen markedly in recent years reflecting the mine’s rich silver 2015 2014 % change resources. Mine production Ore milled (kt) 1,329 1,341 (0.9) Silver (koz) 4,828 4,075 18.5 Gold (oz) 85,662 108,211 (20.8) Lead (t) 5,425 4,736 14.6 Zinc (t) 5,970 6,000 (0.5) Silver ore grade (g/t) 129 108 18.9 Gold ore grade (g/t) 2.07 2.59 (20.0) Total reserves Silver (moz) 69.20 75.32 (8.1) Gold (oz) 810,000 890,000 (9.0) Avg ore grade in reserves Silver (g/t) 162 154 5.2 Gold (g/t) 1.89 1.82 3.8 Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) Multiple 196 – Total resources Silver (moz) 152.28 142.40 6.9 Gold (moz) 1.52 1.58 (3.8) Avg ore grade in resources Silver (g/t) 163 148 10.1 Gold (g/t) 1.62 1.64 (1.2) Cut-off grade (g/t AgEq) Multiple 156 – Key developments in the year As expected, the average gold ore grade Capital expenditures Annual gold production decreased 20.8% as decreased during the year, while the silver As a result of the deferral, minimal capex was a result of the expected lower ore grade ore grade increased. The average gold ore allocated to the expansion project in 2015, following the depletion of higher grade areas grade for 2016 is expected to be around 2.0 while US$24.6 million was invested in with wider veins. Silver production increased g/t and remain around these levels going development and sustaining capex, including 18.5% due to richer veins at the San Ramón forward. The average silver ore grade is equipment to optimise the milling process, satellite and development ore from the new expected to be around 120 g/t in 2016 and and permitting and engineering for the third Taspana vein with higher silver ore grades. remain at these levels going forward. tailings dam. Budgeted capex for 2016 will mainly be allocated to sustaining capex, Following favourable exploration results and Gold resources increased as a result of including expanding the second tailings dam, greater potential seen in the Cebollitas exploration efforts in the Taspana and and safety and environmental spending. cluster, we deferred the capacity expansion Tajitos veins. project in order to evaluate optimal milling levels and location. We will continue to analyse the district’s capacity requirements as exploration continues (see detailed exploration results on page 63). We plan to expand the second tailings dam in 2016 as we await permitting for a third dam. 54 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 objectives Financial performance >> Conclude evaluation of capacity Financial highlights 2015 2014 % change optimisation alternatives; complete Adjusted revenue (US$m) 169.5 206.0 (17.7) engineering and commence construction Adjusted production costs (US$m) 83.7 95.0 (11.9) Segment profit (US$m) 71.1 97.0 (26.7) >> Conclude permitting process and initiate construction of the third tailings dam Capital expenditure (US$m) 24.6 37.9 (35.1) >> Continue exploration of the Cebollitas Exploration (US$m) 20.5 27.6 (25.7) Cluster and direct mine development Productivity (tonnes milled/person) 1,697 1,626 4.4 Strategic Report work Cost per tonne (US$) 63.0 70.8 (11.1) Cash cost ($/oz gold) 245.5 288.0 (14.8) 2015 performance Margin ($/oz) 881.1 969.7 (9.1) >> Deferred capacity optimisation in order Margin (expressed as % gold price) 78.2 77.1 to evaluate need for increased milling levels and location of plant expansion >> Intensified exploration efforts at areas Adjusted revenue decreased 17.7% to Cash cost per gold ounce decreased to of influence US$169.5 million in 2015 due mainly to the US$245.5. Margin per ounce decreased to >> Permitting process still underway for lower volumes of gold sold and the decrease US$881.1 per ounce in 2015 (2014: US$969.7), tailings dam #3; permitting secured to in metal prices. Ciénega is the Group’s most however expressed as a percentage of gold increase capacity of tailings dam #2 polymetallic mine, as evidenced by the 47.9% prices the margin slightly increased to 78.2% contribution from silver, lead and zinc (2014: (2014: 77.1%). Corporate Governance 40.5%). 2016 objectives Sustainability >> Continue exploration at areas of Cost per tonne milled at Ciénega decreased We operate a clinic that provides services to influence 11.1% to US$63.0 reflecting the positive not only our workers but also their families >> Expand second tailings dam while impact of the devaluation of the Mexican and the wider community. The Silver Saves permits are pending for the third tailings peso/US dollar exchange rate; lower energy Lives project (see page 83) was launched in dam costs; and efficiencies achieved at the Ciénega with a project to harvest rainwater beneficiation plant by reducing consumption in two schools. of steel balls for milling and reagents, and at the mine by optimising the use of explosives. See pages 66–86 for more social and sustainability highlights. Financial Statements Business unit risks Given the remote location of the Ciénega mine, key perceived risks are electric power outages, insufficient personnel (by quantity and training), as well as environmental Severe impact, along with the core common risks. 1 3 2 Description of risks 5 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over a period of time. 4 2. Electric power outages that stop or slow operation of the business unit. 10 8 7 6 3. Safety incidents impacting personnel, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being 9 struck by falling rock. Impact 4. Insufficient ventilation compromising operational continuity or causing physical damage to personnel and equipment. 5. Impact on the environment in the area of influence through erosion or disturbance of biodiversity as a result of the business unit operation. 6. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including explosives) or equipment. 7. Lack of sufficient personnel due to resignations or recruitment issues. Very low 8. Personnel not adequately trained to meet operational needs due to competing priorities. 9. Delay in obtaining permits to use and store explosives or loss of licence. Likelihood 10. Accidents occurring while personnel are transported. Unlikely Almost certain Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs Gold 52% Personnel 14% Silver 38% Maintenance 10% Lead 4% Operating Materials 22% Zinc 6% Diesel 1% Electricity 7% US$169.5m US$83.7m Contractors 38% Freight 2% Other 6% 55 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 1 1 Mines in Operation Herradura Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Sonora In operation since: 1997 Mine life (years): 9.2 (2014: 9.4) Facilities: Open pit mine, heap leach and Merrill Crowe plants; dynamic leaching plant (DLP) Herradura is one of Mexico’s largest Workforce: 1,237 employees, 409 contractors open pit gold mines. It produced 52% of the Group’s total gold in 2015 2015 2014 % change and generated 28.1% of total Mine production adjusted revenue. Ore deposited (kt) 22,875 22,305 2.6 Total volume hauled (kt) 117,033 129,797 (9.8) Silver (koz) 526 679 (22.5) Gold (oz) 398,866 265,564 50.2 Gold ore grade (g/t) 0.73 0.72 1.2 Total reserves Gold (moz) 5.34 5.32 0.4 Avg ore grade in reserves Gold (g/t) 0.79 0.79 – Cut-off grade (g/t Au) Multiple Multiple – Total resources Gold (moz) 6.66 6.79 (1.9) Avg ore grade in resources Gold (g/t) 0.82 0.79 3.8 Cut-off grade (g/t Au) Multiple Multiple – Key developments in the year We commissioned the second Merrill Crowe Gold reserves and resources remained stable Annual gold production increased 50.2% as a plant in 4Q 2015 as planned, with equipment year on year. Exploration activities at this result of the following factors: i) an increase in partly taken from the currently inactive mine included concluding infill diamond volume of ore processed resulting from the operations at Soledad-Dipolos, and are now drilling in the Centauro and Valles ore bodies. mine being fully operational whilst the operating at ‘steady state’, with average temporary explosives permit suspension annual output at Herradura, via heap Gold ore grades in 2016 are expected to affected production in 2014; ii) the DLP being leaching and DLP, estimated at over 360,000 average 0.65 g/t and 0.72 g/t through the operational for the full period following its ounces of gold. Additional operating remaining life of the pit, with small start-up in March 2014, which resulted in an improvements in the year included control fluctuations depending on the timing of the increase in ore processed and higher ore room infrastructure enhancements and Centauro Deep project. grades; iii) a higher overall speed of recovery at optimisation of tyre consumption. In 2016 the leaching pads as we ramped up to steady we will carry out an economic evaluation for Capital expenditures state; iv) the installation of the second Merrill the construction of a second line at the DLP. Capital expenditures in 2015 totalled US$119.7 Crowe plant at the DLP which was key in million, which included US$24.5 million for the increasing capacity and reaching steady state; We stabilised gold inventory levels at the installation of the second Merrill Crowe plant and v) a small increase in the gold ore grade. pads at 160 koz at year end, and will at the DLP. The remainder was mainly continue to evaluate and optimise for invested in sustaining capex, including the appropriate levels that balance efficiency of construction of the twelfth leaching pad, and the leaching process and production costs. stripping activities. Capex for 2016 will mainly be focused on mining works, sustaining capex At the Centauro Extension, work concluded and basic engineering for the second milling on the development of the optimal pit line at the DLP. design. Mining work continued at the Valles underground pilot mine with good results. 56 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2015 objectives Financial performance >> Install a second Merrill Crowe plant Financial highlights 2015 2014 % change >> Reach ‘steady state’ by 4Q 2015 Adjusted revenue (US$m) 445.1 342.7 29.9 >> Construct eleventh leaching pad Adjusted production costs (US$m) 198.5 207.2 (4.2) >> Conclude evaluation of the expansion of Segment profit (US$m) 219.0 170.3 28.6 the Centauro pit as the natural evolution Capital expenditure (US$m) 119.7 63.1 89.7 of the pit Exploration (US$m) 11.9 14.7 (19.0) Productivity (ore/waste moved per person) 71,098 78,097 (9.0) 2015 performance Strategic Report Cost per tonne (US$) 8.7 9.3 (6.6) >> Commissioned second Merrill Crowe plant in 4Q15 Cash cost ($/oz gold) 472.5 465.4 1.5 Margin ($/oz) 654.0 792.3 (17.5) >> Reached ‘steady state’ operations Margin (expressed as % gold price) 58.1 63.0 >> Completed development of optimal pit design for the Centauro Extension >> Construction of eleventh pad on hold for Adjusted revenue increased 29.9% to Cash cost per gold ounce was US$472.5, site planning; construction of twelfth US$445.1 million reflecting the 55.2% which represented a slight increase over leaching pad neared completion increase in volumes of gold sold; which more 2014. However, margin per ounce decreased than offset the 10.4% decrease in gold price. 17.5% to US$654.0, whilst margin expressed 2016 objectives as a percentage of gold prices decreased Productivity decreased as a result of lower from 63.0% in 2014 to 58.1% in 2015 (see Corporate Governance >> Conduct economic evaluation for volumes hauled in 2015. This was driven by page 91). Centauro Extension; subject to Board the decision to deposit at a slower pace to approval commence basic engineering optimise inventory levels at the pads given Sustainability and place initial orders for second the temporary processing capacity Our sustainability programme for Herradura milling line at DLP constraints. and Noche Buena is run together across Minera Penmont. In 2015 we introduced an Cost per tonne of ore deposited decreased initiative to prevent back injuries, and aided a 6.6% to US$8.7 due mainly to the lower local NGO in building a surgery room. stripping ratio and the positive effect of the See pages 66–86 for more social and higher Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate. sustainability highlights. Approximately 73% of this was offset by the lower average volume deposited per month. Financial Statements Business unit risks In light of recent history, a potential loss of explosives permits and litigation with adverse outcomes are closely monitored risks at Penmont; for the latter, however, Severe recent land negotiations have been favourable. As seen for other mines, the common 1 principal risks are also applicable here. 3 2 5 Description of risks 4 1. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over a period of time. 6 2. Accidents occurring while personnel are transported. 8 7 10 3. Delay in obtaining permits to use and store explosives or loss of licence. Impact 9 4. Major mechanical failure, fire, explosion or any catastrophe resulting in operational interruption. 5. Litigation with adverse outcome for the Company. 6. Impact on the environment in the area of influence through erosion or disturbance of biodiversity as a result of the business unit operation. 7. Inordinate increases in labour costs required for the operation of the business unit. Very low 8. Theft of inventory, assets, materials (including explosives) or equipment. 9. Electric power outages that stop or slow operation of the business unit. Likelihood 10. Inability to obtain necessary water concessions due to government control or private Unlikely Almost certain interests. Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs Gold 98% Personnel 10% Silver 2% Maintenance 20% Operating Materials 26% Diesel 20% Electricity 4% US$445.1m US$198.5m Contractors 13% Freight 2% Other 5% 57 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 1 1 Mines in Operation Noche Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Sonora In operation since: 2012 Mine life (years): 3.3 (2014: 4.0) Buena Facilities: Open pit mine, heap leach and Merrill Crowe plant Workforce: 431 employees, 508 contractors Noche Buena commenced 2015 2014 % change operations as an open pit gold mine Mine production in 2012. Located in the Herradura Ore deposited (kt) 17,400 15,607 11.5 District 23 kilometres from the Total volume hauled (kt) 82,373 92,593 (11.0) Herradura mine, the mine was Silver (koz) 73 102 (28.4) acquired in 2008 from Seabridge Gold (oz) 158,179 129,242 22.4 as part of the Group’s district Gold ore grade (g/t) 0.50 0.51 (3.0) consolidation strategy. Total reserves Gold (moz) 1.01 1.11 (9.0) Avg ore grade in reserves Gold (g/t) 0.56 0.55 1.8 Cut-off grade (g/t Au) 0.30 0.30 – Total resources Gold (moz) 1.05 1.29 (18.6) Avg ore grade in resources Gold (g/t) 0.55 0.53 3.8 Cut-off grade (g/t Au) 0.30 0.30 – Key developments in the year In 2016, it is expected that the average gold Annual gold production increased 22.4% ore grade at Noche Buena will be around 0.47 due to a higher overall rate of recovery as a g/t. Ore grades through the life of the mine result of leaching pads four and five being are expected to average 0.52 g/t. operational for the full year post their construction in 2014. This was partly offset Gold reserves decreased as a result of the by lower ore grade as ore was deposited natural depletion of the pit, whilst resources from higher banks to control haulage costs, decreased due to lower gold price rather than deeper, higher ore grade areas. assumptions. Further efforts to improve efficiency and control costs included the optimisation of Capital expenditures tyre consumption. Capital expenditures in 2015 totalled US$2.6 million, focused on sustaining capex, including the smelting capacity expansion. Spend in 2016 will also mainly be in sustaining capex, including leaching pad number six. 58 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Financial performance Strategic Report 2015 objectives Financial highlights 2015 2014 % change >> Implement measures to increase Adjusted revenue (US$m) 181.7 163.5 11.1 efficiency and control costs Adjusted production costs (US$m) 138.0 155.7 (11.4) >> Expand smelting capacity at the Merrill Segment profit (US$m) 26.7 25.8 3.5 Crowe plant Capital expenditure (US$m) 2.6 20.9 (87.6) 2015 performance Exploration (US$m) 3.7 10.1 (63.4) >> Tyre consumption optimised, waste Productivity (ore/waste moved per person) 87,717 87,724 – dumps relocated to reduce haulage Cost per tonne (US$) 7.9 10.0 (20.5) distances Cash cost ($/oz gold) 972.7 945.6 2.9 >> Smelting capacity expansion progressed Margin ($/oz) 153.8 312.1 (50.7) Corporate Governance >> International Cyanide Code certification Margin (expressed as % gold price) 13.7 24.8 process commenced 2016 objectives Adjusted revenues at Noche Buena increased Business unit risks 11.1% to US$181.7 million, reflecting the See Herradura for risks associated with all >> Continue implementation of measures higher sales volumes of gold that partially Penmont mines. to increase efficiency and control costs mitigated lower prices in 2015. >> Commission expanded smelting Sustainability capacity Cost per tonne at this mine decreased 20.5% The International Cyanide Certification >> Obtain International Cyanide Code to US$7.9 mainly due to the efficiencies process was commenced at Noche Buena certification achieved by the higher volume of ore and the initial audit passed. We expect to deposited and changes in the drilling patterns obtain full certification in 2016. that optimised consumption of explosives; Financial Statements See pages 66–86 for more social and and the favourable effect of the devaluation sustainability highlights. of the Mexican peso against the US dollar. Cash cost per gold ounce slightly increased 2.9% to US$972.7. Margin per ounce decreased by 50.7% to US$153.8, and margin expressed as a percentage of gold price declined from 24.8% in 2014 to 13.7% in 2015 (see page 91). Adjusted revenue Adjusted production costs Gold 99% Personnel 5% Silver 1% Maintenance 13% Operating Materials 22% Diesel 16% Electricity 1% US$181.7m US$138.0m Contractors 39% Freight 1% Other 3% 59 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 2 Development projects 2 San Julián Business unit risks Severe In progress 1 2 Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc 3 5 Location: Chihuahua/Durango border 4 Facilities: Underground mine, flotation plant and a dynamic leaching 10 8 7 plant 6 Commercial production: 2Q 2016 (phase 1) / 4Q 2016 (phase 2) Impact 9 Anticipated production: Annual average of 10.3 moz silver and 44,000 oz gold Capex: US$515.0 million Indicated and referred resources: 176.6 moz silver, 710 koz gold Very low About the project The San Julián silver-gold project is a cornerstone of the Company’s 2018 production goals. The geological potential identified in the Likelihood region thus far may be sufficient to establish a new mining district in Unlikely Almost certain the future. The project includes construction of two plants: i) a dynamic leaching Project risks plant to treat 3,000 tpd of ore from the veins; and ii) a flotation plant The key risks in delivering the San Julián project without delay are with 6,000 tpd capacity to process ore from the disseminated body. procurement of the following: environmental permits, water Average commercial production is estimated at 10.3 million ounces concessions and all key equipment; the social licence to operate is an of silver and 44,000 ounces of gold per year, once at full capacity in ongoing requirement of project delivery. The risk of metal prices on 2017, with cash costs in the lowest quartile of the international cash project profitability will also be monitored. cost curve. Description of risks Key developments in 2015 1. Failures/delays in obtaining environmental permits. Mining works at the vein field, relating to both development and 2. Projects that cannot be delivered on time, on budget and according to infrastructure have been concluded and further progress has been planned specifications. made on the construction of the leaching plant, crushing and milling 3. Volatility in the prices of gold and silver over a period of time. areas, pumping station and electric infrastructure. The crushing platform at the flotation plant has been constructed, as well as plant 4. Inability to obtain necessary water concessions due to government control or private interests. foundations. Training for the San Julián leaching plant personnel has taken place and personnel facilities are being built. 5. Sensitivity to project profitability due to changes in ore grade and metallurgical recovery that may affect the viability of the project. However, delays in permitting, weather-related issues and a high 6. Economic mineral found within narrow veins being difficult to exploit. rotation of contractor personnel due to the project’s remote location 7. Social behaviours or actions by a group of people taking a stance against together resulted in execution delays. The San Julián leaching plant, mining in the areas of influence of the business unit. which will process ore from the veins (phase 1) is expected to be 8. The surrounding communities do not provide their support or hinder commissioned in 2Q16, a delay of several months from the previous operations due to complaints regarding dust, blasting vibrations, water use. revised target date of 4Q 2015. The flotation plant to process ore from 9. Inordinate increase in key input costs for the operation of the business unit/ the disseminated ore body (phase 2) remains on track, with project. commissioning expected in 4Q16. 10. Late delivery of key equipment to plant by the supplier (mills, pumps, filters). A further capex spend of US$150 million in 2015 brings the total spent to date to US$361 million. The remaining US$154 million of the budget will be spent in 2016. 2016 priorities >> Commission the leaching plant in 2Q 2016 >> Commission the flotation plant in 4Q 2016 60 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Pyrites Plant Business unit risks Strategic Report Severe 1 On hold Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc 3 Location: Zacatecas, Fresnillo District 4 Facilities: Leaching plant Commercial production: Less than two years from reinstatement 2 5 Impact Anticipated production: Annual average of 3.5 moz silver and 13,000 6 7 oz gold Capex: US$155.0 million Corporate Governance About the project This facility is expected to increase silver and gold recovery rates by Very low processing tailings, both historical and ongoing, from the Fresnillo and Saucito mines. The plant will froth float pyrite concentrates that will be leached in a 2,000 tpd dynamic leaching plant and Merrill Crowe Likelihood plant to produce precipitates. Production is expected to total an Unlikely Almost certain average of 3.5 moz silver and 13,000 oz gold per year, and advances our objective to maximise production in the Fresnillo District. Project risks Key developments in 2015 Given the nature of this project, and that it would be the Company’s We continued detailed engineering works for this project which are first time undertaking this type of process, the key risk relates to a Financial Statements expected to be completed by mid-2016. Once this stage is reached, potential leak of hazardous materials. further work on the project will be put on hold as part of the contingency plan implemented by the Board; equipment orders and Description of risks construction work will resume as market conditions warrant. 1. Event which involves a leak or spill of cyanide or SO2, which by its chemical properties could generate an event of major consequence on the premises 2016 priorities of the business unit and/or in the nearby area. >> Conclude detailed engineering; resume project pending Board 2. Inexperience in the operation of a pyrite flotation plant as it is the first time approval as market conditions warrant this type of process will have been performed. 3. The surrounding communities do not provide their support or hinder operations (social licence for operation) due to community complaints regarding operations e.g. dust, blasting vibrations, noise, pollution, water use. 4. Risk of incidents during transportation of iron concentrate from the Fresnillo tailings plant to the leaching plant (possible environmental impact to the local communities). 5. The challenge faced in fine grinding to such small sizes (10 to 20 microns) to ensure metallurgical recovery. 6. Failures/delays in obtaining the required environmental permits (e.g. MIA, CUS, ETJ). 7. Limited capacity of electricity supply; with this new project the Fresnillo District will reach its limit. 61 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 3 Exploration 3 We believe that consistent exploration investment is essential in maintaining a healthy project pipeline: core to our growth strategy and a key element in extending mine life. We focus on the discovery and potential underground reserves and resources and for 2015 highlights acquisition of large, low cost silver and gold reserves in open pits was unchanged at ore bodies in Latin America, in regions with US$1,150 per oz. The silver price assumption >> Total risk capital invested in the greatest geological potential and mining decreased for the third consecutive year, to exploration was US$151 million, an tradition such as Mexico and Peru. Prospects US$15.00 per silver oz (US$18.00 in 2014). 18.0% decrease compared to 2014 must have a minimum potential of 100 Despite these reductions, gold resources million ounces of silver or 2 million ounces of increased 4.2%, primarily from gains at >> Exploration was mainly focused on gold equivalent, and meet strict criteria on Rodeo, Guachichil, Candameña, Guanajuato areas of influence at current ore grades, metallurgical recoveries, and Saucito, whilst silver resources decreased operating mines and key exploration extraction costs and environmental impact, mainly due to changes in vein modelling and sites in order to proceed. deep drill-hole results in some areas at >> 10% increase in silver resources at Saucito and lower silver price assumptions at Juanicipio Whereas in the past a tradition of mining in an San Julián; which were partly mitigated by >> Total gold resources increased 4.2%; area may have provided assurance that increased silver resources at Huizache, supportive community relations, permitting Juanicipio, Ciénega and Guanajuato. Gold attributable silver resources slightly and security were a given, the situation is now reserves decreased 1.5% to 9.5 moz, decreased 1.9% more complex, with permitting processes less primarily due to a decrease at Noche Buena, >> Gold reserves decreased 1.5%, silver predictable, more challenges in negotiating and silver reserves decreased 6.0%, mainly reserves decreased 6.0% land access with communities, and the level at Fresnillo and San Julián due to lower price of insecurity rising in some regions (see Risks assumptions, to 547.6 moz. on pages 36 to 47). As a result, greater consideration is being given to the potential We have built an experienced impact of these external factors, along with our criteria on geological potential, when exploration team of 80 geologists prioritising investment amongst projects; and 74 technicians and generally projects in our current districts tend administrative staff, and employ to be more attractive from this perspective, along with the economic benefits of potential 300 local community members shared infrastructure. at our project sites. Reserves and resources To estimate reserves and resources in 2015, 2016 outlook we again used the 2012 Edition of the JORC Risk capital of around US$135-140 million was Code. The gold price assumption for open pit approved for 2016, of which around US$25 resources was lowered to US$1,300 per oz million is estimated to be capitalised, with (2014: US$1,350), consistent with the price 27% of the budget to be spent in operating used for the purpose of the design of the pit mines and 27% in advanced exploration shell, allowing for adequate long-term design projects. flexibility. The gold price assumption for 62 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Projects and prospects: current districts Fresnillo District Herradura District Strategic Report Juanicipio Centauro Deep Ownership: 56% Fresnillo plc, 44% MAG Silver Ownership: Minera Penmont (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Zacatecas, 8km SW of the Fresnillo mine Location: Sonora, below the Centauro main pit at Herradura Indicated and inferred resources (attributable): 126.2 moz silver, Indicated and referred resources: 4.3 moz gold 578,000 oz gold 9,000 metres of drilling, extensive re-logging of core samples and Indicated and inferred silver-gold-lead-zinc resources are located mapping of workings in the Centauro and Valles areas were carried principally on the Valdecañas vein and to a lesser extent on the out to better define the resource model and identify new veins below Corporate Governance Juanicipio vein. Five deep drill holes on the Valdecañas vein the pits. Bulk sampling will be carried out in 2016 to determine the intersected attractive values and resources were increased. Drilling grade in areas with coarse gold, and an updated estimate made of on other targets has not yet localised new veins. The ramp was the resources. extended to 2,180 metres, metallurgical studies were conducted and basic engineering studies concluded. In 2016 we plan to continue the Other sites exploration drilling and ramp development, and conduct a detailed 11,200 metres of reverse circulation drilling were carried out at the engineering study. This joint venture with MAG Silver will be developed Tajitos disseminated gold deposit to upgrade resources to the on a stand-alone basis. indicated category and explore extensions. Potential was identified to the north east of the deposit. 19,700 metres of drilling were also Other sites completed on the Norias property with negative results, and these 30,690 metres of infill drilling were completed on the San Carlos claims were returned to their original owner. Permits were obtained and San Diego veins to convert resources to the indicated category for the Sierra Pinta and Elena prospects where drill testing is planned in the deeper part of the Fresnillo mine. 47,560 metres of drilling on for 2016. Financial Statements several prospects in the District established inferred resources on two new veins. Ciénega District Ownership: Minera La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Durango Cebollitas Cluster Development of the Taspana vein continues, showing good continuity of grade at 1 g/t gold and 250 g/t silver, maintaining an average thickness of three metres; ore from development works is sent to the Ciénega mill for processing. Exploration drilling and drifting continue in other veins of the district such as Tajos and Taspana West, which show attractive exploration potential. San Ramón satellite mine The diamond drilling programme from surface was completed, with 1,570 metres drilled, confirming additional mineralisation in the southern part of the district in several veins. Underground drifting continues along the main Porvenir-Bandera structure, and crosscuts designed to reach mineralised segments of other veins are in progress. Las Casas-Rosario Mining and development of the Las Casas, Casas del Bajo, and Rosario veins continue to confirm good grade and thickness. The Carolina vein discovered below Casas del Bajo is also being developed, adding to the reserve base of the Ciénega operation. Promising drill results were obtained from the newly discovered Rosario East shoot in the hanging-wall of the Transversal fault; mine workings are expected to reach this location in 2016. 63 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Review of Operations continued 3 Exploration 3 Projects and prospects: other prospects in Mexico Orisyvo District Lucerito Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Ownership: 55% Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V.; 45% Location: Chihuahua Minera Saucito, S.A de C.V. Indicated and referred resources: 8.9 moz gold, 12.6 moz silver Location: Durango Indicated and referred resources: 2.0 moz gold, 141.4 moz silver 6,012 metres of underground diamond drilling and 2,205 metres of crosscuts were carried out in the year to upgrade resources to the A conceptual mining study of the project determined the project indicated category and refine the resource model. A test stope and a would deliver modest financial returns. Whilst refractory gold remains preliminary economic assessment study were completed. However, a metallurgical challenge that demands further investigation, some given that Orisyvo would be a new district and thus require significant optimisation alternatives – including heap-leaching of oxide investment in infrastructure, it was decided to defer development. mineralisation – will be reviewed in 2016. Additional metallurgical and engineering studies are in process. 7,000 Candameña hectares of claims were optioned at the adjacent Uruachic gold-silver district and exploration will continue in this area in 2016. Guanajuato District Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Chihuahua Indicated and referred resources: 1.2 moz gold, 32.5 moz silver Ownership: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Guanajuato Candameña is a low strip ratio open pittable disseminated deposit Indicated and referred resources: 664 koz gold, 41.8 moz silver containing gold and silver. Surface land was acquired in the year, however drilling was postponed due to security issues. Metallurgical testing and a Guanajuato is a large historic silver-gold mining district where over 1.5 preliminary economic assessment will be completed in 2016. billion ounces silver equivalent have been produced from a network of Rodeo District veins along a 35 kilometre strike, and thus certain infrastructure is already in place. The Fresnillo holdings comprise several areas currently under exploration; the most advanced are the Opulencia, La Gloria and La Joya vein systems, where gold-silver resources were increased. 49,650 metres of diamond drilling was carried out in the year both to convert resources to the indicated category and explore (Durango) new veins detected in mapping. Permits were obtained and the drilling programme and land acquisition will continue in 2016. 18,720 metres of diamond drilling were completed and resources increased in this near surface disseminated gold deposit. Column tests show the mineralisation is amenable to heap leaching and Guachilchil several additional targets will be explored in the district during 2016. Ownership: Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. (100% Fresnillo plc) Location: Zacatecas Coneto (Durango) Indicated and referred resources: 1.0 moz gold, 15.5 moz silver an association with Orex Minerals 4,656 metres of drilling carried out in 2015, completing the US$6 An access agreement was negotiated with the local ejido and drilling million investment required to secure a 55% stake in the project. initiated to test gold targets on the north claims. 8,500 metres of Drilling is planned for 2016 by the joint venture to explore three drilling were completed and the programme will continue in 2016. gold-silver bearing veins with initial resources. San Nicolás District Guazapares District (Guerrero) (Chihuahua) Work has been postponed in this silver-gold district due to security 5,942 metres of drilling completed in a cluster of veins adjacent to issues in the region. However, there is considerable potential and the Coeur’s Palmarejo mine, focused on the Don Ese, Portales and Dana claims will be maintained. structures. Environmental and access permits were obtained and the evaluation will continue in 2016. 64 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Projects and prospects: other prospects in Peru Pilarica District Supaypacha Strategic Report Prospecting located this virgin disseminated gold-copper deposit and Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc an application for drilling permits was submitted to the environmental Location: Ayacucho, Peru authorities. Negotiations to acquire surface land are in progress. Indicated and referred resources: 36.5 moz silver 21,600 metres of diamond drilling were completed in the year, upgrading the resources to the indicated category in this open pittable silver manto deposit. Additional claims were purchased at the adjacent Machucruz silver property, and environmental permits obtained to continue the drilling programme in 2016. Corporate Governance Santo Domingo District (Antabamba) Mapping and sampling were carried out on a series of gold-silver bearing veins with interesting values at surface. Disseminated gold values were also located in two prominent outcrops. Access for drill testing in 2016 was negotiated with the local community. Financial Statements Exploration at Cebollitas cluster in Ciénega district 65 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report 4 Letter from the Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations Committee Our commitment to create long-term value is founded on responsible mining practices. The Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations (HSECR) Committee evaluates, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of management to meet the sustainability challenge. The Committee met during 2015 in accordance with its terms of reference to monitor the progress made towards reaching full maturity of the HSECR system. As audited independently by PwC, maturity reached an overall level of 92.3% (2014: 84.5%). We consider the process to be on We benchmark our success within a framework of maturing track to achieve full maturity by 2016 as sustainability practices and continuous improvement in our planned. The Sustainability Policy was also safety culture. evaluated by the HSECR Committee and subsequently endorsed by the Board. Our Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) performance was recognised with the inclusion of Fresnillo plc in the Euronext-Vigeo EM 70 Index. This ESG index recognises the 70 most sustainable companies operating in emerging markets. The report that accompanies this letter summarises the most relevant aspects of the Group’s HSECR record and performance for 2015. Health Fresnillo plc is fully committed to the overall health and wellbeing of employees and contractors. A preventive approach to health has been emphasised. Health performance highlights include: >> A fruitful collaboration was established with the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) Foundation to provide free dental treatments and prescription eyeglasses for our neighbouring communities at each of our mines >> An internal assessment mechanism was introduced to evaluate the performance of our health department and regulatory compliance within our operations 66 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Safety Although mining is considered a high-risk Strategic Report activity, any injuries whatsoever incurred by the Company’s employees or contractors are unacceptable. We regret to report one fatality in a work-related accident during the year as well as two fatalities in early 2016. Considering the decline in the safety record of the Company, we have instructed management to take decisive action to improve safety practices. A comprehensive investigation has been conducted in each case and concrete measures taken in order to prevent similar accidents. Corporate Governance Safety performance highlights include: >> Operations continued to develop their competencies in emergency response. Drills were conducted at all operations and projects >> The Noche Buena mine launched its Cyanide Code certification process in December 2015 Environment Good environmental performance is a Financial Statements fundamental condition for social acceptability of mining projects. We continuously monitor the performance and responsiveness of management with regard to environmental challenges. Environmental performance highlights include: >> Management responded well to a tailings spill at the Saucito mine and an incident with pregnant solution at the Herradura Community Relations The Committee will continue to oversee, on mine, both of which were dealt with and Social acceptance of our projects is our most behalf of the Board, the important work of investigated in a satisfactory way. After valuable intangible asset. We strive to reaching our HSECR goals and objectives and completion of environmental engage communities to manage their achieving excellence on HSECR matters. remediation, monitoring confirmed that expectations and develop relations based on sources of contamination were mutual trust. Community relations highlights We extend our deepest condolences to successfully removed include: the bereaved families. We will honour the >> Reduction of the carbon footprint >> Communities surrounding our operations memory of our employees by ensuring that and main development projects were safety is our utmost priority. engaged through perception studies and social risk assessments Very truly yours, >> The Silver Saves Lives initiative was Rafael MacGregor launched at Ciénega with a pilot project to Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment harvest rainwater and engage and Community Relations Committee communities with water awareness activities In the accompanying report, stakeholders are provided with a deeper view into the Company’s overall HSECR efforts in 2015. 67 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 The case for compatible mining Mining is an essential activity that creates value at the local and global level. We believe it can be compatible with high stakeholder expectations vis-à-vis social and environmental performance, and, indeed, that our social licence to operate is dependent upon our meeting those expectations. Therefore, responsible business practices must be deeply integrated in the operations, and factors affecting stakeholders taken into consideration at every critical decision-making level. This is reflected in our business model, wherein sustainable business practices ground our value-creation pyramid. Furthermore, compatible mining enhances our competitive Governance advantages: engaging communities from the earliest stages of The Board of Directors, through its Health, Safety, Environment and exploration and development reduces project risk and supports asset Community Relations (HSECR) Committee, evaluates the effectiveness values; community support and environmental stewardship can of the Company’s policies, action plans and systems regarding HSECR minimise disruptions and ensure operational continuity; and a solid matters. The Committee meets semi-annually to review performance ESG risk profile influences the cost of capital, essential to balance and monitor management’s responses to key issues. A letter from the sheet flexibility. Chair of the Committee precedes this report and provides information on their work in the year. Materiality Our sustainability efforts address the issues that we consider matter The remuneration policy for our senior executives takes sustainability to our stakeholders and have a direct and indirect impact on our performance into partial consideration, specifically in the areas of business. We identify relevant issues engaging our local stakeholders stakeholder relations, teamwork and safety (see Remuneration and keeping track of global issues relevant to our industry and society Report on pages 126 to 136). at large. Recognising the importance of local stakeholders at the mine sites, we conducted a comprehensive perception study in the Our sustainability strategy is managed through our HSECR communities where we operate. The outcome is a “Relevance matrix” Management System, whose maturity is assessed semi-annually by of the issues that matter to our stakeholders in the communities. We PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) on the basis of its strategy, structure, intend to further refine our approach, adopting best practices in processes, people and technology. We are on track to achieving a fully materiality assessment. integrated HSECR system by our 2016 target. The following are the five pillars of our sustainability strategy: Doing our part: UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations General Assembly adopted the 2030 Health Improve and maintain the health and wellbeing Development Agenda in September 2015, with an ensuing 17 of our people. Pages 69 to 70 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets that align the Safety Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and interests of governments, businesses, NGOs and society. At Fresnillo, behaviours. Pages 71 to 73 we are committed to doing our part and ensuring that our sustainability strategy aligns with and advances the goals agreed Environment Minimise the environmental impact and footprint upon by the international community. of our activities. Pages 74 to 79 Community Engage with and support the development of our Specifically, we have initiatives that align with the following SDG goals: relations communities. Pages 80 to 83 health and wellbeing; clean water and sanitation; decent work and Our people Secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and economic growth; industry, innovation and infrastructure; reduced respectful workplace. Pages 84 to 86 inequalities; responsible consumption and production; climate action; and life on land. Awards and recognitions Along with our inclusion in the Euronext-Vigeo Emerging 70 Index, other recognitions this year include: Ethics and Values in Industry from the Mexican Confederation of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN), and the Socially Responsible Company award from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy (CEMEFI). Industry standards certifications granted or under application in 2015 are detailed herein under their relevant categories. 68 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Health 2015 objectives Strategic Report >> Enforce occupational health practices of contractors in line with Strategy and objectives our own policies We strive to keep our people healthy and prevent occupational >> Integrate contractors’ health business processes with our Health diseases. Our approach aims to pre-emptively identify and & Safety Information System manage the health risks to which our workforce is exposed. >> Seek Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company certifications Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit in all remaining units certain chronic diseases and enhance overall wellness and fitness >> Extend Healthy Lifestyles programme to all units for work. While our focus is set on prevention, emergency preparedness is a core competence of all our health teams. We >> Identify and address psychological health risks with potential work closely with local authorities and also support health impact on safety performance initiatives in the communities where we operate. 2015 performance Corporate Governance >> Contractor adoption of our occupational health KPIs, procedures and training requirements ongoing >> Evaluated Health & Safety Information Systems; contractors will be considered at implementation Occupational >> Advanced the Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company health certifications process >> Healthy Lifestyles programme now operating in all our operations >> Business units convening multidisciplinary team for fitness, Community Emergency psychological, medical, and dietary advice; programme rolled out preparedness at Penmont, Ciénega and San Julián, where workers also surveyed Financial Statements Health and to assess psychological stress levels and associated risks wellbeing >> Three new cases of occupational diseases 2016 objectives >> Implement the Health & Safety Information System, including contractors Healthier Preventive lifestyles health and >> Adopt ICMM standard for health KPIs wellness >> Mature our assessment protocol for health-related risks >> Reinforce standardisation of health practices and policies across our operations Certification Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Penmont Investment in health OHSAS 18001 Certified In process Certified Certified US$ 10.46m Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational health and safety management Healthy In process In process In process Certified Company 9.64 10.34 12.68 10.46 Certification by Mexican health authorities for the implementation of best practice in occupational health and preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles Smoke-Free Certified In process Certified Certified Company A prerequisite for the Healthy Company certification 2012 2013 2014 2015 69 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Occupational health Emergency preparedness and response: a core competency We seek to prevent, detect and treat work-related illnesses amongst Our health departments treat any work-related injuries (concussions, our employees and contractors. burns, lacerations, broken limbs, dehydration, etc.) and respond to general health emergencies (heart attacks, diabetic shocks, The main occupational health risks we address relate to the following: diarrhoea, etc.). In addition, our paramedics are trained on rope inhalable hazards (mainly emissions and dust), noise, fatigue, rescue, confined space rescue, fire suppression, hazardous materials ergonomic stress, vibrations, light, heat stress, lead exposure, contact and cyanide emergencies. To practice, rescue teams participate in with or exposure to chemicals, dehydration, venomous snakes and drills organised as part of the emergency response plans (see Safety spiders. on pages 71 to 73). In addition, our teams also participate in rescue competitions organised by the Mining Chamber of Mexico. We monitor employee health at regular check-ups and test for occupational diseases. We utilise Alert-On randomly or methodically, As part of responsible cyanide management at Penmont, we work based on job profile, to detect alcohol and drugs, as well as to with health authorities and civil protection organisations, including evaluate fitness for work in critical activities such as high elevations or the fire department and Red Cross, in the neighbouring municipality in mine shaft elevators by testing vital signs, vision and glucose levels of Caborca to respond effectively to any cyanide emergency. We have among others. We also monitor blood lead levels for those working in an agreement with a private hospital in Caborca to respond to areas with risk of exposure. Regrettably, three new cases of cyanide-related medical emergencies. occupational diseases were diagnosed by health authorities during the year: two cases of occupational hearing loss (HL) and one case of Communities occupational respiratory disorder (ORD). We operate in some communities where access to healthcare is a stakeholder concern. We partner with health authorities on Our health teams are Certified Occupational Hearing Conservationists vaccination campaigns and breast and cervical cancer screenings, (CAOHC), and trained in radiological protection (during X-rays), image and engage communities to raise awareness of child obesity, dietary interpretation of pneumoconiosis, and spirometric interpretation habits and personal hygiene, among other topics. We also support (respiratory capacity) by the American Thoracic Society (ATS). In some communities with emergency health care. addition, our team are certified lead auditors under ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. To support access to dental and optometry care, we partner with the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) Foundation and Preventive health, wellness and healthier lifestyles sponsor health weeks during which Foundation doctors provide free Prevention delivers multiple social and economic benefits. We seek to health care and we support logistics, providing complementary prevent chronic diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure, glasses and transportation for communities. We also engage national seasonal illnesses such as influenza, and psychosocial diseases such health authorities to complete vaccination schemes and other health as stress and burnout. care services. In 2015, this programme provided close to 9,000 free medical consultations to our neighbouring communities at Ciénega, Thus we also screen for these during regular check-ups, particularly Fresnillo/Saucito and Penmont. diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity, which are widespread in Mexico and require monitoring and treatment in order to work safely. Our Healthy Lifestyles programme supports good food habits and the prevention and control of obesity-related diseases. Women receive breast and cervical cancer screening, and we launched a campaign to raise awareness of these diseases. All employees over 50 have access New cases of occupational Disease rate (expressed per to free annual health check-ups. We provide influenza vaccinations diseases 1,000 persons at work) and vision tests that include prescription safety glasses. In 2015 we 3 0.199 introduced a psychosocial survey as part of regular check-ups. Our Behavioural Change workshops, facilitated by psychologists, address stress and personal issues that could compromise awareness in the workplace and lead to accidents. 1 0 2 3 0.121 0.000 0.159 0.199 We continue to seek the Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company certifications for all our units. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 New cases of occupational diseases: An Diseases rate: Occupational disease rates illness caused or aggravated by work are expressed per 1,000 persons at work. activities or workplace conditions. The number of personnel at work is calculated based on the hours worked. Total personnel = hours worked per year/2,000. 70 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Safety 2015 objectives Strategic Report >> Roll out SafeStart programme in all operations Strategy and objectives >> Analyse commercial software alternatives to the in-house Health We seek to instill a safety culture where our workers and & Safety Information System. contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely. This is carried out through the No More Accidents 2015 performance programme, which is based on OHSAS 18001 and complies with the Self-Managed Safety Programme of the Mexican Labour >> One fatal injury in 2015 and two fatal injuries in early 2016 Ministry. >> SafeStart programme active at Ciénega, Fresnillo and Saucito >> Health & Safety Information Systems evaluated, decision made We regret to report a fatal injury in 2015 and two fatal injuries in early 2016. We are committed to comprehensively investigate these accidents and implement the measures necessary to 2016 objectives Corporate Governance reverse the negative trend in our safety record. >> Implement Health & Safety Information System, including for contractors >> Complete OHSAS 18001 certification process at Saucito >> Mature the Operational Discipline and safety assessments initiatives Manage our knowledge Financial Statements Engage stakeholders Safety culture Investment in safety US$ 4.18m 4.57 5.95 3.56 4.18 2012 2013 2014 2015 71 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Assessing risk to manage our knowledge Safety culture We proactively assess risks in order to design operating procedures, Our safety culture is routinely monitored to assess the attitudes, equipment and training; situational assessments and legal behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions. compliance audits help us identify operational non-conformities and to develop specific action plans with clear deadlines and Emergency response plans and drills accountabilities. In 2015 we improved risk analysis of fire events and We reviewed our emergency response manuals in 2015, trained began to define the criteria to identify high-risk areas in underground senior managers to manage crises, and conducted drills across our mines. We intend to extend the situational assessment practice to operations to evaluate performance. development projects. Safe cyanide management Engaging our stakeholders: No More Accidents Cyanide is a chemical compound extremely effective in dissolving gold Leadership and engagement from its ore, and is widely used for that purpose in our industry in a We expect our managers, union representatives and contractors to process called cyanide leaching. However, in high concentrations have a leadership role in our safety culture. Once local union cyanide can be toxic to humans and many living organisms. representatives are elected they participate in our training workshops Responsible management of cyanide is critical to ensure the safety of aimed at developing safety leadership; accountability of our our people, contractors, neighbouring communities and the managers and contractors is monitored through situational environment. assessments and compliance audits. We apply strict health and safety measures to prevent spills and any Our entire workforce is represented by formal Health & Safety (H&S) exposure of our workforce to cyanide. Likewise, we train our response Commissions, who play a leadership role in the field. H&S teams to contain accidental releases and respond to any incidents of Commissions also investigate the causes of accidents/occupational exposure. The Herradura mine is certified in the Cyanide Code, which diseases, determine their preventive measures, and monitor sets out best practices for transporting, storing, using, and disposing compliance. Management, unionised employees and contractors are of cyanide, as developed by the International Cyanide Management represented in these commissions. Institute (ICMI). Noche Buena launched its certification process in December 2015. See also “Cyanide management: environmental We support our contractors in enrolling in the Mexican Labour aspects” on page 78. Ministry’s voluntary Self-Managed Safety Programme, whose main objective is to encourage a self-evaluation culture and continuous improvement mindset through the implementation of health & safety management systems. Companies participating in the programme Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) can significantly reduce the number of mandated safety inspections. For every 1,000,000 hours 2012 2013 2014 2015 Behavioural change Human factors are involved in the majority of incidents and accidents. Rushing, frustration, fatigue and complacency lead to unintentional 23.189 30.109 37.269 8.722 9.212 7.993 errors that increase the risk of injuries on or off the job. Fresnillo 26.912 27.151 19.375 14.870 29.898 42.870 6.381 8.565 5.049 10.229 6.595 0.000 engages its workforce with three initiatives: i) DuPont’s SafeStart 41.076 21.904 24.768 7.190 10.411 0.000 programme reinforces safety awareness and develops specific critical error reduction techniques (CERTs) to decrease the risk of injury; each unit has a team responsible for implementation, and the programme has been launched at Fresnillo, Saucito and Ciénega; ii) the STOP (Stop, Think, Observe and Plan) programme teaches that all accidents can be prevented and promotes risk monitoring for all processes, emphasising the responsibility of the chain of command to detect and Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Noche Buena Herradura Soledadimmediately remediate unsafe conditions; and iii) Behavioural Change Dipolos workshops, facilitated by psychologists, provide guidance and counsel on handling personal issues that may cause distractions that lead to accidents. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) For every 1,000,000 hours Operational Discipline programme 2012 2013 2014 2015 Discipline in safety means doing the right thing all the time. This programme includes several phases: making procedures available, assuring the quality of the procedures, training and communication, 4.239 14.125 5.521 3.213 1.439 0.999 evaluation of work cycles, and continuous improvement. Our units are 2.670 3.526 3.370 3.160 2.190 4.098 1.060 2.398 0.810 3.541 5.650 0.000 reaching the fourth phase, evaluation of work cycles. 4.954 3.806 3.161 0.000 14.267 4.289 Rules that save lives We aim to embed rules that save lives – those deemed safety-critical – into our safety culture; we have a regular process to review these rules and propose the inclusion of new ones. Comprehensive accident investigation Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Noche Buena Herradura SoledadRoot cause analysis, applied methodically, allows us to derive valuable Dipolos insights from accidents; outcomes are communicated to all business units in order to prevent similar accidents. 72 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Performance Strategic Report Fatalities Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) Accident rate For every 1,000,000 hours 1 0.03 1.89 2 11 6 2 1 1 0.36 0.08 0.04 0.03 2.21 1.73 1.42 0.69 0.97 1.89 Corporate Governance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors. Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of accidents divided by the total number of 1,000,000 hours worked. employees and contractors. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Lost workday rate (TRIFR) For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours 20.98 5.87 0.81 Financial Statements 23.29 16.09 18.84 20.98 5.93 2.16 3.30 5.87 1.64 3.11 1.48 0.58 0.62 0.81 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The number of fatalities + lost-time cases + restricted work The number of lost-time injuries + fatalities per 1,000,000 The number of days lost to accidents divided by the total cases + medical treatment + first aid cases per 1,000,000 hours worked. number of employees and contractors. hours worked. Severity Rate Duration rate For every 1,000,000 hours 131.80 42.86 546.23 181.35 209.16 131.80 92.12 84.00 63.39 42.86 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lost work days per 1,000,000 hours worked. Lost work days / number of lost-time injuries + fatalities. 73 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Environment 2015 objectives >> Update contingency response plans, including simulations Strategy and objectives >> Set carbon emissions and water targets Mining and processing precious metals, whilst essential industries, >> Adapt water stewardship and biodiversity strategies consume water, disturb land and produce waste and greenhouse >> Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito gases in the ordinary course of business. Minimising the impact of our activities and being transparent and accountable regarding our environmental footprint are crucial to making mining compatible 2015 performance and retaining our social licence to operate. Our environmental >> Contingency response plans have been reviewed and practiced management system ensures effective compliance with at Penmont, Fresnillo and Saucito regulations and supports initiatives to reduce our environmental >> Collaborating internally to forecast future energy demands and footprint. identify reduction opportunities >> Engaged NGOs as potential partners to shape biodiversity and water stewardship strategies that go beyond compliance >> ISO 14001 and Clean Industry certification processes advanced Management 90% at Saucito systems and certifications >> Renewables were introduced to our energy portfolio >> Responsible reactions to a tailings spill at Saucito and a pregnant Climate solution spill at Herradura. Additional preventative measures Communities change have been put in place and energy 2016 objectives Environmental >> Set carbon emissions and water targets stewardship >> Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito >> Implement an information system Land and >> Strengthen the mechanism for internal audits of environmental biodiversity Water compliance Water input Waste Megalitres 2014 2015 756 664 2,142 2,638 3,310 5,971 2,244 2,350 Penmont Certification Fresnillo Saucito Ciénega Herradura Noche Buena ISO 14001 Certified In Certified Certified Certified process Framework and criteria for an effective environmental management system. Ciénega Fresnillo Penmont Saucito Clean Certified In Certified Certified Certified Industry process Sources of water Certificate granted by the Mexican Environmental Authority to promote environmental audits, compliance with regulations and Water waste Bore fields adoption of best practices. Ore entrainment Mine water International N/A N/A On hold* Certified In process Cyanide 10% 11% Management 3% Code 3% Sets criteria for the global gold mining industry on cyanide 35% 44% management practices. 50% 43% * The process will resume once the mine’s capacity optimisation plan is determined. 2014 2015 74 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Water Water stress considering climate change scenarios (2020 and 2030) Mining and processing ore require large volumes of water. We operate Strategic Report Business as Business as Pessimistic Pessimistic in some arid regions where water is frequently a relevant issue for usual 2020 usual 2030 2020 2030 communities. Hence, securing access and being responsible water Fresnillo Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase stewards are critical success factors. Our water management approach is based on operational excellence and cooperation with Saucito Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase stakeholders, notably communities, authorities and NGOs. Penmont 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase Risk assessment Ciénega Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase Responding to the expectations of our stakeholders, we conduct our Water stress measures the ratio of total annual water withdrawal to average annual evaluation of water risk using the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) available blue water. This is a commonly used indicator also known as relative water Aqueduct tool, which uses a wide-ranging set of indicators demand. aggregated using a weighting profile recommended for the mining industry by the WRI. This tool provides an overall water risk We calculate our water inventory using the Water Accounting Corporate Governance assessment based on the geographical location of our mining Framework for the Minerals Industry, designed by the Sustainable operations. Minerals Institute of the University of Queensland and the Minerals Council of Australia. This framework has been useful to standardise Water risk assessment under current conditions concepts internally and benchmark amongst our operations and with Regulatory & other mining companies. Overall Water Physical Risk Physical Risk Reputational Risk Quality Quantity Risk Statement of Water Inputs and Outputs in megalitres Fresnillo Medium to No data High risk Low to for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 high risk medium risk Saucito Medium to No data High risk Low to Category Element Sub-element 2015 2014 high risk medium risk Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 Penmont Medium to Low to High risk Low to Groundwater Mine water 4,949 4,230 Financial Statements high risk medium risk medium risk Bore fields 5,163 2,995 Ciénega Medium to Low to Medium to Low to Ore entrainment 312 269 high risk medium risk high risk medium risk Third party Wastewater 1,200 958 Total Water Inputs 11,624 14,098 Physical risk quality considers return flow ratio and upstream protected land; physical risk Output Surface water Discharges 130 170 quantity considers baseline water stress, inter-annual variability, seasonal variability, flood occurrence, drought severity, upstream storage and groundwater stress; regulatory and Water entrained in reputational risk considers media coverage, access to water and threatened amphibians. Other concentrates 24 19 Total Water Outputs 154 189 Water quantity Fresnillo relies primarily on groundwater (mine water and wells) and 1 megalitre = 1,000 m3 municipal wastewater to supply its operations. While groundwater is thought to be less vulnerable to climate change, our operations Water Deviations in megalitres nevertheless aim to improve water efficiency. Where we operate in for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 river basins experiencing water stress, we seek to minimise the use of Category Element Sub-element 2015 2014 freshwater. Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 Our key efforts to reduce our water footprint include the Groundwater Aquifer implementation of closed circuits, use of wastewater, process interception improvements and reducing ore dilution. As water stress is one of the (dewatering) 14,129 8,989 most important parameters in overall water risk, we explore scenarios Total Water Inputs 14,129 12,437 using Aqueduct to assess the effect of climate change on water Output Surface water Discharges 13,055 8,118 resources. Our Fresnillo and Saucito operations build resilience using municipal wastewater and donating cleaned mine water to the Supply to third community. Ciénega, located in the mountains upstream, relies on party (donation) 206 82 mine water (the ore is below the groundwater table) and donates Loss (evaporation, excess water to the communities. Penmont, located in an arid and infiltration, etc.) 868 790 low water use region, is supplied with wells. The proximity of Penmont Total Water Outputs 14,129 12,437 to the sea offers an opportunity to explore the use of seawater. 1 megalitre = 1,000 m3 75 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Statement of Operational Efficiency Climate change and energy for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Governance The climate agreement reached in December 2015 at the 21st Unit 2015 2014 Conference of the Parties (COP21) in Paris is a clear sign of the Total volume to tasks megalitre 57,197 42,715 transition to a lower-carbon, more energy-efficient economy. The Total volume of reused water megalitre 46,537 35,085 Board’s HSECR Committee has incorporated a review of our performance, risks and opportunities in this regard at their semiReuse efficiency % 81.36% 82.14% annual meetings with management, who are responsible for Total volume of recycled integrating climate change into the business and operating strategy. water megalitre 988 1,240 Operational and energy efficiency 1 megalitre = 1,000 m3 Deeper mining, increased haulage distances and lower ore qualities require greater energy to extract and process. Leadership in energy Intensity efficiency is key to business and environmental resilience. Our climate change and energy management approach is based on operational Intensity measurement: excellence and progressive introduction of cleaner sources of energy. Water input (in m3) per tonne of mineral processed 0.25 m3/tonne 0.19 m3/tonne The main initiatives that have improved our energy efficiency in open Fresh water input (in m3) per tonne pit operations are the optimisation of the truck fleet, use of diesel of mineral processed 0.22 m3/tonne 0.17 m3/tonne additives, and optimisation of waste dumps to reduce haulage distances. In underground operations, our initiatives are related to the Water quality optimisation of ventilation and measures to reduce ore dilution. In Mining is less vulnerable than other industries to the quality of 2015, Saucito was supplied with wind energy, reducing our footprint incoming water; however, discharge quality is important to associated with mineral processing. downstream users. We monitor and take action to ensure our discharges respect water quality regulations. Our mineral processing We account for and monitor our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions facilities use closed water circuits to eliminate the need to discharge based on an inventory management plan (IMP), a best practice process water into water streams; our discharges primarily consist of proposed by the Climate Leaders programme of the US wastewater from non-industrial facilities such as camps and offices, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Although our operating mines and are treated prior to discharge. set energy efficiency targets each year, we are also committed to evaluating the mechanisms and suitability of other science-based Most of our underground mines require de-watering (draining targets. groundwater by pumping) to allow access to the ore. Unused water is sent to settlement ponds to control suspended solids before Strategy implementation, carbon cost exposure and carbon discharging the now cleaned water downstream. regulation readiness We pay carbon taxes indirectly, since carbon taxes are currently Reputation and regulations embedded in the price of fossil fuels and will soon be included in the We have not detected negative downstream impacts on the price of electricity. Mexico’s carbon tax for fossil fuels, based on their ecosystems due to our groundwater intake or surface water carbon content, is paid by producers and importers, and thus discharge, nor have we experienced conflicts with our communities embedded in the fuel prices paid by consumers. The new electricity arising from contamination or use of water resources. market will have tradable clean energy certificates (CELs) in 2018; energy companies participating in the electricity market will be Fresnillo supports its communities by donating water from its mine mandated to have a clean energy portfolio equivalent to 5% of its dewatering operations. We believe such community cooperation production. A CELs market will operate to provide flexibility and helps limit conflicts due to access issues. We also work with efficiency in the electricity market. This regulation is the mechanism municipalities to invest in water and wastewater infrastructure, chosen by the Mexican government to meet the decarbonisation notably with their mining tax funds (see Community Relations pages target of 35% of its electricity market by 2024. 80 to 83). The Mexican congress abandoned a project to introduce a new federal law on water. We anticipate that the progressive deregulation of diesel prices and the expected long-term reduction of electricity prices as a result of the Fresnillo plc engages public policymakers and other stakeholders above-mentioned reforms will counter our exposure to carbon taxes. through the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Council for To test the resilience of our business we are using the International Sustainable Development (CESPEDES) and the Water Advisory Council. Energy Agency’s 450 Scenario, which aims to limit the concentration These organisations support cost-effective policy measures and water of GHGs in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million of CO2 in stewardship; their positions and initiatives can be consulted on their order to meet the goal of limiting the global rise in temperature to 2°C. respective websites (www.cespedes.org.mx), (www.aguas.org.mx). The government has started operating its mandatory emissions registry. Our rapid compliance with the regulation reflects our experience in voluntary reporting. Preparedness for the physical impacts The most significant climate change impacts for our Company relate to water. See page 75 for a more detailed discussion of our water usage and conservation efforts. 76 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Public policy Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources As with water stewardship, we engage public policymakers and other required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Strategic Report stakeholders through the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our Council for Sustainable Development (CESPEDES), whose positions and operational control. We do not have responsibility for any emission initiatives can be consulted on their website. sources that are not included in our Consolidated Statement. We have used the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate The most important policies regulating GHG emissions in Mexico are: Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). the General Climate Change Law (2012); National Strategy on Climate Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions. Change, 10-20-40 years (2013); the carbon tax (2014); National Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased Emissions and Emissions Reductions Registry (2014); and the Energy electricity Reform Law and Regulations (2014). Changes to the comparison year: For the COP21 climate agreement, Mexico presented its Intended >> Scope 1: Emission factors of fossil fuels were updated to reflect the National Determined Contribution (INDC), committing to energy contents recognised by the Mexican Energy Ministry. Corporate Governance unconditionally reduce 25% of its GHGs and short-lived climate pollutants emissions (below BAU) for the year 2030. This commitment >> Scope 2: The emission factor for the electricity supplied by implies a 22% reduction of GHGs and 51% of black carbon. The Thermoelectric Peñoles was updated. underlying target-setting hypothesis forecasts a net emissions peak starting from 2026, decoupling GHG emissions from economic Waste management growth; emissions intensity per unit of GDP will decline by around 40% Our operations produce mineral waste – either mining, processing from 2013 to 20301. These binding international commitments are (beneficiation) or metallurgical – and in much smaller proportion, expected to translate into enhanced local regulations. non-mineral waste from operating materials such as tyres, used lube oil, materials impregnated with grease and oil, and cans, among Transparency and disclosure others. To determine appropriate waste management methods for We participate in the climate change programme of the Carbon mineral waste, Fresnillo analyses its potential to generate acid mine Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Mexican GHG disclosure programme, drainage (see below) and determines its mobility and concentrations GEI México. of metals and metalloids. Financial Statements Carbon performance Mining waste Mining waste includes the overburden (rock or soil overlaying a Global GHG Emissions for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 mineral deposit) of open pit operations and gangue (the rock or GHG emissions mineral occurring with the metallic ore but of no commercial value) (tonnes of CO2e) Energy (MWhe) excavated in underground works to access the ore. It does not contain Reporting Comparison Reporting Comparison ore or the concentration is below the cut-off grade and cannot be year year year year processed economically. Most mining waste is transported and 2015 2012 2015 2012 deposited in waste dumps for permanent storage; some waste rock is Scope 1 (direct 421,409 375,121 1,645,485 1,385,448 used underground in cut and fill operations. Most of our mineral emissions): waste is generated by the open pit operations at Penmont. The Combustion of foundations of waste dumps and their slopes are engineered and fuel (mobile monitored to provide stability over time. and stationary sources) Processing waste Scope 2 (indirect 374,391 329,245 673,339 420,615 Processing waste refers to the portion of ore considered too poor to be emissions): further processed. Tailings (a fine-grained slurry) are the processing Electricity waste of beneficiation. In some of our operations, tailings are purchased from considered by-products that may serve as input for tailing processing the Mexican plants for further recovery of metals. The slurries are pumped from National Grid the plants to sedimentation ponds, known as tailing dams, for safe (CFE), Wind Force storage. The decanted water, released by the sedimentation of Peñoles (FEISA) tailings, is harvested and pumped back to the processing plants. For and safety reasons, we do not allow tailing ponds to be operated as water Thermoelectric reservoirs; therefore, our tailing ponds have channels to deviate water Peñoles (TEP) runoff. Embankments are periodically monitored to evaluate Intensity 0.017 0.013 0.050 0.034 structural integrity, including earthquake response. measurement: Emissions and energy reported above per tonne of mineral processed 1 (http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Mexico/1/ MEXICO%20INDC%2003.30.2015.pdf). 77 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 In December 2015, Saucito experienced a rupture in the pipeline In May 2015, Herradura experienced a partial collapse of a small connecting the processing plant to the tailings pond. Once the failure section of the embankment of a pond containing pregnant (gold was detected, the flow of tailings was immediately halted. In bearing) solution. This failure was quickly detected and contained with cooperation with the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency a dyke, and extra pumps were set up to speed up the transfer of the (PROFEPA), it was determined that the burst in the pipeline released solution to the contingency pond. The spillage totalled 70 m3 of 450 tonnes of tailings, covering 8,000m² of industrial land and pregnant solution with 15 ppm of sodium cyanide. Remediation 1,600m² of land adjacent to the mine. Remediation consisted of consisted of removal of the contaminated soil and reconstruction of cleaning the tailings, removing and replacing the topsoil and repairing the affected section of the embankment. The incident was reported the pipeline. The tailings released were considered benign as their lab to PROFEPA and environmental monitoring since the incident shows characterisation indicated that: i) the concentration of heavy metals no negative environmental effects. and metalloids were below the legal maximum levels; and ii) minerals in the tailings do not produce acid mine drainage. Remediation work 2015 2014 concluded successfully, eliminating any risk to the environment or to Sodium cyanide (NaCN) (tonne) 8,451 6,810 the health of communities. A review of our design and operating procedures for the management of tailings facilities is underway. Acid mine drainage Acid mine drainage (AMD) is a major environmental challenge for the Metallurgical waste mining industry. Some geologic environments naturally contain Metallurgical waste refers to piles of spent ore and the tailings sulphides, especially pyrites (FeS2) which are the most common produced by heap and dynamic leaching respectively. In both cases, sulphide. Mining activities may increase the exposure of sulphides to cyanide-bearing mineral waste is disposed of safely. The use of an air and water, which initiates a complex oxidation process that may impermeable membrane in heaps and tailings prevents seepage to lead to acid mine water (low pH) capable of dissolving metals and groundwater. We believe progressive rehabilitation of mineral waste metalloids. Uncontrolled AMD represents a risk to surface and facilities is the best path for responsible mining. Revegetation of waste groundwater resources during mine operation as well as a legacy dumps at Ciénega and particularly the tailing ponds at Fresnillo are issue after closure. valuable examples of engaging stakeholders in compatible mining practices. Not all sulphides generate AMD, as other minerals may naturally buffer the acid. We characterise all mineral wastes to detect their Non-mineral waste potential to generate AMD, and operations with AMD risk implement Non-mineral wastes are most commonly managed through site-specific management strategies such as dry coverage, collection recycling, off-site treatment and disposal. Hazardous wastes are and treatment to minimise AMD risk in mineral storage. subject to strict regulation by Mexican authorities at our own storage facilities and at hazardous waste receiving facilities. Our management Biodiversity and land systems include policies to reduce and reuse. We are subject to international agreements Mexico has signed to protect endangered species as well as national regulations that Unit 2015 2014 mandate relocation of vulnerable species. Our environmental impact Mine waste Waste rock Tonne 115,302,731 127,711,136 assessments identify such species. Processing Tailings Tonne 5,877,794 5,326,868 waste We partner with the Sonoran state government to protect the Metallurgical Tailings Tonne 2,925,918 2,199,316 Sonoran Pronghorn near our Penmont operations, continued our waste Heaps Tonne 37,366,591 35,699,818 partnership with PROFEPA to host confiscated animals in one of our community parks in the city of Fresnillo, and funded a project led by our partner Naturalia as part of our WildCorp commitment. Ciénega Cyanide management: environmental aspects has set aside a 1,000-hectare conservation area encompassing land Environmental protection measures are critical for cyanide leaching reclaimed from its operations as well as areas rehabilitated from systems; we operate in compliance with international best practices deforestation. as put forth by the International Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI) and the Mexican standard “NOM-155-SEMARNAT-2007” that Unit 2015 2014 establishes environmental requirements for gold and silver leaching Rehabilitated land Ha 100.00 208.21 systems. Groundwater sources are protected from cyanide seepage with an Atmospheric emissions impermeable liner for the heaps where ore is deposited, and the soil Our operations release gases and particulates to the atmosphere that layer (foundation) beneath the liner is geo-technically engineered to may have an effect on people and the environment. These emissions provide structural stability. Channels surrounding the heaps and result from moving ore, mining waste and burning fossil fuels, contingency ponds are hydraulically designed to handle flood flows especially diesel for trucks and mining equipment, and include caused by extreme rainfall events and monitoring up and nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), carbon monoxide (CO), downstream proactively detects changes in water quality. Once gold and particulate matter (PM). and silver are extracted from the cyanide solution, process water is reused in the leaching process; water is also harvested from the Emissions of CO and NOx come from burning fossil fuels. Prolonged cyanide-bearing tailings and recirculation generates savings in exposure to CO at high concentrations in underground operations cyanide, reductions to the fresh water footprint and elimination of may affect the nervous system and heart and could eventually be discharges to water streams. lethal. NOx contribute to the formation of fine particulates in the atmosphere and can cause respiratory problems; prolonged exposure to high concentrations in underground operations may cause eye, skin and respiratory irritation, bronchial spasms, lung edema, low oxygenation and can eventually be lethal. To prevent exposure in underground operations, we rely on advanced ventilation systems, 78 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today and in addition, every miner working underground must have a Investment in environment Energy – GHG profile carbon monoxide detector and a self-rescue respirator as part of their US$ Strategic Report 1.88m mandatory personal equipment. CO levels underground are Electricity from FEISA (wind) monitored regularly and internal audits verify compliance with Electricity from TEP Electricity from the National grid maximum level regulations. Combustion of fossil fuels (contractors) Combustion of fossil fuels Emissions of PM come from burning fossil fuels, windblown erosion of 4.37 1.26 2.09 1.88 6% 0% exposed areas and stockpiles, wheel-generated and blasting-related 11% 31% dust. PM emissions smaller than ten micrometres in diameter (PM10) 12% can be retained in the lungs, and in high concentrations may lead to 20% 16% respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. PM10 from fuel combustion, 15% known as diesel particulate matter (DPM), is generally more harmful than PM10 coming from diffuse sources such as windblown erosion or 51% 38% wheel-generated dust. Corporate Governance 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy GHG NOx and PM levels depend on engine technology. Mexico recently introduced new standards that would require new heavy-duty diesel vehicles sold after 1 January 2018 to meet emissions standards Energy Energy intensity equivalent to those in the United States (EPA 2010) or the European GWhe MWhe per tonne 0.050 Union (Euro VI standards). This regulation will require new vehicles to Scope 1 be equipped with diesel particulate filters (DPFs), advanced NOx after Scope 2 treatment, full on-board diagnostic (OBD) systems, and fail safes which ensure correct operation of emissions control systems. The new Mexican standard is expected to reduce PM 90%-98% and NOx from 0.034 0.048 0.050 0.050 93%-95% according to the International Council on Clean 577 673 Transportation (ICCT). 433 421 Financial Statements 1,586 1,645 SOx emissions at Fresnillo come from burning of fossil fuels. Cleaner 1,385 1,410 diesel is an important factor in reducing emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, and the aforementioned filter-based standards require ultralow-sulphur diesel with contents no more than 15 parts per million (ppm). While the border region and major metropolitan areas 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 of Mexico are all supplied with 15 ppm sulphur diesel, the rest of the country continues to be supplied with diesel containing up to 500 ppm sulphur; recent energy reform in Mexico will allow for fuel imports in GHG intensity 2017. GHG emissions Tonnes of CO2e per tonne of Kt of CO2e mineral processed 0.017 Among its initiative to reduce diesel consumption and associated Scope 1 emissions, Herradura implemented the MineStar system, which Scope 2 optimises the fleet of trucks and mining equipment in the open pit mine; in addition, the Penmont complex has been using additives to reduce the use of diesel. 0.013 0.018 0.019 0.017 412 374 Environmental aspects in our value chain 329 325 Our key operating materials include sodium cyanide, tyres, explosives, steel for drilling, fuels (diesel and gasoline), lube oil, steel balls and liner 413 421 375 363 plates for milling. From an environmental standpoint, the most sensitive is sodium cyanide (NaCN), which we procure from certified manufactures, distributors and transporters. Corporate procurement is responsible for enforcing this policy. Separately, fuel transporters are 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 required to be insured for environmental incidents. Contractors must comply with Mexican regulations and the environmental procedures of our management system, which is reflected in their contracts. Contractors with more than 100 employees are required to implement a management system. Communities We engage our neighbouring communities to raise environmental awareness through events such as World Water Day, World Environment Day and Tree Day. We conduct talks, contests, performances and reforestation campaigns with elementary schools and amongst our employees and contractors. 79 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Community relations 2015 objectives >> Match our units with NGOs to increase collaboration and Strategy and objectives partnerships on projects to benefit communities Our communities are strategic partners. Having their trust requires >> Launch regional and corporate social investment committees effectively engaging them and being accountable for our impacts. >> Enhance collaboration with the land acquisition team to bring We recognise that building trust is the only way to obtain and social expertise to the process preserve our social licence to operate. Our corporate strategy >> Continue identifying and adopting best practices in stakeholder covers all phases of the mining cycle. engagement; consolidate those adopted in 2014 Advancing our knowledge We build our knowledge of communities by identifying 2015 performance stakeholders and understanding their positions on relevant issues. >> Developed a new portfolio of proposals for institutional projects With the support of the Borealis Information System we track our and alliances with NGOs stakeholder registry, informal and formal meetings, incident and >> Presented and analysed operating rules and framework for commitment registries and grievances. Continuous engagement Regional Committees and comprehensive social analyses help us gain further understanding of the risks and opportunities in the communities >> Ongoing collaboration between the community relations and where we operate. land acquisition teams, notably in San Julián and Saucito >> Focused on multiple maturity practices >> The Silver Saves Lives initiative was launched at Ciénega with a rain harvesting project Community investment 2016 objectives US$ >> Review results of perception studies; leverage insights to improve 2.54m social investment and engagement strategies >> Design and implement a protocol to conduct follow-up visits to the operations and projects 3.14 2.14 2.21 2.54 >> Ongoing adoption and maturity of best practices in community relations 2012 2013 2014 2015 Exploration Project Operation Closure Stakeholder analysis / Information system Media monitoring 1 Studies (baseline, perception and social risk) Knowledge Evaluation of partnerships with NGOs 2 Activities with the communities Formal meetings / informal meetings / consultation / communication Effective Registry of incidents / Registry of commitments / Grievances Engagement Social investment / Social investment committee Community requests 3 Capacity building Develop Local employment and local contractors 80 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Performance Community investment by strategic lever (%) Community investment by business unit (%) Community capacity building 9% Ciénega 11% Education 34% Explorations 6% Social welfare 53% Fresnillo 66% Infrastructure 2% Penmont 11% Environmental awareness 2% Servicos Administrativos Fresnillo 3% Saucito 3% Activities by strategic lever (%) – Exploration Activities by strategic lever (%) – Operations Strategic Report Environmental awareness 32% Environmental awareness 17% Education 20% Education 28% Social welfare 47% Social welfare 44% Capacity building 1% Capacity building 11% Corporate Governance Contributions requested by the community (%) – Exploration Contributions requested by the community (%) – Operations Accepted 86% Accepted 67% Rejected 14% Rejected 33% Financial Statements Economic value distributed (%) Economic value distributed by state (%) Wages and benefits of workers 8.69% Zacatecas 28.27% Payments to suppliers (contractors) 69.37% Sonora 44.41% Payments to local governments 0.33% Durango 15.15% Payments to federal government 21.62% Chihuahua 9.15% Guanajuato 0.07% Coahuila 2.70% Mexico City 0.20% Estado de Mexico 0.04% Perception studies In 2015 we conducted such a perception study in all our operating In addition to informal and formal meetings that help us detect units. The pollster CINCO, specialised in social and reputational studies, relationship risks and opportunities, we periodically commission assisted us with the methodological design and field implementation. comprehensive perception studies to deepen our insight on the issues We approached our stakeholders using different quantitative and that matter to our communities. These aim at evaluating how we are qualitative engagement tools (see below). In addition, we performed perceived as employers, neighbours and to what extent our credibility, social risk assessments in our key advanced exploration and environmental and social commitment are recognised. development projects. These studies adopt key social elements required by the Equator Principles, the framework by which banks look to manage environmental and social issues in project financing. Engagement Tool Survey Focus group Interview Workshop Community Stakeholder Informal leaders Local authorities Contractors 81 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Dimension Description Engaging effectively Effective engagement improves our understanding of the community Employer How the relationship between employees and the and builds mutually beneficial relationships. We aim to engage early Company is perceived. Elements considered include: to manage community expectations and develop trust through the pride, remuneration, work conditions, health & mining lifecycle. Building a reservoir of stakeholder capital is key to safety, training, stability, growth opportunities, resilience when challenges arise. The focus of our engagement efforts wellbeing changes over the lifecycle of operations, as follows: Social How our contribution to the community is commitment appreciated. Elements considered include: Exploration Our exploration teams are the first to establish cooperation in emergencies, participation in contact with the community. Our stakeholders are community activities, infrastructure support, identified and the engagement efforts focus on promotion of sports, health, family values, obtaining temporary land access to explore and education assessing social risks. Environmental How our environmental stewardship is rated. Project The identification and relation with our stakeholders commitment Elements studied include: environmental (feasibility – deepens in this phase of the cycle. Local hiring, compliance, certifications, care for natural resources development) contracts and social investment are part of our and biodiversity, emissions, waste management, efforts to build trust. We conduct social risk clean technology, promotion of environmental assessments in our advanced feasibility and awareness, responsible use of water and energy development projects. These studies facilitate the Value creation How the Company is perceived, the value we create identification of the issues that matter to the and credibility and our ethical behaviour. Elements considered community. include: leadership, modernity, regional value Operation We engage the communities regularly with formal creation, job creation, development of local and informal meetings to manage their suppliers, ethics and integrity, legal compliance, expectations and detect risks and opportunities. transparency, communication, credibility, coherence Comprehensive perception studies help to monitor (speech vs actions), honesty, care the perception of the benefits and the assessment Neighbour How our engagement efforts are esteemed. of the issues that matter to the community. Elements considered include: mitigation and avoidance of impacts, capacity building, care of the Land acquisition is a major risk due to rising expectation of communities, respect for the local customs, landowners; our land acquisition and community relations teams are cooperation to solve issues, social acceptance enhancing their collaboration to bring social expertise to this critical process, notably at San Julián and Saucito. The outcomes of these perception studies and social risk assessments will be presented to senior managers and the community relations As part of the ongoing maturity process, we focused on the following teams throughout 2016 to improve our engagement and social practices: stakeholder mapping, informal and formal meetings, social investment strategies. baselines, social impact assessments, incident and commitment registries and grievances. We are committed to advancing the maturity of these practices. Relevance matrix 9 8 10 9 Issues that matter to our stakeholders in the communities (Ranging in increasing relevance from 0 to 10) 5 4 5 4 Water 3 4 9 1 Security Pavement on streets and sidewalks Electricity supply in houses 3 3 9 2 Wastewater infrastructure Unemployment 5 3 1 4 Road infrastructure 2 4 4 3 4 2 Community Local Contractors/ Informal authorities suppliers leaders 82 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Developing with the community Economic impact Our strategic social investments target development levers such as Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where we Strategic Report education, capacity building and infrastructure. We also contribute to operate through total wages and benefits, payments to local social welfare (public health, social interaction and sports) and help contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state and federal taxes. raise environmental awareness within our communities. Mining Fund Given our knowledge of the communities and engineering expertise, The Mexican government introduced new mining rights in 2014. The we work with local authorities on proposals for Mining Fund Tax Collection Agency will allocate 80% of this revenue to a Mining infrastructure projects in the communities where we operate (see Fund for infrastructure and development projects in the municipalities below). Our community relations teams facilitate health weeks with where mining companies operate. The Mining Fund allocates 62.5% to the UNAM Foundations, securing community participation and the municipalities and 37.5% to state governments. collecting feedback on health and other issues that matter to the communities. We continue to build on our partnership with INNOVEC The Mining Fund will finance construction and refurbishment of and the government of Zacatecas state to support the teaching of infrastructure such as schools, pavement, rural roads, public lighting, Corporate Governance science in elementary schools. Schools in the neighbouring sewage and landfills. The federal agency for Rural and Urban communities of Fresnillo and Saucito are in the pipeline of schools to development (SEDATU) is responsible for setting the operating rules of receive government funding to implement this innovative the Mining Fund and overseeing the appropriate uses of monies. programme. Regional committees have been created to evaluate and determine which projects will receive funding, whose members include one We continued our efforts to engage NGOs on development projects, representative each from the federal, state and municipal resulting in a new portfolio of proposals and alliances that our governments, the community and the mining industry. Funds are business units may reference to facilitate their social investment channelled through the Mexican Development Bank. initiatives. In addition, we launched regional and corporate social investment committees. We expect to keep maturing this governance The Mining Fund started operations in the final quarter of 2015 with mechanism of social investment. the allocation of the taxes collected in 2014. The Fund is expected to raise social acceptability of mining companies, although municipalities Silver Saves Lives (SSL) manage vast territories with communities both near and far from Financial Statements Access to safe drinking water is a major global challenge. The Silver actual mining operations. We believe that a key success factor to Saves Lives initiative, launched with the assistance of Agile raising social acceptability rests on the willingness of municipalities to Sustainability, aims to make clean water more accessible to allocate a reasonable part of their funds to those communities near vulnerable groups within society and addresses part of our mining operations. commitment to support goal number six of the SDGs, to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for We have begun to engage local authorities and regional mining fund all. committees to consider funding projects in the communities where we operate. The outcomes of the perception surveys and regular Silver Saves Lives will begin by addressing national and local health engagement were used to identify the most relevant infrastructure issues in Mexico, targeting communities where we operate and clean issues for the communities. We supported the communities with the water access is perceived as a concern. However, we intend for SSL to preliminary design and budgeting of project proposals for water and eventually become an international effort by pursuing partnerships wastewater projects, pavements, lighting, education infrastructure, with organisations such as UNDP, UNICEF, the Silver Institute and sanitation and landfills, among others. others. SSL is designed to propose a range of solutions depending on specific communities’ needs; we anticipate working with a variety of 2015 2014 partners, amongst them the communities themselves. Mining fund (USD) 11,365,022 6,239,305 In 2015, we partnered with Isla Urbana and ConcentrArte, both NGOs, to develop a proposal for a pilot water harvesting project at Ciénega. A workshop was organised to stimulate constructive dialogue and alignment of objectives between the mine and strategic partners. We also introduced an innovative application of the photo voice method (storytelling aided by photography) aimed at bridging the divide between mine and community, particularly on the issue of water. 83 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Our people 2015 objectives >> Formalise an action plan with the feedback received in the Strategy and objectives workplace survey We seek to attract, develop and retain the best people, and >> Integrate ethics and integrity considerations in the criteria used engage them over the long-term. We work to develop an for key HR processes organisational culture based on trust, and to embed ethics and >> Advance the ethics and integrity programme by engaging union integrity into our culture in order to create a fair and respectful leaders and training unionised workers workplace. >> Launch anti-bullying and harassment campaign 2015 performance ity ibil >> Presented results of the workplace survey to senior HR managers ons In t p >> New employee training includes ethics and integrity component Res rity eg >> Held pilot workshops with union representatives of Penmont and Ciénega with positive outcomes >> Launched anti-bullying campaign Trust >> Launched online learning tools for core competency training 2016 objectives >> Train unionised workers in the ethics and integrity programme alt Loy y >> Enhance readiness of crisis committees at each business unit fe ty Sa >> Implement information systems to manage contractor employees in our operations Ethics and culture We aspire to demonstrate a well-established ethical culture through our actions and behaviours. Our values are the cornerstone of our Ethics and Culture programme. Human resources We seek to strengthen the talent pipeline to satisfy our present and future business needs, ensuring we have the people with the right Secure the skills and development potential to execute our business strategy. Talent Pipeline Embedding ethics and integrity into our organisational culture is the path we have chosen to build trust among our stakeholders. Investment in training Talent US$m Management 2.40 1.78 1.69 2.13 2.40 Culture of Trust 2012 2013 2014 2015 84 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Securing the talent pipeline Responsible labour policies, diversity and human rights Planning our human capital requirements is carefully aligned to our Human and labour rights Strategic Report operations, with frequent feedback to monitor progress. To attract We are strongly committed to internationally recognised human and young talent in geology, metallurgy and mining engineering, we labour rights, and take necessary measures to prevent and remedy collaborate with leading educational institutions in Mexico and offer any deviations thereof. Child labour and compulsory work are banned students internships of varying lengths. Partner universities include from our operations. We respect freedom of association and the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), National collective bargaining. We do not tolerate any form of harassment, Polytechnic Institute (IPN), University of Guanajuato, Autonomous intimidation or discrimination. To raise awareness, we launched the University of Zacatecas (UAZ), Autonomous University of Chihuahua Aguas (Watch out) campaign to engage people to speak out and (UACH), University of Sonora (UNISON) and the Autonomous denounce bullying and harassment. University of San Luis Potosí (UASLP). The Honours Commission is responsible for investigating and We recruit graduates from the pool of interns through the Engineers sanctioning unethical behaviours, including infringements to human in Training programme; these graduates are assigned a coach from and labour rights. Our Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing programme Corporate Governance the operations who supervises their development and provides allows anyone to anonymously denounce cases of unethical performance appraisals. Engineers in training with good appraisals behaviour, including human right violations. receive permanent job offers. We also recruit experienced professionals to enhance the talent pipeline. Interns, engineers in Women in mining training and experienced professionals participate in an ethics and Management is committed to building a cultural environment where integrity workshop, a presentation of our policies and safety training employees can flourish, irrespective of gender. The proportion of tailored to their job profile. women in our workforce is 8.5% (2014: 9.4%), compared to 7.2% overall in Mexico’s metal and mining industry. While slightly above the national Our Centre for Technical Studies (CETEF) trains mining technicians to average, we aim to reverse our downward trend and increase our cater for our specific needs. CETEF candidates are chosen from the gender diversity. This will take time to rectify but it has been changing, communities surrounding our operations, thus securing talent and particularly in relation to unionised workers. The Company is committed strengthening our social licence to operate. Training is based on a to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining German hands-on model, whereby students spend 20% of the time engineering, geology, finance and accounting. Financial Statements studying theory and 80% practicing with the same equipment they would find in our operations. To recruit maintenance technicians, we Labour practices and union engagement partner with Peñoles to train our interns at their Centre for Technical We are committed to mutually respectful relations with local labour Studies at Laguna del Rey (CETLAR). unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration. To date, Fresnillo plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial action Talent management as a consequence of labour disputes. Developing and retaining our people for the long term is fundamental to executing our business strategy. Each business unit has a union committee with elected representatives. Once union representatives are elected, we partner Performance appraisal is key to talent management; the assessment with their national committee to engage new leaders with training cycle begins with the definition of annual objectives that align with courses that develop leadership skills and raise awareness of their business objectives, and that are then evaluated at the end of the rights and responsibilities. Union committees have ongoing year. Appraisals include an evaluation of skills needed for the position interactions with the Company. The HR superintendent is responsible and any recommended training or continuing education. To address for maintaining permanent dialogue with the commission. The the most common skills requirements – problem analysis, effective management team in each operation organises results presentations communication, negotiation and budget controls – we launched a several times a year to foster common understanding of the business. virtual campus to train our people. Collective bargaining covers wages, recruitment and dismissals, In addition, we have begun to evaluate the leadership potential of our materials/tools/machinery, shifts/working hours/holidays/vacations, people based on a Hogan assessment tool; results are cross-analysed work permits (flexibility), disciplinary measures, training (and with their annual performance appraisal to identify development induction), health & safety, work-related risks, accidents and opportunities. The outcomes of this programme will also serve as a non-occupational diseases, occupational diseases, life insurance foundation for succession plans. (compensation), career (echelons, seniority, etc.), restructures, savings fund and early retirement compensation. In addition, collective We develop our high potential middle managers via the Leaders with agreements specify the commitment to manage restructuring Vision programme, in which senior executives deliver seminars responsibly. Whenever there are redundancies in a mine or a specific throughout the year as a mechanism to engage and mobilise our department we give preference to these employees to fill open people. The executives participate in a training programme organised positions in other mines or departments. by the Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology (ITAM), a leading business school. 85 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Voluntary labour turnover Our people continued Voluntary labour turnover Total turnover Great Place to Work Trust Index ® © As part of our employee engagement efforts we conduct the Great 3.85% 6.70% 4.69% 8.19% 5.48% 7.77% 5.39% 9.21% Place to Work perception survey to measure the level of trust, pride and camaraderie based on the quality of the workplace experience. In 2015, Fresnillo plc was recognised as a Great Place to Work in Mexico and currently ranks 17th among companies with more than 5,000 employees. Social aspects in our value chain Our labour clauses require contractors to comply with all legal regulations, notably enrolling their workers in the public health and retirement system (IMSS) and the housing loan system (INFONAVIT). 2012 2013 2014 2015 We apply our own health & safety guidelines and procedures to our Number of permanent employee resignations as a percentage of total permanent employees contractors. hours worked. Gender diversity Gender diversity (managers) Gender diversity 2.40% 8.50% 4.35% 8.83% 3.85% 9.40% 3.45% 8.33% 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of women, and female managers Employees and contractors Unionised workers Employees Non-unionised workers Contractors Unionised workers 3,840 3,292 3,589 2,684 3,245 3,150 2,607 2,610 4,191 3,300 3,262 3,501 693 817 899 652 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Average workforce training Average HSECR training Hours Hours 100 69 94 85 87 100 50 55 57 69 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 86 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Review Fresnillo Today The Consolidated Financial Statements of Fresnillo plc are prepared in accordance with International Strategic Report Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU. This Financial Review is intended to convey the main factors affecting performance and to provide a detailed analysis of the financial results in order to enhance understanding of the Group’s financial statements. All comparisons refer to 2015 figures compared to 2014, unless otherwise noted. The financial information and year-on-year variations are presented in US dollars, except where indicated. The full Financial Statements and their accompanying notes can be found on pages 138 to 197. Commentary on financial performance The Company has structured certain hedge positions to cover the risk As we set out below, challenging and unpredictable conditions in the of precious metal prices, as set out in the Financial Statements on precious metals industry in 2015, combined with Company-specific page 192. Corporate Governance issues, affected our financial results in the year. Notwithstanding these factors, the Group’s profitable operating profile, disciplined focus Foreign exchange rates on productivity and efficiency, and strong asset portfolio give us The average spot Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate devalued by confidence in our cash generating capacity and ability to generate 19.2%, from $13.30 per US dollar in 2014 to $15.85 per US dollar in sustainable stakeholder value over the long term. 2015. This resulted in a favourable effect estimated at US$48.0 million on the Group’s production costs, as costs denominated in Mexican Fresnillo plc’s financial performance largely reflects the Group’s pesos (approximately two-thirds of total costs) were lower when operational performance, asset quality, and the ability of our converted to US dollars. management and personnel to execute towards our strategic goals. However, there are a number of macroeconomic variables that lie The Mexican peso/US dollar spot exchange rate at 31 December 2015 beyond our control which affect financial results. These include: was $17.21 per US dollar, compared to $14.72 per US dollar at the beginning of the year. The 16.9% devaluation had an adverse effect Precious metal prices on: i) monetary assets and liabilities transacted in Mexican pesos; ii) Financial Statements In 2015, the strengthening of the US dollar, an improving US economy the Mexican peso/US dollar hedge programme and related realised and the significant decline in oil prices put further downward pressure and unrealised gains and losses; and iii) taxes and mining rights as the on precious metal prices. The average realised gold price decreased devaluation resulted in an increase in related deferred tax liabilities. 10.4%, to US$1,126.5 per ounce and the average realised silver price decreased 16.1% to $15.6 per ounce. Furthermore, the average lead and zinc prices decreased 13.6% and 15.2% year on year. Income statement 2015 2014 Amount Change US$m US$m US$ % Adjusted revenue1 1,583.3 1,545.0 38.3 2.5 Lead and zinc hedging 3.9 0.1 3.8 >100 Treatment and refining charges (142.8) (131.4) (11.4) 8.7 Total revenues 1,444.4 1,413.7 30.7 2.2 Cost of sales (1,011.3) (892.6) (118.7) 13.3 Gross profit 433.1 521.1 (88.0) (16.9) Exploration expenses 140.2 168.8 (28.5) (16.9) EBITDA2 547.5 567.3 (19.8) (3.5) Finance income 65.8 7.5 58.3 >100 Finance costs (45.5) (54.6) 9.1 (16.7) Profit before income tax 212.4 251.1 (38.7) (15.4) Mining right 14.0 15.7 (1.7) (11.1) Income tax expense 129.0 118.3 10.7 9.1 Profit for the year 69.4 117.1 (47.7) (40.7) Profit for the year, excluding post-tax Silverstream effects 50.0 63.2 (13.2) (20.9) Attributable profit 70.5 108.4 (37.9) (35.0) Attributable profit, excluding post-tax Silverstream effects 51.1 54.5 (3.4) (6.2) Basic and diluted Earnings per share (US$/share)3 0.096 0.147 (0.051) (34.7) Basic and diluted Earnings per share, excluding post-tax Silverstream effects (US$/share) 0.069 0.074 (0.005) (6.8) 1 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. 2 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) is calculated as gross profit plus depreciation less administrative, selling and exploration expenses. 3 The weighted average number of ordinary shares was 736,894,000 for 2015 and 2014. See note 19 in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 87 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Review continued Cost deflation Maintenance For the first time since the Company’s IPO in 2008, there was a net Unit prices of spare parts for maintenance decreased 6.4% on average decrease in the weighted average input cost over the year, of 8.4%. in US dollars. This deflation reflected, amongst other factors, the favourable effect of the 19.2% average devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US Others dollar. Other cost components include freight and insurance premiums, which decreased by an estimated 4.0% and 3.6% respectively on a Labour per unit basis. The remaining components had an average deflation Employees received a 5.5% increase in wages in Mexican pesos and of 5.7% over 2014. administrative employees at the mines received a 4.5% increase; when converted to US dollars the deflation factor was 11.7%. Treatment and refining charges Treatment and refining charges1, which are deducted from adjusted Energy revenue for the purposes of revenues as disclosed in the income Electricity statement, are determined annually using international benchmarks. The Group’s weighted average cost of electricity decreased by 35.6% Treatment charges per tonne of lead concentrate decreased by 7.0%, to US$7.1 cents per kW in 2015, compared to US$11.0 in 2014. whilst silver refining charges and treatment charges per tonne of zinc Electricity rates are set by the Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE), concentrate remained relatively stable year on year. However this was the national utility, based on their average generating cost, which more than offset by the increase in volumes of lead and zinc correlates mainly to fuel oil and coal prices. In 2015, the decrease in concentrates with high silver contents shipped mainly from Saucito to electricity rates by CFE was mainly explained by the lower oil prices Met-Mex, resulting in an 8.7% aggregate increase in treatment and and its efforts to substitute expensive fuels for cheaper and cleaner refining charges. alternatives such as natural gas and renewable energy. The effects of the above external factors, combined with the Group’s Diesel internal variables, are further described below through the main line The weighted average cost of diesel in US dollars decreased 11.1% items of the income statement. from US$83.5 cents per litre in 2014 to US$74.2 cents per litre in 2015. Diesel prices are controlled by Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), the Revenues national oil company. Consolidated revenues (US$ millions) Operating materials 2015 2014 Amount Change Year over US$ million US$ million US$ % year change Adjusted revenue2 1,583.3 1,545.0 38.3 2.5 in USD % Gold, lead and zinc 3.9 0.1 3.8 >100 Steel balls for milling -6.9 hedging Lubricants -5.4 Treatment and (142.8) (131.4) (11.4) 8.7 Tyres -5.0 refining charges Sodium cyanide -3.5 Total revenues 1,444.4 1,413.7 30.7 2.2 Other reagents -2.2 2 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude Explosives -2.1 treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. Steel for drilling 0.8 Weighted average of all operating materials -3.8 Total revenues for the full year of US$1,444.4 million increased by 2.2% over 2014. This was mainly explained by higher adjusted revenue, which rose 2.5% to US$1,583.3 million as a result of the increase in For the second consecutive year, unit prices of the majority of key sales volumes which more than mitigated the lower metal prices. operating materials decreased due to the lower demand for these However, this positive effect was slightly offset by the 8.7% increase in inputs, resulting in a net weighted average decrease of -3.8%. This treatment and refining charges. reflects the combined effect of price inflation and the weighting of each component in the total cost of operating materials. There has not been a significant impact from the devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate as the majority of these items are dollar denominated. Contractors Agreements are signed individually with each contractor and have specific terms and conditions that cover operating materials, equipment and labour, amongst others. Contractor costs are an important component of the Company’s total costs, denominated in Mexican pesos. In 2015, increases granted to contractors, whose agreement was due for review during the period, ranged from 1.9%–23.9% in Mexican pesos (equivalent to -14.5% to 3.9% in dollar 1 Treatment and refining charges include the cost of treatment and refining as well as terms), resulting in a weighted average decrease of 4.8% in dollars. the margin charged by the customer. 88 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today In 2015 we entered into derivative contracts to hedge part of our lead In addition, in 2014 we initiated a one-off gold hedging programme to and zinc by-product production through collar structures, resulting in protect the value of the investment made in the Penmont acquisition, Strategic Report a US$3.9 million gain recorded in the income statement. The chart the effects of which are recorded as finance income and a small below illustrates the expired hedging structures, results in 2015 and portion in revenue as detailed on pages 93 and 192. The chart below the outstanding hedged position as of 31 December. illustrates the expired hedging structures, results in 2015 and the outstanding hedged position as of 31 December. 2015 As of 31 December Concept Zinc Lead Zinc* Lead* As of 31 Weighted floor 2,120 2,044 2,205 1,985 December* Concept 2015 2014 2015 (US$/tonne) Weighted cap 2,536 2,381 2,543 2,259 Weighted floor (US$/oz) 1,100 1,100 1,100 (US$/tonne) Weighted cap (US$/oz) 1,431 1,440 1,426 Expired volume 11,179 4,397 – – Expired volume (oz) 266,760 35,413 – (tonne) Gain recognised in income 1,023,580 – – Corporate Governance Gain recognised in 1,684,725 1,157,383 – – Total outstanding volume (oz) – – 1,257,516 income * Monthly settlements until December 2019. Total outstanding – – 4,536 4,272 volume (tonne) The Group’s hedging policy remained unchanged for the remainder of * Monthly settlements until December 2015. the portfolio, providing shareholders with full exposure to gold and silver prices. The higher volumes sold mainly due to the ramp-up at Saucito II and Herradura resulted in a positive impact on revenues of US$247.2 million. This was partly offset by the US$208.9 million unfavourable effect of the lower metal prices. Financial Statements The contribution of gold to adjusted revenues rose from 47% in 2014 to 52% in 2015 and the contribution of silver decreased from 46% to 39%. This resulted from the combination of: i) the increase in the volume of gold sold (+28.3%) being higher than that of silver (+3.4%); and ii) that whilst the average price of gold decreased 10.4%, average silver price decreased 16.1%, thus increasing the gold/silver price ratio from 67.3 to 73.8. Adjusted revenues3 by metal (US$ millions) 2015 2014 US$ US$ Volume Price Total million % million % variance variance US$ % Silver 617.4 39 714.9 46 22.1 (119.6) (97.5) (13.6) Gold 827.4 52 720.5 47 176.7 (69.8) 106.9 14.8 Lead 67.1 4 51.5 3 24.4 (8.7) 15.7 30.3 Zinc 71.3 5 58.1 4 24.0 (10.8) 13.2 22.7 Total adjusted revenues 1,583.3 100 1,545.0 100 247.2 (208.9) 38.3 2.5 3 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement adjusted to exclude treatment and refining charges and gold, lead and zinc hedging. In terms of adjusted revenues by mine, Saucito has become the main contributor to adjusted revenues as a result of the successful ramp-up at Saucito II. Herradura increased its share of consolidated adjusted revenues due to higher volumes of gold produced and sold resulting from the ramp-up to steady state post the lifting of the suspension of the explosives permit in 2014, and the first full year of operations at the dynamic leaching plant. The increased gold production at Noche Buena slightly increased its contribution. In contrast, Fresnillo contributed a lesser share of adjusted revenues and decreased to the third most important contributor to adjusted revenue, reflecting the lower volumes produced as a result of the operational challenges faced in this mine (see pages 50 to 51). The lower gold grades at Ciénega combined with lower precious metal prices resulted in a decrease in its contribution to adjusted revenues. Adjusted revenues by metal Adjusted revenues by mine 2015 2014 2015 2014 Gold 52% 47% Saucito 468.4 372.5 Silver 39% 46% Herradura 445.1 342.7 Zinc 5% 4% Fresnillo 318.6 460.3 Lead 4% 3% Noche Buena 181.7 163.5 Total 100% 100% Ciénega 169.5 206.0 Soledad-Dipolos 0.0 0.0 Total 1,583.3 1,545.0 89 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Review continued Volumes of metal sold Noche Buena and Herradura (US$70.2 million); ii) additional 2015 2014 Change % adjusted production costs resulting from a full year of operations Silver (koz) at the DLP (US$5.2 million); and iii) contractor costs increased as a Fresnillo 14,630 19,513 (25.0) result of a greater number of contractors used to carry out Saucito 20,337 14,684 38.5 development, mainly at the Fresnillo mine, and an increase in the Ciénega 4,129 3,427 20.5 unit fees charged by contractors in Mexican pesos (US$9.7 million). Herradura 535 673 (20.6) Noche Buena 63 100 (37.0) The positive effect of adjusted production costs was more than offset Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 by increases in: Total silver (koz) 39,694 38,398 3.4 >> Variation in change in work in progress (+US$111.0 million). This Gold (koz) was mainly explained by the increase in ore inventories in 2014 at Fresnillo 31 32 (3.6) Herradura as a result of not having sufficient capacity at the Merrill Saucito 75 53 42.5 Crowe plant to process all the rich solution coming from both the Ciénega 77 97 (21.0) pads and the new dynamic leaching plant; and at Noche Buena as Herradura 409 264 55.2 part of the ramp-up to the new expanded capacity. This year, the Noche Buena 143 128 11.9 bottleneck at Herradura was eliminated and Noche Buena Soledad-Dipolos 0 0 0 operated steadily, resulting in a small reduction in inventory. Total gold (koz) 735 573 28.3 Additionally, this year due to the continued drop in gold price we Lead (mt) recognised a write down of US$5.01 million in the value of Fresnillo 15,030 12,754 17.8 inventories at Soledad and Dipolos. Saucito 18,916 8,959 111.1 >> Depreciation (+US$35.0 million): The increase was explained by the Ciénega 4,352 3,655 19.1 higher depreciation recorded at Saucito as a result of the start-up Total lead (mt) 38,298 25,369 51.0 of Saucito II, additional mining works depreciated at Fresnillo and Zinc (mt) increased depletion factors mainly at Herradura and Noche Buena. Fresnillo 15,936 12,657 25.9 >> Hedging (+US$27.5 million): The Group enters into certain Saucito 17,358 8,643 100.8 exchange rate derivative instruments as part of a programme to Ciénega 5,324 5,399 (1.4) manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with Total zinc (mt) 38,618 26,699 44.6 costs incurred in Mexican pesos. The Company had short-term forward dollar sales of US$116.5 million mature during the year at Cost of sales an average rate of $15.735 MXN/USD, resulting in a US$186,875 2015 2014 Amount Change profit recognised in the income statement. As of 31 December, US$ million US$ million US$ % there were no outstanding forward instruments. Adjusted production 634.5 678.0 (43.5) (6.4) Additionally, the Group entered into a combination of put and call costs4 options structured at zero cost (collars). In 2015, these derivatives Depreciation 331.2 296.2 35.0 11.8 were used to hedge US$279.5 million of costs denominated in Change in work in (6.3) (104.7) 111.0 (106.0) Mexican pesos with average floor and cap exchange rates of progress $13.488 and $14.422 per US dollar respectively, resulting in a US$28.42 million loss recorded in the income statement. The total Profit sharing 12.8 12.6 0.2 1.6 outstanding position using collar structures as of 31 December Hedging 28.6 1.1 27.5 >100 2015 was US$198.0 million with maturity dates throughout 2015 Others (2.1) 9.5 (11.5) N/A with average floor and cap exchange rates of $14.92 and $17.97 Cost of sales 1,011.3 892.6 118.7 13.3 per US dollar respectively. These instruments guarantee a minimum exchange rate should the market fall below the floor 4 Adjusted production costs is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, exchange rate. Between the floor and cap exchange rates the profit sharing and the effects of exchange rate hedging. Group sells US dollars at the market rate, and when the Mexican peso per US dollar exchange rate goes above the cap rate, the Cost of sales totalled US$1,011.3 million, an increase of 13.3% over Company is obliged to sell US dollars at the contract rate. 2014. The US$118.7 million increase is explained by the following >> Profit sharing (+US$0.2 million): Slight increase due to higher profit combination of factors: base at Saucito and Penmont (Herradura and Noche Buena), as each Fresnillo subsidiary pays profit sharing individually. >> A decrease in adjusted production costs (-US$43.5 million): This >> Others (-US$11.5 million): The change in others principally relates was mainly driven by: i) the efficiencies achieved at Saucito, Noche to unproductive costs incurred in the first quarter of 2014 related Buena, Ciénega and the dynamic leaching plant resulting from the to the limited operations at Herradura due to the temporary economies of scale (-US$53.2 million); ii) the favourable effect of suspension of the explosives permit; that situation was solved and the devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar exchange rate when thus no unproductive costs were recognised this year. converting peso-denominated costs to US dollars (-US$48.0 million); iii) energy costs, excluding foreign exchange effects, decreased due to lower unit prices of electricity and diesel (-US$12.6 million); iv) the lower volumes of ore processed at Fresnillo (-US$10.2 million); and v) others (-US$4.6 million) including a decrease in the unit cost of consumables priced in US dollars (electricity, operating materials, spare parts, diesel, etc.); partially offset by the increase in unit cost of personnel (excluding foreign exchange effects) and other items in pesos. These positive effects were partially offset by: i) the increased ore throughput at Saucito, 90 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Cost per tonne, cash cost per ounce and all-in sustaining cost Saucito: US$1.15/oz (2015) vs US$2.48/oz (2014), (-53.4%) Cost per tonne, calculated as total production costs less depreciation, The decrease was driven by the lower cost per tonne (-US$1.71/oz) Strategic Report profit sharing and exchange rate hedging effects, divided by total (see page 53); and higher by-product credits per ounce of silver tonnage milled or deposited, is a key indicator to measure the effects resulting from increased gold, lead and zinc volumes sold (-US$0.44/ of mining inflation and cost control performance at each mine and oz). These positive effects were partly offset by the expected lower the Group as a whole. We have included cost per tonne hauled/ silver grade (+US$0.45/oz); higher treatment and refining charges moved as we believe it is a useful indicator to thoroughly analyse resulting from the same reasons as mentioned for the Fresnillo mine cost performance for the open pit mines. For more information on (+US$0.25/oz); and higher profit sharing (+US$0.13/oz). changes in cost per tonne by mine please see Review of Operations pages 50 to 59. Ciénega: US$245.49/oz (2015) vs US$288.00/oz (2014), (-14.8%) The decrease in cash cost was primarily explained by higher byCost per tonne product credits per ounce of gold due to the increased volumes of 2015 2014 Change % silver and lead sold (-US$198.32/oz); the decrease in cost per tonne Fresnillo US$/tonne milled 48.20 47.29 1.9 (-US$108.62/oz) (see page 55); and others (-US$5.83/oz). These Corporate Governance favourable factors were partially offset by the expected decrease in Saucito US$/tonne milled 42.49 59.14 (28.2) gold grade (+US$221.58/oz); and higher treatment and refining Ciénega US$/tonne milled 62.99 70.84 (11.1) charges resulting from lower gold ore grade which implies producing Herradura US$/tonne 8.68 9.29 (6.6) more concentrate per ounce of gold, and higher lead and zinc ore deposited grades which increase the volume of concentrates (+US$48.68/oz). Herradura US$/tonne 2.66 2.37 12.2 hauled Herradura: US$472.53/oz (2015) vs US$465.42/oz (2014), (+1.5%) Noche Buena US$/tonne 7.93 9.98 (20.5) The increase in cash cost resulted from: an adverse inventory deposited valuation effect, as ounces with a lower cost of production in the current period are mixed with the initial higher cost of inventory Noche Buena US$/tonne 1.67 1.68 (0.6) affecting cost of sales (+US$78.52/oz); and lower by-product credits hauled per gold ounce due to the lower silver price and decreased volumes of SoledadUS$/tonne – – N/A silver sold (+US$27.45/oz). These negative effects were partly Financial Statements Dipolos deposited mitigated by: i) the unproductive costs recorded in 2014 in relation to the stoppage (-US$52.81/oz); ii) the lower cost per tonne (-US$33.89/ Cash cost per ounce, calculated as total cash cost (cost of sales plus oz) (see page 57); iii) higher ore grade (-US$8.45/oz); and iv) others treatment and refining charges less depreciation) less revenues from (-US$3.70/oz). by-products divided by the silver or gold ounces sold, when compared to the corresponding metal price, is an indicator of the ability of the Noche Buena: US$972.74/oz (2015) vs US$945.63/oz (2014), (+2.9%) mine to cover its production costs. The increase in cash cost per ounce was mainly explained by i) the adverse inventory valuation effect mentioned for the Herradura mine Cash cost per ounce (+US$164.27/oz); ii) the lower gold grade (+US$73.03/oz); and iii) others 2015 2014 Change % (+US$6.08/oz). These adverse effects were partially offset by the lower Fresnillo US$ per silver 5.60 5.29 5.9 cost per tonne (-US$216.26/oz) (see page 59). ounce Soledad-Dipolos: There were no comparable figures in 2015 and 2014 Saucito US$ per silver 1.15 2.48 (53.4) due to the suspended operations. ounce Ciénega US$ per gold 245.5 288.0 (14.8) In addition to the traditional cash cost described above, the Group is ounce reporting all-in sustaining costs (AISC), in accordance with the Herradura US$ per gold 472.5 465.4 1.5 guidelines issued by the World Gold Council. ounce Noche Buena US$ per gold 972.7 945.6 2.9 This cost metric is calculated as traditional cash cost plus on-site ounce general, corporate and administrative costs, community costs related to current operations, capitalised stripping and underground mine SoledadUS$ per gold – – N/A development, sustaining capital expenditures and remediation Dipolos ounce expenses. The particular variations in cash cost for each mine are explained as Management considers all-in sustaining costs a reasonable indicator follows: of the mine’s ability to generate free cash flow when compared with the corresponding metal price, and a means to monitor current Fresnillo: US$5.60/oz (2015) vs US$5.29/oz (2014), (+5.9%) production costs and sustaining costs as it includes mine The increase in cash cost per ounce is mainly explained by the lower development costs incurred to prepare the mine for future volumes of silver sold, reflecting lower ore throughput and decline in production, as well as sustaining capex. ore grade (+US$1.46/oz); higher treatment and refining charges per silver ounce due to: lower silver ore grade which implies producing more concentrate per ounce of silver, higher zinc and lead ore grades which increases the volume of concentrates, and an increase in the participation of zinc concentrate which has a higher per unit treatment charge (+US$0.28/oz); and higher cost per tonne (+US$0.12/ oz) (see page 51). This was partly mitigated by higher by-product credits per silver ounce due to the increase in lead and zinc volumes (-US$1.40/oz); and lower profit sharing (-US$0.14/oz). 91 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Review continued All-in sustaining cost 2015 2014 Change % Fresnillo US$ per silver ounce 11.48 9.84 16.7 Saucito US$ per silver ounce 7.11 5.43 31.0 Ciénega US$ per gold ounce 710.37 786.40 (9.7) Herradura US$ per gold ounce 888.04 862.19 3.0 Noche Buena US$ per gold ounce 1,015.40 1,051.00 (3.4) Soledad-Dipolos US$ per gold ounce – – N/A Fresnillo: Higher, mainly due to the increase in capitalised development and mining works to move towards full capacity operations with access to sufficient stopes (further detail can be found on page 50); and the higher cash cost detailed above. Saucito: Higher, as a result of the increase in capex invested in the expansion and in efficiency projects; which was partly mitigated by the lower cash cost detailed above. Ciénega: Lower, primarily explained by the decrease in development, mining works and sustaining capex; and the lower cash cost detailed above. Herradura: Higher, due mainly to the temporary increase in capitalised stripping costs and higher sustaining capex; and to a lesser extent, the higher cash cost detailed above. Noche Buena: Lower, driven by the decrease in capitalised stripping costs; sustaining capex and lower cash cost detailed above. Soledad-Dipolos: There were no comparable figures in 2015 and 2014 due to the suspended operations. Gross profit Gross profit, excluding hedging gains and losses, is a key financial indicator of profitability at each business unit and the Fresnillo Group as a whole. Contribution by mine to consolidated gross profit, excluding hedging gains and losses 2015 2014 Change US$ US$ million % million % Amount % Saucito 198.7 44.4 188.9 33.3 9.8 5.2 Herradura 163.3 36.5 136.2 24.0 27.1 19.9 Fresnillo 83.1 18.5 206.7 36.4 (123.6) (59.8) Ciénega 17.1 3.8 40.8 7.2 (23.7) (58.1) Noche Buena (1.2) (0.3) 11.5 2.0 (12.7) N/A Soledad-Dipolos (13.0) (2.9) (16.5) (2.9) 3.5 (21.2) Total for operating mines 448.0 100.0 567.6 100.0 (119.6) (21.1) MXP/USD exchange rate hedging (losses) and gains (28.6) (1.1) (27.5) N/A Other subsidiaries 13.6 (45.4) 59.0 N/A Total Fresnillo plc 433.1 521.1 (88.0) (16.9) Total gross profit, net of hedging gains and losses, decreased 16.9% to US$433.1 million in 2015. The US$88.0 million decrease in gross profit was mainly explained by: i) the adverse effect of lower silver and gold prices (-US$187.0 million); ii) the 8.2% decrease in ore throughput and 14.9% decrease in silver grade at the Fresnillo mine (-US$64.3 million); iii) higher depreciation (-US$35.0 million); and iv) other effects (-US$8.4 million). The above factors were partially mitigated by higher gross profit related to: i) increased ore volumes processed at Saucito (+US$117.2 million); ii) the 19.2% devaluation of the Mexican peso/US dollar (+US$48.0 million); iii) the positive effect of reaching steady state at Herradura (+US$23.8 million); iv) the first full year of operations at the dynamic leaching plant (+US$13.4 million); and v) higher ore grades at Herradura (+US$4.3 million). On a per mine basis, Saucito became the largest contributor to the Group’s consolidated gross profit, reflecting the increased volumes produced and sold as a result of the ramp-up of Saucito II and strong margins generated at this mine, despite the lower metal prices. Gross profit at Herradura increased 19.9% to US$163.3 million in 2015 due to Herradura and its DLP being operational for the full year, the ramp-up to steady state and the commissioning of the second Merrill Crowe plant. This increased Herradura’s share of the Group’s consolidated gross profit from 24.0% in 2014 to 36.5% in 2015. Gross profit at the Fresnillo mine decreased 59.8% to US$83.1 million in 2015, reflecting the adverse effect of the lower volumes produced and the decrease in metal prices, which reduced Fresnillo’s contribution to the Group’s total gross profit to 18.5%. Gross profit at Ciénega decreased 58.1% as a result of the lower sales volumes of gold and the decline in metal prices, which reduced its share of the Group’s total to 3.8%. Lastly, at Noche Buena, the favourable effect of higher gold volumes produced and sold did not fully offset the impact of lower gold price and higher costs, generating a loss of US$1.2 million (including depreciation of US$43.5 million). 92 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Administrative expenses A gauge of the Group’s financial performance and key indicator to Administrative expenses decreased 7.0% from US$67.5 million to measure debt capacity is EBITDA, which is calculated as gross profit Strategic Report US$62.8 million due mainly to a decrease in non-recurring engineering plus depreciation, less administrative, selling and exploration and construction services provided by Servicios Industriales Peñoles, expenses. In 2015, EBITDA decreased 3.5% to US$547.5 million mainly S.A.B. de C.V. and the positive effect of the devaluation of the Mexican due to the lower gross profit, which was partially mitigated by lower peso against the US dollar in administrative expenses denominated exploration and administrative expenses. EBITDA margin expressed in pesos. as a percentage of revenues declined accordingly, from 40.1% in 2014 to 37.9% in 2015. Exploration expenses Other expenses Exploration Exploration Capitalised Capitalised Other expenses decreased by 37.9% to US$15.9 million in 2015. This Business unit/project expenses expenses expenses expenses included disposals of fixed assets, remediation works carried out at (US$ millions) 2015 2014 2015 2014 the Saucito, Herradura, Fresnillo and Ciénega mines (see page 170) Ciénega 20.5 27.6 and costs incurred in the maintenance of closed mines. This Corporate Governance Fresnillo 10.1 5.6 positively compares to the US$25.5 million loss registered in the Herradura 11.9 14.7 2014 income statement. Soledad-Dipolos – – Silverstream effects Saucito 8.6 3.2 The Silverstream contract is accounted for as a derivative financial Noche Buena 3.7 10.1 instrument carried at fair value. The revaluation of the Silverstream San Ramón 4.5 4.9 contract generated a US$6.1 million non-cash gain mainly as a result San Julián 3.3 4.4 of the increase in resources at Sabinas, which more than offset the lower forward price of silver and the higher discount rate used. In Orisyvo 13.3 15.2 0.4 1.2 addition, a US$21.6 million non-cash gain was generated by: i) the Centauro Deep 10.0 34.4 0.4 2.7 unwinding of the discounted values (US$20.3 million); and ii) the Guanajuato 3.9 4.0 difference between payments (volume and price) actually received and accrued in 2015 and payments estimated in the valuation model Financial Statements Juanicipio 0.0 0.0 9.9 10.1 as at 31 December 2014 (US$1.3 million). The total effect recorded in Others 50.4 44.7 0.4 1.7 the 2015 income statement was US$27.7 million, which represented a Total 140.2 168.8 11.1 15.7 64.0% decrease from the US$77.0 million registered in 2014. Exploration expenses in 2015 totalled US$140.2 million, a 16.9% Since the IPO, cumulative cash received has been US$502.0 million, decrease over 2014, as a result of management’s decision to continue while total non-cash revaluation gains of US$550.3 million have been reducing the expenditure given the decline in precious metals prices. taken to the income statement. The Group expects further unrealised Good results were obtained at a number of key exploration sites, and gains or losses will be taken to the income statement in accordance the resource base was expanded despite lower price assumptions with the cyclical behaviour of the silver price or changes in the variables (see exploration section pages 62 to 65). An additional US$11.1 million considered in valuing this contract. Further information related to the was recorded in association with mining works at Juanicipio and Silverstream contract is provided in the Balance Sheet section below minor equipment acquired at the Centauro Deep and Orisyvo projects. and in notes 15 and 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Furthermore, unit costs for exploration and drilling came down substantially, which allowed for similar rates of advancement at a Finance costs and income lower investment. As a result, total investment in exploration of Finance costs in 2015 decreased mainly due to the decline from US$151.3 million in 2015 decreased 18.0% over 2014, below the US$44.4 million to US$36.0 million in accrued interest payable in relation original budgeted figure of US$170 million. In 2016, risk capital to the US$800 million principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes. invested in exploration is expected to be within the range of US$135US$140 million, of which US$25 million is estimated to be capitalised. In 2014 we entered into derivative contracts to protect the value of the Penmont acquisition (see page 89). As at 31 December 2015, the EBITDA outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period 2015 2014 from January 2016 to December 2019 and hedge gold production of US$ million US$ million Amount Change % 1.3 million ounces with a floor price of US$1,100 per ounce and Gross Profit 433.1 521.1 (88.0) (16.9) capped weighted average price of US$1,426 per ounce. In 2015, we + Depreciation 331.2 296.2 35.0 11.8 recognised changes in the time value of the outstanding hedge position, resulting in a US$59.7 million non-cash gain recorded in the Administrative income statement. expenses (62.8) (67.5) 4.7 (7.0) Exploration expenses (140.2) (168.8) 28.5 (16.9) Selling expenses (13.7) (13.6) (0.1) 0.7 EBITDA 547.5 567.3 (19.8) (3.5) EBITDA margin 37.9 40.1 93 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Review continued Foreign exchange Taxation A foreign exchange loss of US$36.2 million was recorded in 2015 as a Corporate income tax expense of US$129.0 million increased 9.1% result of the 16.9% devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US over 2014 despite the lower profit base in 2015. This was mainly dollar. This loss adversely compares to the US$24.4 million loss explained by the devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US recognised in 2014. dollar, which increased deferred income taxes, generated by higher differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and The Group also enters into certain exchange rate derivative liabilities (denominated in US dollars) and their tax bases instruments as part of a programme to manage its exposure to (denominated in Mexican pesos). As a result, the effective tax rate was foreign exchange associated with the purchase of equipment 60.7%, significantly above the statutory corporate tax rate of 30%. denominated in euro (EUR) and Swedish krona (SEK). At year end, the Furthermore, US$14.0 million related to the special mining rights was total EUR and SEK outstanding net forward position was zero EUR and registered in the income statement in 2015. Including the effect of SEK 14.46 million with maturity dates through to March 2016. mining rights, the effective tax rate was 67.3%. Volumes that expired during 2015 were EUR 2.42 million with a Profit for the year weighted average strike of 1.193 USD/EUR and SEK 59.67 million with a Profit for the year decreased by 40.7% to US$69.4 million, whilst profit weighted average strike of 8.23 SEK/USD, which generated losses of attributable to equity shareholders of the Group declined by 35.0% US$0.1 million and US$0.9 million respectively. Both results were from US$108.4 million to US$70.5 million in 2015. recognised in the income statement. Excluding the effects of the Silverstream contract, profit for the year decreased 20.9% to US$50.0 million. Similarly, profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group, excluding the Silverstream effects, declined by 6.2% to US$51.1 million. Cash Flow A summary of the key items from the cash flow statement is set out below: 2015 2014 Amount Change US$ million US$ million US$ % Cash generated by operations before changes in working capital 537.3 568.5 (31.2) (5.5) Decrease/(Increase) in working capital 51.3 (183.4) 234.7 (128.0) Taxes and employee profit sharing paid (45.8) (263.5) 217.7 (82.6) Net cash from operating activities 542.9 121.6 421.3 346.5 Silverstream contract 39.4 58.8 (19.3) (32.9) Purchase of property, plant & equipment (474.7) (425.6) (49.1) 11.5 Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company (37.5) (87.0) 49.4 (56.8) Net interest (paid) (30.5) (37.6) 7.1 (18.8) Purchase of minority shares – (450.5) 450.5 N/A Net increase/(decrease) in cash during the period before foreign exchange differences 52.2 (798.2) 850.2 N/A Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at 31 December* 500.1 449.3 50.8 11.3 * As disclosed in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 totalled US$381.4 million and short-term investments held in fixed-term bank deposits amounted to US$118.7 million. In 2014, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2014 accounted for US$154.3 million and short-term investments amounted to US$295.0 million. Cash generated by operations before changes in working capital decreased by 5.5% to US$537.3 million, mainly as a result of the lower profits generated in the year. Working capital decreased US$51.3 million mainly due to: i) a decrease in trade and other receivables resulting mainly from the lower metal prices (US$58.2 million); ii) a decrease in inventories (US$5.0 million); and iii) a decrease in prepayments and other assets (US$0.9 million). These reductions in working capital were partially offset by a decrease in trade and other payables (US$12.8 million). Taxes and employee profit sharing paid decreased 82.6% over 2014 to US$45.8 million, mainly as a result of lower profits generated. As a result of the above factors, net cash from operating activities increased significantly from US$121.6 million in 2014 to US$542.9 million in 2015. Other sources of cash were the proceeds from the Silverstream contract of US$39.4 million. 94 Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today The above funds were mainly used to purchase property, plant and equipment for a total of US$474.7 million, which represented an 11.5% increase over 2014. This was below the revised guidance of US$570 million as a result of the deferral of some expenditures in light of the Strategic Report prevailing low precious metal prices. Capital expenditures for 2015 are further described below: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2015 US$ million Fresnillo mine 205.6 Mine development and purchase of in-mine equipment such as pumps, jumbos and a raiseboring machine. Construction of ramps and mining works, purchase of equipment for the leaching plant and acquisition of land at San Julián (US$150.3 million), and the Orisyvo project (US$1.2 million) Saucito mine 108.3 Mining works and purchase of in-mine equipment Herradura mine 119.7 Stripping activities, construction of leaching pad, sustaining capex and Corporate Governance construction of the second Merrill Crowe plant Ciénega mine 24.6 Development, replacement of in-mine equipment, purchase of equipment to optimise the milling process and employees’ facilities Noche Buena 2.6 Expansion of smelting capacity at the beneficiation plant, construction of leaching pads and diesel supply station Juanicipio project 9.9 Exploration expenses Other 4.0 Exploraciones Mineras Parreña and SAFSA Total purchase of property, plant and equip. 474.7 Dividends paid to shareholders of the Group in 2015 totalled US$37.5 The net book value of property, plant and equipment was US$2,138.6 million, a 56.8% decrease from 2014, in line with our dividend policy million at year end, representing an 8.6% increase over 2014. The Financial Statements that includes a consideration of profits generated in the period. The US$169.2 million increase was mainly explained by the capitalised 2015 payment included: i) the final 2014 dividend of US$22.1 million; development works at Fresnillo and Saucito; construction of San and ii) the 2015 interim dividend paid in September of US$15.5 million. Julián and of the Merrill Crowe plant at Herradura; purchase of additional in-mine equipment and surface land; and construction of Net interest of US$30.5 million was paid, mainly reflecting the interest leaching pads at Herradura. paid in relation with the issuance of the US$800 million principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes. The Group’s total equity was US$2,374.3 million as of 31 December 2015, a 3.1% increase over 2014. This was mainly explained by the The sources and uses of funds described above resulted in a net increase in retained earnings, reflecting the 2014 profit, less dividend increase of US$52.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, which paid during the year, and the net unrealised gains on cash flow combined with the US$449.3 million balance at the beginning of the hedges. year and the US$1.2 million unfavourable effect of the exchange rate resulted in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of Dividends US$500.1 million at the end of 2015. Based on the Group’s 2015 performance, the Directors have recommended a final dividend of 3.35 US cents per Ordinary Share, Balance Sheet which will be paid on 9 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on Fresnillo plc continues to prioritise and maintain a strong, flexible 22 April 2016. The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless financial position. shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars. This is in addition to the interim dividend of 2.1 US cents per share totalling US$15.5 million. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased during the year to US$500.1 million as explained above. Inventories slightly decreased 1.6% to US$300.6 million due to the decreased inventories of lead concentrate at Saucito, which more than offset the increase in inventories of gold deposited on the leaching pads at Herradura and Noche Buena. Trade and other receivables of US$305.7 million decreased 33.0% as a result of the decrease in prices which reduced receivables from Met-Mex. The change in the value of the Silverstream derivative from US$392.3 million at the beginning of the year to US$384.8 million as of 31 December 2015 reflects proceeds of US$35.2 million corresponding to 2015, (US$32.5 million in cash and US$2.7 million in receivables) and the Silverstream effect in the income statement of US$27.7 million. 95 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 96 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Corporate Governance Strategic Report Chairman’s Letter of Governance 98 Corporate Governance Overview 100 Leadership101 The Board of Directors 102 Executive Committee  104 Nominations Committee Report 106 Corporate Governance Effectiveness108 Relations with shareholders  112 Audit Committee Report  114 Directors’ Report 124 Directors’ Remuneration Report 126 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  137 Financial Statements 97 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chairman’s Letter of Governance First, during the summer, a group of both executive management and Non-executive Directors undertook a review of the format and content of our regular Board papers. The aim was to identify ways in which they could be improved to better provide the information that the Board considers it needs to be able to oversee the Company’s progress towards its strategic objectives, particularly the development aspects of strategy. Significant changes have now been made to our regular Board papers and our 2015 Board evaluation exercise has established that Board colleagues have welcomed the new formats. Second, another working group, overseen by our Audit Committee have been working for much of the past year on the Board’s response to the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that it publish a viability statement. The outcome of that work is set out on pages 48 and 49. This exercise has been thorough and well-structured, focusing our minds on our risk management framework enabling us to understand and test our longer-term planning in new and helpful ways. In 2014, the composition of the Board changed as three new Directors were appointed. I am pleased that our new Directors have quickly “Over the years we have sought to ensure brought their skills and experience to bear in Board and committee that the foundations on which the Group is discussions and their contributions have been valued by their Board based are firm providing a sound basis for both colleagues. The Nominations Committee has continued to keep the development of the Board at the heart of its deliberations and will the near-term and longer-term development continue to do so as we enter 2016. of our businesses.” Alberto Baillères The Board has spent time during the year thinking about our HSECR Chairman of the Board strategies and performance and for the first time, also devoted time to understanding the Group’s organisational culture and values programme. There are signs of encouragement to be seen in this programme but there are also reminders of the work to be done for example in our health and safety performance. We will continue to monitor this in 2016. Dear Shareholder, I would like to thank my Board and management colleagues for their contributions to the corporate governance of the Company and I look Over the years we have sought to ensure that the foundations on forward to working with them in 2016 to continue to build on the which the Group is based are firm providing a sound basis for both the governance foundations that we have established in support of our near-term and longer-term development of our businesses. Corporate long-term objectives. governance has an important role to play in this: without sound governance structures, decision-making is less reliable and Yours sincerely accountability for delivery is weakened. Consequently, in the absence of any major corporate activity this year, it has been possible for the Mr Alberto Baillères Board and committees to devote more time and attention in our Chairman of the Board meetings to long-term strategic considerations. This seems entirely appropriate at this stage in the economic cycle of our industry. A significant event on our governance agenda this year has been the important work that the Board has undertaken as part of the follow-up to our externally facilitated 2014 Board evaluation exercise. Fuller details are included in the Corporate Governance Report but I would highlight two particular aspects which I believe demonstrate the way in which the Board continues to work as an effective unit. 98 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement Strategic Report As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock For the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the Company Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FCA Listing Rules to has complied with the provisions of the Code in all areas, save in comply with the Code Provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate respect of D.2.1, which provides that the Board should establish Governance Code (a copy of which can be found on the website of a Remuneration Committee of at least three independent Nonthe Financial Reporting Council www.frc.org.uk) or otherwise explain executive Directors. The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration its reasons for non-compliance. The following statement is therefore Committee is made up of three members including two made in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 in compliance independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom, Charles Jacobs, with such requirement. The following sections of this report explain is the Chairman of the Committee. The Chairman of the Company, how the principles of the Code were applied and provide cross Mr Alberto Baillères, who was not independent at the time of his references to other sections of the report and/or the Company’s appointment, is also a member. The Board believes that Mr Baillères’ website (www.fresnilloplc.com) where more detailed descriptions experience and knowledge of the Group the Mexican market and Corporate Governance are available. his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee. Mr Baillères is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration. In this section • Corporate Governance Overview • Audit Committee Report Here we set out an at-a-glance summary of our governance Introduced by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, this report Financial Statements framework. It demonstrates how the key constituents of the describes the Audit Committee’s work during the year by Board process work together. reference to the principal responsibilities of the Committee for Read more p100–101 financial reporting, external audit, risk management and internal controls, internal audit, whistleblowing procedures and related party matters. Read more p114–123 • The Board • Directors’ Report This section introduces our individual Board members by The Directors’ Report is prepared in accordance with section 415 providing details of the skills and experience that they bring to of the Companies Act 2006, and sets out information that the the Boardroom and the committees that they serve on. Directors are required to present in accordance with the Act. Read more p102–104 Read more p124–125 • Corporate Governance Report • Directors’ Remuneration Report The Corporate Governance Report, which also includes the The Directors’ Remuneration Report includes a letter from the Nominations Committee Report and the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee summarising the Report, demonstrates how the Company fulfils the requirements Committee’s key discussions during the year; an extended of the UK Corporate Governance Code. This report analyses the extract of the Remuneration Policy which was approved in 2014; leadership provided by the Board, the steps taken to ensure that and the Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 which describes the Board is effective and the framework by which the Board how the policy has been applied during the year. manages relationships with shareholders. Read more p126–136 Read more p105–123 • Nominations Committee Report • Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Introduced by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, this This statement confirms the Directors’ responsibilities in relation report outlines the Committee’s philosophy on appointments to UK law and those International Financial Reporting Standards and diversity and describes the activities of the Committee (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. during the year. Read more p137 Read more p106–107 99 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Corporate Governance Overview The role and interaction of the Board and its committees The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: Audit Committee >> Monitor internal controls and review the work of Internal Audit >> Review published Company financial >> Oversee related party matters reports and underlying judgements >> Oversee Group whistleblowing procedures >> Monitor the work of the external auditor >> Review of Viability Statement and going >> Oversee the risk management framework concern disclosures and supporting rationale HSECR Committee >> Monitor the Group’s HSECR systems >> Verify the Group’s HSECR activities >> Review reports on all fatalities and monitor >> Oversee HSECR policies and procedures management responses Fresnillo plc Nominations Committee Board >> Oversee the Board appointment process >> Board and Executive Committee >> Evaluate skills, knowledge and experience succession planning >> Review and approve needed on the Board >> Review of size, structure and composition strategy and business of the Board plans >> Review performance of the management team Remuneration Committee >> Oversee the >> Set Directors’ Remuneration Policy >> Set key performance indicators for corporate governance >> Determine remuneration packages for Executive Committee members framework Executive Committee members >> Approve annual bonus plan for Executive Committee members >> Monitor risk management and internal control frameworks Executive Committee >> Management of the Group’s businesses >> Financial performance of the Group >> Implementation of the Board’s decisions >> Operation of the Group’s risk management >> Executive management of Group strategy framework Honour Commission >> Maintain ethical business standards within the Fresnillo Group >> Review cases notified to the whistleblowing hotline Terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSECR Committees are available on the Company’s website (www.fresnilloplc.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/terms-of-reference). 100 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Leadership Fresnillo Today Diversity and experience Board composition Strategic Report Board The Board is comprised of twelve Non-executive Directors, six of whom are Chairman (Leads Board) considered to be independent and six to be  Non-independent Directors non-independent. (Internal scrutiny) Independent Directors The structure and business of the Board (External scrutiny) is designed to ensure that the Board Executive Committee focuses its time and energy on strategy, (Proposals and monitoring the performance of the implementation) management team, governance, risk and control issues. Certain aspects of the Board’s responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to Corporate Governance ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, FCA Listing Rules and UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). Gender split Male Female 10 2 Role of the Board Financial Statements The Fresnillo Board’s responsibility to establish and implement the Group’s strategy is underpinned by a governance structure and processes developed in accordance with both the letter and the spirit of the Code. Role of the Executive Committee Non-executive Director tenure The Executive Committee, which consists of the most senior executives within the 0–3 years 3 Company, is led by the Chief Executive 3–6 years 2 Officer. Although none of the members of 6–9 years 7 the Executive Committee sit on the Board, it forms an integral part of boardroom discussions as the Committee has responsibility for implementing decisions agreed in principle by the Board. Experience Finance and tax 4 UK capital markets and legal 1 Political and public policy 2 Mining 1 General Mexican and 4 international business 101 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The Board of Directors Chairman of the Board Key strengths and experiences Alberto Baillères Chairman Date of appointment: >> Long-term knowledge and understanding of the Mexican 15 April 2008 commercial environment >> Relationships within the Mexican and international businesses Committee membership: communities >> Nominations Committee Over a period of 50 years, Mr Baillères has built up unprecedented (Chairman) experience and knowledge of both the Group and the Mexican >> Remuneration Committee markets in which it operates from both investor and the supervisory perspectives. Non-independent Directors Key strengths and experiences Alejandro Baillères Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Insurance and related financial services in Mexico 16 April 2012 >> Broad board-level commercial experience in Mexico As a director of several Grupo BAL companies such as Grupo Nacional Provincial (a leading insurance company in Mexico), Mr Baillères brings knowledge and experience of Mexican and international business to his role. Juan Bordes Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Senior executive (CEO-level) responsibilities over several years 10 January 2008 >> Board membership of companies spanning a broad range of sectors and industries During his career, Mr Bordes has held both senior executive management roles and board responsibilities with companies spanning a number of different sectors, particularly within Mexico. Arturo Fernández Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> International economics and public policy 15 April 2008 >> Directorships of several Mexican companies Mr Fernández’ career brings together a solid academic economics background, many years’ experience within the Mexican public policy arena and broad commercial experience (through board directorships of leading businesses in a number of sectors in Mexico). Rafael MacGregor Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Capital markets 10 January 2008 >> Financial services and commercial sectors Mr MacGregor has wide-ranging commercial experience in Mexico Committee membership: serving on the boards of a number of major companies across a >> HSECR Committee number of sectors, including the Mexican Stock Exchange. (Chairman) Jaime Lomelín Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Mining and engineering 15 April 2008 >> Senior operational experience within Mexico Following a career in metals and mining, Mr Lomelín was Chief Executive Officer of Fresnillo plc from April 2008 to 15 August 2012 when he became a Non-executive Director, thus he brings senior management, mining and engineering experience to Board discussions. 102 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Independent Directors Key strengths and experiences Guy Wilson Senior Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> International audit and accountancy 1 July 2008 >> UK Government and Capital Markets Strategic Report Following a career within Ernst & Young, which included 29 years as a Committee membership: Partner, Mr Wilson brings extensive experience of international audit >> Audit Committee (Chairman) and accounting practice, capital markets and transactions. María Asunción Aramburuzabala Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Executive experience within industrial and financial sectors 16 April 2012 >> Mexican and international M&A and capital transactions experience Corporate Governance Committee membership: Having been Vice Chairman of Grupo Modelo, one of Mexico’s largest >> HSECR Committee breweries, until it was sold to Anheuser-Busch InBev in 2012-13, and now also Chief Executive Officer of Tresalia Capital S.A. de C.V., Ms Aramburuzabala brings a broad range of commercial experience to the Board. Bárbara Garza Lagüera Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Mexican commercial and industrial 16 May 2014 >> International Board experience As an experienced director, particularly through her career at Committee membership: Financial Statements Coca-Cola FEMSA (KOF) and Fomento Económico Mexicano (FEMSA), >> Nominations Committee the largest franchise bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world, Ms Garza Lagüera brings a broad experience of Mexican commercial and international business. Charles Jacobs Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Legal professional with a focus on capital markets, mining and 16 May 2014 metals >> International M&A experience Committee membership: Through his experience as a senior partner of global law firm Linklaters >> Remuneration Committee LLP, Mr Jacobs brings a legal and regulatory perspective to the (Chairman) boardroom. Fernando Ruiz Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Mexican tax and accounting 15 April 2008 >> International board and audit committee Committee membership: Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., >> Audit Committee tax advisers and consultants in Mexico, and now serves on the board >> Remuneration Committee and audit committees of several Mexican and international >> Nominations Committee companies. He has extensive knowledge of Mexican tax and accounting issues. Jaime Serra Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: >> Mexican government 16 May 2014 >> International trade and commerce Following a distinguished career in Government in Mexico, with Committee membership: particular focus on international trade and industry, Mr Serra brings a >> Audit Committee broad range of experience of Mexican politics and international trade to the Board. 103 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Executive Committee Executive Committee Key strengths and experiences Octavio Alvídrez Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: >> Mine management within Mexico 15 August 2012 >> UK investor relations Mr Alvídrez has extensive experience within the mining industry, Mr Alvídrez is invited to attend having previously held the position of General Manager of the Madero Board, HSECR Committee and mine, one of Mexico’s largest mines operated by Peñoles. Mr Alvídrez Remuneration Committee joined the Peñoles Group in August 1988. Since then he has held a meetings number of senior operational and financial positions across Peñoles and Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, Head of Investor Relations in London and Head of Procurement. He was appointed Vice President of the Silver Institute in June 2015, and is the Vice President of the Board of the Mines, Metallurgy and Geology School of the University of Guanajuato; and a Director of the Lowell Institute for Mineral Resources of the University of Arizona. Mario Arreguín Chief Financial Officer Date of appointment: >> Accountancy and treasury 15 April 2008 >> Investment banking Mr Arreguín was previously employed by Peñoles where he held the Mr Arreguín is invited to attend position of Chief Financial Officer for 11 years and Group Treasurer for Board and Audit Committee six years prior to this. Mr Arreguín has a background in investment meetings banking and project management. David Giles Vice President, Exploration Date of appointment: >> Senior exploration experience within Mexico 15 April 2008 >> Engineering and geology background Following a 30-year career at Peñoles, Mr Giles held a number of Mr Giles is invited to attend senior management positions including Vice President of Exploration; Board meetings prior to this he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and Toromex. He is an officer of the Society of Economic Geologists and the Mexican Association of Mining Metallurgical and Geological Engineers. Roberto Díaz Chief Operating Officer Date of appointment: >> Senior project and operational experience 1 November 2013 >> Mining and engineering Following a long career in the mining industry, Mr Díaz first joined Mr Díaz is invited to attend Board Peñoles in 1977 and, following roles with other groups, re-joined meetings Peñoles in 2007. He has previously served as Fresnillo’s Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Project Development. 104 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Board Structure Fresnillo Today Board Membership Peñoles has entered into a legally binding relationship agreement with As at 31 December 2015, the Board consisted of 12 Directors – the the Company as required by Listing Rule 9.2.2 AR (2), which ensures Strategic Report Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillères, six independent Nonthat decisions in relation to transactions with Peñoles must be taken executive Directors and five non-independent Non-executive by the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company. The key Directors. Details about the current Directors of the Company and provisions of this Relationship Agreement are summarised on page 111. summaries of their key skills, experience and perspective that they bring to the Board are set on pages 102–103. The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.4 DR for controlled companies. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the The Company has complied with the independence provisions Directors will seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year Annual General Meeting. ended 31 December 2015. As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the financial year ended Board Balance 31 December 2015 by Peñoles and/or any of its associates. The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no Corporate Governance one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to Board. The Chairman, Mr Baillères, is beneficially interested in more the Board by Peñoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement. than 50% of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (‘Peñoles’), the Company’s controlling Chairman’s Independence shareholder. Mr Baillères is also the Chairman of Peñoles and other Mr Baillères was appointed to the Board by Peñoles pursuant to the companies within the BAL Group. Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment was not independent. Having been responsible for overseeing the successful Board Composition and Independence development of the Group over many years, the Board considers that The Board is comprised of six Non-executive Directors who are his continued involvement as its Non-executive Chairman is very considered to be independent and six Non-executive Directors who important to the continued success of the Company. are considered to be non-independent, as shown in the diagram below. The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits from Financial Statements Non-independent Independent Mr Baillères’ leadership and experience whilst being able to Alberto Baillères Guy Wilson demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable (Chairman and Chairman of (Senior Independent Director and of carrying on its business independently. In particular, the Nominations Committee) Chair of Audit Committee) Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships Alejandro Baillères María Asunción Aramburuzabala between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder are at arm’s length and on competitive commercial terms. Juan Bordes Bárbara Garza Lagüera Arturo Fernández Charles Jacobs Board Roles (Chair of Remuneration The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer Committee) are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been Rafael MacGregor Fernando Ruiz specified in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement of (Chair of HSECR Committee) Responsibilities. Octavio Alvídrez, the Chief Executive Officer, is not Jaime Lomelín Jaime Serra currently a member of the Board. Guy Wilson, the Senior Independent Director, is available to The Board considers the Directors listed in the table above as shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved independent, to be independent in character and judgement. For through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by reference Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations. to Provision B.1.1. of the Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent when the scenarios set out in Code Provision B.1.1 are taken into account. Charles Jacobs is a senior corporate partner with Linklaters LLP, the Company’s legal advisors, and as a Director, he has not and will not, be involved in the provision of legal or any other services to the Company by Linklaters LLP. Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia., S.C., a firm providing professional services to the Company. Mr Ruiz was not involved in the provision of such services prior to his retirement. Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s auditors, in 2008. Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement. 105 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Following a year of significant change in the composition of the Board in 2014, 2015 was a year for consolidation and this is reflected in the activity of the Nominations Committee during the year. During the year, the Nominations Committee met two times and our priority for the year was to continue to focus on the long-term evolution of the membership of the Board and its committees. This discussion seeks to build on the changes in Board membership that have already occurred during the past few years. This is not an easy challenge because I have valued the support and wise counsel of all of the Directors who have served on the Fresnillo plc Board since the Company became a listed company in 2008. Nevertheless, I accept that the UK Corporate Governance Code requires us to ensure that the Board is refreshed over time and we are committed to doing that. We are mindful of the challenges in attracting women into mining-related professions in Mexico. The Board has spent time understanding the organisational culture programme that the management team have been developing since 2013. A key part “2015 was a year for consolidation and this is of that programme seeks to make sure that the Company provides reflected in the activity of the Nominations an environment where employees can flourish, irrespective of Committee during the year. ” gender. We therefore remain committed to the principle of diversity in the boardroom. Mr Alberto Baillères Chairman of the Nominations Committee Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillères Chairman of the Nominations Committee Experience Members General Mexican and 2 >> Chairman: Alberto Baillères international business >> Members: Bárbara Garza Lagüera Finance and tax 1 Independent Non-executive Director Fernando Ruiz Independent Non-executive Director Meeting participants >> Company Secretary 106 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Membership Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillères Board Diversity Policy can be found on the Company’s website Strategic Report (Chairman of the Committee), Bárbara Garza Lagüera and Fernando (www.fresnilloplc.com/who.we.are/Corporate.Governance/The.Board. Ruiz. The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee Structure/Board Appointments and Diversity Policies). are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors. Activity during 2015 Role The Nominations Committee met twice during the year. The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and Board Appointments composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive refreshing for the Directors and other senior executives. Before making of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision B.2.3 of the UK appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for Corporate Governance Code. Since 2012, five new directors have been evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the appointed to the Board, including the appointment of two distinguished Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates. Mexican businesswomen which demonstrates the Nominations Corporate Governance Committee and the Board’s commitment to gender diversity. The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework for the Whilst there have not been any changes to the Board during 2015, Nominations Committee and the Board’s approach to Board the Nominations Committee has continued to discuss this appointments. requirement to ensure that a steady momentum is maintained. Board Appointments Policy and Process in Summary Committee Membership The Nominations Committee and the Board are committed to the Having made some changes to the membership of the Board principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis of committees in 2014, as a result of changes to the membership of the merit. The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and Board itself in that year, the Nominations Committee reviewed the future Board appointments continues to be based on: composition and effectiveness of the Board committees in 2015 >> Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the and was satisfied that the committees are working well. Board by Peñoles; Financial Statements >> The Company’s leading position as a precious metals miner in Executive Succession Planning Mexico; Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule of possible >> The Company’s inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index; successors for all the positions on the Executive Committee (Chief >> The specific functions on Board committees which independent Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Exploration Directors will be required to fulfil; and and Chief Operating Officer). This review considers both short-term >> The criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the emergency and long-term planning scenarios. Any actions needed to Nominations Committee. support the development of potential long-term successors are discussed. The Nominations Committee also monitors the long-term The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or retain evolution of the membership of the Board as a whole. These matters any external consultants when making new appointments to the were all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2015 and it is Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Company’s satisfied with the actions that are being taken to support this. contacts within Mexico. Other Nominations Committee Activity Board Diversity Policy in Summary and Progress The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: All Board appointments are made on merit. The Board recognises and >> Approval of the 2014 Nominations Committee Report prior to embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board; particularly the publication; value that different perspectives and experience bring to the quality of >> The time commitment required from each Director; Board debate and decision-making. There are certain considerations >> The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors at the which are taken into account in considering the composition of the Annual General Meeting; and Board such as background and experience, age, gender, and >> A self-evaluation exercise. shareholder perspectives. The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people from on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com. a particular background or gender is not the most effective approach to take. The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made policy rather than specified quotas or targets. available for inspection at the Company’s registered office, during normal business hours. The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low. This will take time to rectify but has been changing, particularly in relation to unionised workers, and the Company in committed to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting. In the meantime, the Board has reviewed the organisational culture programme that has been developed since 2013 which, among other things, seeks to build a cultural environment where employees can flourish, irrespective of gender. 107 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Effectiveness Board Process Papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s long-term objectives proposals for each Board meeting are prepared by members of and commercial strategy and overseeing the management of the the Executive Committee and are presented to the Board for its Group’s activities. The Board also provides leadership to the Fresnillo consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters, each Group in establishing the values by which it will conduct its business. proposal having been first considered and approved by the Executive There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision Committee. In so doing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in key policies. This schedule is reviewed from time to time and was section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. Significant matters that purely reviewed and revised in July 2015 to reflect regulatory developments require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board. since its last review. Led by the Chief Executive Officer, members of the Executive A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board Committee attend all of the Board meetings and present all of the committees at meetings during the financial year ended papers on operational and financial matters. The only discussions 31 December 2015 is set out later in this report. All meetings of the which members of the Executive Committee are not present for are Board are held in Mexico. discussions about management succession and the annual Board evaluation report discussion. Board papers are usually circulated to Board members five days prior to the meeting to allow the Directors sufficient time to consider and The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if deliberate papers. The agenda is prepared by the Company Secretary necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes. in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Officer for the Chairman’s approval. Secretary (whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board). A procedure has been established to enable Directors to As discussed later in this section, a new format for Board papers was obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in adopted during the year following the 2014 Board evaluation exercise. relevant circumstances. The purpose of the changes was to promote a greater focus on the financial and operational progress of the key strategic projects and their implementation. Board Programme in 2015 The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings. The Board seeks to focus on strategic issues as well as overseeing the day-to-day operations of the Group. Its primary areas of focus in 2015 were: February March April May July Specific activity and approvals >> Directors’ interests >> Review of system of >> Approval by Board >> Review of progress >> Annual General >> Approval of interim declared internal control Committee of 2014 with 2014 Board Meeting results >> Review of 2014 Board >> Review of Going Results and Annual evaluation action >> Review of Going Evaluation Report Concern Report plan discussion Concern and associated >> Review of Annual >> Board lunch and >> Review of principal Action Plan Report strategy discussion risks and >> Report on Hedging >> Review of dividend uncertainties Programme policy >> Review of terms of Implementation >> Approval of Pyrites reference >> Budget update Plant Fresnillo/Saucito >> Approval of revised >> Review of principal proposal Pyrites Plant Plan risks and >> Approval of Merrill >> Approval of opening uncertainties Crowe Plant at of Chile Exploration Herradura Office Strategy Presentation >> Sustainability strategy Regular activity considered at all meetings >> Directors’ interests >> Board Committee >> Investor Relations and >> Legal and Company >> Chief Executive’s Report Reports Corporate Secretarial Report >> Financial Report >> Risk and Anti-Bribery Communications (including litigation and Corruption update update update) 108 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today The Executive Committee Board development The Executive Committee consists of the most senior executives A number of initiatives are in place to give the Non-executive Strategic Report within the Fresnillo Group. It is responsible for the management of the Directors more information about the broader context to the Company’s businesses including the implementation of decisions Company’s activities. These include strategy presentations by agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the senior management and regular distribution of industry briefings operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by on technical, market and sector issues. the Board. It has certain powers to approve smaller transactions on behalf of the Board (such significant transactions are reported and Directors are encouraged to visit the Company’s mines to explained to the Board at its next scheduled meeting). Over the past familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Group’s operations. few years, the role of the Executive Committee has evolved in three main areas: risk, business conduct and safety performance. All Directors have received briefings from the Company’s advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties Members of the Executive Committee meet with non-independent and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company. The members of the Board prior to each Board meeting. These Chairman regularly discusses training and development needs Corporate Governance discussions are minuted and copies of the minutes are circulated with the Directors, usually as part of the Board and committee to all of the Directors. evaluation exercises. Between Board meetings Directors are provided with information Individual performance reviews on important developments and issues such as: The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally >> Reports on safety and fatalities; from time to time without the executives present. These meetings >> Important developments regarding projects/transactions; and provide an opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the >> Distribution of relevant information on precious metals sector. Non-executive Directors’ training and development needs are being satisfied. The independent Non-executive Directors normally Board Development and Evaluation meet to evaluate the performance of the Chairman each October, The Board recognises that sound governance has a role to play in following which the Senior Independent Director discusses the securing strategic success and strong performance as well as in views of the independent Directors with the Chairman. The protecting the interests of its shareholders. The Board has sought independent Directors held this meeting in 2015 after the February Financial Statements to use its annual Board evaluation exercise, whether internally meeting and took the 2014 Board Evaluation review into account conducted or externally facilitated, to develop and improve its in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman. effectiveness. Board performance evaluation Fresnillo’s approach to evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and its committees operates at two levels. Both the Board and Audit Committee undertake annual evaluations using a combination of externally facilitated and internally run evaluations July October December over a three-year cycle. The cycle of Board and Audit Committee evaluations are summarised as follows: Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 >> Review of an external >> Update on >> Amendment of External Board Follow-up on Focus on review of the Group’s Organisational certain parameters of evaluation action plan from outstanding and anti-bribery and Culture Programme the gold hedging (approach externally emerging issues corruption framework >> Approval of Met Mex programme relating agreed with facilitated arising from >> Approach to 2015 rates for 2015 to the Penmont Chairman) evaluation Action Plan board evaluation >> Approval of 2016 minority acquisition >> Approval of changes to Business plan and the Schedule of budget Matters reserved to >> Board Evaluation Board evaluation in 2015 the Board, Disclosure >> Review of Code of In 2014, a new three-cycle commenced and the Board appointed Procedures and Share Conduct and Independent Audit Limited (IAL) as an external evaluator to assist Dealing Code Anti-Corruption Policy with this review. In 2015, an internally facilitated evaluation was >> Review of viability conducted to follow up on IAL’s action plan. statement process and key assumptions Whereas in the 2011–2013 cycle the Board’s general approach to governance was considered, in 2014 the evaluation focused on >> Long-term strategy specific aspects of the effectiveness of the Board recognising the 2015-2030 evolution of best practice standards over the past few years. In September 2015, the annual Board evaluation exercise used an internally facilitated questionnaire approach to focus on the recommendations made by IAL in 2014 and subsequent actions taken in response (the Response Plans). The evaluation exercise sought to obtain Directors’ views on the recommendations made by IAL and the adequacy of the Response Plans at the time of the evaluation survey. 109 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Effectiveness continued In 2014, IAL considered four aspects which are summarised below along with the specific actions agreed in response to the review, progress made in 2015 and any further actions required following feedback from the 2015 evaluation process. Key Focus >> Performance and >> Project governance >> Control and culture >> Operational and information reporting organisational efficiency Key Question >> Could information flows >> How can reporting to >> How can the Board >> How can the Board as a to the Board be the Board on project engage better with whole improve the improved to aid better risks and their management’s culture visibility of the way that discussion and focus on management be and values management run the the strategic context? improved? programme? business? Key Responses 2015 Progress 2015 evaluation comments and any further action >> The format and information contained in >> New format Board papers adopted in >> Well received by Board members, however Board papers will be refined to help focus July 2015. continual monitoring of the suitability and discussion on key issues and risks, format of the papers is required and should particularly in relation to the performance be reviewed in 2016. and risk profile of key projects. >> More time in Board meetings will be >> Long-term strategy was an agenda item >> The Board recognise the importance devoted to discussion of long-term at the July and October Board meetings. of discussions and presentations on strategic considerations (up to five years). Sustainability Strategy was also reviewed long-term strategy. A decision as to how at the April Board meeting. frequently and at which of the scheduled Board meetings it is discussed is to be decided. >> Enable Directors to understand the control >> A presentation on the organisation and >> Continue to review in 2016. and culture of the organisation more easily. culture and values programme initiated in 2013 was given at the October 2015 Board meeting. >> In 2015, the Audit Committee and Board have sought to take an integrated approach to their reviews of the control environment in response to the new UK Corporate Governance Code changes. >> Directors are encouraged to visit mine sites. A site visit was arranged for one Director during the year. >> More information will be provided to the >> Minutes of pre-Board review meetings >> No further action required – review in 2016. independent Directors about the factors are now circulated to Directors. taken into account prior to proposals being made to the Board for approval. Audit Committee Evaluation The Audit Committee has adopted a similar approach to the Board in engaging IAL periodically to undertake separate external evaluations of the Audit Committee. In 2014, IAL also separately reviewed the Company’s risk management framework, to assess the effectiveness of its Internal Audit function and the external audit process. During 2015, the Audit Committee has been overseeing a series of actions taken in response to such reviews in 2014 which are explained further in the Audit Committee Report. Other Committee Evaluations The Nominations and Remuneration Committees undertake self-evaluation on an annual basis but given the relatively straightforward nature of their work, have not considered it necessary to use external facilitation for their reviews. Such reviews were conducted by both of these committees in 2015. 110 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Board and Committee meeting attendance Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Strategic Report Committee Board Committee Committee Committee Committee No. of meetings in year 4 5 2 2 3 Alberto Baillères 4/4 – – 2/2 3/3 María Asunción Aramburuzabala 3/4 – 0/2 – – Alejandro Baillères 3/4 – – – – Juan Bordes 4/4 – – – – Arturo Fernández 4/4 – – – – Bárbara Garza Lagüera 4/4 – – 2/2 – Charles Jacobs 4/4 – – – 3/3 Jaime Lomelín 4/4 – 2/2 – – Corporate Governance Rafael MacGregor 3/4 – 2/2 – – Fernando Ruiz 4/4 4/5 – 2/2 3/3 Jaime Serra 3/4 5/5 – – – Guy Wilson 4/4 5/5 – – – 1 An additional meeting was held in December 2015 to approve an amendment to the current hedging programme. Board members were consulted about the proposal, however the final decision was made at a two-member meeting and therefore this meeting is not included in the table above. 2 All of the members of the Executive Committee attended all of the Board meetings in 2015. Related party governance in practice The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify There are a number of checks and balances which ensure that there is and manage related party transactions. Financial Statements full transparency in the way that related party transactions are dealt with by the Board. Identifying Directors’ interests Relationship Agreement Process How this is managed Responsibility The Company continues to have a Relationship Agreement in place Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a Directors between Peñoles and the Company to regulate this ongoing Directors’ company which could potentially relationship. The agreement was amended in November 2014 further interests enter into transactions with a to a review in line with the new Listing Rule requirements which came Fresnillo plc Group company, the into effect on 16 May 2014. The principal purpose of the Relationship Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable of authorising conflicts of interest conducting its business independently of the Peñoles Group, and that under s175 of Companies Act. transactions and relationships with the Peñoles Group are at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms. Peñoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend Managing a related party transaction the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with Proposed Ongoing monitoring of Directors’ interests and related the provisions of the agreement. It has also agreed to abstain from transaction parties of the Company provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for a voting on any resolution to approve a ‘related party transaction’ (as proposed transaction. defined in paragraph 11.1.5 R of the Listing Rules) involving any member of the Peñoles Group. Contract The Executive Committee will seek Fresnillo negotiation and to ensure that the best possible management Conflicts of interest verification terms are achieved for a proposed and Executive The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations transaction and that they are Committee for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each verified by industry benchmarking Director. Each Director ensures that he/she keeps these duties under reports or independent valuation/ review and informs the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of assessment. any change in their respective positions, such as a new directorship taken on. Financial The Audit Committee reviews the Audit scrutiny key terms of major transactions Committee which are verified as to price and review Each Director has completed a ‘Director’s List’ which sets out details of quality with external consultants or situations where the Director’s interest may conflict with those of the independent benchmarking where Company (‘situational conflicts’). The Director’s Lists have been possible. re-submitted by each Director as at 31 December 2015 and the Board has considered and authorised any new situational conflicts identified Independent Under the Relationship Agreement, Independent in these re-submitted lists. In addition, Directors are reminded at the Director the independent Directors must Directors beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further approval approve any transaction with the Peñoles Group and its associates conflicts of interest in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 of without the non-independent the Companies Act 2006. Directors voting. 111 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Relations with Shareholders The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders The Company also aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at in the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of least twice a year, allowing the investors and analysts to discuss the major shareholders. As described on page 111, the Board maintains results of the Group as well as giving them an opportunity to raise any procedures for dealing with transactions with related parties as well queries or concerns they may have. The Senior Independent Director, as Directors’ conflicts of interest. Guy Wilson, has attended such meetings and it is his intention to continue to do so in order to sustain good communications between The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor shareholders and the Company. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Relations is based. The Group has implemented a strong Financial Officer participate in the major roadshows after preliminary communications and investor relations programme over 2015 as and half yearly results are announced to meet with analysts and detailed in the diagram below. shareholders. They are joined by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits. The table below gives some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company. Fresnillo grades and development delays Detailed information about the measures being taken, clear progress updates in each production report and results announcement Processing capacity constraints at Herradura Regular updates given on the progress re. the second Merrill Crowe plant, increasing solution processing capacity, and reaching steady state Precious metals backdrop and Fresnillo’s ability to respond to Clear articulation of ability to invest through the cycle, whilst retaining lower prices the flexibility to take market conditions into account Capital allocation: capex vs. dividends Reiteration of aim to balance quality growth with returns across the cycle Costs Detailed breakdown of cost metrics, including explanation of changes year-to-year and metric-to-metric; cost inflation/deflation breakdown by component Increased detail on volumes processed/hauled Additional disclosure re. volumes processed/hauled and clearer format for ore grade reporting provided from the first quarter production report onwards. This has been well received Saucito II ramp-up Frequent updates of key points in the ramp-up process: eg. testing, reaching steady state ahead of timetable San Julián Clear articulation of reasons behind the delay; context of a delay of this magnitude being typical for a project of this scale January February March April May June July August Investor relations activities Conference calls Roadshow Conference calls Conference calls Roadshow following the following the following the following the following the production preliminary production production half-yearly report results report report results announcement announcement announcement announcement announcement and and presentation: presentation: UK, US, Canada UK Nordea mining reverse roadshow Industry conferences Citi Global Bof AML Global HSBC LatAM Resources Metals and Investor Forum Conference, Mining Canaccord Conference Mining Forum 112 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today It is the role of the Head of Investor Relations in London to maintain 2015 Annual General Meeting ongoing relations with analysts and major shareholders; this is done At the 2015 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), all resolutions put to by way of telephone calls and meetings. The Company also uses a full shareholders were passed by a majority of 97% or above. As such, programme of mining conferences to meet with current and the Company did not deem it necessary to specifically engage prospective investors. Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained with shareholders over any of the items of business of the AGM. through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City. The Chief In accordance with changes to the UK Listing Rules applicable to Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer participate in the major companies with a controlling shareholder, the resolutions relating to roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders. They are joined the re-election of the independent Non-executive Directors required by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these approval by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as visits. The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive well as all the shareholders of the Company. The table below shows Strategic Report Officer and Chief Financial Officer, gives a report at each Board the results of those resolutions and again, as these were passed on meeting on communications and shareholder activity. such a high majority by the independent shareholders as well as all shareholders, the Company is satisfied that no further engagement Geographical shareholder base with shareholders is required specifically on the re-election of the The following graph demonstrates the Company’s global appeal independent Directors. with a significant shift since IPO in 2008 from a predominantly UK Votes cast by independent shareholder base. Resolution Votes cast by all shareholders shareholders For (%) Against (%) For (%) Against (%) Geographical split of free float shareholders since 2008 To re-elect United Kingdom Europe Mr Guy Wilson 99.97 0.03 99.88 0.12 North America Rest of the World To re-elect Mr Fernando Ruiz 99.38 0.62 97.00 3.00 Corporate Governance To re-elect Ms María Asunción Aramburuzabala 99.91 0.09 99.57 0.43 To re-elect Ms Bárbara Garza Lagüera 99.95 0.05 99.77 0.23 To elect Mr Jaime Serra 99.44 0.56 97.31 2.69 IPO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 To elect Mr Charles Jacobs 99.96 0.04 99.80 0.20 Major interests in shares As at 29 February 2016, the Company had been advised of the Financial Statements Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are presented at following notifiable interests (whether directly or indirectly held) in its the AGM and final figures are announced to the London Stock voting rights: Exchange and uploaded to the Company’s website as soon practicable after the AGM. Number of voting Notification received from: rights % 2016 Annual General Meeting Peñoles 552,595,191 74.99 The Company’s eighth Annual General Meeting will be held on BlackRock, Inc1 44,298,691 6.01 Tuesday 3 May 2016 at 12.00 noon. The business of the Annual First Eagle Investment Management LLC 35,870,751 4.87 General Meeting will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.7.1, B.7.2, E.2.1 and E.2.2 of the Code. The Chairman of the Board and 1 Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds. the chairmen of each of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company. The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 September October November December working days prior to the date of the meeting. In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy‑backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when drafting the Site visit Conference calls UBS mining usual resolutions dealing with those matters. In each case, resolutions following the reverse production roadshow are presented to the AGM to give the Board flexibility to respond to report market developments. announcement Authority to purchase own shares The Company was authorised by a shareholders’ resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2015 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital. Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Company’s issued and authorised share Denver Gold JP Morgan Best Goldman Sachs capital. This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Forum, Morgan of British Global Metals Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year Stanley Conference and Mining will be proposed. No shares were purchased by the Company during Industrials and Conference the year. Natural Resources Summit, Deutsche Bank Metals and Mining Conference 113 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The continued decline of precious metals prices and the deterioration of the Mexican peso against the strength of the US dollar have required a change in the Audit Committee’s priorities in 2015. The consequence of precious metal price decline has sharpened our focus on going concern and the new viability statement to ensure that we have sufficient resources in the years ahead. It has also prompted greater scrutiny of the assumptions underlying the methodology used to measure whether there has been any impairment in our mining assets. Exchange rate movements in the ratio between the Mexican peso and the US dollar require us to review closely the impact on our hedging arrangements and the effect on deferred tax movements due to the Group’s substantial assets in Mexican pesos for Mexican tax purposes and that effect translated into US dollars. This year, we have also substantially addressed the issues arising from the independent evaluation of the Audit Committee in 2014, the details of which are set out in the accompanying report. I would particularly like to highlight two pleasing aspects of our work “...two pleasing aspects of our work this year. this year. Firstly, the work that management has done to create a Firstly, the work that management has done to transparent understanding of our internal control environment has create a transparent understanding of our been exemplary because it enables the system to be demonstrated with clarity throughout the Group. Secondly, the extensive work internal control environment. Secondly, the across the Group to prepare the necessary documentation to support extensive work across the Group to prepare the our viability statement. This work has enabled us to have great necessary documentation to support our confidence in the potential effects of some adverse scenarios and viability statement” thus be able to estimate the appropriate financial implications and plan our remediation efforts. This enabled us to recommend that the Guy Wilson viability statement be approved by the Board. Both of these large Chairman of the Audit Committee pieces of work demonstrate the ability of our people to work effectively together across disciplines. Experience Members Finance and tax 2 >> Chairman: Guy Wilson Political and public policy 1 >> Members: Fernando Ruiz Independent Non-executive Director Jaime Serra Independent Non-executive Director Meeting participants >> Chief Financial officer >> Internal Audit >> Company Secretary >> Chief Executive Officer >> Chief Operating Officer >> Vice President, Exploration >> Head of Risk >> Head of Legal >> Head of IT >> External Auditor 114 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Last year, in addition to our primary task of the oversight of financial accounting and reporting together with internal controls, concentrating on the financial judgements in the Financial Statements, I outlined five priorities for your Audit Committee in 2015. I now comment on progress so Strategic Report far: 2015 Priorities Progress >> Monitoring management, risk and Internal Audit to improve the quality of >> Significant progress has been made in implementing movements in the risk the bi-annual reports to the Board on the effectiveness of the controls over profiles at operating and development projects but more work needs to be risks at each of the operational mines, development projects and done in exploration areas exploration areas effectively highlighting changes in the risk profile, if any >> Following the recent pronouncement from the FRC concerning the >> Management have done considerable work to clearly define the three levels enhanced statement from the Board in the 2015 Annual Report about the of control over the identified risks in our operations, as set out in greater Company’s internal controls, we need to monitor the efforts of detail in the accompanying report management and Internal Audit to examine all our internal controls to identify if any additional procedures are required before the Board can have Corporate Governance the confidence in the data provided so that they can make the enhanced statement >> The Company prepares a considerable amount of data on each project >> Project data has been reformatted into a transparent presentation to the which is regularly reviewed by management. To date, this data is not Audit Committee and the Board summarised in a way to enable informed discussion at the Board. We will monitor management’s development of a new summary presentation to ensure that it is concise and transparent for all parties >> We will monitor management’s development of a robust process to >> Significant work has been done by management to provide robust evidence underpin the requirement for a statement by the Board regarding the to support the Board’s statement of long-term viability, which can be seen in Company’s longer-term viability being for a period longer than that the Strategic Report on page 48 envisaged under the current going concern concept. We will therefore challenge management’s assessment of the relevant evidence and assumptions underlying future years’ projections in order to ensure that the Financial Statements Board’s statement is appropriately worded >> We will continue to review management’s progress in developing the >> The configuration of the IT strategy is a long-term process. We are satisfied requirements to fulfil the IT strategy to ensure that these are consistent with that management and IT are collaborating well and that the development corporate strategy and that any enhancements are cost effective of new IT applications are progressing and are in line with the Group’s strategy For 2016, we assess our priorities in addition to our primary tasks as Despite this pressure, I managed to arrange to visit our operations in follows: Ciénega, which has a different geographical configuration to our other >> Continuing to encourage management to enhance the mines that I have visited. I found the visit extremely helpful to transparency of the effectiveness of the internal controls over the understand the risks management need to address and the controls identified risks to enable the Board to have continued confidence they utilise on a daily basis to mitigate those risks. in our process. >> Continuing to encourage management to challenge the In closing, I would like to acknowledge, with gratitude, the assumptions underpinning the long-term strategy of the Group to contributions of my colleagues Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra which ensure that the Board can remain confident about the Group’s are always insightful and as a result, collectively, we can be an long-term viability. effective Audit Committee. >> Continuing to challenge management’s progress to implement IT improvements to underpin the corporate strategy and ensure that Yours faithfully such enhancements are cost effective. >> Conduct an effective and efficient audit tender process. Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee 115 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Membership Role The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2015 were The role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of reference, a Guy Wilson (Chairman of the Committee), Fernando Ruiz and Jaime copy of which can be found on the Company’s website. The terms of Serra. Guy Wilson was previously a partner at EY, bringing an reference set out the duties of the Audit Committee under the international audit and accountancy perspective as well as extensive following headings: experience of capital transactions and corporate activity and is >> Financial Reporting therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing >> External Audit and accounting experience. Further to the individual biographies on >> Risk Management and Internal Controls page 103, Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra have extensive experience >> Internal Audit of the economy and the business environment both in Mexico and >> Whistleblowing Procedures internationally. In addition, Fernando Ruiz brings many years’ >> Related Party Matters knowledge of the legal and tax environment and Jaime Serra, political insight through the various roles he has held within the Mexican In order to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties whilst government (with particular focus on international trade and implementing good corporate governance, the Audit Committee commerce). Consequently, together the Committee members bring developed a Committee Policy Manual which codifies the policies broad and relevant perspectives to the issues they need to address. within the scope of the Audit Committee’s responsibilities. This document is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis. The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from external and Internal Audit attend all meetings, with the Chief Executive Officer, Committee Evaluation other members of the Executive Committee and management The Audit Committee uses regular evaluation processes as a means attending where appropriate and also external advisers if relevant of ensuring that the governance over the controls environment is for specific matters. appropriate. In 2014 an independent evaluation of the Committee was carried out by Independent Audit Limited in parallel with the evaluation of the full Board. A number of workstreams have been established in response to the recommendations arising which have been largely the responsibility of management to implement. Progress has been monitored by the Audit Committee during the year. The following table summarises this activity and progress during the year. Workstream Progress during the year >> Improve the quality of dynamic reporting on the evolving risk profiles of >> This work was completed and incorporated into the Board and Committee operational mines, development projects and exploration areas. papers. The enhanced reporting was well received by Board members. >> Improve the understanding of how various sources of assurance (such as >> Significant progress has been made between the different participants in operational management, financial management, executive management, this process, with a report summarising the status and findings presented at and Internal Audit) interact in the execution and monitoring of material the December 2015 meeting of the Audit Committee. This report served to controls as well as identify and address any gaps in the control framework. inform the Board in its review of the system of internal controls and will enhance the framework within which internal controls are monitored on an ongoing basis in future. >> Re-design agenda papers for the Audit Committee (and the Board) to >> A working party of executives and Non-executive Directors have re-designed provide increased visibility and transparency on projects, with an aim to the Board papers and these new formats have been adopted. facilitate more informed discussion at Board level. >> Develop a robust process underpinning the new requirement to produce a >> A comprehensive assessment of the time period for the viability review, the viability statement, leading to a better understanding of the risks to the scenarios used to test the statement assumptions and financial model was Company’s strategy, monitoring of material controls over those risks and developed and a full assessment of the impact of severe but plausible related potential mitigations. scenarios was undertaken. >> Embedding IT strategy into the broader strategy, with all relevant >> The IT function and management have collaborated on this and have programmes subject to full risk review and monitoring. prepared progress reports to the Audit Committee for each meeting. The Audit Committee is satisfied with progress to date. The Company Secretary also facilitated a review of the Committee’s terms of reference during the year. The Committee concluded that, following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the terms of reference required amendments to reflect changes in the Audit Committee’s role in monitoring risk, internal control, going concern, and assessing viability. These revisions were recommended to and subsequently approved by the Board in February 2016. 116 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Audit Committee Activity during 2015 The Audit Committee met five times in 2015, following its usual pattern of meetings. Timing of meeting Main purpose of meeting New UK Corporate Governance Code activity February >> Review Annual Report and Financial Statements and EY report >> Briefing on new Code requirements thereon April >> Post-year-end process review >> Review of paper on revised approach to the review of risk and the system of internal controls July >> Review Interim Report and Financial Statements and EY report >> Progress updates on risk, new approach to internal control and the thereon process for preparing the viability statement Strategic Report October >> Review Year-end Planning >> Discussion of viability statement period and approach to sensitivity >> Review Internal Audit Plan analysis December >> Review of hard-close audit report from EY and review year-end >> Progress updates progress The following sections summarise how the Audit Committee has The Audit Committee continually seeks to refine its processes for fulfilled its duties during 2015. ensuring that it is satisfied with the appropriateness of financial reporting. Ahead of each annual audit and half-yearly review, the 1. Financial reporting appropriateness of the areas of focus from prior year audits or reviews The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is are re-assessed with management and EY to ensure that they remain to review with both management and the external auditor the valid and that there are no other financial risk areas that should be appropriateness of financial reporting concentrating on, amongst brought into the ambit of the audit or review. In undertaking their Corporate Governance other matters: review of the 2015 half-yearly report, the Audit Committee sought to >> Monitoring the risks and associated controls over financial ensure that issues discussed during the audit of the 2014 full-year reporting processes, including the process by which the Group’s financial statements had been progressed and that there was Financial Statements are prepared for publication. consistency between the policies and judgements used in preparing >> The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices. the full-year and half-year financial statements. >> The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance In reviewing the 2015 half-yearly report and the 2015 Annual Report reporting requirements. prior to recommending them to the Board for approval, the Committee, >> Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied with the assistance of management and EY, identified a number of or there has been discussion with the external auditor. areas for particular focus. The key issues in the reporting context during >> Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, the year were the process and analysis which were undertaken balanced and understandable and provides the information respectively ahead of the preparation of the statements on viability and necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, going concern, impairment and hedging. These are outlined in the Financial Statements business model and strategy. following table along with how we have addressed them: >> Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting. Priority Areas of Focus in 2015 Description Audit Committee action Going concern The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Group’s ability to continue as The Committee read management’s schedules supporting and explaining the a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the approval of the inputs and process underpinning the going concern assessment. These included Financial Statements, which involves assessing whether, in adverse Group budgets and cash flow forecasts for the period to December 2017, as circumstances, the Group has adequate liquid resources to meet its revised in February 2016, including exploration and capital expenditure plans and obligations as they fall due. sensitivities around those plans and the assumptions underlying the future trend A misstatement in going concern arises either (i) when the conclusion on of operating costs. Management have also considered scenarios to illustrate the whether going concern is appropriate is incorrect or (ii) when the Financial sensitivities of cash flow forecasts to movements in metal prices. Statements do not appropriately represent the conclusion. If the Financial The Committee considered EY’s report on this assessment and on the Statements do not appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern, reasonableness of assumptions therein, including their consistency with the effect is pervasive as it affects a significant number of accounts. assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the Financial With the Company’s production profiles at each mine being relatively Statements. predictable and with budgeted expenditure for capital investment and In particular, the Committee challenged management on the feasibility of exploration being necessary to achieve our strategy, our fundamental risk lies mitigating actions and the potential speed of their implementation to achieve in metal prices as PTU, tax and dividend policies are a mathematical any flexibility required. calculation from reported operating results. The Committee reviewed and evaluated the conclusions of the Board’s The continued uncertainty caused by falling metal prices and the assessment of going concern and the proposed disclosures in the Financial management of capital and other expenditure to conserve cash are a critical Statements. area of focus. As a result of the procedures performed, the Committee satisfied itself that See pages 48–49 the going concern basis of preparation is appropriate and the Financial Statements appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern. 117 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Description Audit Committee action Impairment Adverse metals price volatility, reductions in reserves and resources, or The Committee challenged management’s consistent application of operational issues potentially impact the recoverable value of mining assets assumptions used within the impairment review. (in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group) and investments in This is a key area of focus for EY and the Committee has discussed with them the subsidiaries (in the standalone Parent Company Financial Statements). results of their procedures on the adequacy of the impairment models used by With the current level of precious metal prices and their future progression management and on the assumptions therein. The Committee then discussed uncertain, the risk of the book value of mining assets and investment in with management and EY the headroom for each of the mining assets and subsidiaries becoming impaired has increased. investments in subsidiaries. The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions As for the El Bajío situation at Soledad-Dipolos, the Committee has challenged underlying the calculation of the recoverable amount of the assets being management’s current assessment of the recoverable value of our mining tested. assets, and discussed with EY their view of the accounting judgements applicable (See note 13 to the Financial Statements and note 6 to the Parent Company and the appropriateness of disclosures. Financial Statements) The Audit Committee supported management’s judgement not to record any impairment in mining assets but to record in the standalone Parent Company financial statements the impairment of certain investments in subsidiaries. The Audit Committee recognised that the reason for the impairment in those investments was principally that these were recorded at fair value in the Parent Company when the Fresnillo Group was created ahead of the IPO in 2008, whereas the underlying mining assets within the subsidiaries are carried at historic cost. Hedging The Company operates two hedging programmes: one in respect of currency The Committee has been mindful of the potential impact of movements in both (Mexican peso:US dollar) and the other the hedging programme set up in currency and commodity price movements on the hedging programmes. It has 2014 to mitigate the risk of future adverse movements in gold prices affecting therefore continued to monitor management’s assumptions and the data which the acquisition cost of the minority shareholding in Penmont. drives financial reporting. It also discussed with EY their evaluation of the During the year, the Committee has considered the effect of the depreciation financial reporting model to ensure that it was appropriate for the hedging of the Mexican peso versus the US dollar, which attempts to protect the programmes. operating cost. It also separately considered the elasticity of the Penmont The Committee discussed with management the anticipated utilisation of the hedge. hedges over time to achieve management’s objective. (See note 31 to the Financial Statements) The Audit Committee was satisfied that the accounting for hedging in the Financial Statements was appropriate and compliant with Accounting Standards. Continuing Areas of Focus in 2015: Description Audit Committee action Mineral reserves and resources The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant The Committee discussed with the Head of Exploration the composition of judgement with regard to future characteristics of mineral ore. Changes in reserves and resources and considered carefully the report thereon by SRK (who the economic environment and future outlook may change the economic independently audit the reserves and resources of the Group). status of the reserves. Metal price assumptions determine the cut-off grade The Committee also reviewed the reporting of reserves and resources within the for identifying economically viable ore bodies. Financial Statements. Reserves and resources, although not valued directly in our Financial This is an area of key audit focus for EY and the Committee discussed with them Statements, are a primary driver of Fresnillo’s market valuation, impact the results of their procedures: investors’ decisions and play a significant part in the calculations of the depreciation of mining assets, the mine restoration model and related >> On the expertise and objectivity of SRK; and provisions and underpins the calculations used to assess whether there is any >> On the comparison of metal price assumptions used by management in the impairment of mining assets. As a result, inaccuracies in the estimation of determination of reserves and resources compared with price assumptions in reserves and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual various accounting models used in preparing numbers in the Financial Report and Accounts. Statements. (See pages 225 to 229 of the Annual Report) The Audit Committee challenged the determination of mineral reserves and resources performed by management, which has been independently reviewed by SRK, and was satisfied with the appropriateness of the review process and related disclosures. 118 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Description Audit Committee action Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument and is required The Committee challenged management’s judgement that the valuation at the to be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date. balance sheet date and the related gain of US$27.7 million was within the range The fair value can be impacted by any of the valuation inputs, but is most of acceptable valuation outcomes. sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived from the The Committee, as part of its review of the Annual Report and Accounts, reserves and resources and production profile of the Sabinas mine, the reviewed the disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract including the estimated future silver price and the discount rate. sensitivity analysis. The Silverstream contract represents not only a large asset on our balance This is another key area of audit focus for EY and the Committee discussed with Strategic Report sheet but, with such recently volatile precious metal prices, also the potential them their procedures in auditing the accuracy of the model used in the for change in its valuation can result in large, albeit non-cash, amounts in the valuation and the key assumptions therein. The Committee was satisfied with income statement. the conclusions from the procedures performed. (See note 15 to the Financial Statements) The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of the Silverstream contract in the Financial Statements. Related party transactions including revenue recognition Transactions with related parties in the normal course of business may carry The Committee always scrutinises all major related party transactions that no higher risk than transactions with unrelated parties; however, Fresnillo has require independent Director approval to ensure that they are entered into a controlling shareholder and as a result has very strong ties both to Peñoles transparently and conducted at arm’s length and thus treat all shareholders and the broader BAL group. fairly. This year the Committee again reviewed related party transactions which There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage of to individually or in aggregate amounted to a significant size (see the section of this report headed ‘Transactions with Related Parties’). Corporate Governance manipulate earnings or otherwise distort the financial position. Furthermore, related party transaction disclosure requirements are onerous The Committee also discusses EY’s procedures to ensure revenue is recognised and there is a risk that disclosures in the Financial Statements could be accurately and reviews the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report, comparing inaccurate or incomplete. them with the related party transaction analysis requested from management throughout the year. (See note 28 to the Financial Statements) The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in the Financial Statements. PTU and taxation The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject of much The reviews of PTU and taxation by the Audit Committee have similar attention and government action in Mexico in the past few years. This has characteristics. been compounded by the impact of commodity and currency price The Committee reviews all the significant accounting adjustments applied in movements on financial reporting of tax matters for the Company and its determining profit subject to PTU or taxation for each subsidiary which are clearly Financial Statements peers. set out in papers prepared by management. This is also an area of focus for EY, There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU charges who report to the Committee on their work in these areas. may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to payable taxation and The Committee challenges management’s and EY’s views and ascertains the PTU may not have been provided for appropriately. degree to which such adjustments are supported by internal and/or external Whereas the Committee does not consider that there is a risk of material subject matter experts to ensure that they are appropriate and properly misstatement of these numbers in the Financial Statements, in the current evidenced. climate it is important for us to ensure that our shareholders have adequate During the year, the Audit Committee has, in particular, challenged management’s information to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair treatment of certain expenses in the light of developing tax legislation in Mexico, and reasonable. the steps taken to ensure that deferred tax and VAT credits are recoverable and (See notes 8 and 11 to the Financial Statements) steps taken to mitigate the effects of currency movements on tax liabilities as shown in the Financial Statements (which are stated in US dollars). The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable under current Mexican tax law and financial reporting standards. Licences and land title Land titles underpin all our mining activities as, without good title, the Group The Committee has oversight over the progress of the review and throughout the would not be able to conduct its operations. The Committee considers that year has received verbal and written reports from the Company’s Head of Legal the Company has a robust process to ensure that all required legal on the process. documentation is completed correctly on acquisition of land titles and this The review, which had been completed on the major operating mines in prior methodology has been in place for many years. years, continued this year focusing on less significant interests and is now largely As a result of recent litigation and ejido activity, management continue to complete. To date, apart from the issues arising from ongoing ejido litigation, undertake a review of all title documentation and associated agreements. which are being addressed, nothing significant has emerged. The specific risks are: The Committee also reviewed reports from advisers on the status of existing >> Litigation and claims can give rise to uncertainty around the Group’s ability litigation. to freely realise the benefits of its assets and may give rise to asset The Committee is satisfied that it is not necessary to derecognise the Soledad impairment; & Dipolos assets and that the amount of the mining assets at 31 December >> The assessment of the appropriate level of legal provisions and narrative 2015 is adequate when taking into consideration the currently available disclosures in the accounts requires assumptions on the legal outcome of information and that relevant disclosures throughout the Annual Report are claims and estimates of costs; and appropriate. >> The possibility that the Group would not be able to resume operations at Soledad-Dipolos. The review is a substantial task as there is a large volume of titles and potential complexities surrounding land ownership in Mexico arising from the various layers of legislation from the State, agrarian and local government. (See note 27 to the Financial Statements) 119 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued Ensuring that the Annual Report is Fair, Balanced and In line with the standard partner rotation policy the lead partner for Understandable EY in the UK was replaced during the year, having been the audit In February 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report partner for five years and the Audit Committee oversaw the process and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 for ensuring that the new audit partner was suitable for the role. prior to recommending them to the Board for approval. As part of that review process, the members of the Committee were provided with a The Audit Committee has begun planning an external audit tender draft of the full Annual Report prior to a formal review by the Audit exercise which will commence in the first half of 2016 around the time Committee at the February meeting, enabling them to ensure that the of the Company’s AGM. The process will involve initial invitations to numbers therein were consistent with those in the Financial Statements tender; the provision of information through a data room and or were sourced from appropriate data. More importantly, members of meetings with management; written submissions from which a the Committee also assess whether the words used are consistent with shortlist of tenderers is expected to be compiled; and final oral their understanding of the Company’s business obtained through Board presentations in September 2016 to enable an appointment to be and Audit Committee meetings, and other interaction that they have approved by the Board in October 2016 (to take effect for the year with management, and use their experience to assess whether the commencing 1 January 2017). The appointment would not be Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable. formally confirmed until the 2017 AGM so that the chosen firm would This additional review by Audit Committee members, supplemented by then be in place for the interim review in 2017 as their first audit/ observations provided by external advisers during the drafting process, review activity. assists the Board in determining that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it is approved. Independence and Objectivity of the External Auditor The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the 2. External auditor external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity. It has The Audit Committee is required to oversee the relationship with the therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as external auditor and assess the effectiveness of the external audit the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in process. This is achieved through a combination of the following accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession. actions: >> Reviewing the terms of engagement of the external auditor; The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision >> Approving audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit; of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor. >> Understanding the allocation of audit resources and the level of The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, involvement of technical experts; assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved. Any >> Discussing the external auditor’s materiality assessments in engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services relation to our financial statements; above US$150,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit >> Challenging the external auditor’s risk and judgement area Committee. This policy was confirmed at the December 2015 meeting identification; of the Committee. >> Reviewing the reports received from the external auditor and challenging the work done to test management’s assumptions in In October 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit work key areas of risk and judgement; undertaken by EY during the year. The Committee was satisfied that >> Approving representation letters given to the external auditor by the level of work was appropriate and that the nature of the work management; would not compromise EY’s objectivity in respect of future audit work. >> Seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process; The Committee also reviewed the levels of engagement of other audit >> Periodically commissioning an external review of the external firms and advisers at its October and December meetings. auditor; >> Considering the reappointment of the external auditors and their Details of the fees paid to EY during the year as shown in note 29 to independence, including the rotation of the audit partner; and the Financial Statements were US$1.98 million (of which US$0.04 >> Conducting periodic audit tender processes. million were non-audit related fees), and the fees paid to other accountants and advisory firms were US$0.18 million. During 2015, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with The Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) did not provide any comments management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that on the Company’s 2014 Annual Report. The Audit Committee did, there are no issues in the relationship between management and the however, review their report on EY, as a firm, and considered carefully external auditor which it should address. There were none. those matters raised which were of relevance for Fresnillo plc. Together with management and EY, the Committee satisfied itself During the year, the Audit Committee continued to monitor the liaison that any relevant audit matter raised by the FRC in respect of EY had between EY and the Company’s Internal Audit department, which it been correctly performed in the course of the audits of Fresnillo. believes is improving the efficiency of both the external and internal audit processes. This will continue to develop during 2016. 3. Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee has devoted a significant amount of time and Appointment of the External Auditor attention to the Company’s approach to risk management and In February 2016, the Audit Committee considered and internal control in 2015. This has been in response to two factors; first, recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & the output from the 2014 Committee Evaluation process and Young LLP, to the Board prior to the Company’s Annual General subsequent workstreams described above; and second, the Meeting. This review took into account the results of the auditor preparatory work undertaken by the Audit Committee, on behalf of assessment process, the quality of the work and communication by the Board as a whole, in adopting the 2014 UK Corporate Governance the external auditor and the level of audit fees. Code requirements on risk, internal control, going concern and longer-term viability statements. 120 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Risk Management These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board, not to replace it, operational, financial and executive management controls for each of Strategic Report in matters of risk and risk management. the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe. This represents a significant improvement in the visibility of the The Board’s role is primarily to consider whether a level of risk or a effectiveness of Fresnillo’s risk control environment. specific risk is acceptable within the Company’s strategy and risk appetite. Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for making sure The Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks that internal control and risk management are effective, the detailed and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the publication of both the work is delegated to the Executive Committee. Therefore, the primary interim and full-year reports. In 2015, this process resulted in the role of the Audit Committee in relation to risk management and Board adding a new risk and re-ordering the enlarged list of risks to internal controls is to monitor the effectiveness of risk management reflect their view of the relative significance of each risk in the current systems and related internal controls to ensure that issues that have environment in which the Fresnillo Group operates. Further details of arisen are properly dealt with, and that going forward the systems are the Risk Management System are set out on pages 36–37. fit for purpose. The UK Corporate Governance Code now requires a Corporate Governance robust assessment of the principal risks and the Board and the Audit Financial risk management Committee’s approach to monitoring risk has for some time been The Company’s objectives and policies on financial risk management focused on doing this, primarily through: including information on the Company’s exposures to Market risk, such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate >> Regular reassessment of the top risks identified by management, and equity price risks; credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note the procedures put in place to assess, quantify and mitigate these 32 to the Financial Statements. risks and management judgements as to movements in those risks over the course of the year; Internal controls >> Regular reviews of the Key Risk Indicator reports prepared by The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal management; control, which includes all material controls, including financial, >> Reviewing the reports from the Internal Audit department on any operational and compliance controls and related risk management, issues identified in the course of their work, ensuring that there is and reviewing its effectiveness. The system of internal control is an appropriate response from management and assessing the designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated Financial Statements conclusions that can be drawn from such reporting as part of the with the achievement of the Group’s objectives. Because of the Audit Committee’s monitoring of the Company’s system of internal limitations inherent in any system of internal control, the Group’s control; system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which >> Reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Group’s system of it is exposed. It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk internal control, including the development of the Group’s IT altogether. Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not strategy and governance thereof; absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. >> Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function; and >> Reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for identified in the course of their work, including an internal control reviewing the effectiveness of Fresnillo’s internal controls. The Audit report including observations on the Group’s control environment Committee reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis. on control weaknesses, and ensuring that there is an appropriate The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance response from management. of the Group’s system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee is supported in this The analysis undertaken in relation to the preparation of the viability task by the Internal Audit department. The annual Internal Audit statement has augmented these procedures with an assessment of programme, approved by the Audit Committee, ensures that internal those scenarios which, whilst not particularly likely, could severely controls over all of the operations are all reviewed at least once over a impact the financial viability of the Group (“severe but plausible three-year timeframe. The risk categories set out in the risk matrix scenarios”). Thus the traditional aspects of likelihood and probability were used as the basis for the process of reviewing the effectiveness in risk assessment have now been supplemented by analysis of risk of the system of internal controls. The Internal Audit department proximity and velocity. obtained letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the executive management on the Group’s system of internal control. Management will continue to build the existing risk management framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management The Group has in place internal controls and risk management across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate systems in relation to the Group’s financial reporting process and the Governance Code. In order to support the Board responsibilities of i) Group’s process for preparing consolidated accounts. These systems monitoring and reviewing the risk management and internal control include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting systems; ii) satisfying itself that they are functioning effectively; and records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and iii) that corrective action is being taken where necessary, in 2015, in fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance addition to monitoring the normal risk management activities, the with IFRS. Audit Committee reviewed management’s activities to: >> develop an ongoing continuous monitoring process consisting of validating the effectiveness of current controls; >> continue promoting ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level (being the first line of defence) and through their periodic reporting on the effectiveness of controls; and >> consider how our risk management environment is strengthened through working to ensure that the Group’s corporate values and control culture are embedded throughout the organisation. 121 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Audit Committee Report continued The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the Group’s Going Concern and Longer-term viability statement system of internal controls focused on improving the understanding The Board’s Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability of how the various sources of assurance (such as operational Statement are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 48 and management, financial management, executive management and 49 respectively. internal audit) interact in the review and execution of material controls and identify and address any gaps in the control framework. During the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has To this end, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of the Risk overseen the methodology by which the management team, led by function and management, has assessed its approach to monitoring the Chief Financial Officer, with input from the Company’s advisers, the ongoing effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. has assessed the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code The components of these activities have been identified and assessed in relation to going concern and viability. The key stages and timing for for their adequacy in the monitoring of material controls. These this work are set out in the following table. activities included oversight of controls by corporate level functions, executive management supervision, Internal Audit reviews and Timing Activity related reporting activities to the Audit Committee and Board. The January to July 2015 Briefing of the Board. Process planning and outcome of that review, which was developed during the year, was creation of inter-departmental working party discussed by the Audit Committee in December 2015 and confirmed August–September Determination of time horizon and risk by the Audit Committee in February 2016, prior to submission to the 2015 appetite. Gap analysis with current planning Board which then decided on the statement to be made about the review of the system of internal control in the 2015 Annual Report October 2015 Strategy and business planning and and Accounts. determination of analysis required, including agreement of the universe of severe but An important element of monitoring the system of internal control is plausible scenarios through the activity of Internal Audit across the Group’s operations, as November 2015 Sensitivity analysis and stress-testing discussed further below. The Audit Committee has assessed Internal December 2015 Review of the benchmarking and other data Audit’s findings throughout the year. These findings have included collated to support the quantification of the certain operational control exceptions, including around compliance financial impact of those scenarios with regulations for handling hazardous materials and explosives, January 2016 Review of output from testing and drafting monitoring of electrical installations, installation of auxiliary services disclosures and Board paper within the mine, monitoring and operation of tailings deposits and oversight over drilling contractors. These issues are not pervasive February 2016 Audit Committee and Board approval and throughout the Group’s operations but are being prioritised by the forward planning Executive Committee and operational management. Remediation plans to address them, including control improvements, are being 4. Internal Audit developed and implemented. These plans are presented to the Audit The role of the Audit Committee is to review and monitor the Internal Committee for review and the Committee closely monitors progress Audit function, amongst others through: on an ongoing basis. >> Ensuring that the internal auditors have a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee. As a result of the above activities, certain opportunities to improve >> Closely monitoring the scope of services provided by Internal Audit monitoring activities were also identified. The Audit Committee and by agreeing Internal Audit’s work plan up front and agreeing any the Executive Committee agreed action plans to implement these subsequent changes to the plan. enhancements, including enhancing direct supervision from >> Considering the level and quality of the resources within the superintendent level and accountability from mine manager level department and its appropriateness to the needs of the Fresnillo with oversight from executive management. The Audit Committee Group. and the Board will continue to closely monitor the implementation >> Setting annual objectives and influencing the priorities of the and progress of these initiatives during 2016. Internal Audit function. >> Ensuring adequate recognition and development of the members The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the of the team. Audit Committee (at its February 2016 meeting), reviewed the >> Periodically commissioning an external review of the Internal Audit effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. As a department. result of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been or are planned to be implemented, complemented Internal Audit services are provided to the Company under a Shared Fresnillo’s risk management framework that is appropriate to the Services Agreement between the Company and Industrias Peñoles Group’s circumstances. S.A. de C.V. The Committee is satisfied that Internal Audit reports to the Committee are from a fully independent perspective. The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining In the current year the Audit Committee monitored discussions with best practice levels of risk management and internal control Internal Audit and executive management to align the internal for international mining companies listed on the London control environment with the current operations of the Group. This Stock Exchange. has been made easier by Internal Audit’s realignment of their focus onto the controls surrounding the major operating risks across the operating divisions that concern management. The Internal Audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating risks across all of the Fresnillo Group’s mining assets on a regular basis. Particular focus continues to be placed on auditing the Company’s new mines to ensure that proper procedures are implemented from 122 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today the beginning in those new operations. The Audit Committee receives The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit department Company and Peñoles under which 23 categories of services are Strategic Report at each of its meetings throughout the year. At each meeting during provided to the Company by Peñoles. The Audit Committee reviews the year, the Audit Committee has focused on the progress made by the Shared Services Agreement at each renewal, using external management in dealing with ‘red flag’ items raised during internal advisers to review any revision in the legal terms, to benchmark the audit visits to ensure that the management responses to remediation proposed pricing against tenders requested from numerous are appropriate and timely. alternative suppliers and use management’s experience of both past performance against the KPIs agreed and any enhanced or additional The Head of Internal Audit meets with the members of the Audit services required. Committee without management present at least twice a year and also attends the Committee meetings in full. He is mandated to The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with advise the Chairman of the Audit Committee if there are any issues effect from 31 December 2012. Extensive work with KPMG was which he considers members of the Audit Committee should be undertaken at the time to ensure that the scope of services to be made aware of. There were none in 2015. provided was appropriate to the needs of the Fresnillo Group; that the Corporate Governance pricing for services provided under the Shared Services Agreement The Internal Audit work plan for 2016 was presented to and approved was appropriately benchmarked and that the arrangements were in by the Audit Committee in the October 2015 meeting. This included a the ordinary course of business, not on unusual terms and had been review of the resourcing of the Internal Audit function. negotiated on an arm’s length basis. The Audit Committee presented this to the independent Directors in March 2014 and it was approved. 5. Whistleblowing arrangements The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy of In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring that appropriate rendered by Peñoles under the Shared Services Agreement, investigation of any whistleblowing incidents has been undertaken. management have regular meetings with Peñoles to discuss its performance against the KPIs for each of the different categories of The ‘Fresnillo Plays Fair’ whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation anonymously (via an independent third party) report violations to the agreed. In addition, Internal Audit conduct reviews of approximately Group’s Code of Conduct. The results are assessed by an independent one-third of the services provided each year to ensure that these Financial Statements third party and classified into 25 different categories. Reports to the services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs. As a result, all hotline are reviewed by an internal body called the Honour Commission, services are reviewed by Internal Audit over a three-year cycle. which is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer (currently the Chief Financial Officer), the During the year, in line with its usual practice, the Audit Committee Director of Internal Audit, the Vice President of Exploration and the considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Legal Manager. The Audit Committee regularly receives reports Arrangements for 2015 comparing proposed prices to comparable concerning the discussions and decisions of the Honour Commission. prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of During 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed summaries of the matters other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs discussed by the Honour Commission, which all related to minor local to ensure that they are reasonable. Based on the satisfactory operational and human resources issues, and was satisfied that they outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee had been properly investigated with appropriate action taken. The Audit recommended to the Board that the Independent Directors approve Committee considers that the increasing volume of issues raised is the proposed charges for 2015 under the Met-Mex Arrangements, good evidence that the current programme is operating satisfactorily. which they did in October 2015. 6. Related party matters There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of Fresnillo plc is 75% owned by Peñoles which, in turn, is controlled by business but, although not requiring approval by the Independent the Baillères family. Whilst this means that Peñoles has and will Directors, where they individually or in aggregate for a particular supply continue to have a significant level of influence over the affairs and become of a certain size, the Audit Committee will seek evidence that operations of Fresnillo, it also provides opportunities for synergistic they too are conducted on an arm’s length basis. In 2015, the Audit benefits to be achieved if Fresnillo utilises Peñoles Group resources for Committee requisitioned and reviewed benchmarking data for such some of its key operational requirements, particularly in day-to-day other related party activities which included the cost of insurance cover activities. The Audit Committee has a role to play to ensure that the and the Committee was satisfied that the arrangements are on a benefits of such arrangements are realised within a framework in reasonable arm’s length basis. which those transactions with related parties are conducted under normal market terms and conditions and shareholders’ interests are In October 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed a schedule of all safeguarded. This is principally achieved by: the Company’s other related party transactions during the year and >> Benchmarking data and information for related party transactions was satisfied that all transactions listed were in the ordinary course over a certain threshold. of business. >> Assessing the type and purpose of related party transactions and ascertaining whether they are in the normal course of business. >> Reviewing the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group prior of Directors of Fresnillo plc. to such matters being considered by the Independent Nonexecutive Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement Signed on behalf of the Board by or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules. >> Critically assessing and challenging the appropriateness of any Guy Wilson significant related party transactions and arrangements outside Senior Independent Director the normal course of business. 29 February 2016 123 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Report In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights Directors of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended Association as to the control of the Company. There are no 31 December 2015. continued limitations on the holding of securities. There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by The Directors believe that the requisite components of this report are which, with the Company’s co-operation, financial set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and/or on the Company’s rights carried by securities are held by a person other website, www.fresnilloplc.com. The table sets out where the than the holder of the securities. There are no necessary disclosures can be found. agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in Directors Directors that have served during the year and restrictions on the transfer of voting rights. summaries of the current Directors’ key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate Governance The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the Report on pages 102 and 103. shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or Results and Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set on a return of capital. The Sterling Deferred Shares do dividends out in the Financial Review on pages 87 to 95 and the not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or Consolidated Income Statement on page 147. to receive notice or to attend and speak at any Information regarding the proposed final dividend general meeting of the Company. The Company may can be found in the Financial Review on page 95. also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares Dividend payments made during the year ended at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel 31 December 2015 can be found in the notes to the the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to Financial Statements on page 180. transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares. Except at the Articles of The Company’s full Articles of Association can be option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares Association found on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc. are not transferable. com/who-we-are/corporategovernance. Any Share capital Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in amendments made to the Articles of Association note 19 to the Financial Statements on page 179. may be made by a special resolution of shareholders. The following is a summary of the structure, rights Authority to Details on the Company’s current authority to and restrictions of the Company’s share capital: purchase own purchase its own shares and that being sought at the shares forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in The Company has two classes of share capital: the Corporate Governance Report on page 113. 736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 (Ordinary Directors’ Details of the Directors’ beneficial interests are set out Shares) and 50,000 deferred shares of £1.00 each interests in the Remuneration Report on page 132. (Sterling Deferred Shares). The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Directors’ The Company has given indemnities to each of the Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching indemnities Directors in respect of any liability arising against to these shares are governed by UK law and the them in connection with the Company’s (and any Company’s Articles of Association. associated company’s) activities in the conduct of their duties. These indemnities are subject to the Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006 and and to attend and speak at any general meeting of remain in place at the date of this report. the Company. On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or being a corporation Directors’ and Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance cover is in represented by a duly authorised representative) shall Officers’ place at the date of this report. Cover is reviewed have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is Liability annually and the last was carried out in October 2015. present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for Insurance every share held. The Notice of Annual General Major Notifiable major shares interests of which the Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights interests in Company has been made aware are set out on page and appointing a proxy or proxies. shares 113 of the Corporate Governance Report. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Change of Details setting out the effect of a change of control of Ordinary Shares other than: control the Company on significant agreements are set out >> the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company on the Company’s website at www.fresnilloplc.com/ set out in article 32 of the Articles of Association; who-we-are/corporate-governance. >> where, from time to time, certain restrictions may Political and The Company did not make any donations to political become imposed by laws and regulations (for charitable organisations during the year; information regarding example, insider trading laws); and donations the Company’s charitable donations can be found in >> pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial the Strategic Report on page 33. Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require Greenhouse Details of the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions the approval of the Company to deal in the gas emissions can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 66 Ordinary Shares. to 86 of the Strategic Report. 124 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Employees Information regarding the Company’s employees, The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. Strategic Report including policies on human capital, can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 84 to 86 of the Strategic Report. Note 8 to the Financial Statements Signed on behalf of the Board. on page 170 also provides further information on employee expenses and numbers. Guy Wilson Senior Independent Director Financial risk Details of the Company’s policies on financial risk 29 February 2016 management are outlined in note 32 to the Financial Statements. Fresnillo plc Future Details about the Company’s future developments can Registered Office: developments be found in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 65. 21 Upper Brook Street London W1K 7PY Auditors The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their United Kingdom Corporate Governance willingness to continue in office and a resolution Company No: 6344120 seeking to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. Additional Listing Rule Disclosures Post balance There have been no post balance sheet events. Disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.4 C are identified below sheet events along with cross references indicating where the relevant information is set out in the Annual Report: Audit Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of >> Capitalised interest for the year ended 31 December 2015 and information this report confirms that: information regarding tax relief can be found on pages 171 to 173. >> so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit >> Details of significant contracts with controlling shareholders can be information of which the Company’s auditors are found on pages 185 to 186. unaware; and >> Details pertaining to services provided to the Company by Peñoles >> he/she has taken all the reasonable steps that he/ are set out on page 123. she ought to have taken as a Director to make >> Statement confirming agreement has been entered into with Financial Statements himself/herself aware of any relevant audit controlling shareholder and that independence provisions are information and to establish that the Company’s complied with can be found in the Corporate Governance Report auditors are aware of the information. on page 105. The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 125 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Chairman’s Annual Statement Our strategy and KPIs are focused on ensuring that we only grow in a way that is sustainable. This creates a perennial challenge to management to ensure that we continuously grow our resources and reserves, deliver profits and cash to fund our development projects, maintain positive relationships with all our stakeholders and operate efficiently and sustainably. We incentivise this through a short-term annual bonus scheme, which we believe incorporates short-term targets which are aligned to the long-term strategic objectives so that these priorities are embedded within the day-to-day activities of our business rather than being seen as something extra. This simple and consistent approach, adopted within the business for many years, also explains our policy of not using long-term share-based incentives within our executive remuneration structures and why we do not see the need to have shareholding guidelines in place for our executives. Second, there is the expectation that companies will introduce malus and/or claw-back provisions and other forms of deferred variable pay. The Remuneration Committee has given careful thought to this new requirement during 2015. We believe that the existing remuneration arrangements already mitigate this risk and therefore we do not consider that it is necessary to introduce such provisions at present. “...our current policy continues to be appropriate” Charles Jacobs We consider the competitiveness of our remuneration packages Chairman of the Remuneration Committee within the context in which we operate and the Remuneration Committee operates a policy which is culturally appropriate to Fresnillo’s Mexican resources environment. Both the levels of annual bonus and the lack of share-based incentives need to be seen within that context. We therefore believe our current policy continues to be appropriate. As in previous years, we have published remuneration information in respect of our Chief Executive Officer as if he were a member of the Board, even though that is not currently the case. We believe this is within the spirit of our reporting obligations, even if it is not strictly required, as it adds to the transparency of our reporting. Dear Shareholder, My Remuneration Committee colleagues and I will keep these I would like to introduce this year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report by matters under review. We continue to talk to our shareholders focusing on the two revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and have had no negative feedback to date in relation to our which have taken effect this year. These revisions bring the considered stance on remuneration. In 2016, we will undertake a review of our and tailored approach that Fresnillo takes to its remuneration remuneration policy in anticipation of the need to renew it at our 2017 arrangements for senior executives into focus. Annual General Meeting. In support of that, I would welcome any comment or discussion with any of our shareholders who have views First, there is the expectation that remuneration should be designed to on our approach to remuneration. promote the long-term success of the Company. Given Fresnillo’s long history as a resources business, it follows that sustainable long-term Yours faithfully success is at the core of what the Company is trying to achieve. Mr Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 126 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Remuneration Policy Introduction The retention of key management and the alignment of This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the elements management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are Strategic Report of the Remuneration Policy of the Company (‘the Remuneration key objectives of this policy. Policy’) relevant to the interpretation of the Annual Report on Implementation for 2015. The Remuneration Policy, which was Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies level is a key to managerial retention in Mexico. Therefore, the and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market (‘the Regulations’), was put to a binding vote at the Annual General competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for Meeting held on 16 May 2014 (which was also its Effective Date). The comparable companies. Total compensation is set within a range full Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders is included in the around the median level for the Company’s peer group within Mexico 2013 Annual Report (pages 133-138) on the Company’s website http:// and internationally, total remuneration is benchmarked biennially to www.fresnilloplc.com/media/12200/fresnilloar13.pdf. ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term. Salaries are positioned within the range Remuneration Policy according to experience and service. Corporate Governance The Remuneration Policy seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior management. The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Directors’ pay set out in the Remuneration Policy: Base Salary Provides the core reward for the role Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months starting on 1 April each year and the review is influenced by: >> Role, experience and performance >> Average workforce salary adjustments >> Mexican economic factors Financial Statements >> Comparison with the Company’s peer group in Mexico and internationally Salaries are benchmarked biennially by reference to companies of similar size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Company’s comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally. The next review will take place in April 2016. Maximum Value The Chief Executive’s salary will be reviewed taking account of the benchmarking information received by the Remuneration Committee and the maximum value of the Chief Executive’s base salary will be positioned within the mid-range for companies in the peer group of Mexican and international resources companies. Performance Metric The Remuneration Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate meeting each year by reference to the factors noted under the ‘Operation’ heading in this table. Details of the current remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Discretion The Remuneration Committee will establish the Company’s comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally as part of the biennial review which it will consider in April 2014. The peer group will be reviewed again in April 2016 as part of the following biennial review. The Committee will report on the outcome of these reviews within the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016. Benefits Help recruit and retain employees Operation An Executive Director would be entitled to life insurance, the use of a Company car, the payment of premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups. Benefits may be changed if Company policy on benefits changes. Maximum Value The current benefits are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report. The maximum value of benefits will be determined by Company policy that is applicable to all employees. Performance Metric None. Discretion The Remuneration Committee may consider changes to the benefits made available to Executive Directors in line with any changes in the policy for benefits provided to all employees. Pension Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution Operation The Group operates a defined contribution scheme. Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined contribution scheme. Maximum Value The maximum contribution for any employee may not exceed 16% of salary. Performance Metric None. Discretion Not applicable. 127 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives Operation Targets are renewed annually and relate to the strategic aims of the business as a whole. A scoring system is used for the plan. Each objective set for the executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating which represents a median performance target for that objective. Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding performance and to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded. For each member of the Executive Committee (including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer), a bonus is only payable if the aggregate performance equals or exceeds 100 points. Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Points Variable Pay (Months’ Salary) Variable Pay (% of salary) 100–104 Two 16.67 105–109 Four 33.33 110–114 Five 41.67 115+ Six 50.00 Maximum Value The maximum percentage of salary is 50% (six months’ salary) and is paid where Executive Directors achieve 115 points or more under the Annual Bonus Plan. (Target is 100 points). Performance Metric The KPI targets focus on risks that are within the control and influence of management. Thus, the management of safety, security, project, human resource, exploration and environmental risks are all currently implicitly covered within the KPIs. The KPIs and targets are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given equal priority. Discretion The Remuneration Committee considers that the KPIs, upon which bonuses are based, may need to evolve from year to year in line with the strategy and therefore it retains the discretion to adjust individual KPI weightings from year to year. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust bonus payments to take account of the following: >> Factors outside the control of Executive Directors e.g. force majeure circumstances. In deciding whether adjustment is merited, the Remuneration Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Executive Director’s response to those circumstances; in this situation an upward adjustment may be considered. >> Poor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental performance during the year, in which case a downward adjustment would be considered. Any such discretion will be fully explained in future Directors’ Remuneration Reports. Annual Bonus Plan and policy on variable remuneration It is the Company’s policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term performance. The Company’s core strategy is one of long-term sustainable growth. Sustainable growth in mining requires the steady and safe expansion of the Group’s operations through the discovery of new resources and construction, maintenance and/or expansion of new mines. The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term and long-term KPIs, rewarding the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives in the following manner: Strategic objective Key Performance Indicator Timeframe Measure Weighting Maximise the potential of Production Short and long term Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 existing operations Safety Short term Fatalities 5 Deliver growth through Resources Long term Increase in total resources 10 development projects Extend the growth pipeline Increase in resources upgraded from 20 inferred to indicated Advance sustainable development Stakeholders Long term Various 11 Financial Short term Net profit adjusted 17 All objectives Teamwork – – 11 Alignment of executive remuneration and the market In setting the fixed remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee, information relating to the mining company comparators is provided by various consultants. Information relating to the Mexican economic metrics and internal benchmarking is collated by management for the Remuneration Committee to consider. 128 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Comparison of executive and wider Company remuneration External appointments When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and the It is the Board’s policy to allow Executive Directors to accept Strategic Report Executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes account of directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided pay and conditions across the Group. It will consider the overall pay that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the increase percentage negotiated with employee representatives as its Company. Any such directorships must be formally notified to starting point. The Remuneration Committee may agree pay the Board. increases above or below the agreed percentage in exceptional circumstances, where in its discretion it considers such variance to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors norm to be justified. Other than the Towers Watson report specifically The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the Noncommissioned by the Remuneration Committee in 2014, when the executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arrears. Remuneration Policy was set, the same benchmark reports are used The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not participate in any in the evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, thus long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor do they accrue providing a common approach to both. The Remuneration any pension entitlement. Neither the Chairman nor any of the NonCommittee does not consult with employees in setting Directors’ executive Directors has a service contract with the Company; however Corporate Governance remuneration. each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company. Engagement with shareholders on remuneration Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee engages with relevant On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors organisations concerning the Company’s approach to remuneration, signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period and he reports back to the other members of the Remuneration of three years. Since April 2011, the letters of appointment all serving Committee on such dialogue as necessary. Non-executive Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging Policy on recruitment them to retire at each Annual General Meeting and be subject to The Remuneration Committee will consider the remuneration of new annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of executive appointees to the Board by reference to the Remuneration one year. The amendments have been drafted such that renewed Policy. The Committee does not expect to pay sign-on payments or appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment. compensate new Directors for any variable remuneration forfeited Financial Statements from any employment prior to joining the Board. Salary will be set so Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of 14 as to be market competitive both within the Mexican context and days per year in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Company. A internationally for comparable companies and taking account of the base fee of £30,000 is paid to each Non-executive Director to reflect experience and seniority of the appointee coming into the new role. the time commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a whole. There are no set fees Policy on loss of office for membership of any Board committees or for the chairmanship of Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Directors and senior the Board. The UK-based Non-executive Directors receive a higher fee executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, leaving employment to reflect the additional time commitment that they make in order to from the Group, will be entitled to receive salary and pro-rated annual travel to Board meetings in Mexico and to their responsibilities as bonus based on performance to the date of leaving. Statutory appropriate as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the entitlements are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee. length of service. Mexican labour law does not make any provision for employers and employees to give or receive notice of termination of Copies of the Directors’ letters of appointment and service employment. Therefore the Committee will not make payments in agreements are available for inspection at the Company’s lieu of notice to departing executives unless required to do so by law. registered office. No contractual commitments concerning loss of office were entered into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012. The key terms of the Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment for the Directors serving during the year are as follows: Date of original letter of Notice period from Director Duration of Director appointment to the Company term1 Fees p.a. Alberto Baillères 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Rafael MacGregor 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Arturo Fernández 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year £30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year £90,000 Alejandro Baillères 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year £30,000 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year £30,000 Jaime Lomelín 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year £30,000 Bárbara Garza Lagüera 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £30,000 Charles Jacobs 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £90,000 Jaime Serra 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year £30,000 1 Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The current term expires on 3 May 2016, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM. 129 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 Introduction This report sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015. In accordance with the Regulations, the information provided in the section entitled ‘Directors’ Remuneration – 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015’ and the accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP. Although the Chief Executive Officer is not currently a member of the Board, the Remuneration Committee have elected to report on his remuneration in this report as if he were a Director, in keeping with the spirit of the Regulations. Audited information – Directors’ Remuneration – 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Single Total Figure of Remuneration The detailed emoluments received by the Executive and Non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 are detailed below: Annual Annual Salary/Fees Benefits Bonus Pension Total Salary/Fees Benefits Bonus Pension Total US$’000 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Chairman Alberto Baillères 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Non-executive Directors Juan Bordes 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Rafael MacGregor 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Lord Cairns 0 0 0 0 0 54 0 0 0 54 Arturo Fernández 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Javier Fernández 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 0 0 18 Jaime Lomelín 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Fernando Ruiz 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Guy Wilson 137 0 0 0 137 147 0 0 0 147 Fernando Solana 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 0 0 18 Alejandro Baillères 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 46 0 0 0 46 49 0 0 0 49 Bárbara Garza Laguera 46 0 0 0 46 31 0 0 0 31 Charles Jacobs 137 0 0 0 137 93 0 0 0 93 Jaime Serra 46 0 0 0 46 31 0 0 0 31 Total 734 0 0 0 734 784 0 0 0 784 Chief Executive Officer (not on Board during the year) Octavio Alvídrez1 888 80 108 90 1,166 924 79 120 94 1,217 Grand Total 1,622 80 108 90 1,900 1,708 79 120 94 2,001 1 Benefits provided to Mr Alvídrez include the cost of life insurance premiums 2015: US$26,465 (2014: US$19,742), club memberships 2015: US$1,679 (2014: US$1,888), subsistence and other meal benefits 2015: US$10,517 (2014: US$12,217), premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups 2015: US$3,639 (2014: US$5,952), chauffeur 2015: US$25,351 (2014: US$28,850), car 2015: US$11,216 (2014: US$8,802), and social security costs 2015: US$1,100 (2014: US$1,259). 2 The basis of calculation for Mr Alvídrez’ annual bonus for 2015 is set out in the table below. 3 The Group operates two pension schemes: (i) a defined benefit scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index; and (ii) a defined contribution scheme (which was introduced on 1 July 2007). On behalf of members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the minimum wage in force from time to time the employing company may make contributions of 5% to the scheme. The employing company may also make additional contributions between 5% and 8% of salary to this plan. Members may elect to match contribution percentages between 5% and 8% of salary. Mr Alvídrez is a member of the Company’s defined benefit scheme in respect of service before 30 June 2007 and of the defined contribution scheme in respect of service since 1 July 2007. 4 The Company does not operate a long-term incentive plan or any share-based incentives. 130 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today The objectives, as applied to Mr Alvídrez’ incentive payment, the measures associated with each objective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: Strategic Report 2014 Weighting 2015 2015 2015 Points 2014 Points Objective Measure Points1 Target Result Award Result Award Production Increase in equivalent ounces 26 89.8 million equivalent ounces 92.5 26.80 76.1 26.10 produced3 of silver (2014: 75.7 million equivalent ounces of silver) Exploration/ Increase in total resources2 10 Maintain prior year total 102% 10.20 98% 9.80 growth resources Increase in resources upgraded 20 Maintain prior year total 103% 20.60 101% 20.20 from inferred to indicated3 indicated Financial Net profit adjusted3 17 US$141 million4 US$236 28.50 US$323 18.40 Corporate Governance (2014: US$299 million) million million Stakeholder Relationship with key 5 Unmeasured 3.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 stakeholders e.g. communities and unions4 Management of land rights4 3 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 Controls over contractors4 3 3.75 3.75 4.25 4.25 Teamwork Collective teamwork across 5 Unmeasured 5.00 5.00 7.00 7.00 the Group4 Progressing the Succession Plan 6 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 for Executive Committee Financial Statements positions4 Safety Fatal accidents5,6 5 Zero 1 0 1 0 Total 100 104.10 100.00 Adjustments – 0 0 Total 100 104.10 100.00 1 The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management. Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in future years. 2 Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and/or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored. 3 Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract. The 2015 Net Profit amount for the purposes of the 2015 annual bonus was re-based to take account of the year-on-year changes in currency, metals prices, the revaluation of the Silverstream contract. 4 The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion. The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of the Stakeholder and Teamwork effort: Satisfactory performance = 100% of weighting points; outstanding performance = 140% of weighting points; and underperformance = 0 points. 5 In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for Safety. For the purposes of calculating fatalities, all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors. Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points. 6 In addition to the penalty for a single fatality (see note 5), the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc. 131 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer is as follows: US$’000 Defined Contribution Scheme (DCS) Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) Rights as at 31 December 20151 US$362 US$1,073 Additional benefit in the event that the In the event of early retirement, Mr Alvídrez is Mr Alvídrez is not currently entitled to any Chief Executive Officer retires early entitled to receive his accumulated contributions additional benefit on early retirement in the DBS (both member and Company) to the DCS Increase, before inflation and the Increase in accrued benefits effect of foreign exchange, in US$’000 Accumulated accrued benefits during the year1 accrued benefits during the year At 31 Dec At 31 Dec 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Octavio Alvídrez 1,435 1,5692 (134) 91 90 94 Notes: 1 The decrease in accrued benefits during the year includes a revaluation effect of US$(253k) (2014: US$51k). 2 Both the 2014 and 2015 figures shown in the table above are reported in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. Mr Alvídrez is expected to retire at his normal retirement age of 60 years old. Shares held by Directors Unaudited Information The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2015 and at 31 December Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2015 2015 was: Chief Executive Officer Salary and Benefits 1 January 31 December 2015 2015 The total remuneration paid to Mr Alvídrez during the year was US$1,165,935. Alberto Baillères1 552,595,191 552,595,191 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 During the year, Octavio Alvídrez served as Chief Executive Officer Rafael MacGregor – – but was not appointed as a member of the Board of Directors. Arturo Fernández – – Mr Alvídrez is employed under a contract of employment with Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary of Fresnillo Jaime Lomelín – – plc. Mr Alvídrez’ contract was entered into on 15 August 2012 and Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 is governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law. Mr Alvídrez’ service Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 agreement does not have a fixed term and can be terminated María Asunción Aramburuzabala – – in writing by either party with no entitlement to additional compensation for termination other than compensation payments Alejandro Baillères – – required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws. Bárbara Garza Laguera – – No benefits are payable on termination. Charles Jacobs – – Jaime Serra – – The salary payable under Mr Alvídrez’ service agreement is MXN$860,000 per month, which excludes payments for holidays, 1 Alberto Baillères holds an indirect interest in the Company. Mr Baillères and companies Company-paid savings contributions and other cash benefits. In 2015, controlled by Mr Baillères hold, in aggregate, 68.9% of the issued share capital (and his total salary payments were MXN$14,078,946 (US$887,953). In voting rights) of Peñoles. Peñoles holds 552,595,191 Ordinary Shares (74.99% of the 2014, his total salary payments were MXN$12,293,884 (US$924,470). issued share capital) in the Company. Mr Alvídrez was awarded a salary increase of 7.5% to reflect his development as Chief Executive Officer over the past year. Towers Watson have confirmed that the salary review was in line with the Remuneration Policy. Under his service agreement, Mr Alvídrez is entitled to 26 working days’ paid holiday per year. He is not entitled to profit-sharing (PTU). Mr Alvídrez is also entitled to life insurance, the use of a chauffeur and Company car, the payment of medical insurance premiums covering limited expenses and check-ups, meals and subsistence payments and club subscriptions. 132 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Annual Bonus During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Mr Alvídrez achieved 104.1 points under the bonus scheme for the Remuneration Policy and concluded that it should continue to be Strategic Report year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: 100.0 points) and therefore was applied in 2016 on a consistent basis to 2015. The comparator group awarded a bonus of MXN$1,720,000 (US$108,480) for 2015. of companies for the purposes of validating the salaries of Executive Directors was reviewed during the year and Towers Watson have Pensions confirmed to the Remuneration Committee that the Chief Executive The Group operates two pension schemes: (i) a defined benefit Officer’s remuneration remains in line with the Remuneration Policy. scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with It will be reviewed again in 2016. The Remuneration Committee is benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject to therefore satisfied that it is implementing the Remuneration Policy indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price appropriately in respect of the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration Index; and (ii) a defined contribution scheme (which was introduced (even though it is not legally required to do so). on 1 July 2007). The Remuneration Committee has considered the effectiveness of Membership of the latter scheme is voluntary, members earning a KPIs and targets set for 2015 and it continues to consider that the Corporate Governance salary of no more than 25 times the minimum wage in force from overall structure of the Incentive Plan and the targets set in 2015 time to time may make contributions of 5% to the scheme. On behalf remain appropriate for 2016 other than where adjusted to reflect the of members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the minimum 2016 business plan targets. The 2016 weightings and measures are wage in force from time to time the employing company may make therefore set out in the table below. The 2016 targets and contributions of 5% to the scheme. The employing company may also performance against those targets will be disclosed in the 2016 make additional contributions between 5% and 8% of salary to this Annual Report. plan. Members may elect to match percentages between 5% to 8% of salary. Weighting Objective Measure Points1 Mr Alvídrez is a member of the Company’s defined benefit scheme in Production Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 respect of service before 30 June 2007 and of the defined contribution compared to prior year production level2 scheme in respect of service since 1 July 2007. Exploration/ Net increase in total resources 10 growth compared to previous year-end total2 Financial Statements Pensions and other benefits are also set at levels that are market Net increase in resources upgraded 20 competitive to ensure that the retentive benefits of market from inferred to indicated compared to competitive salaries are not eroded by poor Group performance. previous year-end total2 Financial Year-on-year increase in net profit 17 Malus and Claw-back adjusted3 The Remuneration Committee has considered whether malus and/or claw-back provisions should be incorporated into the service Stakeholder Relationship with key stakeholder4 5 agreement for the Chief Executive Officer. Given that the Company Surface tenure4 3 does not operate any remuneration plans with a timeframe of more Controls over contractors4 3 than one year, the Remuneration Committee does not consider that Teamwork Collective teamwork across the Group4 5 there is much value in introducing such provisions into the contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer at this stage. The Succession Plan for Executive 6 Remuneration Committee will review this position regularly. Committee positions Safety Fatal accidents5,6 5 Year-on-year percentage change in remuneration of CEO and all Total 100 employees Adjustments – Percentage Change (in US Dollar amounts) Total 100 2014–2015 Base Salary/ 1 The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to Fees Benefits Annual Bonus ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management. Where a Chief Executive Officer (3.9%) 1.3% (10.2%) change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in future years. All employees (5.3%) (3.2%) 2.90% 2 Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and/or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored. Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2015 and 2016 Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year 3 changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract. In 2014, the Remuneration Committee asked Towers Watson to 4 The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some recommend a framework for setting the salaries of Executive Directors discretion. The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration and members of the Executive Committee. Following this review, the Committee’s assessment of the Teamwork effort: Outstanding = 7 points; Satisfactory Remuneration Committee established the peer group of companies for = 5 points; Underperformance = 0 points. the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive Directors (the 5 In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for Safety. For the purposes “Peer Group”). The Peer Group consists of 11 resources companies from of calculating fatalities, all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are Europe, USA, Canada and Mexico. The Remuneration Committee has employees or contractors. Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, agreed that the Chief Executive’s salary should be set within a range of the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points. 25% to 75% of the Peer Group for base salary. In 2014, Towers Watson 6 In addition to the penalty for a single fatality (see note 5), the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are advised the Remuneration Committee that the CEO’s salary was three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc. currently slightly ahead of the median level compared to the Peer Group; however once variable pay is taken into account, the CEO’s remuneration is below the median level. 133 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued Remuneration Committee Activity during 2015 During the year, the Committee met four times. Its key activities Membership during the year were: The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors in >> Review of the Remuneration Policy, in line with UK regulatory the year ended 31 December 2015: requirements and, particularly, developments to the UK Corporate >> Mr Charles Jacobs (Chairman), Independent Non-executive Governance Code; Director >> Receipt of reports from Towers Watson concerning the >> Mr Alberto Baillères, Chairman of the Board benchmarking of remuneration for members of the Executive >> Mr Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director Committee and Executive Directors, by reference to the Peer Group for the purpose of setting parameters for executive remuneration, Mr Baillères was non-independent at the time of his appointment particularly salaries for that group; to the Board and therefore his membership of the Remuneration >> Consideration of information about Mexican inflation trends and Committee does not comply with Code Provision D.2.1 of the UK internal employee salary reviews prior to setting the annual salary Corporate Governance Code. However, the Board believes that increases for the Chief Executive Officer and members of the Mr Baillères’ experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican Executive Committee; market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration >> Review of the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and Committee’s deliberations justifies his membership of the members of the Executive Committee compared to the KPIs set Remuneration Committee. for 2014 and approval of annual bonus awards for 2014 based on achievement of KPI targets; Role >> Review of KPI targets for members of the Executive Committee for The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making 2015, including consideration of the effectiveness of changes to recommendations to the Board on the Group’s Remuneration Policy the targets to reward better performance in safety improvement for senior management (the Chief Executive Officer and other and exploration efforts set the previous year; and members of the Executive Committee), and for determining specific >> Other activities, e.g. Committee evaluation, as required by the remuneration packages for senior management, including pension Committee’s terms of reference. rights and any compensation packages, as well as remuneration of the Chairman within agreed terms of reference. Details of the attendance of members at meetings of the Committee during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance Report. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Chairman’s remuneration; however the Chairman does not receive Advisers to the Remuneration Committee any remuneration other than his fee as a Non-executive Director of Remuneration consultants are engaged by Group companies to the Company. provide benchmarking information on remuneration but not to provide guidance on the structure of remuneration. All of the Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been consultants that the Group uses are independent of the Company. No approved by the Board and are available on the Company’s website remuneration consultants are directly engaged by the Remuneration at www.fresnilloplc.com. Committee itself. Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is supplied annually by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation. The information provided is used across the Group in determining salaries for all employee grades including senior management. Whilst the Remuneration Committee takes such information into account when considering executive remuneration, none of these advisers are considered to materially assist the Remuneration Committee in the performance of its duties. In addition, the Remuneration Committee receives specific reports comparing the remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee to international benchmarks. Towers Watson have advised the Remuneration Committee in relation to the establishment of the Peer Group and the provision of benchmarking information showing the position of the remuneration, and particularly the salaries, of members of the Executive Committee in relation to the Peer Group. Towers Watson provide general advice and benchmarking information to the Group concerning executive remuneration and during 2015, the Group paid Towers Watson US$7,326 (2014: US$51,713). The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory developments in the UK. The Group Human Resources Department provides information on Mexican market trends and compensation structures for the broader employee population in the Fresnillo Group. 134 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today AGM Voting on the Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee’s approach to executive remuneration has received strong support from shareholders at every Annual General Strategic Report Meeting since the Company’s listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2008. More than 99% of independent share votes cast on the advisory vote at each AGM have been in favour of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Number of All shares voted Free float shares voted votes withheld For Against For Against 2011 99.98% 0.02% 99.88% 0.12% 5,125 2012 99.91% 0.09% 99.54% 0.46% 1,814,818 2013 99.97% 0.03% 99.82% 0.18% 115,987 2014: Remuneration Policy 99.72% 0.28% 98.69% 1.31% 532,589 2014: Remuneration Report 100.00% 0.00% 99.99% 0.01% 531,072 Corporate Governance 2015: Remuneration Report 99.91% 0.09% 99.55% 0.45% 814,989 Note: Prior to 2014, there was only one vote on the Directors' Remuneration Report at each Annual General Meeting. Payments to departing Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors; neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office. Share ownership guideline The Remuneration Committee has considered whether a share ownership guideline should be set for Executive Directors and has determined that no such guideline should be set at the present time. As the Company does not operate a share-based incentive scheme and, as indicated earlier in this report, the culture for incentives in the Mexican market does not favour share-based incentives, there would be neither opportunity nor appetite for executives to build a shareholding in the Company. The Remuneration Committee will keep this policy under review. Financial Statements Performance reviews As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the performance of the Company’s share price since its listing compared to the FTSE 100 Index. This is deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes. Fresnillo – Total Return Index FTSE 100 – Total Return Index 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 135 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued The total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer for the past five years, in US dollars, has been as follows: Year ending 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chief Executive Officer Jaime Lomelín Octavio Alvídrez Total remuneration US$’000s – Jaime Lomelín 1,698 1,3291 – – – – Octavio Alvídrez – 580 1,116 1,217 1,166 Total 1,698 1,909 1,116 1,217 1,166 Percentage change on previous year (11.1%) 12.4% (41.5%) 9.1% (4.2%) Proportion of maximum bonus paid to CEO in year Jaime Lomelín 33.33% 66.66% – – – Octavio Alvídrez – 66.66% 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% 1 This figure only relates to remuneration paid to Jaime Lomelín in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer in 2012. Relative importance of the spend on pay 2015 2014 % Change Staff Costs (US$’000s)1 88,539 91,311 (2.98%) Distributions to shareholders (US$’000s) 37,582 86,954 (56.78%) 1 Staff costs are taken without PTU in order to make a like-for-like comparison with the Chief Executive Officer who does not receive PTU. This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc. Signed on behalf of the Board. Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 February 2016 136 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Fresnillo Today The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with person in relation to the annual financial report except to the extent Strategic Report applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting that such liability could arise under English law. Accordingly, any Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each with section 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial Services and financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial Markets Act 2000. position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for In accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance that period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Code, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, required to: taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides >> select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: information to enable shareholders to assess the Company’s ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ performance, business model and strategy. and then apply them consistently; Corporate Governance >> present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Report and Accounts information; >> provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of its knowledge: requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with on the Company and of the Group’s financial position and financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the performance; European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, >> state that the Company and the Group has complied with IFRS, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and financial statements; and >> prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having b) the management report (encompassed within the ‘Overview’, assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as ‘Strategic Report’, ‘Performance’ and ‘Governance’ sections) Financial Statements a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the includes a fair review of the development and performance of the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to business, and the position of the Company and the undertakings do so. included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial For and on behalf of the Board position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 2006 Guy Wilson and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for Senior Independent Director safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 29 February 2016 taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Under applicable UK law and regulations the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance report that comply with that law and regulations. In addition the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 137 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 140 Consolidated Income Statement  147 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 148 Consolidated Balance Sheet 149 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 150 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 152 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income  198 Parent Company Balance Sheet 199 Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 200 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity  201 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 202 Reserves and Resources Tables 225 Operating Statistics  230 Shareholder Information 232 138 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 139 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Fresnillo plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: >> Fresnillo plc’s Group financial statements and Parent Company >> the Parent Company financial statements have been properly financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European fair view of the state of the Group’s and the Parent company’s Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the Companies Act 2006; and year then ended; >> the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with >> the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; What we have audited Fresnillo plc’s financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Company accounting policies Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 19 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement >> Recoverability of mining assets >> Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from litigation and land disputes >> Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition >> Valuation of the Silverstream contract >> Estimation of mineral reserves and resources >> Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only) Audit scope >> We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components, being the 4 operating mining units and the Parent company, and audit procedures on specific balances at a further 5 components. >> The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for: –– 100% of Revenues; –– 100% of the Silverstream revaluation effects; –– 105% of Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects (other components negatively contributing to profit by approximately (6)% rounded); and, –– 99% of Total assets. Materiality >> Overall Group materiality of US$9.2 million which represents 5% of Profit before tax before Silverstream revaluation effects. 140 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the Strategic Report allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas. What we concluded to Area of audit risk Our audit response the Audit Committee Recoverability of mining assets >> Management’s assessment of >> We have reviewed management’s identification of indicators of >> We agreed with the recoverable amount of impairment under accounting standards. management’s mining assets requires >> We have assessed the methodology used by management to identification of indicators of estimation and judgment estimate the recoverable value of each cash generating unit (CGU) to impairment in the current around assumptions used, ensure that this is consistent with the accounting standards. year which has resulted in all Corporate Governance including reserves and >> We have assessed the reasonableness of each key assumption used in mining CGUs being tested resources and related management’s cash flow forecasts used to calculate recoverable for impairment. production profiles, future values, in particular: >> We considered the approach operating and capital –– We have verified reserves and resources quantities underpinning to determining the expenditure, commodity the mine plans by comparing these to estimates audited by SRK recoverable value for each prices, discount rates and Consulting (SRK), a specialist engaged by management. CGU to be appropriate. exchange rates. –– We assessed the professional competence, objectivity, and >> Our procedures confirmed >> Changes to assumptions could capabilities of SRK, as a specialist engaged by management, as that the reserves and lead to material changes in the required by auditing standards. resources and related estimated recoverable –– We agreed related production profiles to the current mine plans for production profiles are amount. each mine. consistent with the –– We assessed operating and capital costs included in the cash flow estimates audited by SRK Financial Statements Management’s assessment of forecasts for consistency with current operating costs and forecast and respective mine plans. the significant judgement and mine production. >> Our procedures confirmed estimation required is set out in –– Using our valuation specialists we have assessed management’s that the estimates of Note 2(c) and sensitivities to assumptions relating to future metals prices and discount rates, operating and capital costs changes in price which may comparing these to market data and also for consistency with other are consistent with the result in impairment are set out estimates used in the financial statements. production profiles of in Note 13 to the consolidated –– We have performed sensitivity analysis on management’s respective mines and financial statements. calculated recoverable values for alternative assumptions around related mine plans. gold and silver prices, particularly in the initial 5 years of the >> Our sensitivity analysis forecasts and the discount rate applied. supports there being no impairment arising with respect to any CGU in the current year. Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from litigation and land disputes >> The assessment of the >> We evaluated management’s assessment of the current status of >> We have concluded that, appropriate level of legal litigation and claims against the Group and considered whether there is based on the facts and provisions and disclosure in the a requirement for any provision or related disclosures under accounting circumstances of litigation financial statements requires standards. and claims against the judgement about the future >> We assessed management’s conclusion that there is sufficient Group, that management’s legal outcome of claims and likelihood that future economic benefits will flow from the use of the assessment that no estimates of related financial assets impacted by land disputes that continue to be carried in the provision is required at impacts. Group’s balance sheet, and whether there are related indicators of 31 December 2015 is >> Litigation and claims can give impairment in respect of those assets. appropriate. rise to uncertainty around the >> We assessed management’s estimation of the recoverable value of >> The legal confirmations Group’s ability to freely realise inventory that is impacted by land disputes. received corroborated the benefits of its assets and >> We obtained independent legal confirmation letters from the Group’s management’s judgements may give rise to asset external lawyers advising on these issues, and assessed these for in this area. impairment. consistency with management’s conclusions. We assessed these >> We consider that the lawyers as specialists engaged by management. disclosure in Note 27 of Contingencies in respect of >> We assessed the Group’s internal legal counsel as a management related contingencies is also litigation and land disputes are specialist. appropriate. disclosed in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 141 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc What we concluded to Area of audit risk Our audit response the Audit Committee Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition >> All of the Group’s current year >> We evaluated the appropriateness of management’s process for >> Our procedures did not revenue from the sale of identifying and recording related party transactions. identify issues with the production, and a significant >> We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand identification and reporting amount of its expenses the nature of the transactions. of related party incurred relate to transactions >> Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained transactions. with related parties. These alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course of >> We concluded that revenue include the sale of production business. recognition in the year is to the Met-Mex refinery, which >> We utilised data analysis tools to interrogate entire data sets for appropriate, including the is part of Industrias Peñoles, potential related party transactions. treatment of related the Company’s direct parent. >> We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income provisional pricing terms. >> There is a risk that, if not at statement line items impacted by related party transactions to arm’s length or not reflecting corroborate that there was no evidence of manipulation. the goods or services provided >> With respect to revenue recognition our procedures included: in the period, such transactions –– On a sample basis we performed testing to support physical could be used to manipulate deliveries of product in the year. earnings or to distribute profits –– We performed revenue cut-off testing. to the Company’s parent. –– We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting for the provisional pricing terms in sales contracts. Related party transactions are –– We reviewed the basis for the treatment and refining charges disclosed in Note 28 to the negotiated between the Group and Industrias Peñoles for the consolidated financial current year, these being a deduction from reported revenues. statements and Revenues in –– We compared actual revenues on a disaggregated basis to detailed Note 5. expectations developed based on production in the year and market prices for relevant metals. >> We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the results of our audit procedures. Valuation of the Silverstream contract >> The valuation of the >> In conjunction with our valuation specialists, we evaluated the >> The valuation model is Silverstream contract, a appropriateness of the valuation model used by the Company to consistent with that used in derivative financial instrument, determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract under accounting prior periods and we uses a discounted cash flow standards. consider this appropriate for model. Assumptions used >> We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist in order to understand the the nature of this long term require management assumptions used in the estimation of reserves and resources. We derivative contract. judgement and estimation. assessed the geologist’s professional competence, objectivity, and >> We concluded that the >> These include reserves and capabilities. valuation of the Silverstream resources and the related >> We gained an understanding of the process and controls around contract is reasonable as at production profile of the reserves and resources estimation at Industrias Peñoles. 31 December 2015 and that Sabinas mine (owned and >> We verified that the mine plan is consistent with the reserves and the related gain recognised operated by the Company’s resources estimate. in income was appropriate. parent, Industrias Peñoles), >> With assistance from our valuation specialists we corroborated key future silver prices and the economic assumptions in the valuation, including future silver prices, discount rate applied. foreign exchange rates and the discount rate applied. This included >> The resulting valuation is comparison to market data and an analysis of the consistency of sensitive to changes in these assumptions to other accounting estimates. assumptions which may result in material effects in the financial statements. Details of the revaluation of the Silverstream contract are disclosed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 142 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today What we concluded to Strategic Report Area of audit risk Our audit response the Audit Committee Estimation of mineral reserves and resources >> The estimation of mineral >> As discussed above, we assessed SRK as a specialist engaged by >> We assessed SRK as an reserves and resources management as required by auditing standards. appropriate expert engaged quantities requires significant >> Through direct discussions with SRK, we have gained an understanding by management for the judgment and estimation. The of the scope of their work to verify that this was appropriate. purposes of auditing the Group’s reserves and resources >> We read the report of the external expert and gained an understanding reserves and resources of are audited by SRK. of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year. the group. >> Reserves and resources, and >> We have tested that the audited reserves and resources estimates >> We confirmed that the related production profiles, are have been appropriately applied to relevant areas of the Group’s audited reserves and a key input to a number of financial statements including the recoverable value of mining assets resources estimates have areas impacting the financial and investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only) and the been appropriately used in statements, most significantly calculation of depletion, depreciation and amortisation. relevant financial statement Corporate Governance the recoverable value of calculations. mining assets and investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only), the calculation of depletion, depreciation and amortisation, and the assessment of going concern and viability. Additionally, reported reserves and resources may impact investor valuations of the Group. Financial Statements The reserves and resources tables are presented on Pages 225–229, after the Parent Company notes. Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries (Parent Company only) >> Management’s assessment of >> We have reviewed management’s identification of indicators of >> We agree with the recoverable amount of impairment under accounting standards. management’s investments in subsidiaries >> We have assessed the methodology used by management to identification of indicators or requires estimation and estimate the recoverable value of each investment, in conjunction with impairment in the current judgement around any intra-group balances, to ensure that this is consistent with year. assumptions used, including accounting standards. >> We considered the approach the recoverable value of >> We have assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions used in to determining the underlying mining assets, as management’s estimates of recoverable value, these principally being recoverable value of discussed above. consistent in nature with those discussed in the ‘Recoverability of investments tested for >> Changes to assumptions could mining assets’ section above. impairment to be lead to material changes in the appropriate. estimated recoverable >> We concluded that the amount, impacting both carrying values of potential impairment charges investments in subsidiaries, and also potential reversals of after impairments as impairment taken in prior reflected in the Parent years. Company financial statements, are reasonable. Management’s assessment of the significant judgement and estimation required is set out in Note 2(c) to the Parent Company financial statements and sensitivities to changes in price which may result in impairment are set out in Note 6. 143 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc Changes in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement as The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work compared with those reported in the prior year are: performed by our audit teams. >> In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the assessment of going concern. Other procedures Whilst this is still an area of audit focus, we do not consider this to Specific scope be a risk of material misstatement in the current year following our Full scope review of analysis performed by the company during the year and Specific scope <1% Other procedures 1% at year end. 15% >> In the current year, we include the risk of recoverability of investments in subsidiaries (Parent company only) as a result of the inherent linkage between this and the recoverable value of 105% 84% mining assets. The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our (6%) allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for Pre-Silverstream profit Total assets each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form before tax an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and Changes from the prior year effectiveness of group-wide controls and other factors such as the There were no significant changes in our scoping as compared to the results of the work of Internal Audit when assessing the level of work prior year other than the addition of 2 specific scope components to be performed at each entity. reflecting business activities in the year and the increased significance of certain balances in these. Of the 10 components selected (2014: 8), we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components (2014: 5) (“full Involvement with component teams scope components”) which were selected based on their size or risk The Group’s significant operations are all in Mexico. 4 of the 5 full characteristics. scope components are audited by one local team under our direct supervision, with the audit of the Parent Company being performed For the remaining 5 components (2014: 3) (“specific scope by the primary engagement team. Of the 5 specific scope components”), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts components, work was performed by the same local team on 4 and within that component that we considered had the potential for the by the primary engagement team on 1. greatest impact on those accounts which we deem to be significant either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. Of the The primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory 5 specific scope components, we instructed 4 of these locations to Auditor, has visited Mexico a number of times during the audit, during perform specified procedures in respect of taxation, mine closure both the planning and execution phases. These visits involved provisions and cash and cash equivalents. discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from their work with the local team, meeting with management, attending closing The reporting components where we performed audit procedures meetings, and reviewing key audit working papers. accounted for: >> 100% (2014: 100%) of the Group’s revenues; Senior members of the local team attended a Global Team Planning >> 100% (2014: 100%) of Silverstream revaluation effects; Event in the planning phase of the audit and the primary team >> 105% (2014: 105%) of the Group’s profit before tax excluding interacted regularly with the local team between visits to Mexico as Silverstream revaluation effects (there being other components appropriate. The primary engagement team is predominantly that negatively contribute to profit by approximately (6)% rounded composed of Spanish speakers in order to further enhance our (2014: (5)%); and, interactions with both the component team and management. >> 99% (2014: 98%) of the Group’s Total assets. The primary team was responsible for the scope and direction of the The audit scope of the specific scope components may not have audit process. For certain procedures, in particular areas involving included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for ourselves with support where required from the local team. In other the Group. cases, we reviewed key working papers including but not limited to the risk areas described above. The remaining components together represent a negative effect on the Group’s Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects The audit work at the 10 components was executed at levels of of approximately (6)% (2014: (5)%) and 1% of total assets (2014: 2%). performance materiality applicable to each individual component as For these components, we performed other procedures, including allocated by the primary team and discussed below. analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of This involvement with the local component team in Mexico, together material misstatement of the Group financial statements. with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements. 144 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Our application of materiality Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken Strategic Report audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The and in forming our audit opinion. performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and Materiality our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in current year, the performance materiality allocated to full-scope the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the components was as set out in the following table: economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of US$ million 2015 2014 our audit procedures. Fresnillo mining unit 3.1 3.5 We determined materiality for the Group to be US$9.2 million (2014: Saucito mining unit 4.5 2.9 US$8.7 million), which is 5% (2014: 5%) of Profit before tax prior to Ciénega mining unit 1.0 2.0 Corporate Governance Silverstream revaluation effects. We believe that this measure of Penmont mining unit 3.8 3.5 profit represents one of the principal considerations for members of the Group, particularly as the Silverstream revaluation effects are Fresnillo plc 6.9 5.2 principally non-cash in nature. The most significant change in allocated performance materiality was in respect of Saucito, which has increased in the year reflecting the full-year contribution of Saucito II, which commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 2014. > Profit before tax of US$212.35 million Starting point Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial. Financial Statements > Adjusted for Silverstream revaluation effects We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Adjustments of US$27.72 million them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 5% of planning materiality, being US$0.5m (2014: US$0.4m), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. > Totals US$184.63 million, being the basis of materiality We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Materiality > Materiality of US$9.2 million (5% of basis quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of of materiality) other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial planning assurance that the financial statements are free from material materiality and updated its calculation for the actual financial results misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an of the year. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been Performance materiality consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of The application of materiality at the individual account or balance significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report misstatements exceeds materiality. 2015 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the Group’s overall control environment it is our judgement that knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If performance materiality is 75% (2014: 75%) of our planning materiality, we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or namely US$6.9 million (2014: US$6.5 million). We based this judgement inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. on factors including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements and the effectiveness of the internal control environment. 145 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Independent Auditor’s Report continued to the members of Fresnillo plc Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Companies Act 2006 reporting As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: out on page 137, the directors are responsible for the preparation of >> adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on received from branches not visited by us; or the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and >> the parent company financial statements and the part of the International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s agreement with the accounting records and returns; or Ethical Standards for Auditors. >> certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in >> we have not received all the information and explanations we accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our require for our audit. audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them We have no exceptions to report. in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Listing Rules review requirements anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a We are required to review: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have >> The directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on formed. page 49, and longer-term viability, set out on pages 48 to 49; and >> the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate In our opinion: Governance Code specified for our review >> the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We have no exceptions to report. 2006; and >> the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity prepared is consistent with the financial statements. ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting >> the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything set out on pages 98 to 137 in the 2015 Annual Report at material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: www.fresnilloplc.com with respect to internal control and risk >> the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have management systems in relation to financial reporting processes carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial entity, including those that would threaten its business model, statements. future performance, solvency or liquidity; >> the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and Matters on which we are required to report by exception explain how they are being managed or mitigated; ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting >> the directors’ statement in the financial statements about We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern non-financial information in the annual report is: basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of >> materially inconsistent with the information in the audited any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do financial statements; or so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of >> apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent approval of the financial statements; and with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of >> the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have performing our audit; or assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have >> otherwise misleading. done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider including any related disclosures drawing attention to any the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and necessary qualifications or assumptions. understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that Daniel Trotman (Senior statutory auditor) we consider should have been disclosed. for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London We have no exceptions to report. 1 March 2016 Notes: 1. The maintenance and integrity of the Fresnillo plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 146 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Income Statement Fresnillo Today Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2015 Year ended 31 December 2014 Strategic Report Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands PrePreSilverstream Silverstream Silverstream Silverstream revaluation revaluation revaluation revaluation effect effect Total effect effect Total Continuing operations: Revenues 5 1,444,386 1,444,386 1,413,701 1,413,701 Cost of sales 6 (1,011,316) (1,011,316) (892,647) (892,647) Gross profit 433,070 433,070 521,054 521,054 Administrative expenses (62,820) (62,820) (67,540) (67,540) Exploration expenses 7 (140,246) (140,246) (168,784) (168,784) Selling expenses (13,693) (13,693) (13,610) (13,610) Other operating income 9 778 778 580 580 Corporate Governance Other operating expenses 9 (16,650) (16,650) (26,122) (26,122) Profit from continuing operations before net finance costs and income tax 200,439 200,439 245,578 245,578 Finance income 10 65,838 65,838 7,460 7,460 Finance costs 10 (45,463) (45,463) (54,616) (54,616) Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 15 – 27,720 27,720 – 77,054 77,054 Foreign exchange loss (36,180) (36,180) (24,411) (24,411) Profit from continuing operations before income tax 184,634 27,720 212,354 174,011 77,054 251,065 Corporate income tax 11 (120,690) (8,316) (129,006) (95,155) (23,116) (118,271) Special mining right 11 (13,958) (13,958) (15,700) (15,700) Financial Statements Income tax expense 11 (134,648) (8,316) (142,964) (110,855) (23,116) (133,971) Profit for the year from continuing operations 49,986 19,404 69,390 63,156 53,938 117,094 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 51,119 19,404 70,523 54,511 53,938 108,449 Non-controlling interest (1,133) (1,133) 8,645 8,645 49,986 19,404 69,390 63,156 53,938 117,094 Earnings per share: (US$) Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 12 – 0.096 – 0.147 Adjusted earnings per share: (US$) Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 12 0.069 – 0.074 – 147 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Profit for the year 69,390 117,094 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net losses/(gains) on cash flow hedges recycled during the year 26,422 (3,247) Related income tax effect 11 (7,927) 974 Net unrealised gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 39,521 (11,771) Related income tax effect 11 (11,856) 3,531 Net effect of cash flow hedges 46,160 (10,513) Fair value (losses)/gains on available-for-sale financial assets 14 (14,636) 22,833 Related income tax effect 11 4,391 (6,850) Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets taken to income during the year 2,896 982 Related income tax effect 11 (869) (295) Net effect of available-for-sale financial assets (8,218) 16,670 Foreign currency translation (134) (234) Net other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 37,808 5,923 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Losses on cash flow hedges reclassified to the value of other assets – (220) Related income tax effect 11 – 66 Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 23 (2,273) (1,851) Related income tax effect 11 361 296 Net other comprehensive expense that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (1,912) (1,709) Other comprehensive income, net of tax 35,896 4,214 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 105,286 121,308 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 106,419 112,663 Non-controlling interests (1,133) 8,645 105,286 121,308 148 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Balance Sheet Fresnillo Today As at 31 December As at 31 December Strategic Report 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 2,138,588 1,969,418 Available-for-sale financial assets 14 71,442 86,078 Silverstream contract 15 358,164 358,965 Deferred tax asset 11 30,814 57,705 Inventories 16 76,375 84,412 Other receivables 17 2,289 3,853 Other assets 3,372 3,872 2,681,044 2,564,303 Corporate Governance Current assets Inventories 16 224,200 221,200 Trade and other receivables 17 237,992 287,595 Income tax recoverable 67,690 168,498 Prepayments 2,966 3,356 Derivative financial instruments 31 117,075 14,551 Silverstream contract 15 26,607 33,311 Short-term investments 18 118,718 295,000 Cash and cash equivalents 18 381,420 154,340 1,176,668 1,177,851 Total assets 3,857,712 3,742,154 Financial Statements EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Company Share capital 19 368,546 368,546 Share premium 19 1,153,817 1,153,817 Capital reserve 19 (526,910) (526,910) Net unrealised gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 19 36,214 (9,946) Net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets 19 16,297 24,515 Foreign currency translation reserve 19 (731) (597) Retained earnings 19 1,296,906 1,265,877 2,344,139 2,275,302 Non-controlling interests 30,202 26,539 Total equity 2,374,341 2,301,841 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans 21 797,032 796,160 Provision for mine closure cost 22 195,476 153,802 Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefit plans 23 14,534 13,838 Deferred tax liability 11 373,009 336,751 1,380,051 1,300,551 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 24 89,630 100,351 Derivative financial instruments 31 1,427 27,033 Income tax 11 – 814 Employee profit sharing 12,263 11,564 103,320 139,762 Total liabilities 1,483,371 1,440,313 Total equity and liabilities 3,857,712 3,742,154 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Mr Arturo Fernández Non-executive Director 29 February 2016 149 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Net cash from operating activities 30 542,894 121,634 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (474,692) (425,574) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 6,077 14,206 Repayments of loans granted to contractors 1,567 3,479 Short-term investments 18 176,475 (295,133) Silverstream contract 15 39,430 58,777 Interest received 4,614 5,993 Net cash used in investing activities (246,529) (638,252) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 20 (37,529) (86,952) Acquisition of non-controlling interest 4(b) – (450,540) Capital contribution 4,796 4,378 Interest paid1 21 (35,144) (43,581) Net cash used in financing activities (67,877) (576,695) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 228,488 (1,093,313) Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents (1,408) (4,041) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 154,340 1,251,694 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 18 381,420 154,340 1 Total interest paid during the year ended 31 December 2015 less amounts capitalised as part of fixed assets projects totalling US$11.1 million (31 December 2014: US$2.7 million). 150 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Fresnillo Today Year ended 31 December Attributable to the equity holders of the Company Strategic Report US$ thousands Net Net unrealised unrealised gains/ gains/ (losses) on (losses) on availableForeign revaluation for-sale currency NonShare Share Capital of cash flow financial translation Retained controlling Notes capital premium reserve hedges assets reserve earnings Total interests Total equity Balance at 1 January 2014 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) 721 7,845 (363) 1,269,781 2,273,437 398,534 2,671,971 Profit for the year – – – – – – 108,449 108,449 8,645 117,094 Corporate Governance Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – (10,667) 16,670 (234) (1,555) 4,214 – 4,214 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (10,667) 16,670 (234) 106,894 112,663 8,645 121,308 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 46,011 46,011 Acquisition of non-controlling Financial Statements interest 4(b) – – – – – – (23,844) (23,844) (426,651) (450,495) Dividends declared and paid 20 – – – – – – (86,954) (86,954) – (86,954) Balance at 31 December 2014 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) (9,946) 24,515 (597) 1,265,877 2,275,302 26,539 2,301,841 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – – – – 70,523 70,523 (1,133) 69,390 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – 46,160 (8,218) (134) (1,912) 35,896 – 35,896 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 46,160 (8,218) (134) 68,611 106,419 (1,133) 105,286 Capital contribution – – – – – – – – 4,796 4,796 Dividends declared and paid 20 – – – – – – (37,582) (37,582) – (37,582) Balance at 31 December 2015 368,546 1,153,817 (526,910) 36,214 16,297 (731) 1,296,906 2,344,139 30,202 2,374,341 151 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Corporate information Fresnillo plc. (“the Company”) is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6 of the Parent Company accounts (‘the Group’). Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (‘Peñoles’) currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peñoles’ group companies is disclosed in note 28. The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 29 February 2016. The Group’s principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production. The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc. Further information about the Group’s operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3. 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-forsale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand ($000) except when otherwise indicated. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s financial position as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended. Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3. All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interest’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination. Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance. Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. (b) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. During 2015, there were no amendments to existing accounting policies. New standards, interpretations and amendments (new standards) adopted by the Group During 2015 there were no new standards adopted by the Group. New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2015 had no impact in the financial information of the Group. 152 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective Strategic Report The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards that it considers will be applicable to the Group’s financial statements, when they become effective. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue Corporate Governance arising from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. Either a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, when the IASB finalises their amendments to defer the effective date of IFRS 15 by one year. Early adoption is permitted. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019; earlier application is permitted. However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early Financial Statements application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15. The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Group has not early adopted this standard; however, management has reviewed the aggregation level in the financial statements including disclosures in notes, considering the new guidance on materiality. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Group. Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 7 require disclosure of information that will allow users to understand changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. This includes changes arising from (i) cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings; and (ii) non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Group. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Group. The IASB have issued other amendments to standards that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group. The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. 153 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (c) Significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These judgements and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements. Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and/or the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: >> Determination of functional currencies, note 2(d): The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. >> Evaluation of projects status, note 2(e): The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement. This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs; the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase. These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced. >> Stripping costs, note 2(e): The Group incurs waste removal costs (stripping costs) during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations. During the production phase, stripping costs (production stripping costs) can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future. The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met. Significant judgement is required to distinguish between development stripping and production stripping and, within production stripping, to distinguish between the portion that relates to the extraction of inventory and that which relates to the creation of a stripping activity asset. Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, it identifies the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation. An identifiable component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity. Significant judgement is required to identify and define these components, and also to determine the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped and ore to be mined in each of these components. These assessments are undertaken for each individual mining operation based on the information available in the mine plan. The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons. These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and/or financial considerations. Once production stripping costs have been identified, judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset(s) for each component. The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component of the ore body is the most suitable production measure. Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the unit-of-production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset(s). >> Qualifying assets, note 2(e): All interest-bearing loans are held by the Parent Company and were not obtained for any specific asset’s acquisition, construction, or production. Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally. Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset. Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are directly attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group. >> Contingencies, note 27 By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events. 154 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Strategic Report Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: >> Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2(e): Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Group’s mining properties; mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) Code 2012. Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data. The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs, along with geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body. As the economic assumptions used may change and as additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, Corporate Governance estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change. Such changes may impact the Group’s reported balance sheet and income statement including: –– The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, those cash flows consider both ore reserves and mineral resources; –– Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-ofproduction method based on ore reserves; –– Capitalised stripping costs recognised in the income statement as either part of mine properties or as part of inventory or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios; determination of stripping ratios is based on ore reserves and resources; –– Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur; –– The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes in the judgements regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets. Financial Statements >> Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2(e) and 13: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets. For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and/or amortisation of mine specific assets. This results in a depreciation/amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine production. Estimated useful lives of other assets is based on the expected usage of the asset. Each item’s life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used. >> Silverstream, note 15: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management. The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31. The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 32. >> Assessment of recoverability of assets and impairment charges, note 2 (f): The recoverability of an asset requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance. Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment. >> Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2(l) and 22: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable. These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates. Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided. The provision at the balance sheet date represents management’s best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required. >> Income tax, notes 2(r) and 11: Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted. 155 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (d) Foreign currency translation The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency. The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. For all operating entities, this is US dollars. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined. For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income. On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement. (e) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads. The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life. Each item’s estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items. Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production (UOP) basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process. Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted for prospectively. Depreciation commences when assets are available for use. Land is not depreciated. The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 Mining properties and development costs1 16 Other assets 3 1 Depreciation of mining properties and development costs are determined using the unit-of-production method. An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising at de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is de-recognised. Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale. Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred. Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination. Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession. Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment. Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained, pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost. 156 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, Strategic Report the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs. The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use. Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs. Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate. Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any. Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment. On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment. The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated. Corporate Governance Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced, is de-recognised. All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred. Stripping costs In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies (stripping activity). During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine (the stripping activity asset) and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mine’s units of production once commercial operations begin. Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine. At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted Financial Statements from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping. Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria are met: >> It is probable that the future economic benefits (improved access to an ore body) associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group; >> The Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved; and >> The costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably. If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they are incurred. Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production. This measure is known as “component stripping ratio”, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan. The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the unit-of-production method. The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually. Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement. The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion/depreciation, less impairment, if any. Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs. The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset. In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans. Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan. The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including, but not limited to the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and/or financial considerations. (f) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment. If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount. Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level. 157 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to disposal. Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants. In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. The Group’s cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years. Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement. (g) Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; held to maturity investments; available-for-sale financial assets; or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category. Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39. Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost. Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. The Group adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense. This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information, refer to note 21. 158 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets Strategic Report Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments. Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore, a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is de-recognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities Corporate Governance A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. (h) Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost Financial Statements If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are de-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. 159 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (i) Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs. For this purpose, the costs of production include: >> personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore; >> the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore; and >> related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock. A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. (j) Short-term investments Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments. Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables. (k) Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. (l) Provisions Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs (which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas) based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs. The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs. At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates. The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations. Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised. If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense. For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss. (m) Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employee’s earnings and years of service. This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007. The plan is denominated in Mexican pesos. For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index (NCPI). The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date. The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA (Standard & Poor’s) and AAA-mex (Fitch Ibca) credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss. Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately. The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan. Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets (other than amounts reflected in net interest cost) is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss. 160 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Defined contribution pension plan Strategic Report A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due. The contributions are based on the employee’s salary. This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme. Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service. Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service. For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary. The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation Corporate Governance method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur. Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies. Termination payments for involuntary retirement (dismissals) are charged to the income statement, when incurred. (n) Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing (‘PTU’) equivalent to 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year. PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their Financial Statements most recent salaries. The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement. PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes. (o) Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a) There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement; b) A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term; c) There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset; or d) There is a substantial change to the asset. Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are reflected in the income statement. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a), c) or d) and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b) above. For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. 161 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (p) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are delivered to the customer’s smelter or refinery, using the Group’s best estimate of contained metal. Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed. Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined. In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as doré bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are ‘provisionally priced’ subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Doré bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery. For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price. The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotation period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends. The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges. The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue. The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement. Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges. The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised. The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles. The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions. The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax. Other income Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed. (q) Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource. Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: >> Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life; and >> Exploration expenses: –– Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves; and –– Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project. Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project. (r) Taxation Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted, or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates. 162 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Deferred income tax Strategic Report Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: >> where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss; and >> in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of Corporate Governance unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: >> where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and >> in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Financial Statements Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Mining rights The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities. The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right (note 11). Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: >> When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable; >> When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included. The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet. (s) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions. Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement. 163 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black-Scholes model. The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach. At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge. The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated. Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs. For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk, these are included in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement. When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship. The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation. Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs. Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. (t) Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale (a qualifying asset) are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred. Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost. Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. (u) Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 31 and 32. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: >> In the principal market for the asset or liability; or >> In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group. 164 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, Strategic Report assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Corporate Governance Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. Further information on fair values is described in note 31. (v) Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s shareholders or Board as appropriate. Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Company’s subsidiaries. Financial Statements 3. Segment reporting For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines. At 31 December 2015, the Group has six reportable operating segments represented by six producing mines as follows: >> The Fresnillo mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, the world’s largest primary silver mine; >> The Saucito mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine; >> The Cienega mine, located in the State of Durango, an underground gold mine; including the San Ramon satellite mine; >> The Herradura mine, located in the State of Sonora, a surface gold mine; >> The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the State of Sonora, a surface gold mine; and >> The Noche Buena mine, located in State of Sonora, a surface gold mine. The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management. As the Group’s chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information. Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation. Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of Sales and Gross Profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines. The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to Gross Profit as per the consolidated income statement. Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments. Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arm’s length basis similar to transactions with third parties. In 2015 and 2014, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico. 165 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3. Segment reporting continued Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Group’s operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively: Year ended 31 December 2015 Adjustments SoledadNoche and US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Buena Other11 eliminations Total Revenues: Third party1 265,347 459,904 154,334 – 395,417 165,518 – 3,866 1,444,386 Inter-segment – – – – – – 78,622 (78,622) – Segment revenues 265,347 459,904 154,334 – 395,417 165,518 78,622 (74,756) 1,444,386 Segment profit2 149,986 219,045 71,094 (7,995) 295,219 26,706 65,925 (14,322) 805,659 Hedging (28,589) Depreciation and amortisation (331,209) Employee profit sharing (12,791) Gross profit as per the income statement 433,070 Capital expenditure3 205,5734 119,7435 24,6326 –7 108,2768 2,6499 13,81910 – 474,692 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$142.8 million. 2 Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing. 3 Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development and stripping activity asset but excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. 4 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, the construction of San Julian project, and purchase of mine equipment. 5 Capital expenditure consists of surface mine stripping activity, construction of second beneficiation plant (Merrill Crowe), construction of leaching pads and purchase of mine equipment. 6 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work and purchase of mine equipment. 7 During 2015, this segment did not operate due the Bajio conflict (note 27). 8 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work expansion of flotation plant and mine equipment. 9 Capital expenditure consists of construction of leaching pads and purchase of land. 10 Capital expenditure consists of the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and exploration expenditures capitalised, including Juanicipio project, and expansion of administrative office. 11 Other includes inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S.A. de C.V. Year ended 31 December 2014 Adjustments SoledadNoche and US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Buena Other11 eliminations Total Revenues: Third party1 394,644 341,409 191,553 – 323,398 162,596 – 101 1,413,701 Inter-segment – – – – – – 71,443 (71,443) – Segment revenues 394,644 341,409 191,553 – 323,398 162,596 71,443 (71,342) 1,413,701 Segment profit2 271,878 170,299 96,961 (8,203) 235,015 25,832 58,524 (20,063) 830,243 Hedging (1,118) Depreciation and amortisation (295,452) Employee profit sharing (12,619) Gross profit as per the income statement 521,054 Capital expenditure3 175,8754 63,1195 37,8906 –7 114,4388 20,8879 13,36510 – 425,574 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$131.4 million. 2 Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing. 3 Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development and stripping activity asset but excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision. 4 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, the construction of San Julian project, and purchase of mine equipment. 5 Capital expenditure consists of surface mine stripping activity, final phase of the construction of the dynamic leaching plant and purchase of land. 6 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, purchase of mine equipment and construction of employees’ facilities. 7 During 2014, this segment did not operate due the Bajio conflict (note 27). As a result of the Bajio dispute, the site was remediated and certain fixed assets were dismantled for a net amount of US$ 16.9 million (notes 9 and 13). 8 Capital expenditure consists of mine development work, the construction of Saucito II plant and mine equipment. 9 Capital expenditure consists of construction of leaching pads and expansion of beneficiation plant. 10 Capital expenditure consists of the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and exploration expenditures capitalised, including Juanicipio project, mine equipment purchased by Minera El Bermejal and expansion of administrative office. 11 Other includes inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S.A. de C.V. The presentation of other and adjustments and eliminations have been changed to be consistent with the presentation in the 2015 table above. 166 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 4. Group information The list of the Company’s subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements and its principal activities are showed in the Company’s Strategic Report separate financial statements. (a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, there are no material partly-owned subsidiaries. Non-controlling interests showed in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 include US$24,969 thousand corresponding to partly-owned subsidiaries where the non-controlling interest has subsequently been purchased, as explained in note 4(b) below. Condensed financial information relating to partly-owned subsidiaries for the period were as follows: Summarised income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 The following amounts relate to the results before the Group acquired the non-controlling interest in the subsidiaries (see note 4(b)). Minera Desarrollo Proveedora de Minera el Corporate Governance Penmont, S de Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. R.L. de C.V. Revenue 632,079 427,963 32,257 53,374 (Loss)/profit before income tax (16,503) 87,454 (3,849) 27,073 Income tax credit/(charge) 3,175 (35,054) 2,486 (8,035) (Loss)/profit for the year for continuing operations (13,328) 52,400 (1,363) 19,038 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total comprehensive income (13,328) 52,400 (1,363) 19,038 Attributable to non-controlling interests (5,864) 23,056 (600) 8,377 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – Financial Statements Summarised cash flow information for the year ended 31 December 2014 The following amounts relate to the results before the Group acquired the non-controlling interest in the subsidiaries (see note 4(b)). Minera Desarrollo Proveedora de Minera el Penmont, S de Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. R.L. de C.V. Operating (25,272) 26,655 26,067 (11,034) Investing (13,247) (64,990) (27,404) (1,370) Financing 47,844 39,985 (804) 10,900 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9,325 1,650 (2,141) (1,504) (b) Transactions with non-controlling interests On 6 October 2014, the Group acquired the remaining 44% of the issued shares of Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V., Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. de R.L. de C.V, Proveedora de Equipos Fresne, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Minera Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. (together referred to as Penmont), for a purchase consideration of US$450,540 thousand including acquisition expenses. After the transaction, the Group holds 100% of the equity share capital of the previously mentioned companies. The carrying amount of the non-controlling interest in Penmont on the date of acquisition was US$426,652 thousand. The Group derecognised the non-controlling interest of US$426,652 thousand and recorded a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of US$23,844 thousand. To determine the amount of non-controlling interest corresponding to the above mentioned subsidiaries, the Group used the figures as of 30 September 2014, due to the fact that there were no material transactions from that date to the date of purchase. The effect of the changes in the ownership interest in Penmont on the equity attributable to owners of the Group during 2014 is summarised as follows: Minera Desarrollo Proveedora de Minera el Penmont, S de Mineros Fresne Equipos Fresne Bermejal S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. S de R.L. de C.V. R.L. de C.V. Total Carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired 222,557 64,216 93,488 46,390 426,651 Consideration paid to non-controlling interest 171,791 54,065 120,294 104,390 450,540 (Deficit)/excess of consideration paid recognised in parent’s equity (50,766) (10,151) 26,806 58,000 23,889 During 2015, the Group did not carry out any transactions with any non-controlling interest that resulted in changes to the ownership of a subsidiary. 167 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5. Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, doré, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc. (a) Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates (containing silver, gold, lead and by-products) 691,096 777,560 Doré and slag (containing gold, silver and by-products) 626,446 504,000 Zinc concentrates (containing zinc, silver and by-products) 81,184 70,695 Precipitates (containing gold and silver) 45,660 61,446 1,444,386 1,413,701 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, doré and slag were sold to Peñoles’ metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining. (b) Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer. The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges, is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 617,434 714,928 Gold 828,476 720,536 Zinc 73,018 58,076 Lead 68,277 51,581 Value of metal content in products sold 1,587,205 1,545,121 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges (142,819) (131,420) Total revenues1 1,444,386 1,413,701 1 Includes provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives resulting in a gain of US$2.3 million (2014: gain of US$2 million) and hedging gain of US$3.9 million (2014: gain of US$0.1 million). For further detail, refer to note 2(p). The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce Gold2 1,126.5 1,257.7 Silver2 15.6 18.6 2 Revenue of products sold does not include hedging gains. 168 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 6. Cost of sales Strategic Report Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation (notes 2(e) and 13) 331,209 295,452 Personnel expenses (note 8) 80,567 81,256 Maintenance and repairs 94,837 88,180 Operating materials 135,059 136,694 Energy 117,908 132,540 Contractors 175,898 219,622 Freight 9,821 11,764 Insurance 5,042 6,567 Mining concession rights and contributions 10,853 9,860 Corporate Governance Other 15,211 14,318 Cost of production 976,405 996,253 Losses on foreign currency hedges 28,589 1,118 Change in work in progress and finished goods (ore inventories) 1,309 (122,289) Inventory write down (note 16) 5,013 17,565 1,011,316 892,647 7. Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial Statements Contractors 105,161 129,443 Administrative services 6,907 8,598 Mining concession rights and contributions 15,684 14,595 Personnel expenses (note 8) 5,748 5,614 Assays 2,788 3,509 Maintenance and repairs 384 686 Operating materials 416 809 Rentals 1,874 3,912 Energy 454 608 Other 830 1,010 140,246 168,784 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Ciénega and Saucito mines, the San Ramon satellite mine and the San Julian, Orisyvo, Rodeo, Guanajuato and Centauro Deep projects. In addition, exploration expenses of US$8.4 million (2014: US$6.8 million) were incurred in the year in projects located in Peru. The following table sets forth liabilities (generally trade payables) incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group’s operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities. Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 917 3,545 Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash outflows related to exploration activities 142,874 165,461 169 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8. Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees’ profit sharing 12,791 12,619 Salaries and wages 36,544 38,572 Bonuses 10,713 10,410 Legal contributions 12,644 13,757 Other benefits 8,084 7,967 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,464 2,070 Social security 5,310 5,233 Post-employment benefits1 4,572 4,349 Other 8,262 8,953 101,384 103,930 1 Post-employment benefits include US$1.6 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan (2014: US$1.5 million). (a) Personnel expenses are reflected in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales (note 6) 80,567 81,256 Administrative expenses 15,069 17,060 Exploration expenses (note 7) 5,748 5,614 101,384 103,930 (b) The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 No. No. Mining 1,560 1,406 Plant concentration 552 475 Exploration 519 655 Maintenance 755 694 Administration and other 976 600 4,362 3,830 9. Other operating income and expenses Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: Rentals 166 313 Other 612 267 778 580 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: Maintenance1 1,098 1,966 Donations 714 435 Environmental activities 4,022 371 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 3,757 1,791 Write-off of property, plant and equipment2 – 16,912 Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 982 Engineering and design studies 974 – Other 3,189 3,665 16,650 26,122 1 Costs relating to Compañía Minera las Torres, S.A. de C.V. 2 Corresponds to Soledad and Dipolos fixed assets, note 13 170 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 10. Finance income and finance costs Strategic Report Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 1,779 4,364 Fair value movement on derivatives1 61,224 1,464 Other 2,835 1,632 65,838 7,460 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Corporate Governance Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 35,969 44,421 Unwinding of discount on provisions 8,586 8,725 Other 908 1,470 45,463 54,616 1 Principally relates to the time value associated with Gold commodity options, see note 31 for further detail. 11. Income tax expense a) Major components of income tax expense: Year ended 31 December Financial Statements 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 118,410 130,029 Amounts (over)/underprovided in previous years (29,093) 4,872 89,317 134,901 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 31,373 (39,746) Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 8,316 23,116 39,689 (16,630) Corporate income tax 129,006 118,271 Special mining right Current: Special mining right charge1 6,384 910 6,384 910 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,574 14,790 Special mining right 13,958 15,700 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 142,964 133,971 1 Without regard to credits permitted under the special mining right (SMR) regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$14.6 million (2014: US$10 million). However, the SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payables. During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2015, the Group credited US$8.2 million (2014: US$9.1 million) of mining concession rights against the SMR. Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$17 million (2014: US$16 million) and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses. Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess. 171 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11. Income tax expense continued Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net (charge)/credit arising on (losses)/gains on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement (7,927) 974 Net (charge)/credit arising on unrealised (gains)/losses arising on valuation of cash flow hedges (11,856) 3,531 Net credit/(charge) arising on unrealised losses/(gains) on available-for-sale financial assets 3,522 (7,145) Net credit arising on cash flow gains reclassified to value of other assets – 66 Net credit arising on remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 361 296 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income (15,900) (2,278) (b) Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Group’s statutory income rate to income tax expense at the Group’s effective income tax rate: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 212,354 251,065 Tax at the Group’s statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 63,706 75,319 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,983 2,749 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities (2,626) (13,051) Current income tax (over)/underprovided in previous years (1,142) 735 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities1 77,473 53,388 Non-taxable/non-deductible foreign exchange losses (5,437) (84) Inflationary uplift of tax losses (3,250) (2,348) Deferred tax asset not recognised 3,025 1,808 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax (4,187) (4,710) Other (1,539) 4,465 Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 60.7% (2014: 47.1%) 129,006 118,271 Special mining right 13,958 15,700 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 67.3% (2014: 53.4%) 142,964 133,971 1 Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment. (c) Movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability (279,046) (277,972) Income statement (charge)/credit arising on corporate income tax (39,689) 16,630 Income statement charge arising on special mining right (7,574) (14,790) Exchange difference 14 (636) Net charge related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income (15,900) (2,278) Closing net liability (342,195) (279,046) 172 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 11. Income tax expense continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, considering the nature of the temporary Strategic Report differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables (124,719) (148,112) (23,393) 90,960 Other receivables (469) (2,714) (2,245) 1,517 Inventories 121,668 144,146 21,602 (124,344) Prepayments (830) (883) (17,551) 1,933 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract (137,396) (95,080) 44,468 23,102 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax (330,939) (285,281) 38,313 49,981 Operating liabilities 19,871 42,171 35,674 (37,241) Corporate Governance Other payables and provisions 58,643 46,141 (12,502) (8,039) Losses carried forward 88,593 50,736 (37,857) (2,967) Post-employment benefits 2,049 1,951 (98) 169 Deductible profit sharing 3,740 4,682 (312) 1,386 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 21,065 23,862 (1,965) (13,014) Available-for-sale financial assets (756) (5,147) (4,391) (295) Other (4,192) (4,569) (365) 223 Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax (283,672) (228,097) – – Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax – – 39,378 (16,629) Related party receivables arising from special mining right (15,207) (16,778) (1,571) 16,778 Inventories arising from special mining right 9,616 11,896 2,280 (11,896) Property, plant and equipment arising from special mining right (52,932) (46,067) 6,865 9,907 Financial Statements Net deferred tax liability (342,195) (279,046) – – Deferred tax charge/(credit) – – 46,952 (1,840) Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 30,814 57,705 Deferred tax liabilities – continuing operations (373,009) (336,751) Net deferred tax liability (342,195) (279,046) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority. On the basis of management’s internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$295.3 million (2014: US$169.1 million). To the extent unutilised, US$12.0 million will expire within five years and US$283.3 million will expire between six and ten years. The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$23 million (2014: US$15 million) on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits. (d) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,449 million (2014: US$1,528 million). (e) Corporate Income Tax (‘Impuesto Sobre la Renta’ or ‘ISR’) and Special Mining Right (“SMR”) The Group’s principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes. The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%. As part of the income tax reform in Mexico enacted at the end of 2013 and effective 1 January 2014, the tax law changed in respect of the treatment of certain mining-related expenditure for tax purposes. As at 31 December 2014, there was uncertainty in relation to the tax treatment of certain expenditure incurred in the year. As a result, in calculating the tax provision as at 31 December 2014, the Group deducted only a portion of the total related expenditure incurred in the year. A deferred tax asset in respect of the remaining future tax benefit was also recognised. Subsequent to the approval of the Annual Report 2014, management performed further analysis of this expenditure ahead of submitting tax computations and concluded that this expenditure incurred in 2014 is deductible in full for tax purposes. The Group has submitted tax computations for 2014 on this basis. As a result, the Group has reflected a reduction of US$29.1 million in current tax in respect of previous periods. There is a corresponding increase in the deferred tax expense and, therefore, no impact on the total effective tax rate. 173 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11. Income tax expense continued The SMR is considered as income tax under IFRS, and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities. The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable The 7.5% tax applies to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR. This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year. 12. Earnings per share Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period. The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. As of 31 December 2015 and 2014, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 70,523 108,449 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 51,119 54,511 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$27.7 million gain (US$19.4 million net of tax) (2014: US$77.1 million loss (US$53.9 million net of tax)). Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument. 2015 2014 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,894 736,894 2015 2014 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.096 0.147 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.069 0.074 174 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 13. Property, plant and equipment Strategic Report Year ended 31 December 2014 US$ thousands Mining properties and Land and Plant and development Construction in buildings Equipment costs Other assets Progress Total Cost At 1 January 2014 139,628 1,213,781 940,051 163,269 335,109 2,791,838 Additions 3,344 40,796 66,080 22,176 333,394 465,790 Disposals (6,633) (11,484) – (6,555) (559) (25,231) Write-off of property, plant and equipment2 – (28,505) – (2,010) – (30,515) Transfers and other movements 17,007 128,474 87,993 2,151 (235,625) – Corporate Governance At 31 December 2014 153,346 1,343,062 1,094,124 179,031 432,319 3,201,882 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2014 (51,952) (395,869) (449,452) (56,441) – (953,714) Depreciation for the year1 (11,785) (179,280) (109,431) (13,012) – (313,508) Disposals 2,749 11,380 – 7,026 – 21,155 Write-off of property, plant and equipment2 – 12,062 – 1,541 – 13,603 At 31 December 2014 (60,988) (551,707) (558,883) (60,886) – (1,232,464) Net Book amount at 31 December 2014 92,358 791,355 535,241 118,145 432,319 1,969,418 Year ended 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Mining Financial Statements properties and Land and Plant and development Construction buildings Equipment costs Other assets in Progress Total Cost At 1 January 2015 153,346 1,343,062 1,094,124 179,031 432,319 3,201,882 Additions 2,432 10,518 33,236 36,290 442,384 524,860 Disposals (518) (23,028) (11,493) (1,555) – (36,594) Transfers and other movements 17,941 117,387 173,539 4,213 (313,080) – At 31 December 2015 173,201 1,447,939 1,289,406 217,979 561,623 3,690,148 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 (60,988) (551,707) (558,883) (60,886) – (1,232,464) Depreciation for the year1 (13,347) (188,647) (129,586) (13,693) – (345,273) Disposals 165 14,592 10,052 1,368 – 26,177 At 31 December 2015 (74,170) (725,762) (678,417) (73,211) – (1,551,560) Net Book amount at 31 December 2015 99,031 722,177 610,989 144,768 561,623 2,138,588 1 Depreciation for the year includes US$331.2 million (2014: US$295.5 million) recognised as an expense in the cost of sales in the income statement and US$14 million (2014: US$18 million), capitalised as part of construction in progress. 2 The Company re-assessed its plans for the Soledad and Dipolos operations and decided to write-off the carrying value of certain property, plant and equipment that could not be utilised or reassigned, or remains at the site and is no longer considered to have a future economic benefit to the Group. The net charge for the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$ nil (2014: US$16.9 million) and is reflected in other operating expenses. The table below details construction in progress by segment: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 2,312 22,382 Herradura 36,868 24,339 Soledad-Dipolos – 101 Noche Buena 3,354 4,183 Cienega 13,280 19,839 Fresnillo 438,973 299,590 Other 66,836 61,885 561,623 432,319 During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group capitalised US$11.1 million borrowing costs within construction in progress (2014: US$2.7 million). Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% (2014: 5.78%). 175 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13. Property, plant and equipment continued Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) computation of their recoverable amount. Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs. For both models management used price assumptions of US$1,200/ounce and US$18/ounce (2014: US$1,250/ounce and US$18/ounce) for gold and silver, respectively. Management consider that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment. As at 31 December 2015 the carrying amount of Herradura mine is US$654.2 million and Noche Buena mine is US$118.8 million (2014: Cienega mine US$240.5 million and Noche Buena mine US$141 million). The following table sets out the approximate expected impairment which would be recognised in 2015 and 2014 at hypothetical decreases in commodity prices: Decrease in commodity prices Herradura Cienega Noche Buena Year ended 31 December Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 Low sensitivity 5% 10% – – – High sensitivity 10% 20% 131,625 – 4,738 2014 Low sensitivity 5% 10% – 18,033 – High sensitivity 10% 20% – 127,124 37,986 14. Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 86,078 63,245 Fair value change (14,636) 22,833 Ending balance 71,442 86,078 At 31 December 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group. This decrease has been consistent during the past 12-month period, which is considered to be prolonged, therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement (2014: US$1.0 million). The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. 15. Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peñoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peñoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine (‘Sabinas’), a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peñoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million. In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years one to five and $5.00 thereafter (subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013) is payable to Peñoles. The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $5.10 per ounce (2014: $5.05 per ounce). Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peñoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver. If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peñoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall. The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate. Changes in the contract’s fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement. In the year ended 31 December 2015 total proceeds received in cash were US$39.4 million (2014: US$58.7 million) of which, US$6.9 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2014 (2014: US$8.1 million). Cash received in respect of the year of US$32.5 million (2014: US$50.6 million) corresponds to 3.6 million ounces of payable silver (2014: 4.1 million ounces). As at 31 December 2015, a further US$2.8 million (2014: US$6.9 million) of cash corresponding to 317,521 ounces of silver is due (2014: 638,681 ounces). The US$27.7 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement (2014: US$77.1 million gain) resulted from the updating of assumptions used to value the Silverstream contract. The most significant of these were an increase of the Sabinas mine silver reserves, the decrease of the reference discount rate (LIBOR) and the difference between the payments already received in 2015 and payments estimated in the valuation model as of 31 December 2014. These were partially offset by an increase of the spread used to calculate the discount rate and a decrease in the forward price of silver which was lower than the previous year. 176 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 15. Silverstream contract continued A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: Strategic Report 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 392,276 372,846 Cash received in respect of the year (32,456) (50,650) Cash receivable (2,769) (6,974) Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 27,720 77,054 Balance at 31 December 384,771 392,276 Less – Current portion 26,607 33,311 Non-current portion 358,164 358,965 Corporate Governance See note 31 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 32 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset, and note 2(c) for the estimates and assumptions. 16. Inventories As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finished goods1 1,711 2,094 Work in progress2 251,900 252,826 Operating materials and spare parts 73,104 70,904 326,715 325,824 Financial Statements Accumulated write-down of work in progress inventory3 (22,578) (17,565) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories (3,562) (2,647) Balance at 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 300,575 305,612 Less Current portion 224,200 221,200 Non-current portion4 76,375 84,412 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and doré bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery. 2 Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads. 3 Corresponds to ore inventory of Noche Buena and Soledad-Dipolos mines resulting from net realisable value calculations. 4 The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date. Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and/or refineries. Doré is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries. This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products. The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,001.0 million (2014: US$846.4 million). The amount of write down of inventories and allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$5.9 million (2014: US$18.2 million). 177 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17. Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade receivables from related parties (note 28)1 115,805 139,620 Value Added Tax receivable 99,948 106,903 Advances and other receivables from contractors 13,641 22,589 Other receivables from related parties (note 28) 2,769 7,015 Loans granted to contractors 2,595 2,866 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 759 6,009 Other receivables 2,775 2,911 238,292 287,913 Provision for impairment of ‘other receivables’ (300) (318) Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 237,992 287,595 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 2,289 3,853 2,289 3,853 240,281 291,448 1 Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$(0.5) million as at 31 December 2015 (2014: US$(2.9) million). Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days. Loans granted to contractors bear interest of between LIBOR plus 1.5% and LIBOR plus 3% and mature over two years. The total receivables denominated in US dollars were US$127 million (2014: US$167 million), and in pesos US$113.3 million (2014: US$124.4 million). As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of ‘other receivables’ in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired. The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2015 is US$0.3 million (2014: US$0.3 million). In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the creditworthiness of the counterparty, see note 32(b). 18. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments The Group considers cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives. As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 4,104 3,979 Short-term deposits 377,316 150,361 Cash and cash equivalents 381,420 154,340 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value. As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Short-term investments 118,718 295,000 Short-term investments are made for fixed periods no longer than four months and earn interest at fixed rates without an option for early withdrawal. As at 31 December 2015 short-term investments are held in fixed-term bank deposits of US$118,718 (31 December 2014: US$295,000). 178 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 19. Equity Share capital and share premium Strategic Report Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number £ Corporate Governance At 1 January 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to ordinary shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Financial Statements Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable. Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the pre-IPO reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method. Net unrealised gains/(losses) on revaluation of cash flow hedges This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax. When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group. Retained earnings/accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid. 179 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20. Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2015 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year1 3.0 22,107 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year2 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 Year ended 31 December 2014 Final dividend for 2013 declared and paid during the year3 6.8 50,109 Interim dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year4 5.0 36,845 11.8 86,954 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015. 2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015. 3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2014 and paid on 22 May 2014. 4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 August 2014 and paid on 11 September 2014. 21. Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “notes”). Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 796,160 795,306 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 Interest paid1 (46,267) (46,267) Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 872 854 Closing balance 797,032 796,160 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November. 22. Provision for mine closure cost The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits. The discount rate used in the calculation of the provision as at 31 December 2015 is in a range of 4.65% to 7.13% (2014: range of 3.22% to 7.51%). Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing and the discount foreign exchange and inflation rates applied. Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions. It is the Group’s intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense. The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines. The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from 4 to 21 years from 31 December 2015 (3 to 19 years from 31 December 2014). As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 153,802 127,008 Increase to existing provision 48,680 30,922 Effect of changes in discount rate 7,341 3,051 Unwinding of discount 8,586 8,725 Payments – (452) Foreign exchange (22,933) (15,452) Closing balance 195,476 153,802 180 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 23. Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan. Strategic Report The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each non-unionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers’ contributions, capped at 8% of the employee’s annual salary. The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each worker’s earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers. The overall investment policy and strategy for the Group’s defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan. However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded. The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations. The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific Corporate Governance asset class risk in the risk profile. Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements. Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies. The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: US$ thousands Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) in OCI Return on Actuarial Actuarial Defined plan assets changes changes benefit (excluding arising from arising from increase Financial Statements Balance at Past Sub-total amounts changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits included in demographic financial Experience Foreign included in Contributions personnel 31 December 2015 cost cost Interest Exchange in the year paid net interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange OCI by employer transfer 2015 Defined benefit obligation (33,664) – (1,024) (1,981) 5,085 2,080 1,031 – (577) (1,160) 170 – (1,567) – (45) (32,165) Fair value on plan assets 19,826 – – 1,121 (2,954) (1,833) (758) (706) – – – – (706) 1,065 37 17,631 Net benefit liability (13,838) – (1,024) (860) 2,131 247 273 (706) (577) (1,160) 170 – (2,273) 1,065 (8) (14,534) US$ thousands Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains/(losses) in OCI Return on Actuarial Actuarial Defined plan assets changes changes benefit (excluding arising from arising from increase Balance at Past Sub-total amounts changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits included in demographic financial Experience Foreign included in Contributions personnel 31 December 2014 cost cost Interest Exchange in the year paid net interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange OCI by employer transfer 2014 Defined benefit obligation (34,001)(1,028) (886) (2,121) 3,935 (100) 1,643 – (324) – (898) – (1,222) – 16 (33,664) Fair value on plan assets 22,526 – – 1,381 (2,493) (1,112) (1,643) (629) – – – – (629) 645 (16) 19,826 Net benefit liability (11,475)(1,028) (886) (740) 1,442 (1,212) – (629) (324) – (898) – (1,851) 645 – (13,838) Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$8.6 million (2014: US$8.9 million) relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded. The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are nil. The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2015 2014 % % Discount rate 6.79 7.0 Future salary increases (NCPI) 5.0 5.0 181 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23. Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 20.2 and 23.4 years respectively (2014: 18.9 years for men and 22.4 for women). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 11.71 years (2014: 12.35 years). The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 1,084 1,657 State-owned companies 3,017 2,191 Mutual funds (fixed rates) 13,530 15,978 17,631 19,826 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group. A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is as shown below: Life expectancy Assumptions Discount rate Future salary increases (NCPI) of pensioners Sensitivity Level 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease + 1 increase (Decrease)/increase to the net defined benefit obligation (US$ thousands) (1,699) 2,197 464 (111) 468 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation. 24. Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 53,303 68,638 Other payables to related parties (note 28) 4,137 1,702 Accrued expenses 15,988 20,193 Other taxes and contributions 16,202 9,818 89,630 100,351 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services. These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted. The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values. The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 32. 25. Commitments A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating segment is as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 29,131 44,312 Herradura 13,897 9,236 Noche Buena 285 691 Cienega 7,685 2,290 Fresnillo 92,482 172,774 Other 2,029 4,927 145,509 234,230 182 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 26. Operating leases (a) Operating leases as lessor Strategic Report Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 1,984 4,434 After one year but not more than five years 487 3,710 2,471 8,144 (b) Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment. These leases have Corporate Governance renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases. The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors. In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years. The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases. The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial Statements Within one year 2,720 7,143 After one year but not more than five years 3,115 2,724 5,835 9,867 As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 8,008 12,217 27. Contingencies As of 31 December 2015, the Group has the following contingencies: >> The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. >> Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. >> On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the ‘Separation Agreement’). This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (‘Admission’). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. 183 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27. Contingencies continued >> Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the pre-IPO reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (‘Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta’ or ‘CUFIN’) after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. >> On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law. During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Group’s financial statements as at 31 December 2015 and going forward. >> In regard to the Ejido El Bajío matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009, five members of the El Bajío agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont (“Penmont”), submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court (Tribunal Unitario Agrario) of Hermosillo Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land. The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of Soledad-Dipolos is located. The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land. The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos. The Agrarian Magistrate noted that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency (SEMARNAT) in this respect. The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmont’s occupation. In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order is excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appears not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits. Penmont has challenged the procedural order before Federal courts, who have indicated that the correct procedural time for filing such complaint should be when legal execution over lands comprising the Soledad-Dipolos pit is initiated (currently the lands are in a judicial deposit pending final execution for delivery to claimants). Penmont conducted mining activities on approximately 300 hectares of such lands and remediation activities in this respect are still pending. In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajío agrarian community presented additional claims, including a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, claiming US$65 million in damages, alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmont’s mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajío lands. Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land. The claimants have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit. Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora. Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling is not probable. In addition, claimants have presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above. Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont. The Unitarian Agrarian Court has issued rulings declaring (i) such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void; (ii) and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmont’s occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area; and (iii) that Penmont must pay rent for occupying the land parcels whilst the claimants must reimburse Penmont the monies it originally paid for occupying such lands. The rulings also make reference in this same context (including remediation and return of minerals) to the separate court case involving Soledad-Dipolos mentioned above. Penmont has appealed these rulings since it is the owner of the mining concessions and all mining activities were conducted in accordance with Mexican law. The ultimate result of the appeals process remains pending. In regards the reference to SoledadDipolos within the scope of these land parcels cases, certain of these appeals have been decided for the Company, some against, whilst others remain pending. However, any adverse court order involving minerals over lands where the Soledad-Dipolos pit is located would be subject to a further appeals process, as that was a separate legal file as described above. Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajío matter including appeals that are pending as well as criminal complaints between the parties. There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. 184 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 28. Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 and balances as at 31 December Strategic Report 2015 and 2014. Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group. (a) Related party balances Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Corporate Governance Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 115,786 139,620 130 619 Other: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. 2,769 6,974 – – Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. – – 366 866 Servicios Especializados Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. – – 1,804 – Fuerza Eólica del Istmo S.A. de C.V. – – 916 – Other 19 41 921 217 Sub–total 118,574 146,635 4,137 1,702 Less – Current portion 118,574 146,635 4,137 1,702 Non-current portion – – – – Financial Statements Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash. Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peñoles, S.A.B. de C.V. 384,771 392,276 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash. Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 15. (b) Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peñoles S.A.B de C.V., the Company’s parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Sales:1 Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 1,458,413 1,413,600 Other income 982 1,047 Total income 1,459,395 1,414,647 1 Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties. Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$142.8 million (2014: US$131.4 million) and include sales credited to development project of US$17.9 million (2014: nil). 185 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28. Related party balances and transactions continued Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services: 2 Servicios Administrativos Peñoles, S.A. de C.V.3 23,655 22,080 Servicios Especializados Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 17,701 18,545 41,356 40,625 Energy: Termoelectrica Peñoles, S. de R.L. de C.V. 20,332 30,917 Fuerza Eólica del Istmo S.A. de C.V. 6,713 – 27,045 30,917 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 6,368 4,667 Metalúrgica Met-Mex Peñoles, S.A. de C.V. 3,320 4,345 9,688 9,012 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S.A. de C.V. 3,860 3,437 Property, plant and equipment Equipos Industriales Naica, S.A. de C.V. 1,065 – Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S.A. B. de C.V. 8,382 7,262 Other expenses: 2,693 7,821 Total expenses 94,089 99,074 2 Includes US$4.1 million (2014: US$4.7 million) corresponding to expenses reimbursed. 3 Includes US$8.2 million (2014: US$7.7 million) relating to engineering costs that were capitalised. (c) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration. Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 3,311 3,262 Post-employment benefits 257 148 Other benefits 379 600 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 3,947 4,010 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,859 4,902 This compensation includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen. There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services. 186 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 29. Auditor’s remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Strategic Report Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s annual accounts 1,274 1,278 Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 338 405 Audit-related assurance services 328 344 Tax compliance services 24 24 Tax advisory services 16 12 Other assurance services – 25 Total 1,980 2,088 Corporate Governance 30. Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 69,390 117,094 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 6 331,209 295,452 Employee profit sharing 8 13,170 12,885 Deferred income tax 11 47,263 (1,840) Current income tax expense 11 95,701 135,811 Financial Statements Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 9 3,757 1,791 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 9 – 16,912 Other losses/(gains) 3,353 (973) Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 9 2,896 982 Net finance costs 41,913 48,721 Foreign exchange loss 18,991 19,103 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (314) 1,211 Non-cash movement on derivatives (62,288) (1,565) Changes in fair value of Silverstream 15 (27,720) (77,054) Working capital adjustments Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 58,219 (105,242) Decrease in prepayments and other assets 891 2,068 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 5,037 (97,472) (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (12,820) 17,214 Cash generated from operations 588,648 385,098 Income tax paid (34,517) (243,085) Employee profit sharing paid (11,237) (20,379) Net cash from operating activities 542,894 121,634 187 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial instruments (a) Fair value category As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at Loans through OCI through profit fair value and (cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges) Trade and other receivables1 – – 127,224 – Available-for-sale financial assets – 71,442 – – Silverstream contract (note 15) 384,771 – – – Derivative financial instruments 1 – – 117,074 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedges) Interest-bearing loans – 797,032 – Trade and other payables – – 97,440 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts1 532 – – Derivative financial instruments – – 1,427 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivatives within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. As at 31 December 2014 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at Loans through OCI through profit fair value and (cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges) Trade and other receivables1 – – 173,722 – Available-for-sale financial assets – 86,078 – – Silverstream contract (note 15) 392,276 – – – Derivative financial instruments 480 – – 14,551 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedges) Interest-bearing loans – 796,160 – Trade and other payables – 70,340 – Embedded derivatives within sales contracts1 2,911 – – Derivative financial instruments – – 27,033 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivatives within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. (b) Fair value measurement The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values, are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 86,078 71,441 86,078 Silverstream contract (note 15) 384,771 392,276 384,771 392,276 Derivative financial instruments 117,075 14,551 117,075 14,551 Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans1 (note 21) 797,032 796,160 805,352 795,128 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 532 2,911 532 2,911 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 27,033 1,427 27,033 1 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 188 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 31. Financial instruments continued The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: Strategic Report As of 31 December 2015 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts – 116,995 – 116,995 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 80 – 80 Silverstream contract – – 384,771 384,771 Corporate Governance – 117,075 384,771 501,846 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 – – 71,442 71,442 117,075 384,771 573,288 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – – 532 532 Options commodity contracts – – – – Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 532 1,959 Financial Statements As of 31 December 2014 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts – 14,229 – 14,229 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 322 – 322 Silverstream contract – – 392,276 392,276 – 14,551 392,276 406,827 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 86,078 – – 86,078 86,078 14,551 392,276 492,905 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – – 2,911 2,911 Options commodity contracts – 8,704 – 8,704 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts – 18,329 – 18,329 – 27,033 2,911 29,944 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 189 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial instruments continued A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream (which is disclosed in note 15) is shown below: 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: (2,911) (1,154) Changes in fair value (11,511) (15,489) Realised embedded derivatives during the year 13,890 13,732 Balance at 31 December (532) (2,911) The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The foreign currency forward (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies. The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency. Option commodity contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The option commodity (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities. The option contracts are valued using the BlackScholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity. Silverstream contract The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model (for further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 15). This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and/or the duration of the contract. Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined. The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time. Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peñoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company. The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peñoles. The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value. The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated. The fair value of the Silverstream contract is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows. The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 32. Quoted investments Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Group’s interest-bearing loan is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. 190 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 31. Financial instruments continued Embedded derivatives within sales contracts Strategic Report Sales of concentrates, precipitates and doré bars are ‘provisionally priced’ and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Group’s best estimate of the contained metal. Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery (see note 2(p)). This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract. At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract. The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation. At 31 December 2015 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$(0.5) million (2014: US$(2.9) million). The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues. (c) Derivative financial instruments Corporate Governance The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos and other currencies. The Group also enters into option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2(s). Foreign exchange hedging The Group has entered into a number of forward derivative contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The outstanding forward derivative contracts as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: As at 31 December 2015 Contract value Contract 2015 Fair value Term Currency (thousands) exchange rate (US$ thousands) Euro-denominated forward contracts 2016 EUR 69 EUR1:US$1.09 to 0.3 EUR1:US$1.10 Financial Statements Swedish krona-denominated forward contracts 2016 SEK 14,463 SEK$8.41:US$1 0.6 The Group’s euro-denominated forward derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016. The Group also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016. The Group also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 11 January 2016 to 8 August 2016. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$198 million with a range of floor prices from MX$14.00 to MX$16.82:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.92 and a range of capped prices from MX$17.25 to MX$19.50:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$18.26. The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$1.8 million. Forward derivative contracts that were outstanding as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 Contract value Contract 2014 Fair value Term Currency (thousands) exchange rate (US$ thousands) Euro-denominated forward contracts 2015 EUR 869 EUR1:US$1.25 to (121) EUR1:US$1.35 Swedish krona-denominated forward contracts 2015 SEK 41,597 SEK$7.19:US$1 to (359) SEK$7.62:US$1 The Group’s euro-denominated forward derivative instruments matured on 13 March 2015 at a weighted average rate of US$1.35: €1. The Group also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments matured over a period from 13 March 2015 to 12 June 2015 with a weighted average rate of SKD$7.27:US$1. The Group also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Collar derivative instruments matured over the period from 12 January 2015 to 14 December 2015. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$259.5 million with a range of floor prices from MX$13.09 to MX$14.00:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$13.45 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$18.13:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.19. The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2014 was an asset of US$1.2 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2014 was a liability of US$18.7 million. 191 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31. Financial instruments continued Commodity price hedging During 2014, the Group entered into gold ounce-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in commodity price as described in note 2(s) for a total amount of 1,559,689 ounces. As at 31 December 2015 the outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2019 and hedge cash proceeds for the sales of gold production amounting 1,257,516 ounces (2014: 1,524,276 ounces) with a floor price of US$1,100:1 ounce and a range of capped prices from US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce (these being the same for 2014) and weighted average price of US$1,426:1 ounce. (2014: 1,427:1 ounce). The fair value of the put options as at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$147.3 million (2014: US$111.8 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$35.1 million (2014: US$107.4 million). In 2015 the changes in the fair value of the option contracts corresponding to the time value amounted to US$59.7 million (2014: US$4.4 million) and were recorded in the income statement. The Group also entered into lead tonnes-US dollar and zinc tonnes-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in commodity price. Lead collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge lead production amounting 4,272 tonnes (2014: 2,261 tonnes) with a floor price of US$1,985:1 tonne (2014: US$2,100:1 tonne) and a range of capped prices from US$2,220 to US$2,310:1 tonne (2014: US$2,450 to US$2,550:1 tonne) and weighted average price of US$2,259:1 tonne (2014: US$2,496:1 tonne). The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$1.0 million (2014: US$0.6 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.085 million (2014: US$0.001 million). Zinc collar derivate instruments mature over the period 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge zinc production amounting 4,536 tonnes (2014: 8,911 tonnes) with a floor price of US$2,205:1 tonne (2014: range of floor prices of US$1,900 to US$2,200:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,100:1 tonne) and a range of capped prices from US$2,535 to US$2,550:1 tonne (2014: US$2,400 to US$2,650:1 tonne) and weighted average price of US$2,542:1 tonne (2014: US$2,534:1 tonne). The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$2.7 million (2014: US$0.5 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.02 million (2014: US$0.1 million). The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on foreign exchange and price commodity derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in other comprehensive income for the year: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance (9,946) 721 (Gains) recycled to revenue during the year (2,167) (3,027) Losses/(gains) recycled to cost of sales during the year 28,589 (220) Gains recycled to the value of other assets – (220) Unrealised gains/(losses) before tax arising during the year 39,521 (11,771) Deferred tax effect recorded in other comprehensive income during the year (19,783) 4,571 Ending balance 36,214 (9,946) 32. Financial risk management Overview The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets, interestbearing loans and trade payables. The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: >> Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks >> Credit risk >> Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. 192 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 32. Financial risk management continued (a) Market risk Strategic Report Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Group’s income or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk. Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts and the payment of dividends. As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso. Corporate Governance In order to manage the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2015 (see note 31 for additional detail). The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments. Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Strengthening/ increase/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 10% (4,235) 7,809 Financial Statements (10%) 5,192 (2,213) 2014 15% (3,350) (28,970) (5%) 616 11,513 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 5% 213 (10%) (78) 2014 15% (515) (10%) 572 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Group’s profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Strengthening/ increase/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 10% – – (10%) – – 2014 5% 52 – (10%) 105 – 193 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32. Financial risk management continued Foreign currency risk – Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% (1,622) (10%) 1,982 2014 5% (2,427) (10%) 2,966 Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices (specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc) which have a significant effect on the Group’s results. These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles. The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold price, see mentioned in note 2(s) . The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Group’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales. Increase/(decrease) in commodity prices Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: increase/ increase/ (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% (51,326) 50,764 (10%) (15%) (25%) (15%) 52,915 136,469 2014 10% 20% 15% 10% (93,922) (791) (10%) (20%) (10%) (15%) 49,405 49,612 Commodity price risk – Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2015 20% 104,659 (15%) (78,494) 2014 20% 103,125 (20%) (103,125) 194 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 32. Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk Strategic Report The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date. Interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount. Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding Silverstream) to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. There is no impact on the Group’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Corporate Governance Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 2,525 (10) (505) 2014 25 1,140 (10) (456) The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end. Interest rate risk – Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Financial Statements Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 (17,853) (10) 3,729 2014 25 (15,067) (10) 3,123 Inflation rate risk Inflation rate risk – Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant. It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model. There is no impact on the Group’s equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: (increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December inflation rate US$ thousands 2015 100 389 (100) (382) 2014 100 697 (100) (680) 195 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32. Financial risk management continued Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Group’s profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit Effect on before tax: equity: Increase/ increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) (decrease) Year ended 31 December equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2015 50% – 35,721 (30%) (5,135) (16,297) 2014 60% – 51,157 (40%) (16,983) (17,632) (b) Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Group’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour their obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. The Group’s financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating. As disclosed in note 28, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties. At each balance sheet date, the Group’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than ‘Other receivables’ as disclosed in note 17. The Group’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings. The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty, Met-Mex Peñoles, the Group’s primary customer throughout 2015 and 2014. A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract. Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peñoles group which currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating. The Group’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing in a number of financial institutions. Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions. In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 (Moody’s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poor’s) and above. As at 31 December 2015, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 61% of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which 96% was held in shortterm Mexican government paper. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 14 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 18 for short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents and note 28 for related party balances with Met-Mex. The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2015, being US$384.8 million (2014: US$392.2 million). 196 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 32. Financial risk management continued (c) Liquidity risk Strategic Report Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans (note 21) 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,137 Trade and other payables 57,440 – – – 57,440 Corporate Governance Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – liability 532 – – – 532 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Interest-bearing loans (note 21) 46,267 92,534 92,534 985,068 1,216,403 Trade and other payables 70,340 – – – 70,340 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 261,051 – – – 261,051 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts – liability 2,911 – – – 2,911 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However, those amounts Financial Statements may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 – 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 – 23,620 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Inflows 239,238 – – – 239,238 Outflows 261,051 – – – 261,051 Net (21,813) – – – (21,813) The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2016 as at 31 December 2015 and in 2015 as at 31 December 2014, either by the Group or counterparty. Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-forsale financial assets. In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders’ capital invested in the Group, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. The Group’s dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream contract. 197 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands (Loss)/profit for the year 3 (894,822) 139,536 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Fair value (losses)/gains on available-for-sale financial assets 7 (14,636) 22,833 Income tax effect 5 4,391 (6,850) Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 982 Income tax effect 5 (869) (295) Net effect of available-for-sale financial assets (8,218) 16,670 Net other comprehensive (expense)/income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (8,218) 16,670 Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (903,040) 156,206 198 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Parent Company Balance Sheet Fresnillo Today As at 31 December As at 31 December Strategic Report 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 6 5,800,967 6,730,093 Available-for-sale financial assets 7 71,442 86,078 Deferred tax asset 5 – 3,138 5,872,409 6,819,309 Current assets Loans to related parties 15 706,989 772,102 Income tax recoverable 7,909 16,037 Trade and other receivables 8 3,766 12,507 Corporate Governance Derivative financial instruments 18 117,075 14,551 Cash and cash equivalents 9 110,217 116,023 945,956 931,220 Total assets 6,818,365 7,750,529 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of the Company Share capital 10 368,546 368,546 Share premium 10 1,153,817 1,153,817 Merger reserve 10 4,109,520 5,054,804 Net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets 10 9,414 17,632 Retained earnings 10 336,551 323,671 Financial Statements Total equity 5,977,848 6,918,470 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans 12 797,032 796,160 Deferred tax liability 5 20,490 – 817,522 796,160 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 13 21,568 8,866 Derivative financial instruments 18 1,427 27,033 22,995 35,899 Total liabilities 840,517 832,059 Total equity and liabilities 6,818,365 7,750,529 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Mr Arturo Fernández Non-executive Director 29 February 2016 199 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Net cash from operating activities 17 7,916 24,041 Cash flows from investing activities Capital contribution to subsidiaries (16,158) (15,264) Loans granted to related parties (1,841,293) (1,998,264) Proceeds from repayment of loans granted to related parties 1,904,794 1,565,252 Interest received 22,138 14,730 Dividends received – 291,099 Settlement of derivative contracts 3,133 101 Other payments (1,584) (434) Net cash generated/(used) from investing activities 71,030 (142,780) Cash flows from financing activities Loans granted by related parties 67,000 3,008,555 Repayment of loans granted by related parties (67,000) (3,358,964) Dividends paid (37,529) (86,952) Interest paid (47,607) (60,539) Net cash used in financing activities (85,136) (497,900) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year (6,190) (616,639) Effect of exchange rate on cash and equivalents 384 (3,055) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 116,023 735,717 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9 110,217 116,023 200 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Fresnillo Today Year ended 31 December US$ thousands Strategic Report Net unrealised gains/(losses) on available-forShare Share Merger sale financial Retained Total Notes capital premium reserve assets earnings equity Balance at 1 January 2014 368,546 1,153,817 5,184,973 962 140,920 6,849,218 Profit for the year – – – – 139,536 139,536 Other comprehensive expense net of tax – – – 16,670 – 16,670 Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – 16,670 139,536 156,206 Transfer of reserves – – (130,169) – 130,169 – Dividends declared and paid 11 – – – – (86,954) (86,954) Balance at 31 December 2014 368,546 1,153,817 5,054,804 17,632 323,671 6,918,470 Corporate Governance Loss for the year – – – – (894,822) (894,822) Other comprehensive expense net of tax – – – (8,218) – (8,218) Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – (8,218) (894,822) (903,040) Transfer of reserves – – (945,284) – 945,284 – Dividends declared and paid 11 – – – – (37,582) (37,582) Balance at 31 December 2015 368,546 1,153,817 4,109,520 9,414 336,551 5,977,848 Financial Statements 201 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1. Corporate information Fresnillo plc (‘the Company’) is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6. The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City. For further information see note 5. Industrias Peñoles S.A.B. de C.V. (‘Peñoles’) currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillères family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peñoles. The country of incorporation of Peñoles is Mexico. Copies of Peñoles’ accounts can be obtained from www.penoles.com.mx. The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies. See note 6. The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 29 February 2016. 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value. The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America (US dollars or US$) and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$000) except when otherwise indicated. The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below. These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated. (b) Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. New standards, interpretations and amendments (new standards) adopted by the Company During 2015 there were no new standards adopted by the Company. New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2015 had no impact in the financial information of the Company. Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements are disclosed below. The Company intends to adopt these standards it considers applicable to the Company’s financial statements, when they become effective. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory. The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. Either a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, when the IASB finalises their amendments to defer the effective date of IFRS 15 by one year. Early adoption is permitted. The Company plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date using the full retrospective method. During 2015, the Company performed a preliminary assessment of IFRS 15, which is subject to changes arising from a more detailed ongoing analysis. Furthermore, the Company is considering the clarifications issued by the IASB in an exposure draft in July 2015 and will monitor any further developments. 202 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 16 Leases Strategic Report IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019; earlier application is permitted. However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15. The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company has not early adopted this standard, however management has reviewed the aggregation level in the financial statements including disclosures in notes, considering the new guidance on materiality. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial Corporate Governance information of the Company. Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 7 required disclosure of information that will allow users to understand changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. This includes changes arising from (i) cash flows, such as drawdowns and repayments of borrowings; and (ii) non-cash changes, such as acquisitions, disposals and unrealised exchange differences. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact on the financial information of the Company. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption permitted. The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any Financial Statements impact on the financial information of the Company. The IASB has issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective. (c) Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. These judgements and estimates are based on management’s knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements. Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements. Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: >> Determination of functional currency, note 2(d): The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates. >> Contingencies (note 14): By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events. Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: >> Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets, notes 2(g) and 7: The Company classifies certain financial assets as available-for-sale and recognises movements in their fair value in equity. When the fair value declines, management makes an assessment of the decline in value to determine whether it is an impairment that should be recognised in profit or loss. For the year ended 31 December 2015 an impairment loss of US$2.9 million has been recognised relating to available-for-sale assets. 203 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued >> Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries (notes 2(e) and 6): The Company assesses the investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists. Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD) and the value in use. A value in use assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance. Fair value less costs of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Company may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge. At 31 December 2015, impairment losses of US$1,680.1 million have been recognised relating to subsidiaries (2014: US$734.8 million). (d) Foreign currency translation The Company’s financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company. The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined. (e) Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls operating and financial policies and is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment. When the Company increases its capital investment in, or where there is a return of share capital from, its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition or return of the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries. At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment. Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in the subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use. Fair value less costs of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants. When this information is not available the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount. Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made. An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. (f) Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held to maturity investments; or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred. Financial assets are offset with liabilities and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 204 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Strategic Report Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss at inception are included in this category. Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments, as defined by IAS 39. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale. After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the Corporate Governance amortisation process. Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables. Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost. Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. The Company shall adjust the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense. Financial Statements This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans. For more information refer to note 12. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments. Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market; therefore a fair value can be reliably measured. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised. Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are de-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense. De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally de-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. 205 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (g) Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement. In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Company considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value , the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement. (h) Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts. (i) Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue. The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue. (j) Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes. Trademark royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received. Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues (using the effective interest method, i.e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset). Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established. 206 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 2. Significant accounting policies continued (k) Income tax Strategic Report Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: >> where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss; and Corporate Governance >> in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: >> where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and >> in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Financial Statements The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. (l) Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement. Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies (such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value) applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows. Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives. 207 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2. Significant accounting policies continued (m) Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 18 and 19. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: >> In the principal market for the asset or liability; or >> In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. Further information on fair values is described in note 18. (n) Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 3. Profit or loss attributable to the Parent Company The loss for the Company is US$894.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: profit of US$139.6 million). In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented. 4. Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Company’s stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 5. Income tax (a) Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net credit/(charge) arising on unrealised losses/(gains) on available-for-sale assets (note 7) 3,522 (7,145) Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 3,522 (7,145) 208 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 5. Income tax continued (b) The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Strategic Report Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net asset/(liability) 3,138 (2,245) Income statement (charge)/credit (27,150) 12,528 Net credit/(charge) arising on unrealised losses/(gains) on available-for-sale assets (note 7) 3,522 (7,145) Closing net (liability)/asset (20,490) 3,138 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities. Corporate Governance The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other (363) (697) Derivative financial instruments (41,255) (5,258) Losses carried forward 21,884 14,240 Available-for-sale financial assets (756) (5,147) Net deferred tax (liability)/asset (20,490) 3,138 Financial Statements (c) Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,450 million (2014: US$1,528 million). (d) Corporate Income Tax (‘Impuesto Sobre la Renta’ or ‘ISR’) The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes. The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%. 6. Investments in subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 6,730,093 6,792,011 Impairment (945,284) (130,169) Additions 16,158 68,2511 Closing balance2 5,800,967 6,730,093 1 Of the US$68.3 million of additions, US$52.1 million relates to the carrying amount of loan to Proveedora de Equipos Fresne S.A. de C.V. which was capitalised as part of the Company’s investment on 6 October 2014. 2 The Bajio land dispute could have an impact to the Company’s investment in Minera Penmont (Soldedad-Dipolos mine unit) (note 14). During 2015 and 2014, due to the gold and silver prices decreasing the Company made an impairment assessment to determine whether the carrying value of each of its subsidiaries was recoverable as at 31 December 2015 and 2014. As a result a cumulative impairment loss of US$1,680.1 million is recognised with respect to certain of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries (2014: US$734.8 million). The recoverable amount was estimated on the Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCD) (2014: FVLCD). 209 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 6. Investments in subsidiaries continued The following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: Year ended 31 December 2015 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousands US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. 703,483 703,483 3,561,388 Post–tax 6.21% Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. – 470,770 481,878 Post–tax 6.09% Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 104,339 141,738 1,133,900 Post–tax 6.02% Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V. 137,462 137,462 671,488 Post–tax 6.02% Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. – 226,627 139,400 Post–tax 6.43% 945,284 1,680,080 As at 31 December 2015 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology. In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate. Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to commodity price assumptions. The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts’ consensus of long-term prices. As at 31 December 2015, the Company used price assumptions US$1,200/ounce and US$18/ounce for gold and silver, respectively. Year ended 31 December 2014 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousands US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. 9,277 470,770 414,252 Post–tax 4.04% Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. 37,399 37,399 1,182,239 Post–tax 4.16% Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. 83,493 226,627 138,936 Post–tax 4.63% 130,169 734,796 As at 31 December 2014 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology. In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate. Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to commodity price assumptions. The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts’ consensus of long-term prices. As at 31 December 2014, the Company used price assumptions US$1,250/ounce and US$18/ounce for gold and silver, respectively. Exploraciones Minera Parreña, S.A. de C.V. (Parreña) provides exploration services to the mining entities and management determined FVLCD based on the future cash flow derived from such services, which are derived from estimated costs. Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to the estimate of exploration expenses. Sensitivity analysis Management has performed a sensitivity analysis for those subsidiaries where an impairment was determined. The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2015 considering a change in commodity prices assumptions with all other assumptions held constant: Decrease in commodity prices Penmont Saucito Fresnillo Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 5% 10% 178,408 173,259 833,734 High sensitivity 10% 20% 256,300 290,608 1,335,862 The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2015 considering a change in interest rate assumptions with all other assumptions held constant: Basis points increase in Penmont Saucito Fresnillo interest rate US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 50 111,091 75,649 428,331 High sensitivity 100 121,277 94,562 520,813 210 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 6. Investments in subsidiaries continued The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2014 considering a change in commodity prices assumptions: Strategic Report Decrease in commodity prices Saucito Ciénega Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands Low sensitivity 5% 10% 161,672 100,283 High sensitivity 10% 20% 285,931 191,859 The following table sets out the additional impairment to that recognised in 2014 considering a change in exploration expenses: Decrease in exploration Parreña expenses US$ thousands Corporate Governance Low sensitivity 5% 2,424 High sensitivity 10% 4,849 The subsidiaries in which investments are directly held as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Country of Equity interest % Legal company Principal activity incorporation Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead/silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V.1 Production of doré bars (gold/silver) Mexico 56 56 Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and silver Mexico 100 100 Financial Statements precipitates Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Desarrollos Mineros Canelas, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. de R.L. de C.V.1 Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 56 56 Desarrollos Mineros el Aguila, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 Metalúrgica Reyna, S.A. de C.V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 Equipos Mineros Nazas, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 Proveedora de Equipos Fresne, S de R.L. de C.V.1 Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 56 56 Equipos Mineros la Hacienda, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 Proveedora de Equipos Jerez, S.A. de C.V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S.A. de C.V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, Holds rights over silver production from Peñoles’ Mexico 100 100 S.A. de C.V. polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract Exploraciones Mineras Parreña, S.A. de C.V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto, S.A. P. I. de C.V. Exploration services Mexico 55 55 Exploraciones Coneto, S.A. de C.V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 Minera El Bermejal, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 100 100 Compañía Minera Las Torres, S.A. de C.V. Mine project Mexico 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Operaciones Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Servicios de Exploración Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining investments Canada 100 100 Fresnillo Perú, S.A.C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 Fresnillo Chile, SpA Exploration services Chile 100 – Caja de Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C.2 Administrative services Mexico – – The list of subsidiary undertakings presented in this note represents the full list of subsidiary undertakings, required to be submitted by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006. 1 The remaining 44% interest in these companies are held by Comercializadora de Metales Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 2 Whilst Fresnillo plc holds no direct ownership in Caja de Ahorros Fresnillo, S.C. the company is held through the subsidiaries Minera Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., Minera Penmont, S. de R.L. de C.V., Minera Mexicana La Ciénega, S.A. de C.V., Minera Saucito, S.A. de C.V., Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. and Operaciones Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V. in equal ownership. 211 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 7. Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 86,078 63,245 Fair value change (14,636) 22,833 Ending balance 71,442 86,078 At 31 December 2015 several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group. This decrease has been sustained during the past 12-month period, which is considered to be prolonged, therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement (2014: US$1.0 million). The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. 8. Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other receivables from related parties (note 15) 3,764 12,362 Prepayments – 145 Other 2 – 3,766 12,507 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired. In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the creditworthiness of the counterparty. 9. Cash and cash equivalents Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 16 28 Short-term deposits 110,201 115,995 Cash and cash equivalents 110,217 116,023 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value. 10. Equity Share capital and share premium As at 31 December 2015 2014 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of £1.00 50,000 £50,000 50,000 £50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number £ At 1 January 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2014 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 £50,000 As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, all issued shares with a par value of $0.50 each are fully paid. The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares. 212 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 10. Equity continued The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up Strategic Report after repayment to Ordinary shareholders. The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company. The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of £1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares. Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable. Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Movements in this reserve during 2015 and 2014 represent the Corporate Governance impairment of the carrying value of Fresnillo’s investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax. On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement. Retained earnings This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid. 11. Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: US cents per Amount Financial Statements Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2015 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year1 3.0 22,107 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year2 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 Year ended 31 December 2014 Final dividend for 2013 declared and paid during the year3 6.8 50,109 Interim dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year4 5.0 36,845 11.8 86,954 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015. 2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015. 3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2014 and paid on 22 May 2014. 4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 August 2014 and paid on 11 September 2014. 12. Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “notes”). An analysis of the debt recognised in the balance sheet is calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 796,160 795,306 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 Interest paid1 (46,267) (46,267) Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 872 854 Closing balance 797,032 796,160 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November. 213 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 13. Trade and other payables Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other payables to related parties (note 15) 16,819 4,107 Other taxes and contributions 3,768 3,901 Accrued expenses 981 858 21,568 8,866 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates their book values. The Company’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 19. 14. Contingencies As of 31 December 2015 the Company has the following contingencies: >> The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties. >> Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest. Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods. In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest. It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome. However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable. >> On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peñoles entered into the Separation Agreement (the ‘Separation Agreement’). This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group (‘the Group’) and the Peñoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peñoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 (‘Admission’). The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peñoles so that, in the case of Peñoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities (including tax liabilities) properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peñoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business. Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate. >> Peñoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to (i) any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the pre-IPO reorganisation (including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peñoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peñoles Group on or after Admission), the Global Offer or Admission and (ii) certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions. Peñoles’ liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million. If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peñoles’ tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account (‘Cuenta de Utilidad Fiscal Neta’ or ‘CUFIN’) after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peñoles an amount in respect of that tax. >> In regard to the Ejido El Bajío matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajío agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont (“Penmont”), submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court (Tribunal Unitario Agrario) of Hermosillo Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land. The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of Soledad-Dipolos are located. The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land. The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos. The Agrarian Magistrate noted that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency (SEMARNAT) in this respect. The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmont’s occupation. In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order is excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appears not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits. Penmont has challenged the procedural order before Federal courts, who have indicated that the correct procedural time for filing such complaint should be when legal execution over lands comprising the Soledad-Dipolos pit is initiated (currently the lands are in a judicial deposit pending final execution for delivery to claimants). Penmont conducted mining activities on approximately 300 hectares of such lands and remediation activities in this respect are still pending. 214 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 14. Contingencies continued In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajío agrarian community presented additional claims, including a separate Strategic Report claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, claiming US$65 million in damages, alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmont’s mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajío lands. Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land. The claimants have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit. Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora. Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling is not probable. In addition, claimants have presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above. Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont. The Unitarian Agrarian Court has issued rulings declaring (i) such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void; (ii) and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmont’s occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area; and (iii) that Penmont must pay rent for Corporate Governance occupying the land parcels whilst the claimants must reimburse Penmont the monies it originally paid for occupying such lands. The rulings also make reference in this same context (including remediation and return of minerals) to the separate court case involving Soledad-Dipolos mentioned above. Penmont has appealed these rulings since it is the owner of the mining concessions and all mining activities were conducted in accordance with Mexican law. The ultimate result of the appeals process remains pending. In regards the reference to SoledadDipolos within the scope of these land parcels cases, certain of these appeals have been decided for the Company, some against, whilst others remain pending. However, any adverse court order involving minerals over lands where the Soledad-Dipolos pit is located would be subject to a further appeals process, as that was a separate legal file as described above. Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajío matter including appeals that are pending as well as criminal complaints between the parties. There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings. 15. Related party balances and transactions Financial Statements Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed in note 6, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies. Related party balances will be settled in cash. All the balances as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 and the transactions carried out with related parties for the years then ended correspond to subsidiaries. (a) Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable Accounts payable US$ thousands US$ thousands 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 Loans with related parties 706,989 772,102 – – Administrative services – 7,812 7,963 334 Trademark royalty 3,717 4,070 8,855 3,773 Other 47 480 1 – Sub-total 710,753 784,464 16,819 4,107 Less–Current portion 710,753 784,464 16,819 4,107 Non-current portion – – – – Effective interest rates on loans granted to related parties in US dollar range between 2.3% to 2.41% (2014: 2.18% to 2.23%); in Mexican peso range 5.31% to 5.34% (2014: 5.46% to 5.80%). 215 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15. Related party balances and transactions continued (b) Principal transactions with related parties (apart from dividends, additional investments and returns of capital) are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Trademark royalties 34,679 40,493 Interest on loans to related parties 21,824 12,496 Other – 340 Total income 56,503 53,329 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 9,399 2,681 Interest on loans from related parties 1,339 14,271 Other 455 1,083 Total expenses 11,193 18,035 (c) Compensation of key management personnel of the Company Key management personnel comprise Non-executive Directors. In 2015, their compensation was US$0.7 million (2014: US$0.8 million). This compensation paid is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 16. Auditor’s remuneration The auditor’s remuneration for the Company was US$1.1 million (2014: US$1.0 million) in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to Fresnillo Group audit. Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand-alone financial statements because the Group financial statements are prepared which include these fees on a consolidated basis. 17. Notes to the statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities (Loss)/Profit for the year (894,822) 139,536 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment charge 6 945,284 130,169 Dividends income – (291,099) Income tax expense 27,150 (6,163) Other expenses/(income) 1,584 765 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 982 Net finance (income)/loss (104,722) 59,314 Foreign exchange loss 2,689 163 Working capital adjustments Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 8,656 (5,973) Decrease in prepayments and other assets 143 69 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 15,656 (19,399) Cash generated from operations 4,514 8,364 Income tax paid 3,402 15,677 Net cash from operating activities 7,916 24,041 216 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 18. Financial instruments (a) Fair value category Strategic Report As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at through OCI through profit fair value Loans and (cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedge) Trade and other receivables – – 3,764 – Loans to related parties – – 706,989 – Available-for-sale financial assets – 71,442 – – Derivative financial instruments 117,075 – – – At fair value Corporate Governance At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedge) Interest-bearing loans – 797,032 – Trade and other payables – 16,819 – Derivative financial instruments 1,427 – – As at 31 December 2014 US$ thousands Available-forsale At fair value At fair value investments at through OCI through profit fair value Loans and (cash flow Financial Statements Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedge) Trade and other receivables – – 12,362 – Loans to related parties – – 772,102 – Available-for-sale financial assets – 86,078 – – Derivative financial instruments 14,551 – – – At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised (cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss cost hedge) Interest-bearing loans – 796,160 – Trade and other payables – 4,107 – Derivative financial instruments 27,033 – – (b) Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 117,075 14,551 117,075 14,551 Loans to related parties2 706,989 772,102 706,989 772,102 Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 86,078 71,442 86,078 Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans 797,032 796,160 805,352 795,1281 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 27,033 1,427 27,033 1 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 2 Loans to related parties are categorised in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 217 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18. Financial instruments continued The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2015 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – 116,995 – 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 80 – 80 Financial investments available-for-sale: – – – – Quoted investments 71,442 – – 71,442 71,442 117,075 – 188,517 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – – – – Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 – 1,427 As of 31 December 2014 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – 14,229 – 14,229 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 322 – 322 Financial investments available-for-sale: – – – – Quoted investments 86,078 – – 86,078 86,078 14,551 – 100,629 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts – 8,704 – 8,704 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts – 18,329 – 18,329 – 27,033 – 27,033 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Options and forwards to hedge foreign exchange contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The foreign currency forward (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies. The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency. Option commodity contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The option commodity (Level 2) contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities. The option contracts are valued using the Black-Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity. 218 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 18. Financial instruments continued Quoted investments Strategic Report Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Company’s interest-bearing loan is derived from quoted market prices in active markets. Loans with related parties Fair value of the Company’s loan to related parties is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on market interest rates at each reporting date. (c) Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries’ exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from the activities of these subsidiaries. Also the Company enters into option contracts to manage its subsidiaries’ exposure to commodity price risk Corporate Governance associated with the sales of gold. In the Group’s consolidated financial statements these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Company’s stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges. The outstanding forward derivative contracts as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2015 Contract value Contract 2015 Fair value Term Currency (thousands) exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2016 EUR 69 EUR1:US$1.09 to 0.3 EUR1:US$1.10 Financial Statements Swedish krona-denominated contracts 2016 SEK 14,463 SEK$8.41:US$1 0.6 The Company’s euro-denominated forward derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016. The Company also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments mature on 11 March 2016. The Company also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 11 January 2016 to 8 August 2016. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$198 million with a range of floor prices from MX$14.00 to MX$16.82:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.92 and a range of capped prices from MX$17.25 to MX$19.50:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$18.26. The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$1.8 million. Forward derivative contracts that were outstanding as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 Contract value 2014 Fair value Term Currency (thousands) Contract exchange rate US$ thousands Euro-denominated forward contracts 2015 EUR 869 EUR1:US$1.25 to (121) EUR1:US$1.35 Swedish krona-denominated contracts 2015 SEK 41,597 SEK$7.19:US$1 to (359) SEK$7.62:US$1 The Company’s euro-denominated forward derivative instruments matured on 13 March 2015 at a weighted average rate of US$1.35: €1. The Company also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These derivative instruments matured over a period from 13 March 2015 to 12 June 2015 with a weighted average rate of SEK$7.27:US$1. The Company also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Collar derivative instruments matured over the period from 12 January 2015 to 14 December 2015. The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican peso amounting to US$259.5 million with a range of floor prices from MX$13.09 to MX$14.00:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$13.45 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$18.13:US$1 and weighted average rate of US$14.19. The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2014 was an asset of US$1.2 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2014 was a liability of US$18.7 million. 219 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18. Financial instruments continued Commodity price contracts During 2014 the Company entered into gold ounce-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in commodity price for a total amount of 1,559,689 ounces. As at 31 December 2015 the outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2019 and hedge cash proceeds for the sales of gold production amounting 1,257,516 ounces (2014: 1,524,276 ounces) with a floor price of US$1,100:1 ounce and a range of capped prices from US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce for both years and weighted average price of US$1,426:1 ounce. (2014: 1,427:1 ounce) The fair value of the put options as at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$147.3 million (2014: US$111.8 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$35.1 million (2014: US$107.4 million). The Group also entered into lead tonnes-US dollar and zinc tonnes-US dollar collars to hedge its subsidiaries’ exposure to fluctuations in commodity price. Lead collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge lead production amounting 4,272 tonnes (2014: 2,261 tonnes) with a floor price of US$1,985:1 tonne (2014: US$2,100:1 tonne) and a range of capped prices from US$2,220 to US$2,310:1 tonne (US$2,450 to US$2,550:1 tonne) and weighted average price of US$2,259:1 tonne (2014: US$2,496:1 tonne). The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$1.0 million (2014: US$0.6 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.085 million (2014: US$0.001 million). Zinc collar derivate instruments mature over the period 29 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 and hedge zinc production amounting 4,536 tonnes (2014: 8,911 tonnes) with a floor price of US$2,205 tonne (2014: range of floor prices of US$1,900 to US$2,200:1 tonne and weighted average price of US$2,100:1 tonne) and a range of capped prices from US$2,535 to US$2,550:1 tonne (2014: US$2,400 to US$2,650: 1 tonne) and weighted average price of US$2,542:1 tonne (2014: US$2,534:1 tonne). The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2015 was an asset of US$2.7 million (2014: US$0.5 million), and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2015 was a liability of US$0.02 million (2014: US$0.1 million). 19 Financial Risk Management Overview The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets, loans to and from related parties, interest-bearing loans and trade payables. The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries. The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: >> Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks >> Credit risk >> Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Company’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Company’s objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management framework. The Company’s risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities. The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Company’s income or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. Foreign currency risk The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchase of services, payment or receipt of dividends and other items. As a result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso. 220 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 19 Financial Risk Management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar Strategic Report exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% (11,349) (10%) 6,556 2014 15% (29,787) Corporate Governance (5%) 11,107 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 5% 213 (10%) (78) Financial Statements 2014 15% (515) (10%) 572 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar compared to the euro, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax, with all other variables held constant. It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening/ increase/ (weakening) of (decrease) Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2015 10% – (10%) – 2014 5% 52 (10%) 105 Commodity risk The Company’s subsidiaries have exposure to changes in metals prices (specifically gold, lead and zinc) which have a significant effect on the Company’s results. These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles. The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price exposure in its subsidiaries, see mentioned in note 18(c). 221 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 19 Financial Risk Management continued The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity relating to changes in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts of financial assets and liabilities, reflecting the impact on the Company’s profit before tax with all other variables held constant. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the effect on profit before tax. Effect on profit before tax: Increase/(decrease) increase/ (decrease) Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% (98,118) (10%) (15%) (25%) (15%) 121,716 2014 10% 20% 15% 10% (109,994) (10%) (20%) (10%) (15%) 66,523 Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments. The Company’s earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the loans with related parties and interest earned on cash balances. Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value, therefore, are excluded from the table below. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date. There is no impact on the Company’s equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings. Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase/ increase/ (decrease) in (decrease) Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2015 50 551 (10) (110) 2014 25 290 (10) (116) Equity price risk The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Company’s profit before tax and equity: Effect on Effect on profit equity: Increase/ before tax: increase/ (decrease) in increase/ (decrease) Year ended 31 December equity price (decrease) US$ thousands 2015 50% – 35,721 (30%) (5,135) (16,297) 2014 60% – 51,157 (40%) (16,983) (17,632) 222 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today 19 Financial Risk Management continued (b) Credit risk Strategic Report Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Company’s ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments. The financial assets are trade and other receivables, intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets. The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties’ failure to honour their obligations. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Company’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty. The Company’s financial assets are with counterparties with what the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating. As disclosed in note 15, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties. At each balance sheet date, the Company’s financial assets were neither impaired nor past due. The Company’s policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency and commodity hedging contracts. The Company’s foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings. Corporate Governance The Company’s surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S.A. de C.V., which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions. In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of M-1 (Moody’s) and mxA-1+ (Standard and Poor’s) and above, and only for periods of less than four months. The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes. See note 7 for the maximum credit exposure for available-for-sale investments, note 9 for cash and cash equivalents and note 15 for related party balances. (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities. Financial Statements The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,136 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Trade and other payables 16,819 – – – 16,819 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 985,068 1,216,403 Derivative financial instruments – liabilities 261,051 – – – 261,051 Trade and other payables 4,107 – – – 4,107 223 Fresnillo plc Financial Statements Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 19 Financial Risk Management continued The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows. However, those amounts may be settled gross or net. The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2–3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 – 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 – 1,389,770 Net 5,194 16,621 1,806 – 23,620 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 Inflows 239,238 – – – 239,238 Outflows 261,051 – – – 261,051 Net (21,813) – – – (21,813) The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from derivative financial instruments which the Company expects are going to be exercised from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015 and in 2015 to 2019 as at 31 December 2014, either by the Company or the counterparty. Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities. Capital management The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value. Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets. In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders’ capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable. The Company’s dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows. 224 Fresnillo plc Reserves and Resources Tables Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo plc Consolidated Audited Mineral Fresnillo Today Resource Statement1 As at 31 December 2015 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Strategic Report Cut-off Tonnes Gold Silver Lead Zinc Gold Silver Lead Zinc Resource Category Grade2 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Fresnillo Underground Measured 122 g/t AgEq 10.30 0.84 627 0.98 1.63 0.28 207.64 101.29 167.61 Indicated 23.00 0.86 294 1.98 4.11 0.64 217.46 454.53 945.04 Measured & Indicated 33.30 0.85 397 1.67 3.34 0.91 425.09 555.81 1,112.65 Inferred 31.38 0.70 319 1.24 2.45 0.70 321.93 389.51 768.17 Saucito Underground Measured 134 g/t AgEq 2.55 2.60 498 1.34 2.22 0.21 40.86 34.04 56.69 Indicated 12.06 1.79 299 1.62 3.25 0.69 115.95 195.03 391.71 Measured & Indicated 14.61 1.93 334 1.57 3.07 0.91 156.80 229.07 448.40 Inferred 26.49 1.05 255 0.95 1.68 0.89 216.92 250.83 444.93 Corporate Governance Ciénega Underground Measured Multiple3 6.28 2.36 135 0.72 1.23 0.48 27.16 45.06 76.98 Indicated 14.89 1.62 181 0.59 1.07 0.77 86.65 88.03 158.97 Measured & Indicated 21.17 1.84 167 0.63 1.11 1.25 113.81 133.09 235.96 Inferred 7.96 1.04 150 0.49 0.85 0.27 38.47 39.02 68.05 San Julián Veins Measured 147 g/t AgEq 1.50 1.86 148 – – 0.09 7.11 – – Indicated 6.63 2.07 181 – – 0.44 38.59 – – Measured & Indicated 8.13 2.03 175 – – 0.53 45.70 – – Inferred 3.13 1.44 137 – – 0.14 13.80 – – San Julián Disseminated Financial Statements Measured 124 g/t AgEq 7.50 0.10 295 0.73 1.73 0.02 71.08 54.66 129.50 Indicated 8.25 0.07 174 0.55 1.41 0.02 46.01 45.55 116.26 Measured & Indicated 15.75 0.08 231 0.64 1.56 0.04 117.10 100.21 245.76 Inferred – – – – – – – – – Herradura Veins Measured 1.7 g/t Au – – – – – – – – – Indicated 13.00 3.57 – – – 1.49 – – – Measured & Indicated6 13.00 3.57 – – – 1.49 – – – Inferred7 27.00 3.25 – – – 2.82 – – – Herradura Disseminated Open Pit4 Measured Multiple5 153.05 0.84 – – – 4.11 – – – Indicated 93.77 0.80 – – – 2.42 – – – Measured & Indicated8 246.82 0.82 – – – 6.54 – – – Inferred9 5.00 0.75 – – – 0.12 – – – Continued overleaf 225 Fresnillo plc Reserves and Resources Tables Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo plc Consolidated Audited Mineral Resource Statement1 As at 31 December 2015 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Cut-off Tonnes Gold Silver Lead Zinc Gold Silver Lead Zinc Resource Category Grade2 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Soledad-Dipolos Open Pit4, 10 Measured 0.3 g/t Au 31.98 0.64 – – – 0.66 – – – Indicated 15.92 0.58 – – – 0.30 – – – Measured & Indicated11 47.91 0.62 – – – 0.95 – – – Inferred12 0.02 0.37 – – – 0.00 – – – Noche Buena Open Pit4 Measured 0.3 g/t Au 35.31 0.57 – – – 0.64 – – – Indicated 21.21 0.54 – – – 0.37 – – – Measured & Indicated13 56.51 0.56 – – – 1.01 – – – Inferred14 2.78 0.48 – – – 0.04 – – – Totals – Underground Measured & Indicated Multiple 105.96 1.51 252 0.96 1.93 5.14 858.50 1,018.19 2,042.77 Inferred 95.96 1.57 192 0.71 1.34 4.83 591.12 679.36 1,281.16 Totals – Open Pit Measured & Indicated Multiple 351.24 0.75 – – – 8.50 – – – Inferred 7.80 0.65 – – – 0.16 – – – 1 Mineral resources are reported inclusive of ore reserves. Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All ﬁgures rounded to reﬂect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate. 2 Mineral resources are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions*, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions (variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution), mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative (G&A) costs, and variable NSR factors (NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs). The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities. 3 The cut-off grade for Cienega’s mineral resources varies between 158 to 214 gpt AgEq. 4 The Mega Centauro, Soledad-Dipolos, and Noche Buena resources are reported within pit shells run at a US$1,300/oz Au price. 5 Mega Centauro mineral resources are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade. Oxide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.35 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 1.23 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.61 gpt Au reports to the mill. 6 Mega Centauro open pit silver concentrations are projected into the Centauro Profundo Underground Veins. The Mega Centauro open pit mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 1.1 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. The projected in situ M & I silver in the Centauro Profundo Underground resource is 0.57 Moz. 7 Mega Centauro open pit silver concentrations are projected into the Centauro Profundo Underground Veins. The Mega Centauro open pit mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 1.1 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. The projected in situ inferred silver in the Centauro Profundo Underground resource is 1.08 Moz. 8 The Mega Centauro open pit mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 1.1 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ M & I silver in the open pit resource is 7.9 Moz. 9 The Mega Centauro open pit mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 1.1 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ inferred silver in the open pit resource is 0.16 Moz. 10 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access. SRK has been provided with reassurances that Fresnillo has a reasonable chance to reacquire surface rights to these areas. 11 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.5 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ M & I silver in the resource is 0.77 Moz. 12 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.5 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ inferred silver in the resource is 4K ounces. 13 The Noche Buena mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ M & I silver in the veins resource is 0.55 Moz. 14 The Noche Buena mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 gpt. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model. Based on past production, projected in situ inferred silver in the resource is 0.03 Moz. * Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold (US$/oz 1,150.00), Silver (US$/oz 15.00), Lead (US$/lb 0.75) and Zinc (US$/lb 0.78). The resources were estimated by Fresnillo. Dr. Bart Stryhas, CPG #11034, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Minera Penmont. Matthew Hastings, M.Sc, P.Geo, MAusIMM #314693 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Ciénega. Benjamin Parsons, BSc, MSc Geology, MAusIMM (CP) #222568 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Fresnillo, Saucito, and San Julián. 226 Fresnillo plc Reserves and Resources Tables Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Audited Mineral Resource Statement of Fresnillo Today Exploration Projects and Prospects1 As at 31 December 2015 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Strategic Report Cut–off Tonnes Gold Silver Lead Zinc Gold Silver Lead Zinc Deposit/Fresnillo Subsidiary Grade2 (000 t) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (000 oz) (000 oz) (000 t) (000 t) Measured Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au4 0.34 g/t Au 34,543 1.23 1 – – 1,365 1,431 – – Candameña – disseminated Au4 – – – – – – – – – San Julián Sur – veins – – – – – – – – – Leones – breccia4 – – – – – – – – – Tajitos – disseminated Au – – – – – – – – – Lucerito – breccia/mantos4 – – – – – – – – – Rodeo – disseminated Au – – – – – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 75 6.76 130 – – 16 316 – – San Juan – veins – – – – – – – – – Corporate Governance Juanicipio – veins3 – – – – – – – – – Huizache – veins – – – – – – – – – Guachichil – disseminated Au4 – – – – – – – – – Opulencia – veins – – – – – – – – – La Gloria – veins – – – – – – – – – La Joya – veins – – – – – – – – – Cebadillas – veins – – – – – – – – – La Yesca – veins – – – – – – – – – San Nicolas – veins – – – – – – – – – Pilarica – mantos – – – – – – – – – Total Measured 34,618 1.24 2 0.00 0.00 1,381 1,746 0 0 Financial Statements Indicated Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au4 0.36 g/t Au 186,485 1.06 2 – – 6,338 9,462 – – Candameña – disseminated Au4 0.61 g/t Au–Eq 32,693 0.85 16 – – 889 16,590 – – San Julian Sur – veins – – – – – – – – – Leones – breccia4 – – – – – – – – – Tajitos – disseminated Au 0.3 g/t Au 6,500 0.50 – – – 104 – – – Lucerito – breccia/mantos4 1.00 g/t Au 108,667 0.40 26 0.29 0.47 1,397 90,837 315 511 Rodeo – disseminated Au 0.30 g/t Au 4,911 0.59 3 – – 94 535 – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 897 3.59 70 – – 103 2,014 – – San Juan – veins US$58.30/t 2,658 1.31 139 – – 112 11,840 – – Juanicipio – veins3 US$70.29/t 4,769 1.86 522 2.15 4.04 285 80,038 103 193 Huizache – veins – – – – – – – – – Guachichil – disseminated Au4 – – – – – – – – – Opulencia – veins 2.10 g/t Au–Eq 758 2.57 160 – – 63 3,906 – – La Gloria – veins – – – – – – – – – La Joya – veins – – – – – – – – – Cebadillas – veins – – – – – – – – – La Yesca – veins – – – – – – – – – San Nicolas – veins – – – – – – – – – Pilarica – mantos – – – – – – – – – Continued overleaf 227 Fresnillo plc Reserves and Resources Tables Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Audited Mineral Resource Statement of Exploration Projects and Prospects1 continued As at 31 December 2015 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Cut–off Tonnes Gold Silver Lead Zinc Gold Silver Lead Zinc Deposit/Fresnillo Subsidiary Grade2 (000 t) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (000 oz) (000 oz) (000 t) (000 t) Total Indicated 348,339 0.84 19 0.12 0.20 9,385 215,221 418 703 Inferred Mineral Resource Orisyvo – disseminated Au4 0.35 g/t Au 55,969 0.64 1 – – 1,148 1,753 – – Candameña – disseminated Au4 0.51 g/t Au–Eq 19,119 0.52 26 – – 322 15,955 – – San Julian Sur – veins US$75/t 3,348 1.41 91 – – 152 9,751 – – Leones – breccia4 60 g/t Ag 7,049 0.01 113 1.46 1.27 1 25,509 103 90 Tajitos – disseminated Au 0.3 g/t Au 13,385 0.52 – – – 224 – – – Lucerito – breccia/mantos4 1.00 g/t Au 41,355 0.44 38 0.25 0.42 585 50,525 103 174 Rodeo – disseminated Au 0.30 g/t Au 69,164 0.49 5 – – 1,097 10,086 – – Manzanillas – veins US$58.30/t 297 2.08 48 – – 20 455 – – San Juan – veins US$58.30/t 4,747 1.66 112 – – 254 17,119 – – Juanicipio – veins3 US$70.29/t 5,040 1.81 285 2.45 5.05 293 46,153 123 254 Huizache – veins US$75/t 751 2.88 494 0.06 0.13 70 11,934 – 1 Guachichil – disseminated Au4 0.48 g/t Au–Eq 46,129 0.71 10 0.11 0.18 1,051 15,455 50 81 Opulencia – veins 2.10 g/t Au–Eq 2,260 2.20 140 – – 160 10,154 – – La Gloria – veins 2.10 g/t Au–Eq 2,978 3.55 97 – – 340 9,244 – – La Joya – veins US$75/t 1,327 2.40 434 – – 102 18,510 – – Cebadillas – veins 2.10 g/t Au–Eq 1,956 2.61 65 – – 164 4,065 – – La Yesca – veins 159 g/t Ag–Eq 1,156 0.76 140 – – 28 5,213 – – San Nicolas – veins 2.10 g/t Au–Eq 2,167 1.61 225 – – 112 15,684 – – Pilarica – mantos 35 g/t Ag–Eq 10,688 – 106 0.37 0.48 – 36,501 40 52 Total Inferred 288,887 0.66 33 0.15 0.23 6,123 304,064 420 652 1 Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability. All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Metal assays were capped where appropriate. Mineral resources are reported at variable metal, metal equivalent or NSR cut–off grades and assuming reasonable metal recoveries. Orisyvo, Lucerito, Candameña and Guachichil mineral resources are reported inside a conceptual pit shell based on appropriate mining and processing costs and metal recoveries for oxide and sulfide material. Equivalent metal grades (and conceptual pit optimisation) are based on US$1,150 / US$1,300 per ounce of gold for underground or open pit projects, respectively, US$15 per ounce of silver, US$0.78 per pound of zinc and US$0.75 per pound of lead. 2 Cut–off grade calculations assume variable metallurgical recoveries. 3 Portions of the Valdecañas deposit within the Minera Juanicipio property where Fresnillo plc holds a 56% interest. Mineral resources quoted reﬂect Fresnillo plc’s attributable 56% ownership. 4 Mineral resources statement prepared independently by SRK CA. 228 Fresnillo plc Reserves and Resources Tables Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Consolidated Audited Ore Reserve Statement1 Fresnillo Today As at 31 December 2015 Quantity Grade Contained Metal Strategic Report Cut-off Tonnes Gold Slver Lead Zinc Gold Slver Lead Zinc Deposit Grade1 (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (%) (%) (Moz) (Moz) (kt) (kt) Fresnillo Underground6 Proven 231 g/t AgEq 3.95 0.58 386 0.71 1.18 0.07 49.10 28.21 46.60 Probable 17.22 0.82 276 1.99 4.07 0.45 152.55 342.82 700.35 Proven and Probable 21.17 0.77 296 1.75 3.53 0.53 201.64 371.02 746.95 Saucito Underground6 Proven 224 g/t AgEq 2.47 1.93 398 1.05 1.77 0.15 31.57 26.06 43.83 Probable 10.51 1.71 293 1.59 3.20 0.58 99.13 167.58 336.68 Proven and Probable 12.98 1.75 313 1.49 2.93 0.73 130.70 193.64 380.51 Ciénega Underground6 Proven Multiple2 4.22 2.18 121 0.60 1.02 0.30 16.41 25.21 42.89 Corporate Governance Probable 9.05 1.76 182 0.56 0.95 0.51 52.79 50.31 86.08 Proven and Probable 13.27 1.89 162 0.57 0.97 0.81 69.20 75.52 128.97 San Julián Veins6 Proven 191 g/t AgEq – – – – – – – – – Probable 5.58 2.11 180 – – 0.38 32.32 – – Proven and Probable 5.58 2.11 180 – – 0.38 32.32 – – San Julián Disseminated6 Proven 161 g/t AgEq – – – – – – – – – Probable 16.72 0.08 211 0.57 1.36 0.04 113.70 95.57 227.72 Proven and Probable 16.72 0.08 211 0.57 1.36 0.04 113.70 95.57 227.72 Herradura Disseminated Open Pit5 Financial Statements Proven Multiple3 135.70 0.80 – – – 3.50 – – – Probable 75.68 0.76 – – – 1.85 – – – Proven and Probable 211.37 0.79 – – – 5.34 – – – Soledad-Dipolos Open Pit4,5 Proven 0.30 g/t Au 22.25 0.68 – – – 0.49 – – – Probable 11.56 0.60 – – – 0.22 – – – Proven and Probable 33.81 0.65 – – – 0.71 – – – Noche Buena Open Pit5 Proven 0.30 g/t Au 35.31 0.57 – – – 0.64 – – – Probable 21.21 0.54 – – – 0.37 – – – Proven and Probable 56.51 0.56 – – – 1.01 – – – Totals – Underground Proven Multiple 10.65 1.53 284 0.75 1.25 0.52 97.08 79.48 133.33 Probable 59.08 1.03 237 1.11 2.29 1.96 450.49 656.27 1,350.83 Proven and Probable 69.73 1.11 244 1.06 2.13 2.48 547.57 735.75 1,484.15 Totals – Open Pit Proven Multiple 193.25 0.74 – – – 4.63 – – – Probable 108.44 0.70 – – – 2.43 – – – Proven and Probable 301.69 0.73 – – – 7.06 – – – 1 All ﬁgures rounded to reﬂect the relative accuracy of the estimates. Mineral reserves are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions*, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions (variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution), mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative (G&A) costs, and variable NSR factors (NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs). The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities. 2 The cut-off grades for the Ciénega reserve vary between 197 to 260 gpt Ag equivalent. 3 Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade. Oxide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.35 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 1.23 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.61 gpt Au reports to the mill. 4 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access. SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine. 5 Reserves have no additional dilution added to that inherent in the Selective Mining Unit (SMU) of 15m x 15m x 8m. Reserves are converted from resources through the process of pit optimisation, pit design, production schedule and supported by a Minera Penmont cash flow model. 6 Reserves include planned dilution to a minimum mining width and to minable outlines. * Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of cut-off grades and metal equivalent grades are: Gold (US$/oz 1,150.00), Silver (US$/oz 15.00), Lead (US$/lb 0.75) and Zinc (US$/lb 0.78). Full mining recovery assumed with a factor applied for pillars. The reserves are valid as of 31 December 2015. All topography is valid as of 31 October 2015. The ore reserves were estimated by Fresnillo. Bret C Swanson, BE (Min) MMSAQP #04418QP, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the open pit reserve calculations. Fernando Rodrigues, BS Mining, MBA, MMSAQP #01405, MAusIMM #304726 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the underground reserve calculations. 229 Fresnillo plc Operating Statistics Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Operating Statistics Ore processed Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fresnillo 2,553,991 2,584,163 2,738,307 2,703,395 2,625,511 2,410,033 474.4 395.9 327.6 285.3 258.5 220.0 Ciénega 860,513 966,812 1,112,850 1,242,168 1,341,569 1,329,364 49.4 53.3 105.2 121.6 108.5 129.0 Herradura 16,616,247 21,020,356 24,641,053 14,363,315 22,305,133 22,875,421 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 Saucito 145,148 823,339 905,027 1,181,737 1,534,579 2,339,096 306.0 249.9 264.9 329.6 338.9 327.5 Soledad-Dipolos 9,647,939 12,264,860 15,317,860 6,701,841 – – 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.4 – – Noche Buena – – 8,447,301 12,283,709 15,607,230 17,399,931 – – 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 Zinc concentrate Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fresnillo 23,719 24,544 29,212 29,325 29,196 36,595 2,444 2,363 1,641 1,356 1,221 1,036 Ciénega 18,950 17,657 16,103 11,625 11,850 11,694 186 266 540 1,266 1,172 1,770 Herradura – – – – – – – – – – – – Saucito 302 3,064 3,706 8,758 20,794 42,643 2,473 1,917 1,760 1,087 789 788 Soledad-Dipolos – – – – – – – – – – – – Noche Buena – – – – – – – – – – – – Lead concentrate Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fresnillo 60,526 61,050 65,045 63,256 57,263 50,787 17,276 14,337 11,780 10,469 10,180 8,737 Ciénega 17,436 17,877 15,487 13,380 12,627 13,721 1,734 2,084 5,622 7,974 8,004 8,418 Herradura – – – – – – – – – – – – Saucito 2,869 14,419 15,539 26,055 40,415 69,128 12,994 12,329 13,699 13,460 11,443 9,405 Soledad-Dipolos – – – – – – – – – – – – Noche Buena – – – – – – – – – – – – Doré and other products Product Silver (tonnes) (grams/tonne) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ciénega precipitates 25.1 36.5 52.2 55.7 67.4 68.2 122,745 101,662 148,731 187,928 175,026 204,790 Ciénega Gravimetric Concentrator 197.1 88.5 – – – – 2,150 2,069 – – – – Herradura doré 21.2 24.2 18.1 18.2 31.1 33.6 502,980 474,514 374,787 474,052 650,999 480,633 Herradura slag 588.1 542.7 929.9 711.3 716.9 779.1 2,234 2,036 817 930 1,198 578 Soledad-Dipolos doré 5.0 7.5 4.8 2.3 – – 174,199 208,897 226,272 292,473 – – Soledad-Dipolos slag 496.1 590.1 583.2 301.5 – – 1,490 2,024 857 972 – – Fresnillo Concentrates from Tailings Dam 3,247.1 2,658.7 2,311.7 1,990.0 2,277.5 1,544.2 4,048.0 3,387.5 2,787.1 3,031.9 2,872.0 2,565.5 Noche Buena doré – – 3.3 4.8 7.6 8.0 – – 121,837.5 261,005.1 333,260.8 213,687.2 Noche Buena slag – – 206.3 548.6 564.2 452.1 – – 288.6 495.0 1,125.6 707.2 Metal Produced1,2 Silver Gold (ounces) (ounces) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fresnillo 35,905,701 30,295,121 26,382,793 22,764,018 20,098,245 15,612,175 24,979 26,237 29,573 33,079 35,676 34,120 Ciénega 1,197,792 1,473,927 3,328,574 4,240,245 4,075,181 4,827,864 113,351 116,841 125,275 112,053 108,211 85,662 Herradura 385,153 404,689 242,503 298,984 679,073 525,757 291,043 327,729 314,547 264,562 265,564 398,866 Saucito 1,222,473 5,904,176 7,053,780 11,581,014 15,396,754 21,983,852 6,323 33,493 45,246 45,177 57,227 84,884 Soledad-Dipolos 51,939 88,888 50,915 31,124 – – 109,567 158,513 107,329 47,285 – – Noche Buena – – 14,754 49,217 102,357 72,868 – – 65,518 108,729 129,242 158,179 Fresnillo Total 38,763,059 38,166,800 37,073,319 38,964,601 40,351,611 43,022,515 545,263 662,813 687,488 610,884 595,920 761,712 1 Including production from Fresnillo’s Tailings Dam. 2 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines (Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena). 230 Fresnillo plc Operating Statistics Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Fresnillo Today Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) Strategic Report 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0.41 0.42 0.46 0.50 0.53 0.57 0.85 0.87 0.96 0.94 0.97 1.18 0.54 0.58 0.66 0.63 0.59 0.75 4.27 3.89 3.62 2.90 2.59 2.07 1.77 1.45 1.12 0.75 0.73 0.80 0.95 0.82 0.68 0.56 0.53 0.61 0.70 0.65 0.57 0.61 0.72 0.73 – – – – – – – – – – – – 1.67 1.43 1.75 1.41 1.40 1.42 0.37 0.42 0.54 0.87 1.32 1.70 0.22 0.23 0.35 0.55 0.75 1.01 0.61 0.57 0.51 0.54 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0.51 0.54 0.51 0.50 – – – – – – – – – – – – Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2.5 2.7 2.6 2.7 3.0 2.6 51.5 51.4 51.2 50.9 52.1 52.0 – – – – – – Corporate Governance 4.7 6.2 6.5 13.6 11.8 11.2 53.4 52.8 50.7 47.0 50.6 51.1 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 12.4 14.0 12.8 5.4 3.5 3.0 48.8 38.2 48.3 51.5 50.5 49.3 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Gold Zinc Lead (grams/tonne) (%) (%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 11.5 12.0 12.8 14.7 17.4 18.7 – – – – – – 20.2 21.9 24.9 24.6 24.3 32.0 117.4 111.5 130.7 138.4 146.9 105.0 – – – – – – 37.1 35.3 36.7 36.0 37.5 39.5 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 67.3 69.3 87.5 52.1 42.3 36.3 – – – – – – 9.5 12.1 17.8 21.5 24.7 30.0 – – – Financial Statements – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Gold (grams/tonne) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 24,936 32,663 33,846 26,459 20,327 16,008 3,874 3,822 – – – – 379,778 379,755 473,042 411,210 247,967 369,321 1,699 1,851 1,314 1,035 756 541 512,231 502,909 539,249 507,822 – – 1,676 1,949 1,295 991 – – 6.5 6.0 6.8 9.1 10.8 10.4 0 0 542,429 516,359 465,538 533,408 0 0 1,260 1,623 815 506 Zinc Lead (tonnes) (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 12,212 12,623 14,966 14,914 15,199 19,029 12,236 13,385 16,190 15,552 13,888 16,248 10,112 9,318 8,171 5,459 6,000 5,970 6,468 6,315 5,676 4,811 4,736 5,425 – – – – – – – – – – – – 147 1,172 1,791 4,509 10,501 21,023 273 1,742 2,773 5,605 9,967 20,740 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 22,472 23,113 24,928 24,881 31,700 46,022 18,977 21,442 24,639 25,968 28,591 42,413 231 Fresnillo plc Additional information Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam Preliminary Statement 1 March 2016 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA First Quarter Production Report 13 April 2016 using the form at www.fca.org.uk/scams (where you can also review Annual General Meeting 3 May 2016 the latest scams) or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. Interim Statement 2 August 2016 Third Quarter Production Report 12 October 2016 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. Dividend payment schedule 2015 Final Dividend Record Date 22 April 2016 For further information, please visit our website: 2015 Final Dividend Payment Date 9 May 2016 www.fresnilloplc.com or contact: 2016 Interim Dividend Record Date 12 August 2016 Fresnillo plc 2016 Interim Dividend Payment Date 9 September 2016 Tel: +44(0)20 7399 2470 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Registrar Sponsor and Corporate Broker Equiniti Ltd JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Forward-looking statements Aspect House 25 Bank Street This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, Spencer Road, Lancing London E14 5JP ‘forward-looking statements’. These forward-looking statements can West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the United Kingdom terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘plans’, ‘projects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, Joint Corporate Broker ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’, or ‘should’ or, in each case, their negative or other Registered office Merrill Lynch International variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, 21 Upper Brook Street 2 King Edward Street plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions. These forwardLondon W1K 7PY London EC1A 1HQ looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts. They United Kingdom United Kingdom appear in a number of places throughout this document and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Group’s intentions, Corporate headquarters Solicitor beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Calzada Legaria No. 549 Linklaters LLP Group’s results of operations, financial position, liquidity, prospects, Torre 2, Piso 11 One Silk Street growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries. By their nature, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo London EC2Y 8HQ forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 11250 Mexico, D.F. United Kingdom relate to future events and circumstances. Mexico Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance Auditor and the actual results of the Group’s operations, financial position and Ernst & Young LLP liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which 1 More London Place the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, or London SE1 2AF suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this United Kingdom document. In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the Share fraud warning industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forwardShare fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue looking statements contained in this document, those results or and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an developments may not be indicative of results or developments in inflated price for shares they own. These calls come from fraudsters subsequent periods. A number of factors could cause results and operating in ‘boiler rooms’, mostly based abroad. While high profits developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general their money. Most victims are experienced investors, losing on economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, average £20,000. commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations (including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates), the Group’s Protect yourself ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, political and reports, take these steps before handing over any money: economic uncertainty. 1. Get the name of the person and organisation. 2. Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk/register Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from to ensure they are authorised. actual results. Any forward-looking statements in this document speak 3. Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the only as of the date of this document, reflect the Group’s current view firm. with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future 4. Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date. Group’s operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. 5. Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing Investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this business with. document which could cause actual results to differ before making an 6. REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! investment decision. Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not have applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong. forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Group’s expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. 232
