2016 IK Investment Partners’ Communication on progress C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 Content 03. Letter from our CEO 05. ESG: an IK perspective 06. Definition of ESG 07. What is private equity? 08. Sustainability at IK 10. Adhering to the ten principles of the UNGC 12. Portfolio companies' 13. Practical actions 14. Our extended ESG stories commitment: IKARE 15. Shifo/MyChild Card 16. EUNISCA/Kampala Slums WASH initiative I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 3 Letter from our CEO IK Investment Partners (IK) has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact initative since 2013. This second Communication on Progress (COP) report highlights activities undertaken between 11 December 2015 and 8 December 2016 I am pleased to confirm that IK reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. IK views the COP as an important tool to demonstrate to our stakeholders our commitment to transparency and accountability by sharing information on sustainability performance. In this report, we describe our actions to support the Global Compact and its principles. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. At IK, responsible investing lies at the heart of who we are and what we do. Since we were founded in 1989, our aim has been both simple and consistent: to build better businesses through active value creation. We believe that this training session for IK directors in Paris last September. This will be an area of begins with responsible investing (RI). increased focus in future. In recent years, we have strengthened our commitment to this area and to Looking ahead, we will be forming an ESG steering committee over the environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues more broadly. coming months, to reinforce the important role that RI plays at IK. Involving In 2015, we said that we would be introducing an Audit & ESG committee for several partners, this will provide overarching guidance and strategic direction each portfolio company, responsible for monitoring ESG issues and ensuring for IK and our portfolio companies. that robust procedures are in place. We have now completed that exercise and As part of this determination to provide advice and support, we are building a these committees report directly to the Board of Directors, further improving the database of ESG consultants as a resource for all our investment professionals governance of portfolio companies under our stewardship. and a knowledge base of information around ESG-related policies for our We are also strengthening our internal processes in a number of ways to portfolio companies. ensure that our commitment to responsible investing is both recognised and The RI landscape is constantly evolving but the essential values within that properly implemented across the firm. landscape remain the same: a belief that building better businesses is As part of this initiative, we have updated our RI policy to better reflect our intrinsically linked to responsible investment and that sustainable growth is best enhanced commitment and we have included ESG in the financial reporting achieved by implementing the right approach to ESG. IK has long adhered to system that we use to monitor portfolio companies. As such, companies will be these values and we remain determined to be at the forefront of best practice regularly assessed from an ESG perspective so that we are informed of their next year and beyond. approach and can provide support and guidance where needed. We are creating a new tool kit as well, to help investment professionals assess sector-specific environmental and social risks during the due diligence phase of our investment process. Taking the form of an information chart, this will alert our investment professionals to inherent risks and potential problem areas at the very start of our investment journey. We are ensuring that our investment professionals keep abreast of ESG Christopher Masek developments too, with regular training sessions, including a dedicated RI Managing Partner, IK I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 4 >€12.2 billion of capital Integrity realised Owners of >100 companies since 1989 Code of Ethics ESG is at the heart of IK's investment strategy Leading Pan-European private equity firm Partnering with management Accountability Professionalism teams and investors Responsible >€9 billion Governance investment (RI) of capital raised Creating policy sustainable value for all Growing IK stakeholders businesses I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 5 The IK perspective on ESG IK Investment Partners is a European private equity advisory group, operating across Northern Continental Europe. Founded in 1989, we have helped over 100 companies expand and develop sustainably Focused on investing in companies with strong underlying potential, we are Since 1989, proud to support the IK Funds as they partner with management teams and investors to grow businesses, improve performance and create sustainable IK has raised 8 funds value for all our stakeholders. Deeply committed to fostering growth, we apply an active approach to our investments and aim to create robust, well positioned companies with solidlong-term prospects. Our current portfolio companies represent more and over than 19,000 employees across the globe and revenues of €2.9bn. By devoting time and resource, €9 billion in-depth experience and expertise, we in capital. generate lasting value through strategic and operational improvements. Creating value through active ownership €7.3 billion During IK’s ownership, we encourage companies to act responsibly, because invested in 106 we recognise that effective environmental, social and governance (ESG) policies can contribute to value creation and enrich society more broadly. As a part of IK’s strategy, we work closely with the management teams of our portfolio companies. By devoting time and resources, in-depth experience and expertise, we generate lasting value through strategic and operational improvements. We are proud of our portfolio companies which, under IK’s companies stewardship, have provided domestic and international employment opportunities, enhanced economic growth and contributed to local communities. €12.2 Majority control, board representation and active ownership put IK in a strong position to influence portfolio companies’ management teams to be mindful of their responsibility to society. billion realised through 77 exits.* * to 8 December 2016. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 6 Definition of ESG Climate change Labour rights and labour conditions Regulation Pollution and contamination of land, air and water Health and safety Anti-bribery and corruption measures Eco-efficiency and resource efficiency Treatment of customers and communities Business ethics Waste management Human rights Transparency and accountability Natural resource scarcity Supply chain management Board composition and independence Biodiversity Data privacy Shareholder rights I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 7 What is private equity? Private equity is an ownership model in private, non-listed companies, designed to help such companies grow and develop in a sustainable way. Private equity investments entail not only access to capital but also an active ownership approach, including access to financial and industrial competence, networks and advisors Private equity as an ownership model has developed into an asset class for routes, such as a trade sale, when the company is sold to an industrial buyer, a institutional investors, such as banks, pension funds and insurance companies. secondary sale, in which the company is sold to another private equity fund Over several decades, it has typically yielded better returns than investments in which can continue to develop the company, or an IPO, when the private equity the public markets. There are, however, significant differences between different fund often stays on as an owner for a period of time. types of private equity models, different geographical markets and different According to data from Invest Europe, €47.4bn was invested in European private equity funds. The returns also vary over different time periods and companies in 2015, and the number of private equity-backed companies vintages. remained stable at almost 5,000 European companies. As private equity investors typically commit their capital for around ten years, this gives private equity managers time to deliver transformational change in a sustainable way, working closely with the management teams of the portfolio companies. Pre-investment PRIVATE EQUITY AS AN OWNERSHIP MODEL (sourcing, due diligence, A private equity investment in a company typically involves a transformational, ESG assessment, evaluate value) value-added, active management strategy. In general, a private equity investment has three stages: the initial transaction, the development of the portfolio company and the sale of the company. Once a private equity fund has acquired a portfolio company, the firm applies its management expertise to drive the company’s corporate strategy, accelerating growth organically, through strategic acquisitions or by restructuring in each case improving efficiency and profitability. As private Exit Ownership equity fund managers invest their own money alongside their fund investors, (execute, optimise, (realising value) they have a direct stake in the company’s success. enhancing value) When the private equity fund, together with the management team, have carried out the strategies and plans identified at the time of the investment, the private equity firm will look to divest the portfolio company via a number of Private equity Public equity Investing alongside management in non-public companies with the Investing in companies which are traded on public stock markets. intention of taking them private. Broad public ownership. Majority or significant minority owner with direct interaction with Quarterly earnings focus and constant need to sell strategy to management. new potential shareholders. Clearly articulated fiveto seven-year vision and plan for each Traditional incentive structures (options, restricted stock grants). company. Possibility of attracting skilled managers through equity participation and ownership stake. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 8 Sustainability at IK As the owner of more than 100 companies since 1989, IK Investment Partners and IK Funds are deeply aware of their responsibility towards those businesses and society at large. We strive constantly to institute and maintain high standards of governance and business ethics within IK and our portfolio companies. Working with management teams, we help them recognise and manage the opportunities and risks associated with ESG issues To ensure a structured approach to investment, we have created a into the 100-day plan or IK’s base case for the potential investment. toolkit, the IK Way, which guides our methodology from the moment If it transpires during the due diligence phase that a potential that we consider a potential investment to the point at which we divest investment does not conform to IK’s responsible investment policy, the the company. investment opportunity will not be pursued. Pre-investment Investing responsibly is in line with IK’s core values, in particular in its ambition to institute and maintain high standards of governance and business ethics within the firm and its portfolio companies. Investing responsibly is in line with As part of the due diligence process, IK reviews every potential new investment for inherent, strategic, environmental and social sector risks IK’s core values, in particular in its through a purpose-built model. This exercise also allows IK investment professionals to determine the amount of due diligence they are ambition to institute and maintain high required to undertake. IK thoroughly assesses the risks and standards of governance and business opportunities associated with each investment before presenting the Investment Committee and Fund Board with an investment proposal. ethics within the firm and its portfolio Within that process, ESG is seen both as a value creation opportunity companies. and a way to mitigate risks relating to individual investments. Depending on the materiality of the ESG risks identified, IK may either choose not to pursue an investment opportunity or embed corrective actions in the post-acquisition 100-day plan. As part of the value creation strategy, ESG-related opportunities may also be factored I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 9 Active ownership When completed, the ESG review is sent to the Board of Directors of Majority control, board representation and active ownership put IK in a the portfolio company, to be addressed. When appropriate, IK investment strong position to encourage portfolio company management teams to professionals with support from specialists help portfolio companies to work constructively on ESG issues. We aim to maintain high standards of introduce new guidelines for ESG-related topics. governance and business ethics within IK and we expect all our portfolio companies to act responsibly. Monitoring ESG performance Assessment of ESG performance is included in the monitoring process for ESG reviews each portfolio company, both through continuous informal interaction with For every new investment, IK commissions an independent ESG review, portfolio company management and through the portfolio company’s launched during the first 100 days of the investment. Currently, these Board of Directors. reviews are conducted by PwC London and include an analysis of Identified ESG issues are also part of the annual reviews undertaken by strengths and weaknesses, as well as advice on delivering change. the IK team. These reviews can determine if the IK portfolio is at risk, for example, having a concentration of environmental exposure. The annual The objectives of these reviews are: review also provides an opportunity to share best practice among portfolio To understand current attitudes and consequent actions of portfolio companies. company boards and management teams related to ESG issues To understand the position of current IK portfolio companies, versus Strong governance their peers, in relation to public reporting on the management of ESG For each portfolio company, an Audit & ESG Committee has been formed, issues which reports to the Board of Directors. This committee is charged with To identify high-level ESG risks and opportunities in IK portfolio ensuring that the portfolio company has a robust ESG plan. The companies committee also monitors the implementation of that plan on an annual To make high-level recommendations for portfolio company actions, basis, reviews the portfolio company’s key activities and its ESG from quick wins, through tactical activities to strategic actions, with the achievements. Ultimately, the Board must ratify and approve a company’s aim of protecting and/or creating additional shareholder value work on responsible investment and ESG. To make recommendations to IK, including identifying those portfolio companies most likely to need IK’s support in managing ESG issues To raise awareness of the importance of ESG issues in IK portfolio companies, and their potential to affect shareholder value To demonstrate through engagement, internally and externally, that responsible investing is an important part of the IK Way of investing. In order to produce a final report, PwC interviews IK investment professionals and members of the senior management team of each portfolio company. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 10 Adhering to the ten principles of the UNGC IK is committed to adhering to the UNGC principles and ensuring that its portfolio companies adhere to these principles as well Our principles Human rights IK’s responsible investment commitments, as found in our RI policy, are Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of based on the following principles: internationally proclaimed human rights Respect for the internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses (Principles 1-2) Freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively (Principle 3) Support for individual and collective human rights is a fundamental part of Working conditions that surpass basic health and safety standards the culture at IK Investment Partners. We support the Universal Declaration (Principles 4-5) of Human Rights and we will never carry out business with countries and Equal opportunity independent of gender, race or religion (Principle 6) regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known, such as torture, Environmental responsibility (Principles 7-9) politically motivated disappearance, etc. As part of our Responsible The conduct of good governance practices, in particular with relation Investment policy, we will not invest in companies which do not respect to bribery and conflicts of interest (Principle 10) internationally proclaimed human rights principles. As owners of companies with operations across the globe, we are deeply Over the last year, IK’s RI policy has been downloaded from our homepage aware of our human rights responsibilities. We encourage our portfolio more than 400 times. companies to support human rights and we are committed to continued progress both within IK Investment Partners and among our portfolio companies. Labour Over the last year, IK’s RI policy Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and has been downloaded from our the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour homepage more than 400 times. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation IK Investment Partners believes that a good working environment and equal opportunities for all are a fundamental right for every employee. As part of our Responsible Investment policy, we will not invest in a company that shows a pattern of engaging in child labour or forced labour. Both within our firm and among our portfolio companies, we support diversity and we actively encourage employee engagement, development and promotion. We believe that, as owners, we have a responsibility to lead by example. As such, our Human Resources Policy supports best practice in terms of labour and employment, including equal opportunities and diversity. We also have a Health and Safety Policy. Our portfolio companies employ more than 19,000 people and we stress that employees’ rights and working conditions must be respected. For many of our management teams, this is a priority. In 2016, 75% of our mid cap I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 11 portfolio companies had a Human Resources policy or Code of Conduct Anti-corruption (covering HR topics) in place. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, We are committed to continued progress both within IK Investment Partners including extortion and bribery and among our portfolio companies, with regard to fair, equal and effective labour conditions. IK Investment Partners does not condone corruption, extortion or bribery in any form. Environment As an owner of companies with operations around the world, robust Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to anti-corruption policies and regulatory compliance play an essential role in environmental changes our ability to do business ethically and with integrity. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We understand the damage caused by bribery and corruption and we responsibility work hard to guard our employees and those of our portfolio firms against Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally their corrosive influence. friendly technologies IK Investment Partners is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. Our Compliance Officer is IK Investment Partners supports the UNGC’s environmental principles and we responsible for anti-corruption within IK Investment Partners and our endeavour to uphold them within our firm and across our portfolio companies. Anti-Corruption policy sets out what could be considered bribery in terms We believe in the promotion of greater environmental responsibility and we of business operations and relations. The policy covers the receiving of encourage our portfolio companies, where relevant, to develop sustainable hospitality and gifts as well, and IK Investment Partners provides staff with products, services and solutions. regular training and updates. We also have a Whistleblowing policy and We actively encourage our portfolio companies to be mindful of their Conflicts of Interest policy. environment and we monitor their progress throughout our holding period. In 2016, we introduced a Code of Ethics. This is not intended as a External consultants provide initial input and the Board of Directors of every standalone policy, but rather one element of a broader effort to create portfolio company ensures that environmental policies are regularly reviewed sustainable value for all IK stakeholders, by instituting and maintaining and assessed. Each portfolio company also has an Audit & ESG committee, high standards of governance and business ethics within IK and our responsible for monitoring environmental policies and reporting directly to the portfolio companies. Board of Directors. Among our mid cap portfolio companies, 33% have an ABC policy. Among our mid cap portfolio companies, 52% now have an environmental Anti-bribery and corruption was also the chosen ESG theme of IK News and/or waste management policy. Environment and climate change was the 39, published summer 2016, with a circulation of more than 1,600. chosen ESG theme of IK News 38, published winter 2015/16, with a circulation of more than 1,600. We are committed to delivering continued progress on environmental issues both within IK Investment Partners and among our portfolio companies. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 12 Portfolio companies ESG stories ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7-9) Evac Fund: IK VII Acquisition date: Dec-14 Status: Unrealised Evac is the world’s leading provider of integrated waste, wastewater, and water management systems for the marine, offshore, and building industries. The company’s products have contributed to cleaner seas and a better environment for almost four decades. Specialising in vacuum collection, wastewater treatment, dryand wet waste treatment, freshwater generation, and systems automation, Evac has carried out over 20,000 marine, 1,500 offshore and 2,000 building projects around the world since 1979. These have resulted in significant natural resources savings. Saving water and energy are megatrends which affect businesses internationally, linked to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Goals 6, 12 and 14. Evac systems save both water and energy, purifying wastewater to 99 percent clean effluent for discharge or reuse. Evac vacuum toilets save over 13 billion litres of water each year – the amount of water that flows through the River Thames in London in 55 hours. IK supports Evac’s sustainable operations and its development of energy-efficient systems that either meet or exceed related environmental regulations. SOCIAL (PRINCIPLES 1-6) Netel Fund: IK VII Acquisition date: Jun-16 Status: Unrealised Sweden-based Netel is a leading Nordic provider of infranet services to telecom operators, utilities and local authorities. Renowned for the quality of its work, the company’s most valuable asset is its employees. Netel’s dedicated workers have completed over 150,000 broadband installations in flats and houses and 188,000 urban network connections. In recent years, Netel has increased its focus on sustainable development. The company has a code of conduct for employees, which lays out the basis for everyday decisions made at the company, that affect the environment, and society at large. The code is based on the UN Charter for Human Rights and supports the International Labour Organisation’s objective of social justice and sustainable working conditions. In addition, as part of offering its employees a safe workplace, Netel collects information on work-related accidents and ‘near-accidents’. Thus far, only minor accidents have been reported. Netel’s work relates to Goal 8 and 9 of the the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. During its ownership, IK will support Netel’s continued investment in its people and encourage its commitment to sustainable business practices. GOVERNANCE (PRINCIPLE 10) Trigo Fund: IK 2007 Acquisition date: Aug-11 Status: Realised (Jun-16) Trigo is a world-leading provider of quality support and conformity assessment services. Founded in 1997, Trigo has become a globally renowned company and a trademark of innovation, leadership and performance in the quality management sector. Supporting critical phases in its customers’ supply chains, Trigo controls, inspects and reworks over 750 million components and products per year. During IK’s ownership, Trigo implemented a Code of Ethics ('Ethic Charter’), which includes zerotolerance with respect to bribery and corruption. Under this Charter, whatever the commercial or financial interests at stake, no employee seeking to convince a third party to contract a Trigo entity can engage in any act of corruption, whether active or passive. In 2015, the company ran an internal risk and compliance assessment process in its major subsidiaries. This resulted in a revision of the company values and Code of Ethics, as well as an updated process for deployment and associated communication, to ensure the Code's content was properly known, understood and applied across the group. Trigo’s work with anti-corruption and bribery can be linked to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Goal 16: Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 13 Practical actions during 2016 Thought leadership through ESG focused articles in New Code IK News of Ethics Environmental and Social sector risk assessment tool RI questionnaire developed for assessing portfolio companies' ESG ESG module Updated performance implemented into RI policy IK's internal updated reporting toolkit ESG training 16 conducted for IK investment Audit & ESG ESG reviews commissioned professionals committee implemented for each portfolio company I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 14 Our extended commitment: IKARE IK Aid and Relief Enterprise (IKARE) is the venture philanthropy arm of IK Investment Partners. Founded and supported by IK Investment Partners, IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact Engaging in philanthropy has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the firm provides farmers with local access to advice and treatment for their cattle. was founded in 1989. But, as IK developed, the partners wanted to adopt a Along the way, IKARE has created new jobs and taken hundreds of people out more structured approach to charitable donations and link them more closely to of poverty. their core business. They wanted to make a difference, federate staff and leave Following the success of the SOS initiative, where cattle serve as 'live bait' for something sustainable behind. That is why IKARE was set up as an tsetse flies, researchers from Liverpool University and the London School of independent charity, imbued with the principles of venture philanthropy. As Hygiene wanted to test whether cattle sprayed with insecticide might also such, IKARE aims to overlay private equity investment techniques, and other affect the number of malaria-carrying mosquitoes in an area of Kenya bordering business expertise and practices, into causes or 'investees', thereby Lake Victoria. The idea was particularly appealing as there is a strong overlap contributing more than just funding. between malaria prevalence and cattle-rearing regions in rural parts of Launched in 2006, IKARE initially focused on combating Rhodesiense sub-Saharan Africa. sleeping sickness in Uganda, an initiative known as 'Stamp Out Sleeping IKARE together with former portfolio company Ceva, decided to sponsor this Sickness' (or SOS). Working with local and international stakeholders, IKARE study, which began in the autumn of 2013. Children in the test villages were helped to avert more than 1,000 cases of the disease. IKARE has also opened screened for malaria before and after the study and those infected with the up private sector animal care in Northern Uganda, via a project known as the 3 disease received treatment. After some unforeseen delays, the study has now V Vet initiative, which helps vets to set up independent rural practices and been successfully completed and a paper setting out its findings, conclusions and recommendations has been sent for publishing. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 15 Photo: Nargis Rahimi Shifo/MyChild Card More than 5 million children a year still die of readily preventable or curable diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, sepsis/meningitis, malaria and measles. Many also suffer from undernutrition due to lack of access to medical services. Sub-Saharan Africa has 25% of the global burden of disease but only 4% of the health workers Dokolo, one of the districts in Northern Uganda, where IKARE has been forthcoming appointments for their children. Aggregated reports are engaged in the control of sleeping sickness through the roll-out of veterinary automatically generated as well, and shared with key stakeholders. services, is home to approximately 182,600 people, including about 37,000 In September 2016, Shifo and Dokolo District Local Government, supported children under the age of five. Only 30% of the population is literate, the second by IKARE, embarked on the first-ever district wide implementation of the lowest percentage in Uganda. MyChild Card system. IKARE will fund the implementation and carry the Human resources are scarce in the 17 health facilities that provide operational and maintenance costs during year one, while Local Government vaccination services: only a few have enrolled nurses and many rely on nursing will cover an increasing share of these costs from year two, with a view to assistants. Only one health centre has access to reliable electricity, while the gaining full ownership after five years. During this time, the aim is to register rest rely on gas containers to keep vaccine refrigerators at an optimal between 70,000 and 100,000 children under five. temperature. The incidence of vaccine preventable diseases is high, with 1,949 cases of pneumonia and 1,917 of diarrhoea reported between January and By streamlining administration and October in 2015. Through its previous engagement on the veterinary side, IKARE is keenly reporting in Dokolo, the MyChild Card aware that it is almost impossible to improve community health, raise system is expected to double the time awareness, measure progress or make informed decisions about the future without basic health infrastructure. health workers can spend with families and Against this background, IKARE partnered with Shifo Foundation in late 2015 children. to look at whether its digitalised ‘MyChild’ system could be adapted to a low-resource setting like Dokolo to improve the quality of child health services. By streamlining administration and reporting in Dokolo, the MyChild Card MyChild Card is an innovative child health card combining conventional system is expected to double the time health workers can spend with families paper and digital technology. Health workers capture information relating to and children – disseminating basic child care information as well as ensuring each child on paper-based MyChild Cards. Specifically designed vouchers, vaccinations are given within the required time-frame. which are part of MyChild Cards, are subsequently scanned and the data is The system has already attracted the attention of the Global Alliance for uploaded onto a secure server where an electronic medical record is created Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi), a Switzerland-based public private for each child, detailing all the vaccines and preventive health services they partnership, whose supporters include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the received. Parents also receive text messages to remind them about World Bank, Unicef and the World Health Organisation. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 016 16 EUNISCA/Kampala Slums WASH initiative As part of a review undertaken in 2013/14 on how to improve the sustainability of which time the communities not only took increased responsibility for their the 3 V vet veterinary shops, IKARE looked at non-veterinary products that could upkeep but also instituted by-laws, imposing fines on those found littering them. be supplied through the 3 V distribution network to improve farmers’ livelihoods. Solvatten units were distributed to a number of particularly vulnerable families One of the products was the Solvatten unit – a jerrycan which both purifies and selected by the CBOs, and used in schools and other locations to demonstrate heats water through use of solar energy. Not only does it reduce water-borne the importance of clean and warm water, to reduce water-borne diseases, diseases like cholera, diarrhoea and typhoid; it also lowers household spend on improve hygiene, and enhance the success of small businesses, such as food charcoal and kerosene; reduces respiratory, skin and eye diseases, cuts CO2 kiosks, fruit-juice stands and hairdressers. emissions and eliminates burns caused by kerosene-related accidents. Over the last two years, this initially small initiative has grown significantly and more than 600 students across Uganda have become involved with EUNISCA. Over the last two years, this initially The positive outcomes in Kikoni have also generated interest at Kampala City Council Authority and the Ministry of Lands, Department of Urban small initiative has grown significantly and Development, which have asked EUNISCA to pilot a similar scheme in the more than 600 students across Uganda Bwaise slum, home to an estimated 90,000 people, more than 80% of whom are estimated to be surviving on less than 2 USD per day. have become involved with EUNISCA. While approximately a quarter of the Ugandan population live in cities, over 40% of the 1.8 million estimated to live in Kampala live in slums like Kikoni and After piloting the unit through the 3 V vet network, IKARE gave a number of Bwaise, enduring deplorable conditions when it comes to WASH. DCT Solvatten units to a scheme initiated by EUNISCA, the Student for Health (Diarrhoea, Cholera and Typhoid) and other water-borne diseases are frequent co-ordinating council, working with the Student Support Philanthropy and a majority of households are thought to be continuously suffering from ill Programme (SSPP). health. Funded by IKARE, EUNISCA/SSPP embarked on a project to improve WASH In early October 2016 the piloted WASH initiative in Bwaise was launched by (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) among a few communities in the Kikoni slum of EUNISCA in co-operation with the targeted communities and their CBOs. Kampala. Working closely with Community Based Organizations (CBOs), a IKARE is proud to be providing both financial as well as non-financial support to number of wells and water collection points were cleaned and repaired, during these dedicated students. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S
