United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress March 2015 – March 2016 Statement of Continued Support of the United Nations Global Compact Principles PKF Eastern Africa has a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We endeavour to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact Principles through the services we offer to our clients, and in our operations and interactions with the community around us. Even though PKF Kenya is the signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, our offices in the region embrace and implement the ten principles. We are pleased to enclose our communication on progress reaffirming our continued support of the United Nations Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By delivering this Communication on Progress, we are reaffirming our continued adherence to the Global Compact and our voluntary commitment to implementing the Global Compact and its ten principles within the firm and to addressing them as a key issue in our dealings with partners and commissioning parties. We hereby give a detailed account of actions taken between March 2015 and March 2016 with regard to implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles. Atul Shah Chief Executive Officer PKF Eastern Africa PKF Communication on Progress 2 Contents ABOUT US 4 INTRODUCTION 6 HUMAN RIGHTS 8 LABOUR 30 ENVIRONMENT 32 ANTI-CORRUPTION 34 PKF Communication on Progress 3 About us PKF Eastern Africa has offices in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Zambia and Somalia/Somaliland with over 800 staff and 40 partners. Since 1964, we have served a wide client profile across diverse industries and sectors in Africa. We are one of East Africa’s leading firms of accountants and business advisers, specialising in advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We offer Audit and Assurance, Tax and Advisory, Consulting and Technology services to a wide variety of public and private sector organizations. The firm prides itself in being an equal opportunity, multicultural firm with the majority of its partners born and raised in East Africa. As a result, we have a unique understanding of the local markets that enables us to offer holistic, innovative and relevant business solutions, taking into account the distinct market forces and constraints that come into play within the region. We are a member firm of PKF International, a global network of legally independent firms bound together by a shared commitment to quality, integrity and the creation of clarity in a complex regulatory environment. With offices in 440 cities, PKF member firms operate in 150 countries across 5 continents and specialise in providing high quality audit, accounting, tax, and business advisory services to international and domestic organisations. The network is a member of the Forum of Firms an organisation dedicated to consistent and high quality standards of financial reporting and auditing practices worldwide. Our vision To be a leading regional accounting and business advisory firm with a recognized global presence, providing quality and personalized service through relationships and empowered professional manpower. Our mission • To support and guide clients to achieve success in their business by acting as their trusted business advisers. • To provide quality, cost effective, personalized and innovative business solutions to meet the changing needs of our clients. • To empower our manpower through continuous professional development to face the dynamic global challenges. Our services Today, we provide a wide range of services to clients ranging from large companies to SMEs in virtually all sectors of the economy. These include: PKF Communication on Progress 4  Assurance and advisory  Business support  Taxation  Management consultancy  Corporate finance  Corporate recovery and insolvency  Business risk and internal audit  Forensic  Financial planning  Family business services PKF Communication on Progress 5 Introduction As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to aligning our strategic plans and operations, internal and external to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. Our CSR Policy states “PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognise the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders – employees, clients and the communities in which we work with.” Our CSR Policy revolves around four pillars: 1. The workplace This involves all activities which uphold the wellbeing of employees within the workplace by incorporating work practices such as workforce diversity, work-life balance, health and safety, training etc. 2. The marketplace We implement our policy by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. 3. The community We offer support for community initiatives and institutions involved in community work and communal concerns by providing either or both financial and non-financial assistance. 4. The environment We advocate for good environmental practices and engaging in environmentally friendly practices at the firm, with clients, corporate partners and the general public. The above pillars guide our approach to the Global Compact Principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti–Corruption. PKF Foundation We have established the PKF Foundation to fund all CSR activities implemented by PKF in Eastern Africa and a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee having representatives from all offices that have: Established a collective CSR commitment  Identified areas of focus that will create sustainable development impacts, foster improved communication with stakeholders and ensure sustainability of the business as a whole. Furthermore as a member of the United Nations Global Compact, PKF is committed to aligning its strategic plans and daily operations, internally and externally, in line with the UN Global Compact’s Principles PKF Communication on Progress 6 Our submission This communication of progress (COP) highlights practical actions the firm has taken to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption between March 2015 and March 2016. PKF refers to PKF Eastern Africa. PKF Communication on Progress 7 Human rights PKF Eastern Africa recognizes that Human Rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and we respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The first two principles of the UN Global Compact, which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation We have an established code of conduct and core values which is consequently rooted in our culture of experience, confidence and delivery. Our culture is about fostering the best values and attitudes for pursuing our business drivers. These have been defined as: i. producing quality work, ii. meeting clients’ needs, iii. leading and enabling, iv. achieving financial results and v. growing the business. 1. Our core values We expect our staff to project the following individual values of professionalism: Clients We are here to please our clients, without them nothing else matters. We only succeed when our customers improve their operations by using our services. We must understand their needs, how they use our services, and how they improve their business. Buying our services is just the first step. Successful implementation and value creation must follow. Accountability We take responsibility for our decisions at the individual and firm levels. Attitude We believe that remaining positive and looking ahead are essential parts of achieving our goals. Balance We work hard and we are well-rounded employees who combine work, family, and recreation. We make time for fun, and celebrate team and firm successes together. Boldness We believe that taking calculated risks encourages growth and new discovery. PKF Communication on Progress 8 Challenge We push ourselves to the limit, question boundaries, and continually advance. Commitment We keep our promises to clients, employees, and their families. Community We donate time, money, and resources to local charitable organizations. We build key relationships by supporting our community. Integrity We execute with integrity, holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance, accountability and personal conduct. If something doesn't work, don't ship it. If a deal isn't right, don't take it. If the numbers don't add up, find out why. Our values guide our actions and beliefs. Our values are aligned to the human rights principles. It is the personal responsibility of everyone in the firm to ensure that we put these behaviours into practice. We also have a responsibility to intervene where we see others failing to uphold them. We provide several avenues to address any issue that contravenes the code of conduct as well as use of the confidential whistle-blowing procedure. 2. Our ethical policy Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. At PKF, we aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF also seeks to support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through its business practices. The core requirements of the UDHR include freedom from torture, unjustified imprisonment, unfair trial and other oppression, along with freedom of expression, religion and political or other representation. Therefore PKF will not provide support or work with businesses or organizations which:  fail to uphold basic human rights within their sphere of influence  are involved in the manufacture or transfer of armaments to oppressive regimes  are involved in the manufacture of torture equipment or other equipment that is used in the violation of human rights PKF also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This policy is also published on our website and can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy PKF Communication on Progress 9 3. Our CSR policy PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We:  Adopt business practices that are socially and environmentally responsible with the aim of making a positive difference to the individuals and communities around us.  Invest in the well-being of the community we live and work by initiating or supporting efforts in, environmental management and protection, upholding the standards and development of the profession, improving the lives of disadvantaged persons and community development.  Encourage our staff, clients and associates to individually and collectively adopt and implement an active and positive attitude towards Corporate Social Responsibility. Our CSR activities are primarily led by the staff through office CSR Committees with all planned activities review by the PKF Foundation. The PKF Foundation was set up to support the CSR activities of the firm. Our presence in the community around us At PKF, we have long recognized that local businesses and local communities are inextricably linked. The firm plays an active role in contributing to society through both financial support and through enabling our people to take part in activities organised by the firm as well as supporting them in their own initiatives. We encourage all of our people to take part in charitable and voluntary activities as we recognise that this strengthens our bond with the communities in which we work. PKF Eastern Africa’s work in the community is supported by our CSR Policy. We strive to be a leader in corporate social accountability. Our CSR activities revolved around the four pillars of our CSR matrix: workplace, marketplace, environment and community. i. Workplace activities These focus on upholding the wellbeing of employees within the workplace. The activities in 2015 include: Staff health check-up Staff were hosted at a medical camp where they got free eye check-up, diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol checks. Afterwards, staff were hosted to the end-year, Christmas Party (check the editorial for some of the pictures). PKF Communication on Progress 10 Staff getting a health check-up. PKF Communication on Progress 11 Enhancing team relations Mombasa and Malindi staff had a day out at the Nyali International Beach Hotel (NIBH) Aqua lawns in August where their social and team relational skills were put to task. They tackled fun filled and challenging tasks aimed at achieving the key pillars of team building, which are also PKF’s core values: Accountability, Attitude, Balance, Challenge, Commitment, Integrity and Community. Staff engaging in fun activities. PKF Communication on Progress 12 Football tournaments  The Nairobi office held a 7-a-side tournament for staff featuring 4 teams; Flame, Acacia, Jacaranda and Oak where Flame emerged the winner. Acacia Team Jacaranda Team PKF Communication on Progress 13 Flame Team Oak Team  Additionally, PKF Nairobi fielded two teams at the Goan Gymkhana Football Tournament organised by the Goan Welfare Society Football Fundraiser to raise funds to support the less privileged members of the Goan community. PKF Communication on Progress 14 PKF B – Winners of the Ball Final at the Goan Tournament PKF fans celebrating the win PKF Communication on Progress 15 Mount Meru and Mount Longonot staff excursions Staff from the Nairobi and Mombasa office in October set out to conquer Mount Meru in Arusha, Tanzania, the 5th highest mountain in Africa. In September, staff from the Nairobi and Nakuru offices hiked up Mt Longonot in Kenya. Staff on Mount Longonot Peak, Kilele Ngamia Staff on one of the 12 peaks of Mount Meru PKF Communication on Progress 16 Lewa Marathon PKF as one of the sponsors of the June 2015 Safaricom Lewa Marathon fielded a team of 10 runners. This event has been established and organised by Tusk Trust as its own flagship fundraising initiative to support pre-defined conservation, education and community projects in Kenya. Source: Sunday Nation, 28 June 2015 Korando Faith Educational Centre Kisumu staff, with the support of the PKF Foundation built an additional classroom for the orphanage in January 2015. Staff started building the classes in 2012 and have built 5 classrooms to date. The Pedal Kart Grand Prix challenge We were privileged to have PKF participating in the annual Pedal Kart Grand Prix Challenge held at the Safaricom Stadium on 30 October 2015 and 1 November 2015. PKF went into the challenge as the defending champions and were looking to retain the title but due to stiff competition, the team emerged fourth overall. The event is held annually to raise funds for a home for the elderly. PKF Communication on Progress 17 PKF in action at the pedal kart challenge. Faraja Cancer Support Trust PKF fielded 3 teams to a White Water Rafting Challenge at the Tana River in Sagana in a bid to raise funds to support the charity's work in providing complementary support services to cancer patients and their families. This event was held on 23 – 24 May 2015. PKF rafting participants posing for a picture PKF Communication on Progress 18 In marking the cancer awareness month in October, the Nairobi office hosted Kenya’s Biggest Coffee Morning on 19 October 2015. In addition, the team from Faraja gave a talk on maintaining a healthy lifestyle and diet to combat cancer. The PKF Foundation made a donation to the fund. Cindy Ogana of Faraja receiving the donation by Mandeep Shah(R) and Chirag Shah (C) making PKF Foundation from John Thindi, Tax Director personal contributions to Cindy Ogana of Faraja ii. Marketplace activities This involves engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace by observing laws and statutory requirements, encouraging sustainable business practices, refraining from corruption amongst other professional practices. Our main and core purpose is creating and sustaining supportive relationships where objective and timely advice enables our clients to thrive, develop and succeed by advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We have done this by: i. Providing information to our clients and the general public through seminars.  National Budget Analysis Seminars We invited our clients to seminars where our experts analysed the Cabinet Secretary’s proposals outlined on the 2015 budget policy statement presented by the Ministry of Finance. In our mandate as key stakeholders in the economy, we also held a pre-budget briefing where as a firm we projected the Firms’ expectations and suggestions to the Ministry of Finance for input into the national budget. ii. We contributed to the improved efficiency and competitiveness of other companies and sectors by supporting initiatives that reward excellence in various sectors. PKF Communication on Progress 19  PKF Kenya was the judging process partner at the 2015 Energy Management Awards. This is an annual event for all energy consumers arrived at encouraging a culture of energy efficiency and conservation. It recognizes enterprises that have made major and sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the application of modern energy management principles and practices and in the process made significant energy and cost reductions.  PKF was also part of the judging panel at the Kenya and Uganda FiRe Awards. The FiRe Awards objective is to promote excellence in financial reporting, fostering sound corporate governance practices and enhancing corporate social investment and environmental reporting. iii. Partnerships and mentoring opportunities  Through PROPEL, a business initiative that has its foundation steeped in transforming and repositioning African businesses to navigate them to a fuller realization of these emerging economic opportunities, we provide mentorship opportunities to budding entrepreneurs in the Next Big Thing Competition. The Next Big Thing is an initiative aimed at mainstreaming the disadvantaged through innovative business strategies that promote entrepreneurship as well as economic empowerment of the communities around us.  Microsoft Biz4Africa, an online hub launched for Kenyan small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to access locally relevant information and resources to promote SMEs and improve trade. Biz4Afrika is an Africa-wide network of SMEs designed to enable a sustainable and connected community of entrepreneurs that will have a meaningful impact on job creation, global competitiveness and wealth creation in the long run. The online portal provides one-stop shop for information resources and business services for small and medium enterprises, with PKF as one of the solutions provider, via PROPEL. iii. Community and environment activities This is implemented through support of community initiatives and institutions involved in community and charity concerns. This support is both financial and non-financial. Some of the initiatives we engaged in include:  Community day The firm has set aside a day off its calendar each year to give back to the community. In 2015, through the support of PKF foundation, various offices marked our CSR day in diverse ways as indicated below. PKF Communication on Progress 20 Kampala The Uganda office donated school materials (books, stationery etc.), planted fruit trees and shared lunch with the pupils of Nkambo Primary School in Mityana District. The staff also provided mentoring to the students. Staff carrying some of the donations Staff pose for a photo with the pupils of Nkombo Primary School PKF Communication on Progress 21 Nairobi The Nairobi office was at the Bohra Primary School in Westlands, Nairobi. PKF staff painted the schools walls, cleaned up the school compound and shared lunch with the children. Additionally, the school received donations in the form of text and exercise books to enhance learning. Staff in a clean-up exercise PKF Nairobi staff handing over textbook donation to the head teacher and chairman of Bohra Primary School PKF Communication on Progress 22 Zambia In Zambia, PKF offices in Lusaka, Livingstone and Ndola took the day off to make a difference in the community. Staff in the Livingstone office were at Maramba Old People’s Home where they washed clothes for the residents, cooked for them and cleaned. They also visited Lubasi Orphanage, Lushomo Trust (a home for sexually abused girls) and Grace Centre (a facility that rehabilitates former commercial sex workers). Staff in the Lusaka office visited Open Arms Centre which caters for orphans and under-privileged children. They cleaned and painted the school, planted fruit trees and cooked for the children. In Ndola, the community day activities were inclined towards the environment. Staff planted trees along the President Avenue. PKF team led by Partner, Mohammed Lunat handing over textbooks to the administrator of the Open Arms Centre PKF Communication on Progress 23 Conserving the environment: Staff planting trees Source: Times of Zambia newspaper, 27 November 2015 Nakuru Staff visited the Salama Malaika Children’s Home located in Njoro, Nakuru County, run by Kristiane Ewert, a German national. The home has 30 children and 3 full-time workers. PKF Communication on Progress 24 The centre relies on well-wishers from Kenya and Germany who donates to help run the day to day activities of the home. The PKF Team donated gifts which consisted of Bata shoes, foodstuff, school uniforms, snacks, shoe polish, games kits, and stationery among many other items. Nakuru staff and children at Salama Malaika Children’s Home Playtime with the children PKF Communication on Progress 25 Mombasa Staff visited the Barnabas Missions School and Children’s Home located in Utange Village along old Malindi Road in Kisauni District. The mission school and children home currently has 40 orphans comprising of 15 boys and 25 girls from the age of 3 to 16 years while the school has a total population of 190 day-students. The school did not have class 7 and 8, therefore staff, with the help of PKF Foundation undertook the construction of the two classrooms. One of the newly constructed classes Our long serving staff Caroline Samita who retired by end of 2015, cutting the ribbon to officially open the classrooms. PKF Communication on Progress 26  Mater Heart Run PKF Foundation made a donation to the Mater Heart Run funds to raise funds to cover expenses for heart operations on deserving children and the unfortunate in society. Staff participated in the Nairobi and Mombasa runs. Our Patrick Kuria (right) presents a dummy cheque to Alexander Irungu, Director of Operations & Administration at Mater Hospital PKF in the community. Nairobi staff at the event PKF Communication on Progress 27  Motherly Care Children’s Home Staff presented donations to the home, located in Ruai, in the outskirts of Nairobi. Other than providing the children with basic needs such as food, shelter and clothing, it provides both formal & non-formal education and has nursery, primary and secondary school in its premises. It has 160 children under its roof, aged between 6 months and 18 years. A team from PKF inspects the green house that was donated to the home through staff contributions. The children at the home gather to receive the donations from the Nairobi staff. PKF Communication on Progress 28  PKF in support of the arts In support of the visual arts, our Nairobi Office has bought beautiful paintings from a Kenyan visual artist, Elias Mung’ora. His beautiful paintings adorn the walls of Nairobi’s Kalamu House. A sample of his work is a shot here below: PKF Communication on Progress 29 Labour The Global Compact's labour principles are derived from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation PKF Eastern Africa applies the labour principles at the firm level through the Code of Conduct and our Human Resource Policies. These imply equal employment practices which promote a diverse workforce. 1. Our code of conduct Our code of conduct is rooted in our culture. It guides how we relate with our employees and our clients. For our employees, our code of conduct correlates with the labour principles in the following ways:  Providing interesting and challenging work and develop great experience  Investing in employees to add onto their skills, for their benefit, the firm’s and our clients  Being strong at quality relationships, building them and developing them  We get to know our people and our clients and understand their needs  We embrace diversity, maintaining a working environment which is free from prejudice and harassment – we will not tolerate behaviour that contravenes these principles For our clients, other than providing excellent service, value for money and expert solutions, our people uphold ethical and professional standards and ensure confidential information is protected, our fees are appropriate and in line with our terms of engagement. Most importantly, we act with integrity, independence and objectivity, not allowing bias or undue influence to affect our professional judgement. Our code of conduct can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/pkf-code-of-conduct. PKF Communication on Progress 30 2. Our employment contract  Each employee of PKF receives an employment contract, upon joining the firm, which meets all the requirements as set out by the Laws of Kenya. Additionally, all employees are provided with an enabling and conducive environment in which they can perform their duties as expected. The firm provides additional benefits to the employees such as medical cover, membership to a pension scheme, trainee contracts where PKF sponsors staff to attain one professional accounting qualification.  The employment contract between the firm and the employees ensures that there is no forced labour, with the employee provided with the opportunity to terminate the contract.  PKF does not employ minors and proof of age is a requirement before employment.  Our code of conduct clearly sets out the Firm’s intent to promote a diverse workforce. As part of these standards we work to value different views and opinions, to respect each employee’s personal needs, and promote a workplace free from harassment and discrimination by upholding the equal opportunity principle.  PKF also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This is indicated in our Ethical Policy available at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy PKF Communication on Progress 31 Environment The UN Global Compact’s environment principles are derived from the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. The three principles are:  Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and;  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation 1. Our environmental policy We take seriously the impact of our business activities on the environment. We believe care for the environment is an important part of the way in which we do business. It is our policy to ensure that both our people and our suppliers operate in an environmentally conscious manner. To read more about our environmental policy, please visit our website at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/environmental-policy  Environmental awareness This involves display of our environmental policy on our website and all our electronic communication.  Compliance with the law All the building we have constructed to be our offices are in full compliance with the environmental regulations. 2. Environmental consultancy  We assist other companies to meet the regulatory requirements by providing services that enable them to comply with the environmental law. 3. Sponsoring environment conservancy initiatives  Kenya Forest Services We have partnered with the Kenya Forest Services in a tree planting exercise and maintenance of the trees, now in the third year. Additionally, tree planting is one of the activities carried out during community day. We are maintaining the 2 hectares forest land in Kieni for tree planting with the aim of fostering ecological restoration and more specifically tree planting and forest management and contribute to the attainment of atleast 10% forest cover in Kenya. PKF Communication on Progress 32 One of the flourishing trees at Kieni Forest  Energy Management Awards The Energy Management Award is an award for all energy consumers geared at encouraging a culture of energy efficiency and conservation. It seeks to recognize enterprises that have made major and sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the application of modern energy management principles and practices, and in the process made significant energy and cost reductions. PKF Communication on Progress 33 Anti-Corruption The Global Compact Anti-Corruption principle is derived from the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. Our company’s longstanding commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding corruption in any form. We engage in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. We do this by refraining from corruption, accuracy of client reporting, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practice. Implementation 1. Our ethical policy We are able to implement this principle by applying our Ethical Policy. Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. We aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF Eastern Africa eliminates corruption by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices which includes refraining from corruption, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practices. Our policy describes corruption as a ‘breach of respectability’ which states: “Corruption, that is to say, soliciting for or accepting payment or other valuable consideration of services rendered within the normal course or scope of official firm duties.” 2. Our core values We expect that all employees will execute our core values, particularly Integrity, “We execute with integrity, holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance, accountability and personal conduct. If something doesn't work, don't ship it. If a deal isn't right, don't take it. If the numbers don't add up, find out why.” 3. Our code of conduct (Described on page 30 of this document) PKF Communication on Progress 34 4. Our services As a leading professional services firm, we continue to proactively support the adoption of the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSASs), to enhance public accountability. In our daily operations especially as auditors, we are obligated to maintain the highest levels of integrity. All our relationships with our clients, suppliers and employees are hinged on our philosophy, commitment to promoting high standards of discipline, excellence and ethics through adherence to the firm’s quality standards and value charter, the laws of the country and the profession. 5. Membership to the local Global Compact Network We joined the Global Compact Network in Kenya in April 2012. We signed up to the Code of Ethics as we are keen to promote and enhance the ethics of business conduct in Kenya in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. PKF Communication on Progress 35 PKF Eastern Africa, Grevillea Grove, Westlands, P O Box 14077, Nairobi 00800, Kenya, Tel +254 20 4270000, Mobile +254 732 144000 WWW.PKFEA.COM PKF firms in Eastern Africa are member firms of the PKF International Limited network of legally independent firms and do not accept any responsibility or liability for the actions or inactions on the part of any other individual member firm or firms.
