Corporate social responsibility report of mBank for 2014-2015 mBank.pl Contents About mBank Approach to corporate social responsibility at mBank 5 14 Letter of the We want to understand, respect and share our clients’ values. We want to be open. We want to think and feel like they do. We want to be a responsible lender 19 37 President of the Management Board We want to build an exceptional team, competence and skills. We want to share what’s best about us with others. We want to be unique.  40 We want to reduce our environmental footprint 50 We want to improve our management approach. We want to develop 52 Tables with non-financial data 54 Dear Sirs, [G4-1, G4-2] The operations of large financial institutions have a major impact on the economy. At mBank we are well aware of this fact. We also understand that in a changing world our responsibility goes far beyond the purely business aspects and that our decisions have not only financial but also social or environmental consequences. Therefore, we addressed them in a report on corporate sustainability and responsibility, being the first such report published under the mBank brand. The report presents the values guiding mBank, highlights of our progress in the CSR area and plans for the future as well as challenges to which mBank as an organisation will have to respond. Underlying the structure of the report are five pillars defined in the “Strategy for corporate sustainability and responsibility of mBank S.A.” adopted at the end of 2015. The strategy allowed us to put our CSR activities in order and set a clear direction of our CSR activity in 2016-2020. The key areas of mBank’s corporate responsibility include: fostering stable and long-lasting customer relations, pursuing a socially responsible lending policy, building a unique team, reducing the bank’s environmental footprint and improving the mechanisms of responsible management in the organisation. We want the relations with our customers to be based on dialogue. In order to learn the opinions of our customers, apart from analysis and research, we primarily use direct contact with customers. For instance, cyclical meetings with entrepreneurs allowed us to better understand their needs and streamlined the process of developing new products and services dedicated to companies served by mBank’s retail banking. 3 It is our priority to ensure safe and convenient banking to all our customers. In an attempt to strengthen our position of the most convenient transactional bank on the market, in 2014 we refreshed our mobile application, enabling our customers to manage their personal finance in a remarkably flexible and user-friendly manner. In 2015, individual customers were offered a totally new type of agreements on accounts and loans: clear, written in plain language and containing no articles whatsoever. At the end of 2015, we launched a social campaign for on-line security, the first such campaign in our bank’s history, which won the prestigious Golden Banker award and was named the Social Campaign of 2015. Responsible governance at mBank is based on values. In 2014, we launched the “Model of values and behaviour of mBank Group” project. Starting from 2015, the attitudes arising from the model became a component of the annual employee assessment. The theme of values runs across the entire report, not only the part addressing the employees and corporate culture of mBank, but also the one dedicated to our customers. The entire banking sector is facing numerous challenges. I believe we are well prepared to leverage our strengths and successfully face the market conditions in the years to come. When doing business, it is vital not to forget about the values and goals we set for ourselves in the corporate sustainability and responsibility area. One of our priorities was to join the Global Compact initiative, which we did in March 2016. In the coming years, our goal is to join the Respect Index, a prestigious index of socially responsible companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. mBank’s ambition is to continue delivering new value to our key stakeholders: customers whose dreams and aspirations guide us, employees, shareholders and communities in which we operate. We believe that our present and future CSR activities will allow mBank to strengthen its position of a modern and responsible organisation open to dialogue. All those interested in our approach to corporate responsibility are welcome to read the report. Kind regards, About mBank Cezary Stypułkowski President of the Management Board 4 5 Operations For more information about mBank’s operations, its history and main strategic directions, read the chapter entitled “Short overview of mBank Group” of the Management Board Report on the Performance of mBank S.A. Group in 2014. [G4-4, G4-6] mBank Group is one of the largest financial institutions in Poland, offering retail, corporate and investment banking as well as other financial services such as lease, factoring, brokerage services, wealth [G4-16] Membership in organisations: management, corporate finance and capital markets advisory. In 2000 the Bank launched operations in the retail banking segment by creating the first fully Internet bank in Poland. This pioneering project was based g Lower Silesian Chamber of Commerce (Dolnośląska Izba Gospodarcza) on the Internet, call center assistance (mLine) and later also on mobile banking. We managed to successfully g French Chamber of Industry and Trade (Francuska Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa) apply our unique business model in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. g Institute of International Finance g International Forfaiting Association [G4-13] mBank S.A., which was established in 1986 as Bank Rozwoju Eksportu S.A. and was then renamed g International Swaps and Derivatives Association BRE Bank S.A., is the parent entity for mBank Group. Apart from mBank, the Group includes 12 subsidiaries g North Greater Poland’s Chamber of Commerce (Izba Gospodarcza Północnej Wielkopolski) in which the Bank holds majority interest and which are consolidated in financial statements, but are not g Silesia Chamber of Commerce (Izba Gospodarcza Śląsk) included in the corporate social responsibility report. As at the end of 2015, the largest subsidiaries of mBank g Cracow Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa w Krakowie) Group were: mLeasing sp. z o.o., mBank Hipoteczny S.A., Dom Maklerski mBanku S.A. and mFaktoring S.A. g Toruń Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa w Toruniu) The capital group includes also: Aspiro S.A., mWealth Management S.A., mCentrum Operacji Sp. z o.o., BDH g Radom Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa Ziemi Radomskiej) Development Sp. z o.o., mLocum S.A., Garbary S.A., mFinance France S.A. and Tele-Tech Investment Sp. z o.o. g Lublin Business Club (Lubelski Klub Biznesu) g Lublin Scientific Association (Lubelskie Towarzystwo Naukowe) In March 2015 Aspiro S.A. sold 100% of shares in BRE Ubezpieczenia TUiR S.A. to Avanssur S.A. owned by AXA Group. Moreover, in December 2015 shares of mBank Hipoteczny S.A., mFaktoring S.A., mLeasing g Lubuskie Region Employers’ Organisation (Organizacja Pracodawców Ziemi Lubuskiej) Sp. z o.o. and mLocum S.A. were transferred directly to mBank S.A. from MLV 45 Sp. z o.o. sp.k., which was g Polish Chamber of Civil Engineers (Polska Izba Inżynierów Budownictwa) then liquidated. In Q3 2015 Tele-Tech Investment Sp. z o.o., which specialises in securities transactions, g Polish Business Roundtable (Polska Rada Biznesu) receivables trading, subsidiaries management and business and management advisory, was consolidated. g Polish National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce (Polski Komitet Narodowy Międzynarodowej Izby Handlowej) Vast and comprehensive range of modern services, combined with innovative business model, made it g Polish Private Equity and Venture Capital Association (Polskie Stowarzyszenie Inwestorów Kapitałowych) possible for the Group to grow organically. The Bank’s client base had been rising systematically to reach g Polish Association of Real Estate Valuers (Polskie Stowarzyszenie Rzeczoznawców Wyceny Nieruchomości) 4,551 thousand retail clients and 18 thousand corporate clients at the end of 2014 and 4,947 thousand retail g Polish-German Chamber of Industry and Trade (Polsko-Niemiecka Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa) clients and 20 thousand corporate clients at the end of 2015. g Polish-Swiss Chamber of Commerce (Polsko-Szwajcarska Izba Gospodarcza) g Northern Chamber of Commerce (Północna Izba Gospodarcza) At the end of 2015, mBank Group’s operations were divided into the following segments and business areas: g Employers of Pomerania (Pracodawcy Pomorza) g Racibórz Chamber of Commerce (Raciborska Izba Gospodarcza) Retail Banking Corporates and Financial Markets Regional Chamber of Commerce of Pomerania (Regionalna Izba Gospodarcza Pomorza) Segment g Corporate and Investment Banking Financial Markets g Regional Chamber of Industry and Trade in Gliwice (Regionalna Izba Przemysłowo Handlowa w Gliwicach) g Nowy Sącz Chamber of Commerce (Sądecka Izba Gospodarcza) • service of retail clients and • service of corporations and • service of banks g Słupsk Chamber of Industry and Trade (Sądecka Izba Gospodarcza) micro-enterprises non-banking financial institutions • service of corporate clients within g Stargard Chamber of Commerce (Stargardzka Izba Gospodarcza) Banks • service of affluent clients • service of large corporations the scope of trading and sales g Starogard Business Club Association of Employers (Starogardzki Klub Biznesu – Związek Pracodawców) • service of private banking clients • service of small and medium-sized • risk and liquidity management g Poland Compliance (Stowarzyszenie Compliance Polska) enterprises g 500 Club Association (Stowarzyszenie Klub 500) • retail arm of Dom Maklerski • corporate arm of Dom Maklerski • mFinance France S.A. g Polish-German Business Centre Association (Stowarzyszenie Polsko-Niemieckie Koło Gospodarcze) mBanku S.A. mBanku S.A. (special purpose vehicle established g ACI Poland Financial Markets Association (Stowarzyszenie Rynków Finansowych ACI Polska) Consolidated companies1 • retail arm • corporate arm of mLeasing Sp. z o.o. to finance the Bank’s operations) g Świętokrzyskie Association of Private Employers (Świętokrzyski Związek Pracodawców Prywatnych) • mLeasing Sp. z o.o. • corporate arm of mBank • mLeasing Sp. z o.o. – within • retail arm of mBank Hipoteczny S.A. Hipoteczny S.A. the scope related to fund raising g Greater Poland’s Chamber of Industry and Trade (Wielkopolska Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa) • Aspiro S.A. • mFaktoring S.A. • mBank Hipoteczny S.A. – within g Greater Poland’s Association of Employers (Wielkopolski Związek Pracodawców) • mWealth Management S.A. • Garbary Sp. z o.o. the scope related to fund raising g Western Chamber of Commerce (Zachodnia Izba Gospodarcza) • Tele-Tech Investment Sp. z o. o. g Western Chamber of Industry and Trade (Zachodnia Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa) g Zagłębie Chamber of Commerce (Zagłębiowska Izba Gospodarcza) Other subsidiaries: mLocum S.A. (developer), mCentrum Operacji Sp. z o.o. (outsourcing services provider), BDH Development Sp. z o.o. (real estate manager) g Polish Bank Association (Związek Banków Polskich) g Internet Industry Employers’ Association (Związek Pracodawców Branży Internetowej) g Association of Polish Maritime Industries (Związek Pracodawców Forum Okrętowe) 1 Under the IFRS, all subsidiaries are consolidated using the full consolidation method. 6 7 [G4-15] Voluntarily endorsed external codes “Bank Innovation Awards” We were recognised for the new transactional service (organised by Bank Innovation) launched in 2013 (New mBank). g Best Practice of GPW Listed Companies (2014) g Code of Banking Ethics (Principles of Good Banking Practice)2 g UN Global Compact3 g Corporate Governance Principles for Supervised Institutions “Newsweek’s Friendly Bank” • Bank for Kowalski category: 3rd place (2015), (2014, 2015) 3rd place (2014) • On-line Banks category: 2nd place (2015), [G4-PR5] Awards and distinctions in 2014-2015 2nd place (2014) • Mobile Banking category: 2nd place (2015), Best Digital Bank Award (Global Finance) In 2014, mBank was awarded for the best transaction 2nd place (2014) (2014, 2015) services dedicated to retail and corporate clients and won the • Mortgage Banking category: 4th place (2015), award for the Best Trade Finance Bank in Poland. 9th place (2014) In 2015 once again mBank was named the best bank in Poland and awarded in the “World’s Best Corporate/ Euromoney Private Banking Survey 2015 Mbank’s private banking of mBank was ranked the best in Institutional Digital Banks” contest. mBank FX platform (2015) Poland by Euromoney Magazine, British financial magazine (mPlatforma Walutowa) won the title of the best transactional FX platform addressed to corporate clients in the Central and Eastern Europe. Financial Cool Business Award The design of mBank’s Internet marketing platform was Distribution & Marketing Innovation in Retail In 2014: (2015) recognised as the most innovative technology supporting Financial Services” (organised by Efma and 1st place in The Most Disruptive Innovation category business development. The mobile banking application was Accenture) 1st place in The Most Promising Idea category for also ranked high and made it to the finals in its category. (2014, 2015) the 30 seconds loan 1st place in the Everyday Banking category for mBargains Loyalty Awards mBank’s loyalty programme mBargains (mOkazje) won in (mOkazje) (2015) the Best Loyalty Activities in Services category In 2015: 1st place in the Digital Marketing category for the Bank’s marketing platform 3rd place in the Global Innovator category mBank was awarded the Grand Prix in the For the integration of MultiBank, mBank and BRE Bank Moreover, the 2nd place in the Best New Product and Service 2013 Marketing Director contest brands. category went to Orange Finanse. Golder Banker contest We won for the fourth and fifth time and won the top award Employer Branding Stars 1st place in both: best career website (www.bankowetalenty.pl) (organised by Bankier.pl and PayU) the Golden Bank statuette. Moreover, in 2014 we were (organised by HRstandard.pl) and best recruitment materials categories (2014, 2015) awarded for the best personal account, the best bank for companies and the best bank in social media; in 2015 we were awarded for the best mobile banking, the best personal Rebrand 100 Global Awards 2014 The concept of mBank’s rebranding was considered one account and account for entrepreneurs. of the 100 best in the world. ranking by Jakośćobslugi.pl In 2014 we won two Service Quality Stars for traditional (2014, 2015) banking and Internet banking; in 2015 we won the Service Leaders of Banking & Insurance World We were named the Most Innovative Bank of 2013 and Quality Star in the Banks category in the Service Quality competition (3rd and 4th edition) 2014. In the 3rd edition of the contest Cezary Stypulkowski, programme. mBank’s CEO, was named the Man of the Year. “TNS Polska Quality You Can Bank On” In 2014 we won the ranking; in 2015 we came second in Golden Share ranking by Biznes.pl 1st place for the return rate of 327% on investment ranking (organised by TNS Polska, terms of the quality of services. (2014) in mBank shares over the past 10 years. Deloitte and Puls Biznesu) (2014, 2015) “The Best Annual Report” mBank’s annual report was named the best annual report for Model Bank Award Winner of the Digital Model Bank category in 2014 and (organised by the Accounting 2013 and 2014 The Best of the Best. (organised by Celent Research) winner of the Innovation and Emerging Technologies and Tax Institute) (2014, 2015) category. (2014, 2015) 2 Moreover mBank’s representative is a member of the Banking Ethics Committee of the Polish Bank Association: https://zbp.pl/dla-bankow/zespoly-rady-i-komitety/dzialania-w-obszarze-legislacyjno-prawnym/komisja-etykibankowej 3 In November 2015, mBank declared its readiness to observe the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and was officially approved as member of the initiative after the date of this report, i.e. in March 2016. 8 9 [G4-9, FS6] Rok 2014, 2015 figures Retail Banking Financial markets mBank runs its retail operations in Poland and Slovakia, providing service to individual clients as well as micro-enterprises. Among the main taks of this business line there are: direct sale of financial products, management of assets and liabilities Many innovations are introduced each year in order to satisfy client’s needs. of the Bank, interest rate risk management, depositary services and supervising the operations of mBank’s Brokerage House (Dom Maklerski mBanku, mDM). 2014 2015 2014 2015 62% 66% 9% 5% of mBank Group of mBank Group of mBank Group of mBank Group profit profit profit profit PLN 1,063.7 million Profit before income tax PLN 1,060.7 million PLN 129.5 million Profit before income tax PLN 80.2 million 256 Number of branches 278 Increased profitability 4.7 million Number of clients 4.9 million 30% of deravative transactions 33.6% 8.5% Increase in loans 6.3% Market share of Treasury 14.8% bills and bonds 20.5% 14.9% Increase in deposits 17.0% Two tranches EUR 500 mln Increase in no. ~50% of eurobonds EUR 500 mln of active clients Corporate and investment banking The aim of commercial operations of the bank is supporting the develompent of companies from SME and corporate sector. Many years of bank’s experience in providing services to this segment lead to a successful cooperation with the customers. 2014 2015 Number of employees 6,318 FTEs 2014 of mBank Group 6,640 FTEs 2015 31% 33% Net profit attributable to the PLN 1,286,668 thousand 2014 of mBank Group of mBank Group shareholders of mBank S.A. PLN 1,301,246 thousand 2015 profit profit PLN 21.0 billion 2014 Capitalisation PLN 13.3 billion 2015 PLN 499.9 million Profit before income tax PLN 537.4 million 47 Numbers of branches 47 17.8 thousand Numbers of clients 19.6 thousand 11.4% Increase in loans 11.2% 20.5% Increase in deposits 17.0% 10 11 [G4-8, G4-9] Key information about mBank and mBank Group mBank’s uniqueness 2013 2014 2015 Our offer and uniqueness stem from several sources. Retail banking based on a highly innovative and mBank mBank Group mBank mBank Group mBank mBank Group attractive business model, allowing clients to freely use banking services at any time and in any place, Basic financial data (in PLN thousand) attracted young people, aspiring and familiar with new technologies. Consequently, mBank’s client base Total income 3 152 546 3 673 524 3 387 053 3 939 168 3 596 104 4 093 464 has a very favourable demographical profile compared with competitors. It gives the bank a unique position to offer a broad range of innovative products and services, which is helped by the extraordinary flexibility Profit before income tax -1 397 085 -1 678 043 -1 465 970 -1 770 565 -1 747 533 -2 054 246 of mBank’s transactional platform. What is more, since the business model is based on electronic platform, Profit before income tax 1 340 645 1 517 703 1 478 569 1 652 700 1 523 246 1 617 855 the bank has a natural ability to grow organically, and at the same time, maintain a very favourable cost Net profit attributable 1 070 306 1 206 375 1 174 096 1 286 668 1 271 449 1 301 246 structure. to shareholders For more information read the chapter “mBank Group’s Strategic Advantages” of the mBank S.A. Balance sheet (in PLN thousand) Management Board Report on the Activity of mBank S.A. Group in 2015. Total assets 100 232 132 104 282 761 113 603 463 117 985 822 118 795 306 123 523 021 Total liabilities 90 658 912 94 026 323 103 333 877 106 912 844 106 850 187 111 248 057 Equity 9 573 220 10 256 438 10 269 586 11 072 978 11 945 119 12 274 964 Other Headcount (FTE, 4 696 6 073 4 895 6 318 5 151 6 540 end of period) Share capital 168 696 168 840 168 956 (in PLN thousand) Number of shares 42 174 013 42 210 057 42 238 924 Price/book value 2,1 1,9 1,1 Number of retail 4 368 4 689 4 947 clients (in thousand), including Total capitalization 38 301 38 308 40 809 41 560 43 797 46 259 (in PLN million) retail banking Total deposits 33 889 34 203 39 002 39 285 45 672 46 117 (in PLN million) retail banking Number of corporate 16 18 20 clients (in thousand) Total loans (in PLN 24 975 29 475 28 461 32 841 28 577 33 447 million) corporate banking Total deposits (in PLN 29 402 26 753 39 410 32 237 39 653 34 424 million) corporate banking 12 13 Corporate Social Responsibility management [G4-34] The basic goals for 2016-2020 were defined in the “Strategy for corporate sustainability and responsibility of mBank S.A.” adopted at the end of 2015. The goals were established together with a group of managers and each one was assigned to a person responsible for its implementation and measures. It is our ambition to become one of the leaders of corporate social responsibility in the Polish banking sector. It is our ambition to become one of the leaders of corporate social responsibility in the Polish banking sector. The director of the Communication and Marketing Strategy Department, who reports directly to the president of the management board of the bank, is responsible for coordinating the works aimed at implementing the socially responsible approach in management. The director’s managerial objectives (MbO) include CSRrelated objectives. On an ongoing basis CSR projects are coordinated by the CSR specialist reporting to the aforesaid director, responsible also for cooperation with managers of individual functional areas related to social responsibility. The management board of the bank is responsible for ongoing operations of the company, also in the social responsibility area. Just like in every joint-stock company, the management board reports to the supervisory board, which, in turn, is accountable before the annual general meeting. A detailed description of the scope of responsibility1 of the most senior authorities of the bank, their appointment procedure and current composition are publically reported; this information is available on our official website, under the following link: https://www.mbank.pl/en/about-us/bank-autho rities/ [G4-12, G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR10] Modern, responsibly managed organisations cannot only take account of their direct impact on the environment. They should strive for cooperating with responsible business partners and promote socially responsible behaviours among them. In all renewed and new agreements we will successively include provisions obliging our counterparties to observe the principles of social responsibility. Such provisions will also authorise us to audit our suppliers if we become aware of any Approach to corporate social potential breaches, and in the case when gross misconduct is revealed, to take far-reaching steps, including termination of agreement with immediate effect. responsibility at mBank In all renewed and new agreements we will successively include provisions obliging our counterparties to observe the principles of social responsibility. As far as our counterparties in the supply chain are concerned, apart from typical services such as the provision of electricity, utilities and rental of real properties, one should also remember about the purchase of broadly understood IT services, which is related to the specificity of our business model. We also use the services of a number of external companies supporting sales activities and customer service. Furthermore, just like many other banks, we cooperate with operators of ATMs, credit and payment cards. In addition, external companies provide the Bank with services related to the maintenance and security of facilities. Public reporting on social responsibility [G4-32, G4-17] The present report is the first one published under the mBank brand. Before rebranding, BRE Bank published social reports, including reports based on GRI guidelines. The last such report covered 2008. This report covers only mBank S.A. being the core of our capital group. For information about all consolidated subsidiaries which are not covered by this report, read the appendix to this report (“Tables containing nonfinancial data”). 4 In practice, the implementation of these new provisions was scheduled for 2016. 14 15 [G4-32, G4-33] This report was compiled in accordance with the core option of GRI G4 guidelines. It refers Consequently, the following areas were indicated by the managers as relevant: also to the sector indicators described in a relevant sector supplement. The report was not verified by an independent auditor. Social or environmental aspect Influence aspects and GRI indicators Relevance Platforms of dialogue with clients G4-26 high Its release coincides with the adoption by the bank of a 5-year corporate social responsibility strategy for Reliable, clear and transparent communication of G4-PR1, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR5, f. FS16, high 2016-2020. It is expected to be a baseline report and a starting point for a discussion about the expectations products* of the environment, by indicating the main directions in which we will be heading. That is why the authors of Complaints* G4-PR5 high this report will very much appreciate any comments from the readers. Protection of client data* G4-PR8 high Availability of financial services FS13, FS14 high Involvement in education G4-SO1, f. FS16 medium [G4-31] All those who would like to find out more about our activity or share their comments and Being a responsible investor in the context of indirect f. FS1, f. FS2, FS3, f. FS4 high observations about the report are encouraged to contact the coordinator of CSR activities: economic, environmental and social influence Corporate culture and focus on development G4-EC5 high Monika Czajkowska Prevention of unethical behaviours G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO6, G4-SO7, G4-SO8 high CSR Specialist Own environmental footprint (electricity, fuels, office G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, medium mBank S.A. supplies, waste management)* G4-EN18, G4-EN23 ul. Senatorska 18 Responsibility management in supply chain* G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR10, G4-SO11 high 00-950 Warszawa phone no. +48 22 438 23 18 *aspects important also outside the company, i.e. in business partners cooperating with the company e-mail: csr@mbank.pl [G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27] The identification and assessment of stakeholders revealed the major [G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21] The works on the strategy and this report were started by a workshop held in stakeholders in the largest categories. These include: the first half of 2015 and attended by several dozen bank managers of key importance from the point of view of individual dimensions of social responsibility. During the workshop we identified the key areas of responsibility and the stakeholders, which translated into the structure of the strategy and this report. The Investors approach based on the recognition of one’s own responsibility in the key areas of the organisation and the g Commerzbank (strategic investor) identification and engagement of stakeholders is the approach proposed in the PN-ISO 26000 standard. g institutional investors That is why we started reorganising the management approach to social responsibility from taking these g individual investors measures. At the same time, from the point of view of the GRI reporting guidelines, this allowed us to comply g the Warsaw Stock Exchange with the principles of materiality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. Moreover, the reference to the g rating agencies and brokerage houses PN-ISO 26000 standard makes it possible to comply also with the principle of sustainability context. Clients g corporate clients The major aspects we indicated include the building of two-way channels of communication with individual g financial market stakeholder groups, issues related to employment and working conditions, counteracting corruption, institutions fair competition, respect for ownership rights. Among the most important aspects there are areas related g Employees g companies, g permanent employees directly to customer relationships: honest marketing, reliability and transparency of information, product safety, and consequently, client safety (including data safety), customer service (including complaint including micro-enterprises individual clients Major g students g potential employees stakeholders g procedures). Aspects related to environmental protection, which are often equated with direct impact on the g the Financial Ombudsman environment, ranked slightly below. However, it is noteworthy that environmental protection in the context of g the Office of Competition clients and sustainable development, i.e. actions aimed at inspiring awareness of the indirect impact on the and Consumer Protection environment, was seen as quite important. (UOKiK) Following the workshop, we interviewed the managers individually, which allowed us to expand our knowledge about the measures being taken and set new goals for the future. Society Business partners g the Polish Financial Supervision g key suppliers Authority (KNF) g subsidiaries in which the bank g the Polish Bank Association (ZBP) holds minority interests g the National Bank of Poland (NBP) g the media 16 17 In our case, the emphasis on dialogue, especially with clients, goes far beyond not only the legal requirements, but also the solutions adopted on the market. This involves not only strong focus on analysing market research or complaints, but also unique solutions such as mCouncil (mRada) composed of mCouncillors (mRadni) or cyclical meetings with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We make all these efforts to understand them better and understand what is important to them. We simply want to think like they do. It is also the foundation of mBank’s values inextricably linked with our business philosophy. We also put great emphasis on dialogue, also in non-standard forms, in relations with our employees. The results of cyclical employee engagement studies are analysed thoroughly and we invest time and resources in the employee assessment process, which covers, among others, soft factors (attitudes). All this in turn makes the existence of the culture of dialogue possible. We promote openness, including e.g. feedback information for co-workers. Managers, on the other hand, have the chance to get a fuller picture of the organisation. Also the internal knowledge-sharing programme contributes to the dialogue in the organisation. The forms and frequency of the dialogue in relations with other stakeholder groups depend on the nature of a given group and the relation itself. There is a complete array of forms: from informal to highly formalized ones, from indirect forms to quantitative studies. Thanks to applying a comprehensive range of tools, we are able to thoroughly understand their expectations or potential concerns. Currently, the dialogue is decentralised, which means that the responsibility for relations with individual stakeholder groups lies with competent organisational units and their managers. In the process of compiling this report we relied on the knowledge and experience of managers regarding the expectations of stakeholders. Strategy for corporate sustainability and responsibility of mBank S.A. for 2016-2020 It is mBank’s ambition to become one of the leaders of corporate social responsibility among the financial institutions operating in Poland and to include mBank in the stock market index of socially responsible companies. The Strategy for corporate sustainability and responsibility of mBank S.A. for 2016-2020 provides for focusing on five areas which cover the responsibility aspects found to be of key importance and are the We want to understand, respect and share best reflection of our ambitions. These include: our clients’ values. We want to be open. building stable and long-term customer relationships We want to think and feel like they do. g (Goal: “We want to understand, respect and share our clients’ values. We want to be open. We want to think and feel like they do.”) g pursuing socially responsible credit policy (Goal: “We want to be a responsible lender.”) g we want to build an exceptional team (Goal: “We want to build an exceptional team, competence and skills. We want to share what’s best about us with others. We want to be unique.”) g limiting the Bank’s environmental footprint (Goal: “We want to limit our impact on the environment.”) g enhancing the mechanisms of responsible corporate management in the organisation, including supply chain management (Goal: “We want to improve our management approach. We want to improve.”) These ambitions determined the shape of this report, which, being the baseline report, presents the current state of the bank’s operations in each of these areas. For every area we set measurable goals and more detailed actions designed to help us attain these goals. Moreover, we set measurable goals for individual actions that show the measure values expected to be reached in the years covered by the strategy. Each one was assigned to a specific organisational unit. 18 19 Key success measures for 2016-2020 measure (KPI) milestone 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (MS) / measure (M) NPS for a M >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from business client the previous the previous the previous the previous the previous (for particular major events) period period period period period 1 Client empathy Understanding client’s needs, delivering highest NPS for a retail M >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from quality performance and solutions through client (for the previous the previous the previous the previous the previous cooperations and building durable relationships. particular major period period period period period events) 5 Professionalism 2 Looking to the future Focus on the knowledge and Being open to the Dialogue platform competences reflected in changes and innovations professional approach and as well as searching for [G4-26] Values form the foundation of dialogue and openness to clients. The five basic values client-centricity, constant strive to find new new, interesting solutions looking ahead, simplifying, commitment and professionalism form the culture of our organisation. paths for development. in order to be ahead of current trends. [G4-56] mBank Group’s model of behaviour and values The model of behaviour allows us to answer the questions about the real meaning of values for an organisation such as mBank. What actions and behaviours does the management board expect from its subordinates and what do employees expect from one another? We aspire to make decisions in compliance with the values and answer the question of not only what mBank does, but also how it goes about doing it. In our daily work the values are a compass indicating each and every employee the direction in which he/she should be heading. 4 Engagement 3 Simplifying Not by accident the chapter of the report dedicated to customer relationships starts from an excerpt about employees, values and attitudes accompanying them. mBank are people. Our success and long-term growth Strong motivation and aspiration to Promoting simple and understandable depends on their attitudes. Professionalism is the sum of our units’ professionalism. Responsibility is the sum fully achive set goals contributing to approach among emlpoyees as well as of our units’ responsibility. In the end, it is a single employee, not the so-called “organisation”, that meets the development of the organization and towards the clients, expressing respect for client, anticipates his/her expectations and concerns. The very employee makes the client feel like a partner, creating value for the stakeholders. their time, trying to reach mutual benefits. not a petitioner. 20 21 In the end, it is a single employee, not the so-called “organisation”, that meets the client, mBank community anticipates his/her expectations and concerns. The very employee makes the client feel like a partner, not a petitioner. [G4-26] For a large group of persons mBank’s forum is a treasure trove of information about banking. It is they, the clients, who also form the community of mBank, asking thousands of questions and proposing The belief that the clients and their needs should be in the centre of the actions taken by the organisation and numerous non-standard solutions. The forum cannot exist without the employees who respond to the every single employee helped to initiate the “Focus on Client” programme, which covers several dozen of projects questions that arise. from all sorts of areas of operational activity. We started from a review of agreements in terms of clauses that could be found incomprehensible, through credit refusal policy to social activities. A tangible manifestation of mRada (mCouncil) is a group of mBank’s ambassadors. mRadni (mConuncillors) are not the employees of the client-centric approach is the apprenticeship in the bank’s branches obligatory for the top managers. mBank nor do they receive remuneration from us for their activity. They are recruited, among others, from clients who showed great interest in the bank’s operations and were very active on Internet forums, blogs or Practices related to customer satisfaction measurement process in social networks. [G4-PR5] We listen to our clients actively. Every month our representatives contact clients to ask for their New platform of dialogue with companies and SMEs opinions. As a result, we receive feedback about the quality of service, the functioning of processes and products. We also monitor comments made and opinions expressed by the clients on the Internet – mainly [G4-26] At the end of 2014 we launched the platform of dialogue with micro-entrepreneurs. The first meetings in social networks and on Internet forums and websites related to the quality of service. The information is with entrepreneurs were initiated in February 2015. Open conversation with the client allows us to address the provided to the persons responsible for particular areas and the frontline employees where upon an analysis challenges that are or may be faced by the client in a comprehensive manner. That helps to understand the it is translated into specific remedial actions. reasons behind clients’ decisions, what is important for them and consequently what their needs might be, even if they are not aware of them yet. This is client-centricity. The meetings have an open formula. Interviews Furthermore, in regular surveys we ask respondents, among others, about their willingness to recommend are conducted at the client’s home or office, in a café, in mBank’s headquarters or outlet. the services of mBank to their friends or colleagues (NPS). Apart from closed-ended questions we also ask open questions which show the reasons behind clients’ scoring decisions. We also conduct cyclical surveys Such meetings make it possible to make a more in-depth analysis of the conclusions drawn from quantitative among the clients who sign documents delivered by courier and send them back by courier. surveys, explore new ideas and test the concepts of future services. They also encourage the employees to get up from behind their desks, which is of vital importance in the case of employees who do not have direct We also analyse opinions of the clients who lodged complaints. The clients are asked if they would contact with the clients on a day-to-day basis. recommend using the bank’s services to their friends and colleagues bearing in mind the manner in which we solved their problem. The questionnaire also measures the level of customer satisfaction with the time of We also try to initiate non-standard activities which, not being strictly related to banking, enable the clients to handling a complaint, impact of responses on further cooperation with mBank and the quality of feedback see business from a different perspective and rediscover the potential of their enterprise. An example of such (whether it was complete and exhaustive). activities is a series of seminars entitled „Tomorrow Belongs to Women.” We also engage in mystery shopping on a regular basis. Quality audits are also cyclically conducted in outlets, mLine and the Online Expert Service. Auditors assess outlets in terms of face-to-face conversations, telephone and e-mail contact. Tomorrow Belongs to Women We conduct such an audit in different scenarios. The auditors visit outlets, call CC, write e-mails, use the Since 2008 mBank has been organising a series of seminars entitled “Tomorrow Belongs to Women” Online Expert Service to obtain information, among others, about the offer of individual accounts, accounts addressed to the female corporate clients of mBank who manage finances, sit on management boards for companies, loans, deposits or to ask different questions related to the bank’s services. or own enterprises. So far, 19 meetings have been organised, with very high attendance. The goal of the seminars is to support and unite enterprising women who are eager to use the knowledge that is shared After every audit a scoring of the quality of meeting the applicable standards is performed. with them during the meetings and are involved in sharing their experiences with others. Our employees monitor the opinions, registered on the website, about the quality of mBank’s services on The seminars are subject-oriented and include an interview with a special guest — a famous woman of an ongoing basis. Every opinion is analysed and forwarded to a relevant unit which, based on provided success. Experts of mBank and representatives of leading companies participate in panels addressing suggestions, introduces relevant remedial measures (contact with a given outlet or person responsible particular topics. So far the seminars’ special guests were, among others, dr Irena Eris, Teresa Rosati, for a given area where the clients see room for improvement). Jolanta Kwaśniewska, Beata Tyszkiewicz, Katarzyna Grochola, Krystyna Janda, Beata Pawlikowska, Urszula Dudziak, Maria Czubaszek, Ewa Kasprzyk. Work-life balance panels are a frequent element of such meetings, with workshops such as “Managing Energy while under Stress”. An evaluation questionnaire is a tool measuring the effectiveness of the presented practice. The opinions collected are used to evaluate the meeting and develop an agenda for the next seminar. While filling in a questionnaire, the participants propose topics which they would like to discuss during the next meetings and make their suggestions as to the woman of success they would like to see as a special guest. 22 23 our role, and other entities from the financial sector, to take actions aimed at providing financial education “mBank StartUP Challenge” competition that helps to better understand banking products. It is a long-term process, which is best exemplified by the actions taken by us and our mFoundation, which often begins as early as in primary school. In parallel to the necessary yet long-term process of raising awareness of the market, actions aimed at simplifying banking Together with the University Entrepreneurship Incubators Foundation we invited young entrepreneurs documents, for example agreements, may be taken to make them understandable to all clients. That was to take part in the competition the purpose of which was to propose activities that would help to the line of thought of the authors of the Action Renovation programme. increase the number of the mobile application users. The proposed activities would also encourage mBank’s clients to save or invest money or enable the bank to carry out more effective credit risk assessment. Out of the proposals the best five were selected and presented during the competition Action Renovation gala, in December 2015. After the presentation the jury announced the final result. [PR DMA, G4-PR1] Action Renovation is a revolutionary change in the way of thinking about agreements. The winner of the competition will take part in the acceleration programme in Tel Aviv where he/she will It provides for redefining agreements with individual clients and proposing a completely new format of these participate in workshops, coaching and mentoring sessions aimed at developing and improving his/her documents. The revolutionary nature of the idea consists in removing articles, typical of any agreements, business model, as well as meetings with potential investors. and, at the same time, disliked by clients. It turns out that drafting an agreement without any articles but with clear and understandable questions, was possible, however, required a lot of work of our employees. Furthermore, qualitative surveys confirmed that the new, innovative form of agreement is positively perceived. The agreement implemented as first in June 2015 was an agreement on bank account for natural persons. Another agreements, implemented also in 2015, were agreements on cash loan and revolving loan Corporate clients satisfaction survey for natural persons and agreement enclosed with credit card. The next agreements will be introduced in the new form in 2016. [G4-PR5] Retail clients satisfaction surveys (individual customers, micro-enterprises), including NPS survey, are widely used on the market by companies from different sectors; however, using them in the case of large The revolutionary nature of the idea consists in removing articles, typical of any agreements, corporate clients on the banking market is still a solution that is not often used in Poland. At mBank we and, at the same time, disliked by clients. conduct an extensive qualitative survey of corporate clients once a year. We pay special attention to client’s satisfaction if any of the dozen or so major events occurs (e.g. opening an account, granting a loan, refusal to grant a loan, complaint). In the survey respondents may assess, among others, the quality of channels Responsible approach to sales of filing complaints, availability of our employees and clarity of the responses provided by them. More importantly, we try to reach those employees of the client who are directly involved in cooperation with the [PR DMA, G4-PR1] Another risk which is directly related to the issues raised earlier is the so-called risk of bank and the matter in question. On the one hand, it may be the chief financial officer, and on the other misselling, that is a situation where the clients under the influence of a seller and sometimes incomplete hand, it may be an employee of the accounting department in charge of transfers. Knowledge of client’s information or information misunderstood by them, select products they do not need or do not understand. satisfaction is also useful in planning actions taken to establish a long-term relationship between the client Most often it is a measurable risk for the clients who might not be aware of it (e.g. clients investing in and the bank. It also allows for conducting analyses and taking remedial actions both in terms of product investment funds, enticed with the prospect of a high return on invested capital, may be unaware of the fact portfolio and advisors. that they may lose their savings). For the bank selling products that are not needed and understood by the clients is only an apparent benefit. Although it improves sales statistics on a short-term basis, on the one Opinions of those persons are an invaluable source of information about the expected changes for our hand, it means specific and quantifiable risk (e.g. clients’ failure to fulfil their obligations), and on the other employees. Answers related to quality are of special importance. It is worth stressing that due care taken hand, it leads to the erosion of trust in the bank. This in turn is detrimental to client relationship and in to analyse clients’ opinions and problem-oriented attitude is perceived positively by them – as a result, the long run may result in customer attrition, and hence may have an adverse impact on financial results. more and more clients decide to take part in the survey. Moreover, such an attitude is a pleasant surprise to All the new products, before they are launched on the market, are assessed, among others, in terms of them and they declare that they will recommend mBank’s services to other entrepreneurs. Every piece of reputational risk, including the risk of misseling. information, including negative information, allows us to diagnose problems, identify the reasons behind them and eliminate them. The clients who are willing to share their observations with the bank decided to We developed a user-friendly transactional service, which is very useful for planning household expenditures. devote their time to help mBank become better. Analysis of the category and nature of expenditures allows for managing future payments. We provide the clients with information about their potential expenditures in the nearest future. We warn them that The clients who are willing to share their observations with the bank decided to devote funds accumulated in the accounts will not cover the planned payments. That enables the clients to react their time to help mBank become better. and take actions early enough to avoid the loss of financial liquidity. We are the clients’ partner in managing their money, we provide advice on and assistance in effective funds management. If the clients are temporarily in a difficult financial situation, we offer them optimal solutions adequate to a given situation. Reliable, clear and transparent communication of products [PR DMA, G4-PR1] A safe banking product is a product not containing hidden clauses, developed in a manner that is clear and understandable to the clients, allowing them to make informed decisions. From the perspective of the bank, it is a prerequisite for building lasting relationship with clients, based on trust. It is 24 25 Complaints mBank’s social campaign “You don’t do it in real life? Don’t do it online!” [PR DMA] Procedures governing the processes of handling and analysing complaints, including the key In mid-December 2015, that is in document “Rules of Handling Complaints and Claims at mBank” were developed based on client-focused the hustle and bustle of Christmas values. Treating clients with respect means that every complaint or claim is accepted and handled, which shopping, the first social campaign also involves an obligation to provide a written response to it. promoting online security in the bank’s history, and the first such campaign in Treating clients with respect means that every complaint or claim is accepted and handled, the banking industry, was launched. which also involves an obligation to provide a written response to it. Its purpose is to draw attention to risky online behaviours and their We are trying to monitor the type of complaints on an ongoing basis. If we notice an increase in a given area, consequences. Although more and relevant information is forwarded to a competent organisational unit in order to eliminate irregularities. more devices are connected to the In the case of a failure, information is provided to mLine employees, who can thus inform the clients of Internet, their users are not always temporary problems. aware of the possible threats lurking online. Ex post analyses, which are useful in identification and elimination of the reasons behind complaints, are of key importance. They may result e.g. from problems in processes, products, regulations of special offers or The campaign covers TV ads based IT systems. Apart from eliminating the reasons behind complaints, it is equally important to identify and on the concept of moving risky online eliminate downtime, which needlessly lengthen processes. situations to real life. They are designed to provoke reflection on the way users The clients lodging complaints are clients who wanted to devote their time to share their comments with reveal their data on the Internet and on the bank, as a result of which the bank may become better. In accordance with the underlying principle of how and to whom they give access to this approach, a complaint results from a real problem of the client who expects assistance. It is a problem their devices. waiting to be solved. Furthermore, the approach to solving the problem may be useful in building client relationship. If the clients are treated seriously and as an equal, then despite the occurrence of a problem mBank launched a dedicated service they will perceive the bank better and be more willing to recommend it to their friends and colleagues (mbank.pl/uwazniwsieci), explaining in as a trust-worthy institution. Therefore, such a great importance is attached to the ratios of customers’ a concise way what may pose a threat satisfaction with the complaint process. Complaints may be a chance of solving the already existing to Internet users and why, and how to problems and improving and building trust when it may be at risk. protect oneself from it. Complaints may be a chance of solving the already existing problems and improving For more information go to mBank.pl/uwazniwsieci and building trust when it may be at risk. Protection of client data [PR DMA, G4-PR8] Security of financial transactions depends on the bank and clients. On the one hand, In 2014 -2015 we did not report any justified claims concerning a leak of personal data. security measures applied by the bank are of great importance, on the other hand, prudent behaviour of clients is significant. We regularly update and comprehensively improve the used technological solutions For years we have been running a special service about online security available on our website. that allow us to protect transaction services, mobile applications, as well as other IT resources against hostile Go to https://mbank.pl/bezpieczenstwo to find guidelines for clients and warnings against cyber-attacks. attacks and any unauthorised actions of third parties. We are trying to anticipate the actions of cybercriminals and inform clients of any threats related to attempts made to intercept data. Therefore we conduct information campaigns aimed at making clients aware of how important it is to follow several fundamental principles regarding online security. 26 27 8 Golden security rules Download applications for mobile devices only from official stores: AppStore (for iOS system), Google Play (for Android system), Windows Phone Store or Windows Store (for Windows systems). Software available there is verified, so it Security in electronic banking, including mobile banking, depends not only on the bank, but also on you. guarantees security. To avoid threats, one should act carefully and apply the principle of limited trust. Golden security rules are presented below. Read, print and memorize them! 9 Up-do-date and legal software must be installed on your device: san operating system, an anti-virus software and a recommended browser. Cyber-criminals 1 Carefully read the information and notifications displayed during logging in use software vulnerabilities. Updates of legal software often eliminate such and executing transactions. Keep in mind that criminals can make fake websites, “vulnerabilities,” thus hampering criminal activities. including fake bank websites. If you have noticed something surprising in the layout of mBank’s website or spotted an odd activity, contact us immediately. 10 Carefully read mBank’s warnings against new threats. It will help you avoid problems. We keep you posted on the identified threats. 2 Carefully read text messages, including transaction confirmations. The operations, bank account number and amount provided in the message must be consistent with those ordered by you in the transaction service. Pay attention to the content of text messages received from the bank even if you execute transactions 11 Protect your online security and read the following sections: safe online banking very often. from computer, mobile phone and tablet, safe use of credit cards available at https://www.mbank.pl/bezpieczenstwo/ 3 If any message or element of the transaction or mobile service has raised your doubts – stop the operation and contact mLine consultant or online expert immediately. We are at your disposal 24 hours a day. Compliance with regulations [G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR9] In 2014-2015, by 28 December 2015, the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection (UOKiK) did not make any decisions which would result in imposing penalties on 4 Do not open any suspicious e-mails or attachments. Beware of links in e-mails! our bank. On 28 December 2015, President of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection imposed They may infect your device with malware. That applies to your every e-mail address a penalty of PLN 6,585,493 on our bank for not applying negative LIBOR in calculating interest on loans and all the received e-mails. denominated in CHF. We appealed against this decision by stressing that when the sum of the negative LIBOR and the margin was lower than zero, the loan interest was 0 per cent. At the same time, in order to temporarily mitigate the negative impact of CHF fluctuations, we decided to fulfil the performance in 5 money for the benefit of the clients by reducing their loan principal. However, we stick to the opinion that in Do not open the website of the bank’s transaction service via a link from accordance with law a loan agreement is concluded for pecuniary interest. e-mail or Internet search engine. Cyber-criminals can fake addresses. Use the log in button on the website of mBank.pl or log in directly at: It also should be noted that in May 2015 the Supreme Court granted the cassation appeal concerning “the https://online.mbank.pl/pl/Login. Always check whether the connection stiffed by mBank” case. The Supreme Court also reversed the earlier decision of the Court of Appeals in Łódź is encrypted (whether the lock is displayed before the address). and remanded the case to that court for retrial. Regardless of the court proceedings, mBank participates in negotiations with the representatives of the clients who joined the class action. For a few years now mBank has been offering to change the way of setting the loan interest rate (interest rate based on a fixed margin 6 and LIBOR). mBank is the only Polish bank that sat at the negotiating table with the representatives of the Do not install additional software on a computer, tablet or mobile phone on clients and jointly worked out a compromise solution at the turn of 2009 and 2010. Some of the borrowers request – bear in mind that the bank never asks for it (especially via e-mails, text used it, others decided to present their arguments in court. messages or messages on the bank’s website!). Software or application may be used by cyber-criminals to take control over your device. 7 Bank only using tested devices, avoid logging in on someone else’s computers, tablets or mobile phones. Follow the principle of limited trust. 5 Already in January 2016 – for a detailed justification of mBank’s stance go to http://media.mbank.pl/pr/308005/stanowisko-mbanku-dotyczace-decyzji-uokik 28 29 Availability of financial services Over the last two years, mBank’s mobile application won a large group of new users, and based on a survey of actual needs of the clients, was enriched with a number of new functionalities, which include: Mobility g new section “Deposits”, which makes the deposit offer available via mBank’s mobile application more attractive by offering products on special terms in the mobile tariff dedicated solely to those who downloaded the application. Now, the application users can use offers which so far had only been available [FS13, FS14] IT and mobile technology change our life and the world around us also the banking industry. via the Internet Banking, such as Offer for You or 3-day Deposit In 2000, mBank revolutionized retail banking in Poland. Thanks to technology the working hours of the bank g Mobile mTransfer, which allows clients to pay for their purchases on PayU/Allegro platform in only and the distance to bank’s outlet ceased to matter as the bank is available 24/7. Everyone who had access one click in mBank’s application to the Internet, the coverage of which was getting broader and broader year after year, was able to use the g Currency mPlatform, which allows clients to exchange currencies online in the application modern banking services. Banking services became more available to people with disabilities who could use g Multi-person Authorisation of Transactions, which allows for a „double-check” authorisation the Internet but had trouble visiting the bank’s branch. in the application. This functionality makes it possible to authorise transfers set up on another device g BLIK service, which allows clients to quickly pay for their purchases, make ATM withdrawals and pay As technology develops, access to banking services becomes faster and easier thanks to using mobile online via smartphones devices. At present, it is very convenient for persons having trouble visiting the bank’s outlet to use the Online g Payment of invoices using the QR codes scanning functionality expert service. The clients may choose one out of three forms of contact: video and audio chat, online chat. g NFC payments for Android system available to Orange subscribers Following the current trends, in 2014, mBank focused on the development of mobile banking, at the same g Additional facilities, such as an option to repeat a transfer or answer to a transfer or quick supply time offering an innovative approach to the application introduction process. The mobile application was of account number built from scratch by an mBank expert team, with actual needs of clients in mind. From the very moment of g Change of authorisation limits on payment cards option to change the amount or number of monthly/ its implementation in February 2014, the mobile tool has been available for three major operating systems daily limits covering 99% of the Polish mobile market (Android, iOS and Windows Phone). g mLine in a click, which allows clients to connect to mLine consultants directly from the application, without the need to dial the number manually or log in using one’s client number and telecode The new application has got many new, mobile scenarios, and the newest ones were designed from scratch, which is why they are much simpler and faster (e.g. mBank mobile application was received positively by clients. During the first month, a record-high number of checking the account balance without logging in). mOkazje (mDeals) and PUSH downloads was reported – over 200 thousand. In addition to that, the existing clients’ activity in the mobile notifications informing clients about interesting promotions nearby or about new channel doubled. operations in the account were very well received. Clients quickly took to the “one click” loan and P2P transfers. Thanks to the implemented financial management, The positive reception by clients translated directly into the number of mBank mobile users, turning the clients started to better organise their expenses by categorising, tagging or Bank into Poland’s leading bank in terms of the number of mobile banking clients. mBank mobile application commenting them. is positively assessed not only by experts, but also by its users. At the AppAward 2014 gala the bank won four main awards, out of which three were granted based on the votes of Internet users, and one by the The most important elements of the new mobile banking of mBank: jury. In 2014, Forrester, a research and advisory firm, placed mBank mobile banking among the best three applications in Europe. Moreover, mBank was nominated for Mobile Trends Awards 2014 which are granted g available for the most popular mobile systems: Android, iOS annually to the best mobile solutions. and Windows Phone g fully transactional Over 200 thousand application downloads within a month from the launch of its new version and a doubled g offering security thanks to processes of “pairing” the device mobile activity of existing clients – these examples prove that mBank is a mobile banking icon. and the unique PIN code g providing access to the most important information and offers without the need to log in BLIK service g mobile mOkazje and geo-location of discounts, branches and ATMs g possibility to initiate “push” notifications – new operations, account alerts In February 2015, in its mobile application mBank activated a functionality allowing clients to use mOkazje nearby BLIK service to pay at traditional and online shops and withdraw cash from ATMs. Thanks to this functionality, it is possible to make a payment just using a smartphone with the bank’s mobile g P2P payments via text messages – based on the recipient book and address book in your phone application. BLIK service was activated at the same time by 6 member banks shareholders of Polski g the fastest mobile loan in Poland granted in 30 seconds – ideal for the time spent in a queue Standard Płatności, which operates the BLIK system. at the checkout g elements of Personal Finance Management (PFM) possibility to categorise expenses g possibility to modify the transaction limits in the mobile channel g functionalities for Windows Phone: “tiles” with the account balance and recipients on the desktop, cooperation with maps and navigation applications 30 31 New website The newly opened mBank branches stand out from competitors thanks to modern technological solutions – interactive store front reacting to motion, innovative touch screens which present mBank’s offer in an intuitive way or interesting applications in the children zone. Our branches offer amenities for parents with young children. The first advisory centre opened in June 2014 in Szczecin. In 2015, other advisory centres were opened in Gdynia, Białystok, Kielce, Piła, Tczew, Starogard Gdański. Two “light” branches opened at the Manufaktura shopping mall in Łódź and the Kaskada shopping mall in Szczecin in 2014. In 2015, a new branch opened in Gdynia. In addition, mBank’s network is supported by around 60 mKiosks operated by Aspiro. At present, nearly 70 per cent of mBank’s outlets are free from architectural barriers (wide doors, no stairs), which would make access to the services difficult for people in wheelchairs. Until the end of 2016 such outlets will account for 75 per cent. The typical cash desk furniture in branches is adapted to serving clients standing at the counter, which is a barrier to the people using wheelchairs. Therefore the applicable internal instruction unequivocally stipulates that bank tellers serve the disabled clients in wheelchairs not at the counter, but at a table low enough to allow the clients to talk comfortably with our employees. [FS13, FS14] Since November 2015 mBank’s clients have been using a new information portal. Not only the website layout has changed, but also its content, graphics and functionalities. The new website was designed in line with the RWD (Responsive Web Design) technology, which provides an optimal viewing and Strategic alliances and service availability interaction experience across a wide range of devices used to browse it. The website features a new common login site for clients from all segments, which is particularly important after the merger of mBank and [FS13, FS14] It is our ambition to reach with our offer of financial services to the widest possible group of Multibank and symbolically marks the end of the process. clients. Remote access, mobility, a network of own branches is supplemented with cooperation with partners with complementary competence. The website designers also kept in mind the needs of blind users or those with poor eyesight. New websites were adjusted to the needs of this group of clients and designed in line with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. One Network Project of mBank Aspiro, a subsidiary of mBank, being a shareholder of BRE Ubezpieczenia Towarzystwo Ubezpieczeń i Reasekuracji S.A. (BRE Ubezpieczenia TUiR), sold its shares in 2015 to AXA Group. At the same time mBank Group and AXA Group initiated cooperation on distributing insurance products for life and property insurance. As a result, our clients may use an extended offer, gaining access to the most innovative insurance products, offered through the electronic and mobile platforms as well as through traditional branches. This was yet another step to full exploitation of the potential of the Internet and mobile mBank platforms. [FS13, FS14] Although it was mobility and new technologies that allowed us to develop a unique business model, which has been mBank’s distinctive feature until the present day, mBank has also traditional branches. We have been actively developing our network so as to better meet the needs of our clients. In 2014 we also initiated a strategic alliance with Orange Polska. The bank’s offer available in Orange network We try to locate our branches in places frequently visited by clients e.g. shopping malls. Under the strategy was addressed mainly to present and potential Orange clients, both individuals and SMEs. The main objective approved in 2012, mBank is implementing the One Network Project. Separate retail and corporate branches was to deliver a comprehensive spectrum of financial products which would be available with the use of will be replaced by advisory competence centres while the so called “light” branches will open in shopping mobile devices and an Internet platform. The bank provides banking solutions (such as a banking licence, malls. The advisory centres will be available in all cities where mBank currently operates its branches. a modern mobile and Internet banking platform and banking know-how), whereas Orange is in charge of They are usually located in modern buildings that could be easily accessed by the disabled. marketing and sales. Thanks to cooperation with the Polish Post our clients, this time SMEs, may deposit takings in accounts at our bank in around nine thousand postal offices in Poland. 32 33 Mathematical education We believe that mathematics is the foundation of logical thinking. We want to develop and stimulate mathematical reasoning, and prove that the ability to calculate effectively is interesting and necessary in everyday life. [SO DMA, G4-SO1, FS16] Different types of financial education programmes, executed by different institutions on the financial market are valuable and necessary. They give hope that within a few or a dozen or so years Children, young people, teachers and parents are the beneficiaries of the actions supported by our social awareness and knowledge about financial services will change for the better. This in turn will translate foundation. into better understanding of banking and insurance products, and as a consequence to more conscious and rational decisions made by clients. Elementary schools, secondary schools, NGOs, universities and public libraries may apply for subsidizing as part of the foundation’s programmes. All projects supported by the foundation are used to increase the level The mBank Foundation of efficiency of mathematical education in Poland. Key area of activity: supporting mathematical education mFoundation contributed PLN 1.93 m in 2014, PLN 1.95 m in 2015 to mathematical education. “m for mathematics” Strategy for the years 2014-2016 3 key programmes mFoundation provides one-time financial support to the development of projects in the scope of mathematics and mathematics-related education. Applications for subsidies may be submitted throughout the whole year and are processed once a month. mFoundation supported 22 different mathematical projects in 2014 and mFoundation’s “mPower” “Masters of Mathematics” 48 projects in 2015, which reached over 60,000 students, teachers and parents both in 2014 and in 2015. subsidies grant programme scholarship support programme The subsidies of mFoundation allowed to develop local and countrywide projects. Among others we can mention the 10th and 11th edition of the Mathematical Olympiad of Secondary School Pupils, international 70 94 15 scholarship photo competition “Mathematics in focus” organised by Institute of Mathematics of Szczecin University, projects projects programmes or the Internet Competition for Secondary School Students Mathematics organised by the Faculty financed financed supported of Mathematics and Information Science of Warsaw University of Technology. Ca. 120 thousand nearly 16 thousand 239 beneficiaries participants scholarships financed We want to develop and encourage mathematical reasoning, to show young Poles that mathematics Another initiative of mFoundation is a grant programme “mPower” executed in cooperation with the Good is not only interesting but also necessary in everyday life. Network Foundation (Fundacja Dobra Sieć). The purpose of “mPower” is to develop mathematical skills in the younger generation by inspiring teachers, parents and enthusiasts of mathematics to seek creative and attractive ways of learning the world of numbers by children and young people. Schools, social organisations, When you look at the unsatisfactory level of financial knowledge from a wider perspective it turns out that colleges, libraries and non-formal groups (student research clubs, parent councils) represented by a partner one of the key problems is the growing gap in teaching science. Lack of basic knowledge and skills connected organisation may apply for grants worth PLN 2 to 8 thousand. with basic math limit the effectiveness of operations from the area of financial education, executed by other institutions. The gap hinders not only the development of knowledge necessary to make conscious financial decisions, but is also an obstacle to gain science education, including technical education, the lack of which is visible on the labour market in Poland. Looking at the issue comprehensively, beyond the banking area, we decided to focus on mathematical education. When you look at the unsatisfactory level of financial knowledge from a wider perspective it turns out that one of the key problems is the growing gap in teaching science. Actions connected with social engagement are executed by the mBank Foundation (mFoundation). The mBank Foundation, established as BRE Bank Foundation in 1994, was one of the first corporate foundations in the banking sector. The mission of mFoundation is to support programmes aimed at enhancing education and quality of life through actions coherent with the image and policy of mBank. In November 2013, a new direction was set for the development of the foundation for 2014-2016. In line with the “m for mathematics” (“m jak matematyka”) strategy, mFoundation focuses its efforts on supporting mathematical education. The new strategy was pursued through three flagship activities: subsidies, “mPower” (“mPotęga”) grant programme and “Masters of Mathematics” (“Mistrzowie matematyki”) scholarship programme. 34 35 The pilot edition of the programme was launched in March 2014 in Masovian and Łódź provinces. Grants worth a total of PLN 200 thousand were given out to 33 schools and NGOs, and mathematical projects reached 5.5 thousand persons. The second edition covered additional 7 provinces: Greater Poland, KuyavianPomeranian, Pomeranian, West Pomeranian, Warmian-Masurian, Lubusz and Lower Silesian. They were selected based on the results of lower secondary and secondary school final exams in provinces with the lowest scores chosen to join the programme. In 2015, grants worth a total of nearly PLN 355 thousand were given out to 61 schools and NGOs. The Foundation is also running a “Masters of Mathematics” programme, addressed to non-governmental organisations which offer scholarship programmes as part of their statutory activity. These organisations may apply for subsidizing scholarships for pupils or students outstandingly talented in the field of mathematics. In total, in the first and second edition of the programme the foundation assigned nearly PLN 750 thousand for scholarships for over 220 outstandingly talented, young mathematicians. For more information on the foundation’s activities go to mFundacja.pl We want to be a responsible lender 36 37 Key success measures for 2016-2020 Responsible approach to restructuring and debt collection activities in business measure (KPI) milestone 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (MS) / Sometimes clients have financial problems. The role of the bank is to search for solutions which allow to measure (M) regain the lost potential by a company, while protecting capital entrusted by the deponents. If only the Number of major social or M 0 0 0 0 0 client shows the will of cooperation, we always try to find a constructive solution. We develop mitigation environmental conflicts in which mBank, being a financial institution, plans and strictly monitor operations of enterpreneurs but at the same time we maintain a flexible approach. participates indirectly Partnership and trust are of key importance here. While supporting the client in restructuring actions, we do not interfere in the merit side of the business, but we provide support in the management and financial area. Similarly, a comprehensive approach to the problem is present in the case of individual clients, facing Liability in financing financial problems. We often adopt a non-standard approach, being aware of the fact that every account number represents a person we should understand. This means openness to dialogue. A great part of cases [d. FS1, d. FS2, d. FS3] As a commercial institution we are obliged to generate shareholder value. Our company of credit instalment default is a result of forgetting. Therefore, in the case of lack of timely payment we first is managed in the spirit of social responsibility, so that the profit is developed taking into account the social, remind the borrower about the fact. If the problem is more serious and due to his/her personal situation the economic, environmental and ethical aspects. Therefore, we try to limit the support for companies which are client is not able to make a payment (e.g. job loss or loss of an important contract in the case of a sole trader), controversial from the social perspective. Apart from the standard mechanisms of business risk assessment we are trying to offer solutions which are convenient for the client, e.g. grace period, lowering the instalment for the banking sector, which as part of the reputation risk assessment take into account some social and and simultaneously extending the lending period. Early diagnosis and flexibility often allows to avoid hasty environmental threats, we decided not to finance companies which conduct a business activity that violates decisions, which may result in entering a loan trap (e.g. incurring expensive express cash loans, to repay the any of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. At the end of 2015 we have formally adopted a “Policy instalment at the bank). on providing services and financing to entities operating in areas that are particularly sensitive in terms of mBank’s reputation risk”, which assumes limiting the provision of services to companies, which run business: We often adopt a non-standard approach, being aware of the fact that every account number g on the basis of child labour, forced labour, bonded labour connected with forced resettlement or blatantly represents a person we should understand. infringing human rights in any other way; g focused on economic exploitation of valuable natural areas under protection (including the Arctic), Many clients with whom the bank develops corrective and restructuring actions are persons who reported and resort to gross violation of environmental regulations; the potential problem by themselves. In their case they did not have any problems with loan repayment. We g that threatens world heritage sites. consider the practice of contacting the bank in the case of problems to be the best solution. It does not leave any traces in credit history and allows to identify the problem at an early stage. Such clients may always Limitations applied in the credit process and when opening accounts. They concern new clients and new count on our support and cooperation. There are also clients who do everything the other way around, i.e. not financing of present clients, including also rollovers, as of 1 January 2016. only they do not react to the bank’s attempts to contact them, but they are trying to hide out from the bank. Unfortunately, cases which cannot be resolved amicably are finally directed to the court and then to a bailiff. We decided not to finance companies which conduct a business activity that violates We put great emphasis on selecting reliable law offices and bailiffs for cooperation. any of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compactto which we are a signatory6. Such an approach to client problems is a value in itself. Understanding the clients and their problems results Regardless of the solutions described above, resulting from the policy of servicing and financing entities in a well structured loan, not only it does not ruin the partner relation, but in fact it strengthens it. Clients, who conducting business activity in the areas that are particularly sensitive in terms of mBank’s reputation risk, was treated right, regain not only financial liquidity, but also faith in the financial institution with which they also other procedures indirectly take into account the impact of the client’s business activity on the social signed an agreement. and natural environment. In the case of financing e.g. industrial investments, formal requirements are above all verified, i.e. whether a given investment has the legally binding decisions and consents issued by the right administration authorities. We employ a technical advisor or demand that one is employed, ensuring the investment process, monitoring the process on an ongoing basis. Therefore, this presents a chance of fast identification of irregularities, also when they concern social and environmental aspects. This translates into the possibility of intervening. At the stage of drawing up the credit report, before concluding an agreement with the client, as part of the assessment of the market environment, our representative may indicate the threats including the social and environmental risks. The analyst assessing the risk may in justified cases increase the decision making level, and the case may reach as high as the Management Board through the Credit Committee. 6 In November 2015 mBank declared its readiness to observe the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and was officially approved as member of the initiative after the date of this report, i.e. in March 2016. 38 39 Key success measures for 2016-2020 measure (KPI) milestone 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (MS) / measure (M) results of the M >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from >100% from Employee the previous the previous the previous the previous the previous Engagement period period period period period Survey (assessment of workplace satisfaction) Workplace [LA DMA] Most important issues connected with management are set in the “Work Rules at mBank”, “Remuneration Rules at mBank S.A.” and “Rules on awarding bonuses to mBank S.A. employees”. They are supplemented by procedures connected with recruitment, development actions, or the employee evaluation process. [G4-LA2] At mBank we are trying to provide employees with fair employment terms, in every aspect. We guarantee the payment of all type of commissions, rewards and bonuses resulting from employee evaluation levels. We ensure friendly work environment (it was not by accident that the provision condemning any form of discrimination was placed as first in the “Work Rules at mBank”). We also offer our employees a wide range of fringe benefits. Most of them are happy to use private medical care and Multisport card, which are in part funded by the bank. Employees are also using the possibility to purchase medical care or Multisport card for their closest ones. They also have the possibility of joining a group life insurance, partly funded by the bank. We want to build an exceptional team, The Employee Benefits Fund allows to support current employees and those who have retired and for whom mBank was the last employer. Such support is available to employees or their closest ones who are in competence and skills. We want to share a difficult personal situation (e.g. sickness). In justified cases we finance e.g. periodic medical care (medical pre-paid package) to our retired employees. The same fund is used to finance repair loans, partly fund what’s best about us with others. employee holidays, finance sporting and recreation as well as cultural and educational activities. We want to be unique. We do not differentiate employees due to the type of employment contract all employees (employed for a trial period, for a fixed term, for a fixed term of substitution as well as trainees and interns) have access to the aforementioned fringe benefits. The Young Talents Programme The Young Talents Programme is mBank’s response to current and future needs of the organisation and expectations of candidates students and graduates. On the one hand trainees and interns provide valuable assistance in everyday work, on the other hand, working at the bank allows them to gain professional experience. The assumptions of the programme are a result of well thought-out actions, meeting the current and forecast recruitment needs of the bank (i.e. one of the strategic initiatives of the bank for 2012-2017, concerning inflow of young people into the organisation). We pay remuneration for internships and traineeships and their participants are employed under an employment contract. 40 41 Internships have a revolving nature, allowing interns to get familiar with a few areas of the bank. It has all started 20 years ago when a group of mBank employees identified co-workers with whom During the internship which lasts from 10 to 12 months participants have a chance to get familiar with they could develop their hobbies. That was how mBank Club was established, with its first section at least three organisational units. Interns are employed full time and work at the head office in Łódź the skiing section. Currently the Club consists of over 30 sections with 1200 members who throughout and Warsaw. the year improve their skills together in a given field. We encourage such activeness by annually subsidising activities, promoting activities in sections and publicizing numerous successes achieved by For the entire year a few dozen organisational units and branches offer cooperation to students, these its members. include i.e. retail, corporate and investment banking departments, marketing, audit, HR, controlling, logistics and many other departments. A traineeship may last from 3 to 12 months. A flexible Apart from a skiing, tennis, triathlon or volleyball sections, employees also share their passions such traineeship plan allows to combine experience at the bank with studies. as: cooking, board games, fishing and similar activities. In addition, some sections go a step further and get involved in charity works. In 2014 the running section started the “Let’s run together for others” As part of the Young Talents Programme we employed 15 interns and 89 trainees in 2014 and 18 initiative. mFoundation contributed PLN 2 for every kilometre run by mBank employees. The amount is trainees and 80 trainees in 2015. In the third edition over 70 per cent of interns of the rotary internship then forwarded to non-government organisations indicated by the runners. Employees report the runs programme were presented with a cooperation offer (participation in internal recruitment process at in which they participated either under the aegis of mBank or individually on an ongoing basis street mBank Group). On average every second person who completed an internship in 2015 was employed. runs, mountain runs, starting from 5km, through half marathons, ending with marathons. Culture of openness and focus on development For us development is much more than just training activities. It is a comprehensive approach in which the following aspects are complementary: learning through gaining experience, sharing knowledge and obtaining it from co-workers as well as the trainings mentioned following a formula 70-20-10. [G4-LA10] mBank is made up of people. They take actions, make decisions, develop plans and strategies, The range of development tools is very wide, starting with traditional forms, ending with non-standard introduce innovations, create networks and business solutions. Every day thousands of people implement actions. Typical forms of development actions are internal and external trainings, Insight Discovery and fulfil the vision of a bank like no other. Our people are exceptional also as individuals with passions workshops (allowing to optimise the work of teams and cooperation of their members), or off-site and interesting hobbies pursued in leisure time. The managers want the employees to develop and to be workshops (improving communication, developing organisational culture). At the same time, apart from satisfied with their work at mBank. Therefore, they provide them with the opportunities and support in development group activities, employees are individually directed to specialist training, courses and developing their skills, ensuring a suited package of training sessions and numerous managerial, sales and certified exams (e.g. ACCA, CFA, CIA, brokerage exams), postgraduate studies, MBA studies, trainings for communication skills development programmes. At the same time we put a lot of effort into creating legal advisers or coaching. a special corporate culture based on mBank values which constitute the foundations of philosophy of running our business in its every dimension. Voluntary activities also play an important role in educating our employees. Helping others is a chance to gain valuable skills. It involves cooperation, project management, but also developing such important traits Every day thousands of people implement and fulfil the vision of a bank like no other. as humbleness. These types of actions are launched during every team building event. Focus on a particular problem and selection of a right, often nonstandard tool is key from the perspective mBank Clubs and work-life balance of development activities and it should contribute to solving the problem. We acknowledge the role of good relations of employees in effective cooperation and company development, but we also have a sense of how important it is to keep the right work-life “Our people make the difference” programme balance. Being fully aware of the fact that focusing merely on work is effective only in the short-term, but in the long“Our people make the difference” programme supports a “One Team” initiative, inspired directly term it leads to professional burnout, and understanding by our strategy. The aim of the programme is to promote employees who stand out because of the importance of our private life, for years we have been professionalism of their actions, collaborative attitude and open communication manner. It serves to encouraging employees to keep the right balance. build the awareness of a single coherent organisation which appreciates an attitude consistent with mBank’s values as well as the quality of performed work. An example of effective and proactive response to the need to get away from daily work-related problems was launching The programme allows us to recognise and promote employees who: mBank Clubs. Activity in mBank Clubs allows to maintain g cherish mBank’s values with their actions and attitude detachment from work and to concentrate on ones passion g inspire others to take action with their attitude after work. It is also a form of coping with stress. g are ahead of our time with their thinking and ideas g continually learn and expand their horizons 42 43 g demonstrate exceptional commitment which goes beyond their standard responsibilities the organisation. We place great emphasis on mBank’s values. New employees also get familiar with g contribute to implementing innovative solutions the intranet, where they can find information most useful during their first days at work. They are presented with a development policy, the rule of sharing knowledge within the organisation. During an introductory workshop participants are divided into groups and jointly solve the tasks assigned. In addition, winners of recent editions of development programmes who as part of the award for their achievements took part in a training and development programme abroad, e.g. USA, Japan, are presented to the participants of onboarding. Annual employee engagement survey is of key importance for planning activities in the area of human resources management. Its results tell most about satisfaction at work and the work atmosphere. An interesting element of the survey is delivering ideas which will improve work or other anonymous feedback by employees to organisational units with which they cooperate. We try to encourage employees to share their views, ideas and knowledge. A great example of this is the “Knowledge Sharing Programme”. Employee nominations for the programme are announced once a year for each edition of the programme. Knowledge Sharing Programme in the organisation Employees are recognised in both individual and team categories. Successful employees are provided with special development opportunities, designed separately for each edition. These may include: Since 2013 we have been initiating activities in the area of knowledge sharing. We organised g uparticipation in Executive Education programmes abroad campaigns to encourage knowledge exchange, promote departments and projects which have been g participation in prestigious training programmes, conferences in Poland and abroad launched at the bank. Year 2015 is a moment of handing over the initiative to employees. We created g participation in off-site development and training events combined with on-site visits to world a tool for communicating and organising knowledge sharing meetings. At the same time as part of leaders from the banking and finance sectors, etc. internal communication we promote this type of attitude, presenting specific engaged persons. The tool provides information about knowledge-sharing employees and those using the solutions offered, who become the beneficiaries of those ideas. Development actions support employees at every step of their career. New employees who have just joined the bank have an assigned guide who introduces them to the company. Even interns undergo an introductory training, during which they gain information on procedures, products, on how the bank Dzielenie się wiedzą operates, including the history of our bank. On the other hand, at the end of each year managers take part in conversations about their goals for the next year and plans focused on development actions. An integrated knowledge management system assumes the use of intranet solutions (browser, employee profile, map of knowledge flow in the organisation). LYNC communicator is also helpful. Onboarding, that is introduction of a new employee The strategy for managing knowledge at mBank is based on global practices and the experience of Polish corporates which introduced similar solutions and shared knowledge about this issue. First days at work are an extremely important period – it is a time when you get to know the In 2015 during knowledge sharing meetings, employees managed to train as many as 2600 of their organisation, the team, and you get accustomed to new tasks. This might sometimes be challenging colleagues (in 2014 about 1000). The same year, 7500 employees underwent training sessions and we try to do our best in supporting newcomers in the adaptation process. organised by internal trainers. Introduction of an employee includes actions aimed at providing him/her not only with information on the organisation, but also with the necessary tools and support. The immediate supervisor and the guide appointed for the new employee play the key role in this process, as they offer support in all cases connected with the adaptation in the new team. It is them who take care of preparing and equipping the workplace, present the new employee to the team and direct co-workers, familiarise him/her with processes, procedures and service of systems allowing for effective performance of tasks, set the scope of obligations and then monitor the work on an ongoing basis. As part of the adaptation process, new employees are invited to a few hour introductory workshop, during which they get to know, among others, the values of the organisation as well as the development policy, remuneration policy and the principles of communication inside 44 45 Employee Volunteer Projects at mBank A joint field of study developed with Accenture and the University of Łódź The program was developed in 2009 as a result of our employees expectations. The Employee Volunteer Projects Programme „Let’s do something good together” is to facilitate taking on actions by the employees for local communities. It allows to encourage successive persons to selflessly take on activities for the benefit of others. We provide the volunteers with merit-based, organisational and financial support. The programme is addressed to all employees and is conducted in the form of a grant-awarding competition. The field of study called “Digital Banking and Finance” was established as a reply to the need reported Employees may propose and engage in actions resulting from the interest in social problems in their by mBank and Accenture for specialists from the area of finance with highly developed digital skills. communities. They can submit their projects three time a year. The projects may include children’s homes, As a result of combining these qualifications the graduates of this field of study having in-depth nursing homes, social care centres, community centres, public schools, hospitals, kindergartens, animal knowledge, skills and social competence from the area of finance, will be able to understand digital shelters, foundations and associations. The decision on awarding the grant is made by a chapter composed technology. of representatives of the bank and mFoundation. In every competition a maximum of 10 project are selected, out of which every project can be granted PLN 2500. So far 100 initiatives have been funded. In 2014 their Following the example of the largest world companies, such as Microsoft, Audi or Intel, mBank also number reached 21, and in 2015 5. 163 and 25 volunteers respectively participated in the execution of those wants to cooperate closely with the academic community. This field of study was launched in October initiatives employees along with their families and friends. In 2014 volunteers, among other things, supported 2015 and is conducted in the form of 3-year Bachelor Degree studies. After a year and a half the an association for the disabled, made repairs in four orphanages, rebuilt the pen and a room for the care of students will be able to choose from two specialities: Banking 3.0 and IT in Finance. A key role in coanimals in animal shelters, and organised educational activities in the field of economics and mathematics development of the field of study is played by the employees of mBank Group and Accenture, who in primary schools. One of the volunteer projects proposed and executed by managers consisted of preparing run part of the practical exercises and lectures. Teaching this course is a chance for the employees to meals for the homeless. The project at the same time became a non-standard development tool for this group develop, share knowledge and confront skills with the academic community. of employees. In 2015, volunteers helped to organise a competition popularising mathematics among children living in a children’s home, and workshops on saving money, banking and planning for scouts. They also renovated a playground in a small children’s home, and organised educational activities in economics and maths in primary schools. Focus on development, promoting an open culture, but also, or perhaps above all, focus on the client and his need all of these aspects are part of the planning and employee appraisal system. It allows to concentrate Our employees selected the three best edtions of the volunteer projects. Winners received a financial reward efforts of thousands of employees on strategic goals of the organisation. In practice this means providing from PLN 1000 to PLN 3000 for any purchase for the benefit of the project awarded. managers with tools supporting team management (delegating and monitoring the performance of tasks, feedback on attitudes and behaviour). Employees in turn receive a clear set of the assessment criteria of their Engagement in the volunteer programme allows employees to develop team work skills, to face individual work and clear information on the priority tasks and the manner of their performance. The appraisal is also a weaknesses and step out of their comfort zone. Above all it is very satisfying to employees. Volunteers meet starting point for the discussion of the manager and the employee about the perspectives and development specific needs of the beneficiaries. They devote their time, skills, knowledge and experience. It is our ambition in the organisation. to encourage employees to take on long-term actions, to use their expert knowledge (also non-professional) in the actions taken and to undertake educational initiatives in the area of mathematics and economy. This way [G4-56] The planning and employee appraisal system allows to gradually transfer strategic goals to help becomes more effective, and its social value becomes greater. This translates into strategic management successive levels of the organisational structure (Management by Objectives). The objectives of the which assumes developing economic value through concentrating on key skills. management board are translated into objectives of directors, directors delegate these tasks to managers and managers assign them to employees in particular teams. Every objective, regardless of its quantitative or qualitative nature, has clearly defined measurement, constituting criteria for its proper performance. Ergonomics and security Moreover, the area of the employees attitudes and behaviour, where mBank values and clearly defined expectations as to the work culture and manners of conduct (Model of Values and Behaviour of mBank Group) are the reference point. Five values have been broken down into 15 categories of behaviour expected from [LA DMA] We want to provide our employees with the right work conditions. A workplace should be safe employees (10) and managers (additional 5). Introduction of the assessment of aspects connected with and friendly. The occupational health and safety regulations set forth such requirements. Our innovative attitudes and behaviour is a result of constant system improvement. The “Model of Values and Behaviour of approach to the issue of safety is related to work and life balance. This is why, we focus so much on mBank Group” project was initiated in 2014, and the evaluation of attitudes and behaviour was first made non-standard activities, such as voluntary work or innovative development activities. during the appraisal for 2015, executed in the first quarter. [G4-LA5] The Committee for Health and Safety at Work is responsible for guaranteeing all the employed Once a year objectives are evaluated, and employees receive feedback from their managers about the effects (100%) safe and healthy work conditions. The Committee is an advisory and consultative body to the of his/her work and the manner of performing tasks. This is the moment when the manager appreciates the Management Board. The tasks of the Committee include the review of the work conditions in all the strengths and indicates the areas on which the employee should focus and develop. In this task the feedback organisational units of the bank, periodical assessment of occupational health and safety and the issue of from the co-workers of the employee is of great help. conclusions on the improvement of work conditions. 46 47 Prevention of unethical behaviour entities support in counteracting corruption behaviour, also training. We maintain the register of proceedings instigated against corruption. All identified corruption incidents or corruption attempts will be punished in accordance with the “zero tolerance” rule. Within 2014-2015, the Compliance Department did not identify [G4-56, SO DMA] Our management approach to prevention of unethical behaviour is regulated by a few any incidents bearing the hallmarks of corruption. policies, including mainly: The adopted solutions for counteracting conflicts of interest guarantee equal treatment of clients, and g Anti-Corruption Policy at mBank S.A. assure that neither mBank nor its employees or other persons linked to mBank benefit or avoid losses at g Gift Policy at mBank S.A. the expense of the interests of mBank’s clients. In the case when the conflict of interest takes place or may g Anti-Fraud Policy at mBank S.A. take place, the interests of the bank and its clients have priority over the employee’s interests, and the g Policy of Managing Conflicts of Interest at mBank S.A. interests of its clients have priority over the bank’s interests. These regulations reflect the rules included in the codes of ethics. However, due to the detailed nature of the The bank sets up information barriers in order to restrict the flow of inside information, and information provisions, a few separate documents were adopted to regulate these issues, which gives them appropriately about the bank’s clients and their transactions. The Compliance Department is informed in writing or via high priority. The Compliance Department is responsible for management of areas covered by the said policies. encrypted e-mail of any identified or potential conflicts of interests related with the activities of a given organizational unit or its employees. DC conducts analyses of reported conflicts of interest and issues Fraud is a deliberate use of an official position or status of mBank’s client or counterparty in order to receive recommendations on the procedure to be applied in a given case. Reports on the occurrence or the possibility unauthorised benefits to the detriment of mBank or its clients. The category includes frauds related to of occurrence of conflicts of interests are archived. We want to reduce our environmental footprint payments or securities, fraudulent banking transactions, electronic banking frauds, credit frauds, theft, embezzlement of assets or abuse of trust, money laundering, unauthorised access, manipulation or destruction of IT systems, industrial espionage or unauthorised transactions, business and trade practices. The applicable solutions are based on a „zero tolerance” rule towards frauds or attempts to commit them by both the bank employees as well as its clients and counterparties. The applicable solutions are based on a „zero tolerance” rule towards frauds committed or fraud attempts made by both the bank employees as well as its clients and counterparties. We maintain a central data base on frauds, organise training in fraud-prevention and early recognition of fraud symptoms for selected employees. Each employee is obliged to inform his/her supervisor about harboured suspicions or use an electronic system that guarantees anonymity. At the same time, it is forbidden to provoke any acts of retaliation against an employee reporting in good faith suspected fraud or breach of internal regulations. Employees terminating their employment with mBank can share their opinion on their work at the exit interview, also with regard to the observed frauds (their participation in the exit interview is voluntary). The fight against corruption is an integral part of the system designed to combat any fraudulent actions that could jeopardise the assets and reputation of the bank. In addition, thanks to its measures against money laundering and terrorism financing, the bank mitigates the risk of being misused for the purpose of processing payments involving ill-gotten funds. Internal regulations specify in detail the rules for giving and accepting gifts. Accepting gifts from the bank’s counterparties is forbidden except for holiday gifts considered standard in business relationships. The value of gifts should not exceed PLN 200. Similar rules refer to giving gifts by our employees. Accepting or giving a gift of higher value requires relevant consent and is documented in the gift register. [G4-SO6] Particular attention is given to offering any kind of benefits to government officials, representatives of public institutions, civil servants, public sector or local government workers, as well as politicians. Any activities of this type are forbidden and stigmatised. We are also completely apolitical. [G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5] Within the relevant systems of internal control, all (100%) organisational units, areas of the bank’s operation and job positions are subject to periodical controls covering business processes that are vulnerable to corruption to the greatest extent. In practice, it translates into several dozen planned or ad hoc inspections annually. We also guarantee all the employees, including managerial staff or cooperating 48 49 Key success measures for 2016-2020 measure (KPI) milestone 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (MS) / measure (M) Reducing bank’s environmental M      footprint with respect to: CO2 emission / revenue water consumption / revenue paper consumption / revenue [EN-DMA] Our operation and its environmental footprint refers mainly to work performed in offices and branches, supported by developed IT infrastructure, which in practice translates into high demand for energy and stationery, mainly paper. As far as energy consumption is concerned, the consumption of electric energy is crucial, mainly by the bank’s IT infrastructure and its cooling systems, thanks to which the online bank operates. Office operation, except for the consumption of electric energy, is related to demand for heat, which in some cases is acquired from natural gas, and sometimes from district heating networks. Branches use water, discharge sewage and waste, but not in volumes that should be considered significant. Apart from this, our work means the need to relocate. Locating our key facilities in Warsaw and Łódź in practice translates into relatively frequent business trips between these two cities. The duties of some employees include visiting clients, which involves the use of company cars and consequently, fuel consumption. Although our direct footprint is relatively low compared with that of selected bank’s clients, if we expect our borrowers to be eco-friendly and reduce their environmental footprint wherever possible, we oblige ourselves to undertake actions which reduce our environmental footprint. In order to optimise the use of fuels by the company fleet and, in consequence, reduce related CO2 emission, we decided to impose restrictions on the users of company cars. Among other things, we have introduced refuelling limits, limiting both litres of fuel per employee in a given month and the amount an employee is reimbursed in this respect; we have blocked the possibility of refuelling in weekends, bank holidays, and We want to reduce our holidays as well as we have limited the possibility of refuelling to selected petrol stations. Furthermore, GPS devices monitoring the use of cars and fuel are gradually being installed in the company vehicles. environmental footprint In the case of pool cars, i.e. cars used by more than one employee, a dedicated smartphone applications has been introduced for driver authorisation, which facilitates the settlement of fuel costs and makes it more transparent. As regards a reduction in the use of stationery, which in practice translates into the reduction of the printout volume, the most important activities include, among others, introduction of electronic receipt of fixed assets in Moja Strefa (My Zone) application (elimination of the need to printout and sign paper forms) and electronic stocktaking (replacing paper forms with the possibility to confirm the fact of being in possession of a given fixed asset via the system). We have replaced paper forms for settling business trips and arduous collection of signatures with an online approval in an IT system. The Correspondence Circulation System is based at present on electronic confirmations and lists registered in the application, instead of storing and archiving printouts at a given branch. The huge reduction in the volume of printouts in 2015 was also due to introduction of printout monitoring and duplex printing by default. We have also optimised printing devices used in mCO in Łódź, introducing at the same time printout monitoring; i.e. at the end of 2014 we have withdrawn desktop printers, scanners and fax machines from use. As a result, approx. 150 devices of various types were replaced with 38 devices that are multi-functional to a large extent. 50 51 Key success measures for 2016-2020 measure (KPI) milestone 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (MS) / measure (M) position in the Ranking of M minimum 8th minimum 5th minimum 5th minimum 4th minimum 3th Responsible Companies (among (among (among (among (among (guaranteeing a high financial financial financial financial financial position among institutions) institutions) institutions) institutions) institutions) institutions from the financial sector) listed in the RESPECT M     Index Ongoing development is not only our ambition, but also a business necessity. This is why we want our bank to become one of the social responsibility leaders of the Polish banking sector and join the circle of RESPECT Index listed companies. Our aim is to tighten the procedures for social responsibility management in the supply chain. We have initiated the process that will gradually increase participation of business partners cooperating with us under the rules of responsible management. The issues related to various aspects of responsibility are provided for both at the level of a provider, as well as contractual provisions guaranteeing the right to audit with the possibility of terminating an agreement in the case of gross irresponsibility of the provider. We are going to cyclically publish non-financial reports which in the following years will include a greater number of mBank Group subsidiaries. We want to improve our management approach. We want to develop 52 53 [G4-17] Subsidiaries and fellow subsidiaries consolidated in the financial statements of mBank Group Subsidiaries and fellow subsidiaries Entities included Entities included Entities included in consolidated in the financial statements in the financial in the financial the report on social of Budimex Group statements for 2014 statements for 2015 responsibility mBank S.A.    mLeasing Sp. z o.o.   mBank Hipoteczny S.A.   Dom Maklerski mBanku S.A.   mFaktoring S.A.   Aspiro S.A.   mWealth Management S.A.   mCentrum Operacji Sp. z o.o.   BDH Development Sp. z o.o   mLocum S.A.   Garbary S.A.   mFinance France S.A.   Tele-Tech Investment Sp. z o.o  MLV 45 Sp. z o.o. Sp. k.  BRE Ubezpieczenia TUiR S.A.  BRE Ubezpieczenia Sp. z o.o.  BRE Agent Ubezpieczeniowy Sp. z o.o.  AWL I Sp. z o.o.  [G4-10] Employment at the end of the year7. Tables with non-financial data Women 2013 Men in total Women 2014 Men in total Women 2015 Men in total for a definite period 1020 619 1639 1144 698 1842 1165 716 1881 for an indefinite 2272 1618 3890 2307 1630 3937 2496 1793 4289 period working full-time 2591 1912 4503 2699 1995 4694 2861 2092 4953 working part-time 794 384 1178 886 435 1321 900 483 1383 under the age of 30 941 587 1528 988 600 1588 1066 647 1713 30-50 years old 2184 1566 3750 2311 1665 3976 2433 1772 4205 above the age of 50 260 143 403 286 165 451 262 156 418 In total 3385 2296 5681 3585 2430 6015 3761 2575 6336 7 the data refer to mBank S.A. employees only. They do not include information on the employees of subsidiaries and employees of subcontractors working under the supervision of mBank S.A. employees. 54 55 [G4-LA1] Employees hired at or leaving the company [G4-EC6, G4-LA12] Men vs. women in management and supervisory boards 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total Employees hired management board under the age of 30 241 155 396 396 294 690 325 244 569 under the age of 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30-50 years old 0 5 5 0 5 5 0 5 5 30-50 years old 141 104 245 190 183 373 250 226 476 above the age of 50 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 above the age of 50 5 8 13 5 8 13 22 8 30 including foreigners 0 2 2 0 2 2 0 2 2 Employees leaving the company rada nadzorcza under the age of 30 203 157 360 286 198 484 268 232 500 under the age of 30w 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 30-50 years old 221 165 386 226 187 413 395 300 695 30-50 years old 0 2 2 1 0 1 1 0 1 above the age of 50 17 22 39 28 12 40 24 10 34 above the age of 50 1 9 10 1 10 11 1 9 10 fluctuation ratio 6,81% 4,70% 11,51% 8,98% 6,60% 15,58% 9,71% 7,21% 16,92% including foreigners 0 6 6 0 6 6 0 5 5 [G4-LA9] Training participants by gender8 [G4-11] Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Women Men in total Women Men in total mBank S.A. 0% 0% 0% The average 2,8 3,5 3,1 2,7 3,6 3,1 number of training [G4-LA13] Relation of remuneration of women to remuneration of men (in the same remuneration brackets) days (excluding initial training 2013 2014 2015 The average 22,3 28,1 24,7 21,9 29,0 24,8 directors 75% 76,77% 76,73% number of training managers 62% 62,26% 62,26% hours (excluding specialists 47% 47,07% 47,07% initial training) The number of 1872 1298 3170 2523 1494 4017 training days for [G4-EC5] Relation of remuneration received at the lowest level to the minimum wage mBank employees initial training 2013 2014 2015 8 Exams, courses with certificates, off-site events, language courses, Basel training, coaching. Women Men Women Men Women Men mBank S.A. 147% 154% 148% 158% 144, % 158,16% [G4-EN1] Paper consumption [G4-LA3] The number of employees on maternity/parental leave as at 31 December unit of measure 2013 2014 2015 paper consumption A4 paper sheets 31 441 250 31 087 500 24 746 500 2013 2014 2015 Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total mBank S.A. 212 2 214 253 2 255 236 3 239 [G4-LA3] The number of employees who came back from maternity/parental leave in a given year 2013 2014 2015 Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total mBank S.A. 159 133 292 213 125 338 25 166 401 [G4-LA3] The number of employees who within 12 months following coming back to work after parental leave left the company 2013 2014 2015 Women Men in total Women Men in total Women Men in total mBank S.A. 27 20 47 29 16 45 47 19 66 56 57 [G4-EN3, G4-EN5] Consumption of fuels and energy GRI index Source of energy and raw materials unit of 2013 2014 2015 for energy production measure Electric energy GWh 16,3 16 15,9 Indica Zakres page GRI guidelines Area UN Comment / Description (58 680 GJ)* (57 600 GJ)* (57 240)* tor entire acco Global partial rding Compact Gas cubic 564 437 597 985 604 364 not to ISO principle metres (20 320 GJ)* (21 527 GJ)* (21 757)* reported 26000 Petrol l 912 907 961 524 964 647 / not (30 261 GJ)* (31 873 GJ)* (31 976)* applicable Fuel oil l 337 741 308 012 270 396 Strategy and analysis (10 853 GJ)* (9 897 GJ)* (9 899)* G4-1 3 The statement of the top [Letter of the President of the Energy consumption in total GJ 120 114 120 898 120 872 management (e.g. executive Management Board] *calculations and estimations carried out on the basis of „Zasady metodyczne sprawozdawczości statystycznej z zakresu gospodarki paliwami i energią oraz officer, president of the definicje stosowanych pojęć” (The Methodological Principles for Statistical Reporting on Fuels and Energy Management and Definitions of Used Terms) by management board or other G. Kacperczyk, published by the Central Statistical Office in Warsaw in 2006. 4.7 persons holding an equivalent position) about the relevance of 6.2 unit of 2013 2014 2015 7.4.2 measure sustainability to the organisation ant the organization’s strategy 6.2 Net profit in PLN 1 070 306 1 174 096 1 271 449 for addressing sustainability thousand G4-2 3 Description of key impacts, [Letter of the President of the energy consumption MJ / PLN 112,2 103,0 95,1 opportunities and risks Management Board] thousand Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation mBank S.A. [G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18] Estimated CO2 emission G4-4 6 The primary brands, products [Type of operations] and/or services Source unit of 2013 2014 2015 measure G4-5 Location of the organisation’s ul. Senatorska 18, 00-950 head office Warszawa Electric energy Mg 10 736,00 10 538,40 10 472,54 G4-6 6 The list and number of countries Poland, the Czech Republic, Gas Mg 1 139,94 1 207,69 1 220,57 where an organisation operates, Slovakia Petrol Mg 2 242,35 2 361,77 2369,42 where its main operation is Fuel oil Mg 804,19 733,40 733,52 located or of those which are in total Mg 14 922,47 14 841,26 14 796,04 particularly important in the context of the report G4-7 The form of ownership and the Joint-stock company, listed unit of 2013 2014 2015 legal structure of an organisation 6.3.10 on the WSE measure G4-8 12 The markets served, including 6.4.1 [Type of operations] Net profit in PLN 1 070 306 1 174 096 1 271 449 the geographical scope of sectors 6.4.2 thousand served, characteristic of clients/ 6.4.3 Efficiency MJ / PLN 0,014 0,013 0,012 consumers and beneficiaries 6.4.4 thousand 6.4.5 G4-9 10 Business Scale [Business profile] 6.8.5 G4-10 55 The number of own employees [Tables with non-financial 7.8 [G4-LA6] Accidents at work and those under the supervision data] of a subsidiary and the type of 2013 2014 2015 contract Total number of accidents 17 10 8 G4-11 56 Percentage of employees [Tables with non-financial Accident frequency ratio 2,83 1,66 1,26 covered by collective bargaining data] agreements Total number of absence from work due 252 189 157 to accidents G4-12 15 Supply chain description [Corporate social responsibility management] Accident severity ratio 14,82 18,90 19,63 G4-13 6 Significant changes in the [Type of operations] reported period concerning the More information in the scale, structure, ownership form Management Board reports or supply chain on operation available at mBank.pl 58 59 G4-14 Explanation whether and in what 7 Taking into account a G4-26 17 An approach to stakeholder [Public reporting on social way an organisation applies the small direct environmental 20 engagement, including the responsibility] precautionary principle footprint the bank, the 23 frequency of engagement by precautionary principle is type and stakeholder group applied at the bank to a G4-27 17 Key topics and concerns [Public reporting on social limited extent. However, in addressed by stakeholders responsibility] the case of loans, mainly and how the organization has large syndicated loans, responded to those key topics maybe the principle should and concerns, including through be applied by advisors that its reporting support the bank(s). Report profile G4-15 8-9 List of externally developed 1-10 [Type of operations] G4-28 The reporting period (e.g. Financial/calendar year: economic, environmental and financial/calendar year) 01.01.2015-31.12.2015 social charters, principles and other initiatives, adopted or G4-29 The publication date of the 2009 (the last such report approved by an organisation previous report (if published) covered 2008) G4-16 7 Membership of associations 1-10 [Type of operations] G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, every annual (such as industry associations) two years) and/or in domestic/international G4-31 16 Contact person Monika Czajkowska organisations CSR Advisor Identification of material aspects and boundaries Communication and Marketing Strategy G4-17 15-55 Economic entities recognised [Tables with non-financial Department mBank S.A. in the consolidated financial data] 5.3 ul. Senatorska 18 statements 7.5.3 00-950 Warszawa G4-18 16 Process of defining the report [Public reporting on social 7.6.2 phone no. +48 22 438 23 18 content responsibility] e-mail: csr@mbank.pl G4-19 16 Identified material aspects of [Public reporting on social G4-32 16 GRI Content Index [GRI index] social and environmental impact responsibility] G4-33 16 Policy and current practices [Public reporting on social G4-20 16 Significance of identified aspects [Public reporting on social regarding external verification responsibility] of social and environmental responsibility] of the report. If no such data impact to particular business were included in an independent entities certifying report, explanation G4-21 16 Aspects boundaries outside the [Public reporting on social of the scope and grounds for organisation Limiting the report 5.2 responsibility] external verification and relation to material aspects of social and 7.3.2 between an organisation and environmental impact, including 7.3.3 external certifying entity entities outside an organisation 7.3.4 Governance G4-22 Explanations concerning the Not applicable G4-34 15 The supervisory structure of 6.2 1-10 [Supervision structure at effect of any restatements of an organisation including 7.4.3 mBank] information provided in previous committees that report to the 7.7.5 [Corporate social reports, and the reasons for such highest supervisory body and are responsibility management] restatements (e.g. mergers and responsible for particular tasks, acquisitions, change of the year/ such as for example creating base period, business profile, strategies or supervision over the measurement methods) organisation G4-23 Significant changes concerning Not applicable Ethics and integrity the scope, the scale or the measurement methods applied G4-56 20 Organisation values, rules, codes, 4.4 1-10 [Type of operations] in the report compared with the 46 standards of conduct and ethics 6.6.3 [Culture of openness and previous report 48 focus on development] [Prevention of unethical Stakeholder engagement behaviour] G4-24 17 The list of stakeholder groups 5.3 [Public reporting on social engaged by the organisation responsibility] G4-25 17 The basis for identification and [Public reporting on social selection of stakeholders with responsibility] whom to engage 60 61 Economic performance Social Market presence Workplace: employment G4-EC5 17 Remuneration of the lowest level 6.3.7 1 [Tables with non-financial G4-LA1 56 Total number of employees 6.4.3 6 [Tables with non-financial 56 staff in the significant locations 6.3.10 data] who left the organisation and data] of an organisation compared 6.4.3 employee fluctuation by age with the minimum wage on a 6.4.4 groups, gender and region given market 6.8.1 G4-LA2 41 Additional benefits granted 6.4.4 [Workplace] 6.8.2 to full-time employees, which 6.8.7 G4-EC6 57 Odsetek wyższych menedżerów 6.8 6 [Tables with non-financial are not provided to part-time zatrudnionych z rynku lokalnego 6.8.5 data] employees or employees 6.8.7 employed for a specified Environment period of time by the main organisational units Materials and raw materials G4-LA3 56 The percentage of employees 6.4.4 [Tables with non-financial EN DMA 51 Management approach 6 7, 8, 9 [We want to reduce our who returned to work after data] 7.3.1 environmental footprint] maternity/parental leave and the 7.4.3 retention ratio by gender 7.7.3 7.7.5 Workplace: occupational health and safety G4-EN1 17 Used materials/raw materials by 6.5.4 8 [Tabele z danymi LA DMA 41 Management approach (to 6 1, 3, 6 [Workplace] 57 weight and volume pozafinansowymi] 47 occupational health and safety) 7.3.1 [Ergonomics and safety] 7.4.3 Energy 7.7.3 EN DMA 51 Management approach 6 7, 8, 9 [We want to reduce our 7.7.5 7.3.1 environmental footprint] G4-LA5 47 Odsetek łącznej liczby Odsetek [Ergonomics and safety] 7.4.3 pracowników reprezentowanych łącznej 7.7.3 w formalnych komisjach liczby 7.7.5 pracowG4-EN3 17 Direct and indirect consumption 6.5.4 8 [Tables with non-financial ników 58 of energy by primary energy data] represources zentowaG4-EN5 17 Efficiency [Tables with non-financial nych w 58 data] formalnych koEmissions misjach EN DMA 51 Management approach 6 7, 8, 9 [Chcemy ograniczać nasz G4-LA6 58 Ratio of injuries, occupational 6.4.6 1 [Tables with non-financial 7.3.1 wpływ na środowisko] diseases, days lost and days off 6.8.8 data] 7.4.3 from work, including the number 7.7.3 of work-related fatalities by 7.7.5 regions G4-EN15 17 Total direct greenhouse gas 6.5.5 8 [Tables with non-financial Workplace: training 58 emissions by weight (Scope 1) data] G4-LA9 57 Average number of training [Tables with non-financial G4-EN16 17 Total indirect greenhouse gas 6.5.5 8 [Tables with non-financial hours per employee data] 58 emissions by weight (Scope 2) data] G4-LA10 42 Development programmes 6.3.7 1, 6 [Culture of openness and G4-EN18 17 Effectiveness related to 6.5.5 [Tables with non-financial 6.3.10 focus on development] 58 greenhouse gas emissions data] 6.4. Environmental assessment of suppliers 6.4.3 EN DMA 51 Management approach 6 7, 8, 9 [We want to reduce our Workplace: diversity and equal opportunity 7.3.1 environmental footprint] G4-LA12 57 Composition of governance 6.2.3 1, 6 [Supervision structure at 7.4.3 bodies and breakdown of 6.3.7 mBank] 7.7.3 employee category according 6.3.10 [Tables with non-financial 7.7.5 to gender, age group, minority 6.4.3 data] G4-EN32 15 Percentage of suppliers subject 6.3.5 Corporate social group membership, and other 17 to environmental criteria 6.6.6 responsibility management] indicators of diversity assessment 7.3.1 G4-LA13 56 Relation of basic remuneration 6.3.7 1, 6 [Tables with non-financial of women to men by the position 6.3.10 data] held 6.4.3 6.4.4 62 63 Assessment of suppliers Compliance with regulations G4-LA14 15 Percentage of suppliers subject 6.3.5 [Corporate social G4-SO7 17 Total number of legal actions for 6.6.1 [Compliance with regulations] 17 to employee-criteria assessment 6.4.3 responsibility management] 29 anti-competitive behaviour and 6.6.2 6.6.6 monopoly practices and their 6.6.5 7.3.1 outcomes 6.6.7 Human rights: procedures concerning orders and investments G4-SO8 17 The amount of penalties and the 4.6 [Compliance with regulations] 29 total number of non-financial HR DMA Management approach 6 1-6 sanctions for non-compliance 7.3.1 with laws and regulations 7.4.3 7.7.3 Responsibility for the product: client’s health and safety 7.7.5 PR DMA 24-26 Management approach 6 1, 8 [Reliable, clear and Assessment of suppliers 7.3.1 transparent communication 7.4.3 of products] HR DMA Management approach 6 1-6 [Corporate social 7.7.3 [Complaints] 7.3.1 responsibility management] 7.7.5 [Customer data protection] 7.4.3 7.7.3 G4-PR1 17 Product life cycle stages at 6.7.1 1 [Reliable, clear and 7.7.5 24 which the impact of products 6.7.2 transparent communication 25 and services on health and 6.7.4 of products] G4-HR10 15 Percentage of suppliers subject 6.3.3 [Corporate social safety is assessed in order 6.7.5 17 to human rights-criteria 6.3.4 responsibility management] to improve ratios, and the 6.8.8 assessment 6.3.5 percentage of important Local communities categories of products and SO DMA 34 Management approach 6 10 [Mathematical education] services covered by such 7.3.1 procedures 7.4.3 G4-PR2 17 The total number of incidents of 4.6 1 [Compliance with regulations] 7.7.3 29 non-compliance with regulations 6.7.1 7.7.5 and voluntary codes regarding 6.7.2 G4-SO1 17 The nature, scale and 6.3.9 [Mathematical education] the impact of products and 6.7.4 34 effectiveness of programmes 6.5.1 services on health and safety at 6.7.5 and practices in the scope of 6.5.2 each life cycle stage, including 6.8.8 assessment and management of 6.5.3 types of outcomes the organisation impact on local 6.8 G4-PR4 17 Incidents of non-compliance [Compliance with regulations] communities, includingimpact 29 with regulations with regard to related to entering, operating the information about products and ceasing operation on a given and services market G4-PR5 Practices related to customer 6.7.1 [Practices related to customer Anti-corruption measures satisfaction measurement 6.7.2 satisfaction measurement SO DMA 48 Management approach 6 10 [Prevention of unethical process, including the outcome 6.7.6 process] 7.3.1 behaviour] of the customer satisfaction 7.4.3 measurement 7.7.3 Responsibility for the product: compliance with regulations 7.7.5 G4-PR8 17 Liczba odnotowanych 6.7 1 [Ochrona danych klientów] G4-SO3 17 Percentage and total number of 6.6.1 10 [Prevention of unethical 26 przypadków wycieków danych 6.7.7 48 business units assessed in terms 6.6.2 behaviour] klientów of risk related to corruption 6.6.3 Odpowiedzialność za produkt: zgodność z regulacjami G4-SO4 17 Number of employees trained 6.6.1 10 [Prevention of unethical G4-PR9 29 Monetary value of significant 4.6 [Compliance with regulations] 48 in anti-corruption policies 6.6.2 behaviour] penalties due to non-compliance 6.7.1 and procedures applied at the 6.6.3 with laws and regulations 6.7.2 organisation 6.6.6 concerning the provision and use 6.7.6 G4-SO5 17 Actions taken as a response to 6.6.1 10 [Prevention of unethical of products and services 48 corruption incidents 6.6.2 behaviour] Sector specific indicators 6.6.3 d. FS1 38 Social and environmental [Liability in financing] Participation in public life policies G4-SO6 17 Total value of financial and 6.6.1 10 PLN 0 d. FS2 38 Procedures for screening social [Liability in financing] 48 in-kind donations to political 6.6.2 (in line with the applicable and environmental risks parties, politicians and 6.6.4 law, mBank made no institutions of similar type by donations to political parties) countries [Prevention of unethical behaviour] 64 65 d. FS3 38 Process of monitoring [Liability in financing] the implementation of social and environmental recommendations by clients FS6 10-11 Portfolio structure by region and [Type of operations] the type of client FS13 17 Availability of financial services [Availability of financial 30-33 in scarcely populated or services] economically disadvantaged areas FS14 17 Availability of banking services [Availability of financial 30-33 to the disadvantaged people services] FS16 17 Działania związane [Edukacja matematyczna] 34 z edukacją finansową, według rodzaju beneficjenta mBank S.A. ul. Senatorska 18, 00-950 Warszawa phone no.: 22 829 00 00 mBank.pl 66
