Statement of Continued Support January 19th, 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that TigerPROFILES & INSULATION LLC reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this fourth annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. But first, a look at our own three principles: Technology, Performance and Integrity. Technology: We stand on the world stage as ambitious, innovative suppliers and users of state of the art technology. We are passionate about technology and employ only the best to build the highest standard. With this commitment, we build revolutionary production processes, methods and products with our customer always in clear focus. Performance: We stand tall in the market and differentiate through excellence, setting international standards with compelling levels of performance. Performance is our motivation and we motivate our customer by exceeding their needs, wants and demands. From the production floor to delivery of all kinds, surpassing performance expectations is fundamental at TigerPROFILES. Integrity: Integrity, for us is the binding energy and structure of our vision and purpose at TPI. Our integrity represents the overarching principle that governs, guides and informs our entire approach. It is the truest measure of our continued success and offering in all our relationships. Sincerely yours, Bernard R Nasr Managing Director Page 1 of 3 The Roof & Cladding Company Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment Policy and Goals: TigerPROFILES & INSULATION LLC supports the UN on all its global policies on human rights. We follow and are guided by the UN guidelines and declaration on this area of Human Rights. Our core values are built on our firm belief that all humans are equal, and thus human rights should be exercised with equality. We comply with the guidelines by implementing an equal opportunity employment policy throughout our operations. Our suppliers are required to undertake to respect and abide by the Ten Principles as a part of the evaluation process. Implementation: Human Rights make up a basis for our employee handbook and Company Code of Conduct and our EHS Code of Practice. Our principles are embedded within, and mirror our belief and support of the UNGC Ten Principles. The same is relayed in every new employee induction. Anonymous suggestion boxes are available, as is easy access to top management to handle any grievances. Our commitment to the principles is published on our website. We demand that our employees demonstrate equally respect and support to human rights, and any stakeholder found to be in violation of the same would face severe reprimand and the punishment, if applicable by law. Measurement of outcomes All employees are empowered with the ability to approach top management in regards to any concerns in regards to Human Rights. Records are maintained, and relevant corrective action if/where applicable is implemented and audited in annual audits. Discussions in Management Review Meetings also cover any issues of concern. Whistle blowers are protected and in some cases rewarded and this is a known fact – to date no complaint has been received, no complaint has been made. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals: All employees are encouraged to voice their opinion and grievances to their immediate supervisor or to HR Department or to Top Management if necessary. Employees have the option of doing this anonymously if they wish. Any issue is given its due importance and investigations are initiated with generation of applicable feedback and corrective action by relevant management. Our operations are entirely in compliance with the local law with respect to child labor, fair labor wages and compensation, and equal opportunity, and in many areas, even supersedes the basic requirements. Implementation: Our labor issues and rights are addressed in our employee handbook and code of conduct. They are in compliance with the 10 principles, as well as local labors and regulations. Page 2 of 3 The Roof & Cladding Company Measurement of outcomes: Despite more than 10 audits, both internal and external conducted on our premises and operations every year, we have never been found to be in abuse of, nor faced any claims for abuse of labor rights since company inception in 1993. We continue to provide to employees various means of expressing or reporting grievances. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals: We are ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSS 18001 certified. We have EHS Policies and Objectives committed to and signed by our CEO. We are members of the United States Green Building Council, Emirates Environmental Group, Clean Energy Business Council, and support several environmental activities in our territory including but not limited to paper shredding and recycling campaign and Clean Up UAE campaign. All new products that are developed are done so in a sustainable manner keeping environmental friendless and sustainability as one of the key deciding factors in a new product’s potential and viability. Implementation: EHS Goals and Objectives are published on our website, and also on our internal web portal. Tools for measurement of implementation are in place, and in compliance with above three certifications. EHS inductions are provided to all new employees. On the job training conducted for relevant employees whose work has greatest impact of EHS. A reward/punishment program is in place for reprimanding EHS violations and rewarding initiatives such as suggestions on reduction of production waste, reduced energy consumption, and safer work practices. Measurement of outcomes: Our HSE Manager has developed KPIs on EHS and those are aligned with the company’s corporate KPIs. Several forms and procedures are in place in regards to environmental monitoring and EHS performance reviews with the generation of relevant reports to Management for action as/when applicable. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals: It is our commitment since inception to maintain the highest levels of integrity and transparence and to exercise as zero tolerance policy in regards to all its operations and dealing with stakeholders and third parties. Our successful business operation & reputation is built upon the principles of fair dealing & ethical conduct of our employees. Implementation: We have in place a strict anti-corruption policy that is incorporated into our work processes and outlined in our code of conduct. Traceability of transactions is a key factor. Anti-corruption policy is incorporated into our employee handbook, and is published on our website and internal portal. Measurement of outcomes: We have an anonymous whistle blower procedure in place that allows any employee to report and allows management to address and investigate any issue of concern. Regular audits ensure work processes are functional and adhere to this work ethic. Multiple communication channels including client service are open to enable third parties to come forward with any such issues, in complete anonymity if required. To date there have been none reported. Page 3 of 3 The Roof & Cladding Company
