Mazaya Investment Group 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress Report Date of submission: March 17, 2016 1 Statement of continued support by President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Mazaya Investment Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first Communication on progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our culture, business strategy, practices and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our working teams, clients, the public using all our channels of communications. Sincerely yours, Najla Shahwan President &CEO 2 HUMAN RIGHTS AND PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Mazaya Investment Group supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Mazaya Investment Group is committed to upholding all of our employees’ basic human rights and treating our employees with respect and dignity. Mazaya Investment Group provides employees with a clean, safe and healthy ecofriendly Workplace. Mazaya Investment Group is committed to making certain that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Mazaya Investment is dedicated to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination or harassment based on race, color, religion, creed, gender (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity, national origin and ancestry, genetics, citizenship status when otherwise legally able to work, age, disability (including HIV), veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. 3 IMPLEMENTATION Mazaya Investment Group has within its structure a Human Resources department and a customer care service department for our clients. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME It is vital for our company that employees treat each other with respect and we will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. If you engage in such conduct, you will be subject to discipline and you may expose yourself and Mazaya Investment to liability. We are committed to upholding the basic human rights of our employees and of workers within our supply chain and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same high standards. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Mazaya Investment Group does not use compulsory or forced labor. Mazaya Investment Group complies with local minimum age laws and does not employ child labor. Mazaya Investment Group respects the rights of workers to join, form or not to join worker organizations including labor unions Mazaya Investment Group does not allow in all its practices, corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery and takes strict measures in this respect. IMPLEMENTATION Mazaya Investment Group abides by the labor law that protects the rights of all employees and workers. All employees work in accordance to contracts that reserve their rights stating their terms and conditions of service, with the freedom to leave without losing any of their rights in a clear statement. 4 Mazaya Investment is committed to provide a healthy working place environment with unity, devotion respect and love of work Measurement of outcomes The Company takes appropriate action to ensure that we have the correct level of resources to perform the best activity required. ENVIRONMENTAL Assessment, Policy and Goals Mazaya Investment Group is committed to protecting the environment through sustainable business Practices. All employees comply with all applicable Environmental laws and regulations. Committed to the environment since its establishment, its Green PR company remains ahead in its green practices and public awareness. IMPLEMENTATION IN ALL OUR PROJECTS ANotification and awareness massages for all employees for environment awareness and ecofriendly practices to follow. BWorkshops and seminars on the environment for employees, clients and suppliers. CCompetitions and prizes for different departments who achieve more in their green environment practices 5 Measurement of outcomes Mazaya Investment Group works closely with local partner’s clients and suppliers who have the same vision and commitment to environment and are socially responsible in their operations. Promoting green awareness as a culture and way of life. Became a leader in Green PR and thereby increased recognition throughout the Middle East. Future Actions Plan: Initiatives: Follow up with green corporate Green building Green Banking Kids go green ANTI CORRUPTION Assessment, Policy and Goals Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mazaya Investment group is keen that all employees behave in a professional, respectful and ethical manner within the working area and outside their working places. Mazaya Investment is a free private company and strictly avoids any connection with politics or any political party that effects its business. Non-political in all our activities. 6 IMPLEMENTATION Our code of ethics is based on the principles of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT Measurement of outcomes No disciplinary action taken on any of our employees. 7
