CONNECT 4-LIFE ALFA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-2015 TABLE OF CONTENT P.01 1. CEO Message P.05 2. Who we are 06 About Alfa 08 Alfa Corporate Identity statements P.09 3. Our Sustainability Roadmap P.13 4. Zooming on MATERIALITY 14 Our Materiality Process P.23 5. We build to Sustain 24 MIC1 Alfa's Sustainability Strategy P.25 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance Sound Governance as a way of life 26 A. Corporate Identity 27 B. Board Of Directors 27 C. Organizational Structure 28 D. Alfa's Policies, Codes and Guidelines 29 E. Enterprise Risk Management 30 F. Anti-Corruption 31 G. Supplier Assessment on Environmental, Social and Governance Issues P.33 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity and Experience Customers As Lifeblood of our Business 34 A. Superior Customer Service 34 B. Customer Experience Management (CEM) 35 C. Technological Innovation 38 D. International Sharing and Roaming Agreements 38 E. National Network Coverage 39 F. Customer Privacy and Data Security P.41 3rd Sustainability Pillar Positive Economic Spill-Over We Create Opportunities 42 A. Economic Development and Financial Performance 43 B. Encouraging Entrepreneurship Through Responsible Products 44 C. Value Chain 45 D. Featured Story P.47 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing We Nurture talent and empower Change agents 48 A. Training and Development 49 B. Diversity and Equal Opportunities 51 C. Compensations and Benefits 51 D. Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing 52 E. Performance Management Program and Career Development 53 F. Talent Management, Recognition and Reward Programs 53 G. Disciplinary and Grievarance Mechanisms 53 H. Human Rights 54 I. Featured Story P.55 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment We Act for Life beyond the walls of our business 56 A. Alfa 4-Life 59 B. Arts and Culture 59 C. Sports 59 D. Digital Inclusion 60 E. Awareness Campaigns 60 F. Health 60 G. Environmental Stewardship 63 H. Featured Story P.67 Appendices 68 Appendix 1: GRI G4 Core level Initial Assessment and Deployment 74 Appendix 2: Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 76 Appendix 3: Implementation of the ISO 26000 Core Subjects 78 Appendix 4: Alfa's Products (G4-9) 82 Appendix 5: Training Hours 1. CEO Message CEO Message The mobile telecommunications sector is widely regarded Our social involvement started with “Alfa 4-Life” program in as the backbone of socio-economic development, 2006 and gradually expanded to include initiatives addressing providing connectivity and access to information in a Children in Communications Needs, Women Empowerment, fast-developing world. Alfa 4-Nature, in addition to joining international CSR platforms such as the UN Global Compact and the ISO While the Lebanese economy is witnessing constant 26000Guidance on Social Responsibility. stagnation as a result of the regional uncertainty and local political turmoil, the telecommunications sector is Furthermore, in 2014-2015, we have developed and bucking the economic slowdown to report solid growth formalized a unique Corporate Sustainability Strategy in terms of market penetration and profits. (CSS) that incorporates the triple bottom-line approach by advocating economic, social and environmental prosperity In the last two years, Alfa has continued to perform within our organization and our community. strongly on mobile market penetration, report a solid growth in data subscribers and lead in technology Our CSS addresses five core pillars including Good innovation. Yet, Alfa has been consciously trying to Governance, Customer Centricity and Experience, Economic balance shareholder value creation with broader Spillover, Employee Nurturing and Community Investment. stakeholder value creation. The rolling-out of our sustainability strategy over the past years is a continuous journey, full of determination to integrate As a company that is ever expanding in a dynamic sector and embed the five pillars within our business processes and and a technology innovation trend-setter, we are also daily activities. keen to operate and grow sustainably and meet social and environmental expectations. Innovative technology is revolutionizing the way we work and interact. Being a leader in the mobile As a committed socially responsible operator, we are well telecommunications market, we aware that we need to be constantly updating our socially recognize that we have a significant role responsible frameworks to stay in line with the digital to play in the Lebanese context that revolution and amplify our positive impact and externalities exceeds generating economic profit. on local communities and the environment. Accordingly, we promise you to Our broader purpose pertaining to creating more resilient continue to raise the bar and push our communities requires supporting our community on all involvement further, to strengthen aspects. Within this strategy, we have therefore worked our society and economy and protect hard to craft a long-term sustainability strategy to our environment while remaining support the community in which we operate. your preferred digital service provider and employer. As disclosed in this report, our commitment to providing our customers with quality products and excellent Sustainable development is by now part of our DNA and we customer experience goes hand in hand with our remain highly committed to integrating sustainable practices community-support programs that put our society in all aspects of our business. needs at the heart of our strategy and add value to our stakeholders. It is with great pride that I present Alfa’s first Sustainability In fact, the last two years represented a remarkable Report mapping the progress made in relation to our five transformation in Alfa’s sustainability journey. sustainability pillars in 2014 and 2015. 2 CEO Message “To our stakeholders: I am also pleased to confirm that Alfa reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this biannual report, we describe our actions to continually bolster the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations.” We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using various channels of communication. I take the opportunity to express my deepest thanks to the Alfa team whose continuous and unwavering commitment have made this progress and this report possible. Our Alfa team welcomes comments and feedback from our different stakeholders. 3 2. Who we are About Alfa MIC1 S.A.L. (Brand Name: Alfa) (G4-3) is a mobile We are also proud that the scope of our operations covers network operator that provides mobile lines & related nearly the entire Lebanese territory. While our operations services (G4-4) and that is headquartered in Parallel cover 48% of the Lebanese market, Alfa has stores across Towers, Dekwaneh Lebanon. Lebanon in Beirut, Jounieh, Tripoli (Maarad and Mina), Halba, (G4-5) Alfa is the first Lebanese mobile network owned Saida, Nabatieh, and Chtaura. by the Republic of Lebanon and managed by Orascom We also have franchises geared towards catering for Alfa Telecom, Media and Technology (OTMT). subscriber needs and making our products and services Alfa capitalizes on the vast know-how and international accessible to the largest number of customers. Our franchise expertise of OTMT in order to deliver quality and stores include Power Group, Telia, Teleserve Plus, IPIN, and professional solutions for the mobile sector in Lebanon. OMTs. On October 25, 2011, Alfa became the first mobile operator to launch 3G+ mobile broadband services in As for our distributors, Alfa has based its indirect sales policy Lebanon and in another major technological leapfrog, on a strong, extensive and exclusive distribution network Alfa was the first to commercially launch 4G-LTE services forming a motivated team in charge of business training and in the country on May 15, 2013. Moreover, Alfa launched support. This team makes regular visits to Alfa distributors the first 4G+ live sites in Lebanon in Q3, 2015 and Q2, and POS’s to ensure that a steady flow of merchandise and 2016. information reaches the market. The network consists of 2000 Alfa stores across the country. The range of distributors includes E-Charge, Expertel Group, Libanpost, Nexus, As Tech, Alfa has been recently ranked and Sbeity Group. (G4-9) 7th worldwide in the quality Despite the dynamic changes in the operating conditions of its 3G+ network among in the telecommunications sector, Alfa’s market presence 79 Ericsson markets and has been reinforced in the past few years. Our customer 16th worldwide in 2G network base is increasing year after year to include a wide range of individuals, small and medium businesses, large companies quality among and government organizations. 119 Ericsson markets. Our goal is to keep serving our MIC1 S.A.L (Alfa) is a Joint Stock Company with around customers in the best way possible 1,000 employees (G4-9) managed by Orascom Telecom by providing competitive high quality / Legal (registration number R.C. 72514). (G4-7) We provide a varied menu of Telecom services innovative Telecommunications across Lebanon (Figure 1). services all while upholding our commitments to responsible business Alfa currently serves close to 2 million subscribers and its state of the art network covers 99% of Lebanon. (G4and sustainable development. 6). Our customers represent the Lebanese population More importantly, we are citizens of our community, proud of at large and encompass various categories of Lebanese our roots and our belonging. We aspire to continue to lead the society with 48% market share as of May 2016. change in the telecommunications industry through nurturing Therefore, Alfa customers include, without limitation: talent inside and outside our organization, connecting people individuals, businesses, governmental entities, military and organizations across locations and across generations and institutions, media bodies, in addition, Alfa customers are prioritizing the well-being of the community in which we live inbound roamers holding non local GSM lines and using and operate as illustrated in box below which summarizes in a the Alfa network in Lebanon. (G4-8) nutshell who we are and what we stand for as an organization. 6 About Alfa Figure 1 Alfa's Services (G4-9) Prepaid / Postpaid lines & bundles Mobile TV Alfa media advertising SMS service Alfa Business: a private network for businesses Voice & Data roaming for postpaid & prepaid Mobile Internet & Movile Broadband over 3G & 4G networks Blackberry service for postpaid, prepaid, enterprise solution & enterprise service express BAYTI : a fixed wireless landline that allows customers to make & receive national & international voice calls & gives them access to internet service from home Alfa Application Store Alfa Corporate Identity statements Alfa’s Purpose: which we live and grow, and by achieving and maintaining the We are the citizens of our Community, Proud of our highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity. Belonging, We provide Competitive Telecommunications  We are committed to act with agility by reinforcing our Services while maintaining the highest Quality of Service ability to adapt to complex clients’ requirements while keeping by upholding our Sustainable Commitments. abreast of the changes in markets and business environment and by embracing the latest technologies in terms of energy savings and operational efficiency towards renewable energy Alfa’s Vision: sourcing. We aspire to lead the Change in Telecommunications Industry by employing Advanced Technologies and  We are committed to provide state-of-the-art and Adaptable Mobile Solutions to the Lebanese Market, innovative services to our clients by maximizing satisfaction creating an innovative model of social responsibility and through continuous improvement of our quality management fostering our Stakeholders Engagements through an system. Agile Value Creation system. Alfa’s Aspirations:  We aspire to be the CARETAKERS of our people by being Alfa’s Beliefs: a leading corporate citizen and by creating positive change in  We believe in the potential of our PEOPLE by their lives. building on talents through the development of the right knowledge and skills, enabling our Talented and Engaged  We aspire to maintain our leading position by PEOPLE to lead the way and secure sustainable growth. aligning our SUSTAINABLE engagements with our Business Strategy, thus steering towards an ADVANCED PERSPECTIVE.  We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by investing our talents and engaging our  We aspire to lead the CHANGE by creating Innovative stakeholders for the benefit of our Society, our People Business Opportunities and to model emerged trends for and our Environment through pioneering Responsible the INTEREST of our community, resulting in peak business operations and initiatives. performance.  We believe in the Power of AGILITY by constantly  We aspire to provide an Exceptional Customer Experience, enhancing our Business Processes, Talent Management by placing our customers at the CENTER of our business and and Technologies, stimulating thus, Competitive strategy and delivering GREATER value towards long term Advantage and Strategic Differentiation. Customer Loyalty.  We believe in delivering an Outstanding Customer Experience by striving for Excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus, turning them into our Brand Ambassadors. Alfa’s Commitments:  We are willingly committed to the well-being of our PEOPLE by improving their lives, creating OPPORTUNITIES and building their capacities in an equal and synergistic environment.  We are committed to being a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen, by contributing to the community in 8 3. Our Sustainability Roadmap About Alfa Sustainability Journey In the context of our strategy of diversification that enables Furthermore, in 2014-2015, we have developed and us to continue to adapt to the changing environment formalized a unique Corporate Sustainability Strategy (CSS) and the different challenges and opportunities that that builds on Alfa’s profound history and legacy and is come along, our Management remains committed to coherent with Alfa core values. a healthy expansion model that balances financial and market growth through crafting a long-term approach Our CSS revolves around five core pillars including: to responsible business engagement, that is anchored 1. Good Governance and coherent with our core Alfa values, revolving around 2. Customer Centricity & Experience 3. Economic Spillover customer centricity, agility, employee value creation and 4. Employee Nurturing corporate responsibility. 5. Community Investment Social involvement Essence of CSS In this regard, we have made considerable progress in These five pillars, illustrated in Figure 3, comprise the essence recent years in terms of crafting a balanced responsible of Alfa’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy and will be fleshed business approach. out with greater detail in this report. These five pillars have We started with small projects and milestones (Figure been devised based on various rounds of stakeholder 2) like “Alfa 4-Life” project in 2006 and have gradually engagement and listening closely to our internal and external increased our social involvement over time with initiatives stakeholders. They have also been designed in a way that targeting Children in Communication Needs, Women is consistent with our core values, and Figure 4 in fact maps Empowerment, Alfa 4-Environment, Alfa 4-Sports, these sustainability pillars to the core values of Alfa including Alfa 4-Expression, in addition to joining international Customer Centricity, Agility, Employee Value Creation and CSR platforms like the UN Global Compact (where we Corporate Responsibility. proudly serve on the Steering Committee of THE Global Compact Network Lebanon since early 2015) (G4-16) Our CSS is thus a reflection of our persona and our unique and the ISO 26000Guidance on Social Responsibility identity as an organization and what we want to be known for (see Appendices 2 and 3). vis a vis our internal and external stakeholders. By formalizing our CSS, we are thus reinforcing our status as the Year after year, our commitment to social and premier responsible leading mobile operator in Lebanon and environmental responsibility has become stronger and more explicit and formalized. solidifying our position in relation to our various stakeholders, now and for the future. The current biannual (G4-30) report, for the reporting period 2014-2015, (G4-28) is Alfa’s first edition which includes the most relevant advances for the past two years, within the context of our expanded materiality exercise and our five pillars presented above. As this is our first sustainability report, we highlight some information from years before 2014 that had significance for our CSR journey that might also be featured in this report to show the evolution and progress in formalizing our sustainability strategy. Yet given that this is Alfa’s first report, there have been no significant changes during the reporting period in the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain (G4-13). 10 About Alfa Sustainability Journey Figure 2 Alfa's CSR Milestones Alfa was selected as pilot Alfa joined in March 2014, the organization in the Project on the United Nations Global Compact Alfa is designing its progress uptake and use of ISO 26000 and formally committed to align report in Sustainability on on Social Responsibility in the its operations and strategies with the Strategic, Tactical and Alfa 4-Life program saw the light MENA Region Universal Principles Operational levels 2006 2013 2014 2015 Advocacy and Commitment It is also important to note here that we have established the content and format of our biannual report based on international standards and frameworks including the ISO 26000 guidance, the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and “in accordance” with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (see Appendices 1, 2 and 3). In this respect, we are the first Lebanese telecommunications company to integrate the various aspects of ISO 26000 guidance in our operating strategy (see Appendix 3). We are also the first Lebanese telecommunications company to become a UN Global Compact signatory and incorporate the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact revolving around Figure 3 MIC1 Alfa’s Five Sustainability Pillars human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption in our strategy and operations (see Appendix 2). Employee Nurturing We are proud to be the first institution in our sector in Lebanon to adopt G4 Guidelines and be guided by GRI’s vision of responsible practices Community Investment and reporting (see Appendix 1). In the next sections, we dwell more on our stakeholder engagement processes, leading to our thorough materiality assessment, and the core material issues that we have enclosed Good Governance and decided to report on in our biannual report. This first report for Alfa is thus based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidance and Alfa’s Materiality Matrix, leading to the delineation of the main material aspects grouped under pillars forming the core of our sustainability strategy; accordingly we Economic Spillover disclose below GRI G4 initial relevant data compilation for Core Level deployment and reporting (see Appendix 1). For information about the Report, please refer to our Corporate Communications Customer Centricity & Experience and CSR Head of Unit, Mrs. Souha Bourjeily (email: SOUHA.BOURJEILY@alfamobile. com.lb) (G4-31) 11 About Alfa Sustainability Journey Figure 4 Mapping Alfa's Sustainability Pillars to Core Values 12 4. Zooming on MATERIALITY Our Materiality Process Stakeholder Engagement The telecommunications sector is extremely dynamic connecting people and businesses everywhere. Our business operations necessitate developing and maintaining relationships with various stakeholders. As a result, our value chain is rich and diverse connecting us to content providers, and data service providers, and to a wide array of infrastructure organizations for radio, network, billing, business intelligence, and sales channels and various mobile service partners (voice, data, SMS and VAS) and a large network of subscribers (Figure 5) (G4-12). Alfa’s priority stakeholders include (Figure 6): Figure 5 Alfa's Stakeholders Priority External Stakeholders: Ministry of Telecom (MoT) Customer (business customers, postpaid private customers, prepaid private customers) Telecom Regulatory Authority (TRA) competitors Council of Ministers Suppliers Electrical Power Providers including Electricity Du Liban Unions Banks Internet Service Providers (ISPs) Municipalities (G4-24) Priority Internal Stakeholders: Orascom Telecom Media and Technology (OTMT) Board Members Management Employees (G4-24) Our Stakeholders We define stakeholders as persons, groups or organizations who have an interest in our company and who can influence or be influenced by our objectives, operations and policies. Alfa underwent a rigorous stakeholder assessment process to identify its priority stakeholders based on their economic, social and environmental impact on Alfa from a scale of 1 to 5 (See Table 1) (G4-25). Consequently, these stakeholders constitute Alfa’s main stakeholders who are directly or indirectly affected by Alfa’s business activities, or have an interest in Alfa’s operations and its Sustainability Strategy. 14 Our Materiality Process Table 1 Our Stakeholders ECONOMIC INFLUENCE SOCIAL INFLUENCE ENVIRONMENTAL (SCALE 1-5) (SCALE 1-5) INFLUENCE (SCALE 1-5) PRIORITY RELATIONSHIP FUTURE INTEREST INFLUENCE OF INFLUENCE ON FUTURE INTEREST INFLUENCE OF INFLUENCE ON FUTURE INTEREST INFLUENCE OF INFLUENCE ON TOTAL STAKEHOLDERS TO ALFA IN ALFA ALFA ALFA IN ALFA ALFA ALFA IN ALFA ALFA ALFA SCORE Ministry of Investor GVT/ 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 44 Telecom (MOT) Regulators Orascom Telecom Media Investor 4 4 5 3 2 4 3 2 4 31 and Technology (OTMT) Board Members Internal 5 5 5 4 4 5 4 4 5 41 Management Internal 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 37 Employees Internal 5 5 3 4 5 3 2 5 2 34 Customers (Business, Users 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 37 Postpaid and Prepaid Private) Competitor Competitor 4 5 5 3 4 4 3 4 4 36 Union Pressure Group 5 4 4 4 2 5 2 2 2 30 Municipalities Society 3 2 3 3 2 4 4 3 4 28 Local Society 2 2 1 4 4 2 4 4 2 25 Communities Major Suppliers Commercial 5 5 5 1 1 3 1 2 3 26 Partner Collection Commercial 5 5 3 1 3 2 2 2 2 25 Companies Partner Distributors/Point Commercial 5 5 3 2 4 2 2 3 2 28 of Sale Partner Council of GVT/Regulators 5 1 5 3 1 3 1 1 4 24 Ministers Telecom Regulatory GVT/Regulators 5 2 5 1 1 2 1 1 2 20 Authority (TRA) 15 Our Materiality Process Table 2 Stakeholder Engagement (G4-26) (G4-27) STAKEHOLDERS FREQUENCY OF NATURE OF STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT PRIORITY RESPONDED One2One meetings Society Surverys/Questionnaire Customer Experience Business & Employment Future Generations Conference Privacy & Data Protection Opportunities Local Communities Seminars Digital Access & Inclusion Respect for environment Municipalities Daily Sponsorships Commitment to Energy Community involvement Schools Social Media Channels Efficiency & Reducing Tailored services Universities Letters/Faxes/Memos Waste & Emissions Special promotions & NGOs and Social Activists Focus Groups Health & Safety Standards Reductions Mobile App Collaborators Long-term business Auditors relationship Daily One2One Meetings Lawyers Add a credential to portfolio Commercial Partners Banks Collection Companies Ethics, Values & Financial value Insurers Governance Long-term business One2One Meetings Distributors/Point Of Sale Sustainable Procurement relationship Contracts Major Suppliers Depending on needs Oline Training Digital Access & Inclusion Add a credential to Other Suppliers (not major) Site Visits Energy Efficiency & portfolio Landlords Carbon Emissions Continous development & Roaming Partner Culture & Engagement training Electrical Power Providers Career development Work-life balance Competitive social benefits & compensation Employee satisfaction Long-term business relationship Leadership skills development Developing a learning environment Online Meetings Customer Experience Clear vision Internal Stakeholders Seminars Attracting Talent & communicated Board Members Gatherings Employee Development to employees by Daily Employees Casual Surveys Culture & Engagement management Management Volunteering Volunteering & Giving Occupational health & Events Diversity & Inclusion safety Recognition & retention program Open-door policy Non-discrimination (including persons with special needs) Social events Kids party EOY celebration Mother's day Etc... 16 Our Materiality Process Reliable and innovative service Keeping up with Affordable prices technology, data Users Phone Privacy and data protection, customized Business Customers Online (Social Media) protection offers, innovative and Postpaid Private Customers Daily Alfa mobile app Transparency quality products, strong Prepaid Private Customers Visits (Face2Face) Resource and waste customer satisfaction, Fax management nerwork quality, good Energy efficiency and customer service carbon emissions Government/Regulators Council of Ministers EDL Meetings Digital access and inclusion INTL Regulators Seminars Customer experience Lebanese Army Events Privacy and data Eco-friendly environment, Local Regulators (MPS) Weekly Gatherings protection know-how, technology Ministry of Environment (MOE) Online Indigenous Australians cally up-to-date Ministry of Telecom (MOT) Financial and technical Ethics, values and Security Service support governance TRA Meetings Seminars Events dedicated to honor media Alfa events (CSR/Media/ Pressure Groups Press conference) Ethical behavior, respect Media Daily, Weekly and Media gatherings on for Intl safety norms, Social Media Bloggers Monthly basis specific occasions fair operating practices, Union Depending on the type of Emails environment protection NGOs and Social Activists activity/action Invitations to events and waste disposal, nonOnline Community Greetings on occasions discrimination Online Financial and technical support Online interactive platforms (social media) Investors Agreements ORASCOM Telecom Media Contracts and Technology (OTMT) Daily ROI, increase market share Meetings Ministry of Telecom (MOT) Events Agreements Sub-Contractor Long-term business Contracts Cleaning Service Daily relationship, add a Meetings credential to portfolio Events 17 Our Materiality Process Means of Engagement Our stakeholder engagement process therefore is anchored External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders in the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness, and our reporting One-on-one meetings One-on-one meetings is guided by the values of relevance, accuracy, timeliness, Surveys Surveys comparability, reliability, clarity and completeness (G4 18). Conferences Gatherings Various issues were raised by our stakeholders through Seminars Newsletters multiple rounds of stakeholder engagement. Social media channels Annual celebrations Letters Performance appraisal Stakeholders Interests Faxes Games Externally, our stakeholders emphasized Memos Sports Respect for the environment Focus groups Competitions Community involvement Mobile applications Contests Creating business and employment opportunities Entertaining activities Keeping up with technology Invitations to cultural events Data protection Purpose of Engagement Customized offers The purpose of stakeholder engagement is to identify Innovative and quality products and prioritize the most relevant aspects to our business Network quality success in general and to our sustainability strategy Customer satisfaction specifically. Building positive long term relationships with contractors and The feedback we receive from our diverse stakeholders distributors among others serves as the baseline for identifying and monitoring our Internally, our stakeholders emphasized material issues, and drives our sustainability strategy. The Ethical behavior purpose of collecting this feedback is to identify the areas Respect for international safety norms of sustainability that we need to strengthen as we strive Fair operating practices to enhance our responsible engagement and continue to Non-discrimination be recognized by stakeholders as a trustworthy operator. Continuous training and development opportunities We understand that transparency and Career development accountability are key to building greater Work-life balance trust with our stakeholders. In this respect, we are committed to measuring and Fostering a learning environment reporting on our strategy and performance. Through Creating a recognition and retention program regular stakeholder engagement, we were able to identify Competitive benefits and compensation a wide range of issues, concerns and expectations. Employee satisfaction Table 2 above thus compiled the varied input received Environmental protection and waste disposal from our key stakeholders in 2015. Increased market share Figue 6 Alfa's Materiality Assessment IDENTIFICATION PRIORITIZATION VALIDATION REVIEW 18 Our Materiality Process Through a rigorous materiality process, we were then able to identify, prioritize, and validate the sustainability issues that are most critical to Alfa and our stakeholders in relation to each of our sustainability pillars. The list of material issues (G419) that were compiled through our stakeholder engagement processes was thus validated by Alfa’s Sustainability Committee based on relevance at this particular point in time and Alfa’s ability to influence each issue. The Committee emphasized on the aspects with medium to high significance to Alfa and its stakeholders but excluded all aspects with low significance that were considered non-material. Figure 6 presents schematically the different steps of our materiality assessment. The results of our materiality exercise formed the basis for defining our CSR strategy and, consequently, the current report’s content for 2014-2015. Figue 7 Alfa's Material Aspects Per Pillar Employee Nurturing Economic Spill-over Employment Practices Economic Performance Diversity and Equal Opportunity Market Presence Training and Education Indirect Economic Impacts Occupational Health and Safety Equal Remuneration Human Rights Assessment Non-Discrimination Good Governance Ethics and Compliance Anti-Corruption Risk Management Procurement Practices Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Community Investment Local Community Development Customer Centricity Health & Experience Supplier Assessment on impact on society Technological Innovation Philanthropy Customer Satisfaction Environmental Responsiblity Customer Privacy 19 Our Materiality Process Pressing Sustainability Topics The most pressing sustainability-related topics raised by our internal and external stakeholders that were distilled and validated by the Sustainability Committee included internal issues relating to: ethics and compliance; anti-corruption and risk management policies and procedures; good procurement practices and supplier assessment for labour practices; progressive employment practices pertaining to diversity and equal opportunity; training and education; occupational health and safety; equal remuneration; human rights and non-discrimination. External priority material issues as validated by our Sustainability Committee included: continued technological Innovation; customer satisfaction and customer privacy; increased market presence; positive economic performance and increasing indirect economic impacts and spillovers; also mobilizing greater efforts at local community development; increasing community health; supplier assessment on impact on society; continued efforts at selective philanthropy and increased environmental proactivity and responsibility. These were deemed to constitute our most important material issues that we have integrated in our formalized Corporate Sustainability Strategy (CSS) under five pillars pertaining to Good Governance; Employee Nurturing; Customer Centricity; Positive Economic Spillovers; and Community Investment which comprise the core pillars of our CSS as shown in Figure 7. The goal of this report is to disclose and report on those salient priority material issues and aspect boundaries (G4-18) as organized and grouped under the five pillars constituting the core of our Corporate Sustainability Strategy for 2014-2015. 20 Our Materiality Process Alfa’s Sustainability Committee also developed the materiality matrix shown below which helps visualize the core material issues and aspect boundaries under each of the five pillars (G4-20 and G4-21) (Figure 8). Our materiality matrix (Figure 8) is thus intended to consolidate the material issues that are the most important to our organization and our stakeholders. These core material issues regrouped under the five sustainability pillars constitute our core material issues and aspect boundaries (G4-20 and G4-21) that we are disclosing and reporting on in our Sustainability Strategy for 2014-2015. Figure 8 Our Materiality Matrix HIGH Indirect Economic OH&S Technological Impacts Innovation Economic Equal Performance Remuneration Anti-Corruption Local Community Development Procurement Practices Human Rights Impact Assessment Employment Ethical & Health Practices Compliance Investment Diversity & Equal Opportunity IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Training & Education Market Presence Customer Satisfaction Customer Risk Management Environmental Privacy Resonsibility Supplier MEDIUM Labor Assessment Management relations Labor Practices Non-Discrimination Supplier Assessment Philanthropy on Social Impact Child Labor Anti-Competitive Behavior Public Policy LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH SIGNIFICANCE TO ALFA Good Customer Centricity Economic Employee Community Governance & Experience Spill-over Nurturing Investment 22 5. We build to Sustain MIC 1 Alfa’s Sustainability Strategy As per above, Alfa’s Sustainability Strategy is founded on five main pillars including: PILLAR 1 GOOD GOVERNANCE PILLAR 2 CUSTOMER CENTRICITY & EXPERIENCE PILLAR 3 ECONOMIC SPILLOVER PILLAR 4 EMPLOYEE NURTURING PILLAR 5 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT This strategy focuses on various aspects of sustainability that matter the most to Alfa as a company and to its stakeholders, in the current context and market environment. Since 2006, Alfa has operated on the assumption that incorporating sustainability allows it to differentiate itself as a successful telecommunications operator that is also known for caring for people and the planet beyond the boundaries of the narrow business mandate. Embracing sustainability means excelling on the core business side, but also creating net benefits for customers, employees, the planet and the community at large. In the sections that follow, we report on each of the Sustainability Pillars, and the core material issues associated with that, starting with Good Governance which serves as the foundation in turn for our external sustainability engagement and for all other pillars pertaining to Customer Centricity & Experience, Community Investment and Employee Nurturing. 24 Sound Governance as a way of life 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance PILLAR 1 GOOD GOVERNANCE This pillar is the foundation of all of Alfa’s operations. Consequently, our approach to sustainability is an extension Alfa’s organizational structures, policies and controls of these core values and embodies our unique corporate support good governance and provide an accountable identity which has allowed us to develop state-of-the-art and ethical foundation for the way we do business. and innovative services, while striving for the continuous We are conscious that maintaining the trust of development of our people, optimizing our responsiveness/ our stakeholders is a prerequisite to our success. agility and ensuring our long-term unwavering commitment Consequently, our corporate governance framework has to social responsibility. allowed us to develop a culture that promotes integrity, Our Commitments and transparency in our commitments and behaviors Our values and commitments represent what we stand for and that is crucial for earning and retaining the trust of as an organization and guide the way we think and work. our various stakeholders. We update our company policies and code of conducts on a Our corporate commitments are regulated by a regular basis to stay relevant in the changing context. sound and robust corporate governance structure, Our organizational commitments are summarized as follows: which promotes integrity, transparency and is compliant with the highest standards of ethics of (G4-56) conduct.  We are willingly committed to the wellbeing of our PEOPLE by improving their lives, creating OPPORTUNITIES The main elements of this pillar include: and building their capacities in an equal and synergistic A. CORPORATE IDENTITY environment. B. BOARD OF DIRECTORS  We are committed to being a Socially Responsible Corporate C. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Citizen, by contributing to the community in which we live and D. ALFA’S POLICIES, CODES AND GUIDELINES grow, and by achieving and maintaining the highest standards E. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT of ethical conduct and integrity. F. ANTI-CORRUPTION G. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL,  We are committed to act with agility by reinforcing our SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES ability to adapt to complex clients’ requirements while keeping abreast of the changes in markets and business environment and by embracing the latest technologies in terms of energy A. CORPORATE IDENTITY savings and operational efficiency towards renewable energy At the heart of our Corporate Governance Pillar and sourcing. defining the overall character and personality of our  We are committed to provide state-of-art and innovative business is our Corporate Identity, comprising our services to our clients by maximizing satisfaction through vision, mission and core values that exemplify our commitment to being an ethical and innovative business that generates added value for our stakeholders, as well SOCIAL AGILITY RESPONSIBILITY as the community and environment in which we operate. This commitment is built on a well embedded and EMPLOYEE carefully crafted bedrock of core values, including Customer Centricity, Employee Value Creation, Agility VALUE CREATION OUR CUSTOMER CENTRICITY and Social Responsibility. BELIEFS 26 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance continuous improvement of our quality management system. law. In several managerial areas some responsibilities can be transferred from BOD to Executive Committee. B. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors defines our strategic approach Our Board of Directors acts as the overall supervisory and and procedures across all organizational aspects including monitoring body for the Company, ensuring strategic sustainability. direction and sound governance. Our Board also seeks the assistance of private consultants to Alfa’s Board of Directors (BOD) consists of the following ensure optimal decision making and framework design. five members: 1. Marwan Hayek The Board of Directors is supported in carrying out its duties 2. Ragy Soliman El Faham by the following committees: 3. Khaled Bishara 1. Executive Committee: responsible for leadership of the 4. Maan El Amine company, setting of strategy and achieving results; as well as 5. Philip Tohme reporting to different stakeholders 2. Risk Management Committee: responsible for monitoring The board members are elected by the general assembly and detecting security risks and implementing risk mitigation for the term of the management agreement extension. and prevention measures Their responsibilities include electing the Chairman and 3. ERP Committee: responsible for management of our exercising the responsibilities defined by the commercial Enterprise Resource Planning System. Figure 10 Mic 1 Alfa Organizational Chart Chairman & CEO Chief Quality & Chief Commercial Chief Technology Chief Finance Vice President Chief Communications Corporate Strategy Officer Officer Officer HR, Legal & Admin Affair Officer Officer Marketing Engineering Accounting Human Resource Media Relations Corporate Strategy & PMO Sales Rollout Budgeting Legal Affairs Market Communication Corporate Quality Commercial Corporate Support Operations Treasury Administration Communication Reporting & Customer Experience & CSR Customer Information Revenue Assurance Information Security Security Operations Technology & Fraud Operations Procurement Support 27 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance Our Management C. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE The Composition of our Management Team is shown in Alfa’s solid organizational structure is essential for ensuring Table 3 below. All our management members are hired clear and transparent hierarchy, accountability and lines of from the local community (G4-EC6). reporting and responsibility. (G4-34) Our functional structure features our Chairman and CEO at the helm, and Chiefs of various key divisions and units. The structure we have put in place therefore facilitates communication and ensures optimal operations. Table 3 Alfa Management Team Marwan Hayek Chairman & CEO Assaad Kairouz Chief Commercial Officer Imad Hamed Chief Technology Officer Rafic El Haddad Chief Financial Officer Raef Salha Vice President, HR, Admin & Legal Affairs Aline Karam Chief Communications Affairs Officer Assaad Abousleiman Chief Corporate Strategy & Quality Officer D. ALFA’S POLICIES, CODES AND GUIDELINES (G4-56) Alfa has also put in place a number of policies, codes and guidelines that outline its commitment to the highest ethical standards in business. Among these policies are:  Alfa’s Code of Conduct is the “Secret behind Alfa’s Success”, reinforcing our values, and defining the headlines and directives for our actions, internally and externally. The Code of Conduct outlines the rules, regulations, and personnel policies that guide Alfa’s employees with regards to the behavior expected from them when performing their duties while dealing with their colleagues and members of the larger community.  Alfa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing mitigates potential risks that are likely to occur during any business relationships with external business parties and safeguards Alfa’s brand image in what relates to its procurement practices and their environmental, social and economic impact.  Alfa’s Online Charter and Social Media Guidelines guide our colleagues in their online activities, to ensure their best interest and benefit while safeguarding both the interest of Alfa and its stakeholders while showing respect for Alfa’s employees’ freedom of opinion and privacy.  Alfa’s Risk Management Policy explains Alfa’s underlying approach and philosophy to risk and risk management. It describes the involvement of all employees including line managers and executive managers. 28 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance E. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT employees from reaching their workplace, logistic crisis, (G4-14) technical incidents preventing Alfa from running its activities Being in the telecom and technology industry, it is smoothly and as per set standards. imperative that we remain dynamic in the way we We have also selected “Risk Champions” from various address our key risks. company units whose role is to identify the risks and possible We have consequently developed a Risk Management treatment per unit, coordinating with the Head of Risk Strategy, based on ISO31000 after proper customization Management to convene and discuss findings. that is intended to identify all kinds of threats or events that might disrupt normal operations, have a Risk Management Culture detrimental impact on the business, or negatively affect Alfa’s senior management is committed to fighting black the effectiveness and efficiency of work processes and markets and fostering an environment of support that will procedures. encourage the application of the risk management culture The proactive aspect of risk management consists in throughout the company. This support is sustained through: identifying those potential risks and threats before they 1-Endorsing the risk management policy ref PL/RBC/002 actually occur. 2-Assigning enterprise risk management accountabilities and The identified risks are then assessed to determine their responsibilities at appropriate levels within the organization seriousness, and finally treated to reduce their occurrence 3-Ensuring that the necessary resources are allocated to and/or impact. enterprise risk management And while we are immune and resilient in relation to 4-Ensuring that the framework and policy for managing any such incidents, we continue to strengthen our risk enterprise risk remains appropriate management processes over time. We also developed an 5-Leading by example in adequately addressing the items Enterprise Risk Management Policy that underlines Alfa’s raised by enterprise risk management approach to risk and describes the involvement of all 6-Ensuring alignment of enterprise risk management employees including managers and executive managers. objectives with the objectives and strategies of the organization with special emphasis on Business Continuity All employees are encouraged to report any risk that they Planning, Revenue Assurance, Information Security, Internal may notice in their working environment, daily activities, or professional observations. Identified risks are shared with a specialized team, who assesses and treats those risks. Follow up assessment is being conducted periodically Figure 11 Risk Management Procedure and risks are reported to Top Management for proper decision-making regarding implementation. Crisis Management RISK ANALYSIS We have also developed a crisis management plan that Probability impact is assigned defines the crisis response, roles and responsibilities RISK IDENTIFICATION at Alfa that can be invoked to guarantee a dynamic Retrospection based on: -Previous experiences intervention and reaction whenever needed. The plan -Consultancies RISKTREATMENT -Audits covers the workflow, approach, communication plans and Negative: -Avoidance activities that need to be carried out in order to mitigate Prospection based on: -Mitigation -Brainstorming -Acceptance the situation and ensure business continuity. This plan is -Research -Transference -Surveys adopted by Alfa and applied by all entities in case of any -Root cause analysis -Intuition potential disaster, mobility crisis, external security threats -Swot and/or human actions, epidemic outbreaks preventing 29 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance Audit and Fraud Management INTERNALLY: In order to implement and maintain an effective and Alfa employees are all trained and provided with full efficient risk management culture at Alfa and ensure support to eradicate bribery and corruption and to raise any the adequacy of any control, we assign accountability at concern of an ethical nature with their line managers and different levels: Human Resources professionals. A special gift and gratitude declaration policy was included within our Code of Conduct, 1-Top management whereby employees have to declare to the HR department Is accountable for promoting and supporting the any gift received that exceeds a certain pre-set amount. risk management culture through resorting to risk Employees have the obligation to report clearly on any management findings as decision support systems, and suspicious behavior or practices that they assess inconsistent the possibility to include risk management in selected with the general business principles, regulations, policies or units’ objectives as part of the performance appraisal list business ethics. Also, employees are encouraged to report on of objectives. any other serious concerns about any aspect of the company’s operations. 2-Risk management Unit Is accountable for the development, implementation, This may include (but is not limited to): and continuous improvement of the risk management Breach of regulations and policies policy, framework, and associated processes; It is also Disclosure of confidential information responsible for promoting the risk management culture within Alfa. Actions which endanger the health or safety of any individual 3-Risk owners Theft or misuse of the company’s properties or Are accountable for properly reporting and assets implementing the controls of the risks they own. Conflict o f i n t e re s t ; a cce p t i n g / re q u e s t i n g 4-Risk champions commission from third party When nominated, are accountable for properly Possible fraud or corruption; unauthorized use of representing the risk management culture in their in-hand funds and petty cash respective department and/or areas. Physical, moral or sexual harassment Unethical behaviour such as: lack of integrity, 5-All employees Are accountable to keep the risk culture in their daily respect, honesty, responsibility, accountability and/ activities, through proper risk escalations to their or fairness respective line managers when needed. We also have internal controls which we develop and F. ANTI-CORRUPTION (G4-SO4) implement in order to reduce as possible the revenue loss and As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact fight against potential fraud. (UN Global Compact), we support all its principles Our controls cover Prepaid/Postpaid/Roaming services and including the 10th principle on human anti-corruption are performed for most of the cases on random sampling (see Appendix 2). basis due to the lack of an automated system. At Alfa, we do not tolerate any form of bribery and Around 45 controls are executed on a monthly basis and these extortion and we aim to maintain a zero tolerance are expanding with the increase of services and products we policy against all forms of corruption, both internally and launch. externally. 30 1st Sustainability Pillar Good Governance The outcome of these controls will trigger the below  Gain competitive advantage by having effective supplier workflow in case a problem is detected: management framework and engagements charter Report the case to the management level  Help business partners take into consideration sustainability co n ce r n e d . in the social, environmental and economic aspects of their Quantify the revenue loss. business Recommend necessary actions to mitigate the problem and recover the loss. The acceptance criteria apply to all permanent or temporary Recommend solutions to be implemented and suppliers, providers, contractors, vendors, consultants, avoid further losses. advisors and / or any external third party providing any good All results are summarized and logged internally. or service to Alfa. We consider complying to this acceptance list as a prerequisite for potential business partnership. We EXTERNALLY: shall not deal with any potential business partner who fails to Our procurement department follows a strict and transparent meet the acceptance requirements. (G4-13) “Request for Proposal” procedure for suppliers to avoid corruption and secure the best value and balance between quality and price for business continuity. G. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL, Codes Of Ethical Purchasing SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES Suppliers play a huge role in our success, which is why we ensure that we have strong supplier selection processes and Human Rights management oversight, and that we conduct business with socially and environmentally responsible companies who share our values. Child Labour We ask our suppliers to work with us in achieving our sustainability goals. Our suppliers need to fill out a “Supplier Health and Safety Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Compliance Form” which elucidates their performance in the areas of ethics, labour rights, health and safety, the environment and The Environment governance and management issues. Our commitment to responsible suppliers is also reflected Ethics in our code of ethical purchasing. The purpose of such code includes: Conflict of Interest Purpose of our code of ethical purchasing  Operate in accordance with Alfa new Identity statements and the international standards on quality Social Responsibility  Behave in accordance with Alfa sustainability tactics in relation to its environmental, social and economic strategic Conpensation and Working Hours directions  Protect Alfa’s corporate image from any violation which might reflect poorly on our brand Legal and Regulatory Compliance  Mitigate potential risks which are likely to occur during our business relationships with potential business partners Discrimination and Employee Rights 31 Customers As Lifeblood of our Business 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience PILLAR 2 CUSTOMER CENTRICITY & EXPERIENCE Fostering customer loyalty and improving customer experience are essential business and sustainability priorities for Alfa. This pillar highlights Alfa’s commitment to providing a superior service to its customers while striving to meet their expectations and changing needs, and keeping abreast of the latest trends in technology and innovation. We recognize that our customers are the lifeblood of the organization, and that they are at heart of our sustainability efforts from the perspective of our economic and social bottom lines. We thus, invest heavily to reach our goal to provide the best customer experience in the industry. We are proud to have doubled our subscribers’ base to reach around 2 million subscribers to date, the number of data subscribers has increased from almost 0% to more than 75% of our total 2 million subscribers today, with a smartphone penetration rate reaching 82.8% by end of 2015, and data traffic reaching unprecedented rates of 660TB per month. Our drop call rate of 0.5% is lower than the worldwide average drop call rate of 1%. Drop call rate is the percentage telephone calls which, due to technical reasons, were cut off before either of the speaking parties had finished their conversation and hung up. Accordingly, the main elements comprising this pillar include the following: A. SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE B. CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT (CEM) Our management is highly committed and engaged in We are always looking to discover new ways of doing things, to increasing our customers’ satisfaction and advocacy and make life easier, and stay better connected to our customers. moving the organization towards being customer centric. Accordingly, in 2014, we put in place a Customer Experience At every level of our organization, we seek to enhance Management (CEM) Process to allow us to gauge our the services provided to our customers. customers’ satisfaction and to direct Alfa towards customerAlfa provides a 24/7 customer service call center (111) centricity. This strategy allows us to have a structured and whose representatives are available to take customers’ systematic approach towards realizing our company’s strategic calls and answer any inquiries or problems around goals while addressing our customers’ insights, measuring the clock. One of the services we provide is the secure their satisfaction levels at different transaction stages while Online Payment method where payments for a variety dealing with various channels. of charges may be made by debit or credit card issued Voice of Customer Program and Customer Satisfaction by Lebanese banks. This facility provides the ability for (G4-PR5) Postpaid customers to settle their monthly bills and for The Voice of Customer program allows us to collect feedback Prepaid customers to recharge their subscriptions online. from our customers across the entire customer journey Through such facilities, we are making sure that our through a number of surveys that are completed via different services are accessible and convenient to all customers. channels, based on the customers’ preferences. 34 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience Our customer experience management involves conducting surveys with our customers in order to understand their behaviour, needs and satisfaction levels. We also measure our customer satisfaction based on social media interaction. As the graph below shows, we are among the most popular telecommunications companies on social media in the region. 24/7 Customer Care support on Alfa’s Social Media Channels was launched in February 2014 to help Alfa’s subscribers communicate with Alfa support team online and round the clock. Alfa’s Growth on social media is organic, no paid promotions for the page/account, thus we rely on the content we publish to generate engagement and benefit from the snow ball effect it creates. Number of Interactions per 1000 Fans in 2014 Number of Interactions per 1000 Fans in 2015 Figure 14 International Comparison Figure 15 International Comparison SUMMARY INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUMMARY INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS 919,89 1448,29 523,50 364,09 262,52 282,14 244,47 194,64 194,16 178,50 171,86 163,92 167,05 150,30 61,88 0,58 AVERAGE NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUM INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS AVERAGE NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUM INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS 318,2 2,5K 347,8 2,8K Number of Interactions per 1000 Fans in 2014 Number of Interactions per 1000 Fans in 2015 Figure 16 Regional Comparison Figure 17 Regional Comparison SUMMARY INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUMMARY INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS 2632,30 2991,32 1554,30 1911,49 1034,63 1448,29 1003,12 1091,08 919,89 723,91 691,75 713,99 678,55 616,45 556,19 541,53 394,96 509,75 255,81 363,34 AVERAGE NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUM INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS AVERAGE NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS SUM INTERACTIONS PER 1000 FANS 972,2 9,7K 1,1K 10,9K C. TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION Technological innovation is mainstreamed at Alfa as we are continuously striving to evolve and to enable our customers to lead easier, convenient and better lives. Furthermore, we undertake continuous upgrades to face new demand trends and unconventional competition. Alfa was the first operator to let subscribers experience a virtual 4G speed through a creative digital application on its social media channels. Also, “Alfa App Store”, the Lebanese app store offering limitless opportunities to app developers to showcase their creativity & upload their applications for free launched in March 2014. Additionally, Alfa’s “fun but responsible” digital strategy led to many success stories. One of them was referenced during Dubai Lynx, 9 March 2015, a distinguishable digital conference, as the perfect example for great engagement online and was discussed as a case study at the event. 35 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience Customized Services and Responsible Products: We continue to increase our menu of customized services and responsible products. Some of our innovative offerings include the following: Postpaid Mobile Broadband Roaming Objective: Convenience Description: Alfa Mobile broadband postpaid users can now access the Internet while abroad; using their current MBB data only card. Pick your Line Online for postpaid and prepaid Objective: Reach Anti-corruption Equal opportunity for all Description: Alfa launched the “Pick Your Line” online application that provides new postpaid and prepaid lines booking to everyone (having an Alfa account or not) from a predefined list. The booked line can then be purchased from any Alfa store. Alfa Application Store Objective: Fostering entrepreneurship & skills development Description: Alfa launched its own application store: the “Alfa App Store,” which allows local app developers to upload their applications for free and showcase their creativity to more than 2 million Alfa mobile subscribers in Lebanon. The “Alfa App Store” is a free application available on Android, Symbian and Blackberry mobile operating systems while iOS applications will be available through a web portal managed by Alfa. The app also offers its developers Operator Billing capabilities where fees can be deducted straight from Alfa costumers from their Alfa postpaid bill or Alfa prepaid credit account. Alfa Mobile TV Objective: Innovation Reach Description: Through Alfa TV, Alfa postpaid and prepaid subscribers can now enjoy watching over 45 TV channels, with Alfa Mobile TV. 36 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience El Khat el Askary for General Security Objective: Customized product ّ Description: “‫الخــط العســكري‬ ” from Alfa is available as a Prepaid plan exclusively dedicated to the General Security forces. By subscribing to this prepaid plan, General Security members will be benefiting from a 55% discount compared to the regular Alfa Prepaid plan. U-Can Objective: Community development Description: A line dedicated exclusively to all Lebanese people with special needs registered at the Ministry of Social Affairs. U-Can is available as a prepaid & postpaid line. Najat application Objective: Community development Emergency Description: An application for the Lebanese Red Cross. The “Najat” app helps the Lebanese Red Cross directly identify the address of the distressed person when it receives calls to its free emergency number 140, thus facilitating and accelerating the work of paramedics. U-Share Objective: Sharing Responsible spending Description: U-Share allows Alfa subscribers to share their current mobile internet or mobile broadband data bundles of 10GB and above, with up to 3 secondary postpaid or prepaid account users at a time. Ebill Objective: Environmental responsibility Description: The detailed bill by e-mail allows Alfa subscriber to subscribe to a detailed bill sent to him/her via email. 37 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience In 2015, we also developed a vision for the year 2020 where we set many goals including: D. INTERNATIONAL SHARING AND E. NATIONAL NETWORK COVERAGE ROAMING AGREEMENTS Alfa network currently covers 99% of Lebanon and has over An important aspect of Alfa’s wireless service, one that 2700 2G, 3G+, and 4G LTE sites on air. We have over 1300 adds value for all Lebanese who travel, especially those 2G sites on the network (a 200% increase since 2009), more who want to conduct business all over the world is the than 1200 3G+ sites, and 250 4G LTE sites to date, successfully fact that we offer our postpaid and prepaid customers covering 40% of the population. roaming services dispersed across the various continents. We strive to cope with the huge demand on Mobile Specifically, we offer our postpaid customers voice Broadband (MBB) data and therefore strive to expand our roaming services in 174 countries and 355 operators. We coverage to reach various areas across Lebanon. The below also offer our prepaid customers voice roaming services figure elucidates our 2G, 3G and 4G LTE coverage in Lebanon. in 79 countries. Our data roaming service also spans 148 countries (note that the numbers of countries is subject to change on a daily basis according to any new launching or decommissioned of networks). Figure 19 Network Population Coverage Figure 19 Network Territory Coverage 2G 99.9% 2G 91.3% 3G 99.5% 3G 81.7% 4G 59.3% 4G 35.5% 38 2nd Sustainability Pillar Customer Centricity & Experience F. CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY organizational asset where different types of information As a telecommunications company, our customers trust require different security measures depending on their us with one of their most private and valuable assets, sensitivity. Accordingly, since 2012, we have adopted two namely data. policies to continue strengthening the data security services We work continuously to inspire trust and confidence in that we provide to our customers. our ability to protect and handle the significant amount of customer and digital data, and protect our customers’ 1. Information Security: Personal Computer Policy privacy. Launched in 2012, the objective of such policy is to: We have developed a policy on information security  Ensure that Alfa’s data is adequately protected that defines the guidelines for handling and protecting  Minimize the personal liability of staff in the event of Data loss information from unauthorized accesses, and its usage  Clarify support responsibilities for personally-owned equipment by information owners. This policy is comprehensive and applies to all Alfa 2. Information Security: Data Classification Policy information, irrespective of data location or the type Launched in 2014, the objective of this policy is to define the guidelines of device that the data resides on. All departments are for handling and protecting information from unauthorized access or responsible for handling data in compliance with this disclosure. Moreover, it aims at providing information owners with policy. In addition, all our employees sign a non-disclosure guidance on how to classify and use information assets properly. agreement that prohibits sharing the company and customers’ confidential information either during or after their employment. Also, in line with our role as a socially responsible corporation, several awareness campaigns were launched during 2015 through SMS, social media, and in Press to warn subscribers of spam messages and help protect their mobile phones. Our privacy guidelines are regularly updated to reflect the changes in technology and industry standards. As we develop new products and services, our priority is to ensure the safety of our customers’ personal information. As we seek to honor the customers’ trust, we realize that being transparent in the way we manage our information is important. In this respect, we are transparent about the information we collect and how we process and use it. Our privacy controls do not end at the boundaries of our organization. We seek to protect the customers’ information throughout our supply chain. This is achieved through a wide-range of policies and procedures that engage our different stakeholders to create a comprehensive privacy culture. Hence at Alfa, we consider Data to be a critical 39 We Create Opportunities 3rd Sustainability Pillar Positive Economic Spill-Over PILLAR 3 ECONOMIC SPILLOVER Alfa plays a leading role in connecting the Lebanese with each other and with the information they need to enrich their lives and pursue their aspirations. This pillar consequently highlights Alfa’s leading role in supporting the Lebanese economy through a range of targeted initiatives that are intended to stimulate and contribute to economic and social revival. Alfa has accordingly achieved an increase in market penetration from 14.4% in 2008 to 44% by end of December 2015. Alfa customers constitute 38.7% of the total Lebanese population (as of December 2015), thereby achieving a total growth of 222% since 2009, when OTMT was appointed. Given our key role in the Lebanese economy, our positive economic spillover pillar is central to our sustainability strategy, and complements the other pillars we have put in place. Some of the main elements of this pillar include the following: A. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE As a large company in Lebanon, our performance As part of our commitment to excellence in corporate impacts local economies, society and the well-being of governance, transparency and accountability, we place great our communities. Contributing to a healthy marketplace emphasis on our financial performance in the long term and local economy benefits Alfa’s long-term success. as a way to protect the interests of our shareholders and Through its core business, Alfa seeks to play a central role to enhance the economic development in Lebanon. The in the local economy by re-invigorating the technology statistics and facts below show the significant progress we interface across Lebanon and providing connectivity made in terms of financial and market performance. amidst a worldwide sea of change in terms of rapid technological innovation. The telecom sector in which we operate makes contributions to other sectors and In 2014 – 2015, Alfa revenues constituted more industries by facilitating their growth and supporting than 6% of the total Lebanese government their operations. This section touches on Alfa’s financial performance revenues. which positively spills over on the Lebanese economy Alfa also created more than 1,000 direct through Alfa’s profit generation, operating revenues generation, contribution to GDP, tax payment to job opportunities and 3,000 indirect job the government (income tax, VAT), offering of job employment opportunities, payment of employee opportunities in the ICT and other key salaries and benefits, increase in market share over the economic sectors (Source: Booz and Company Analysis, years, increase in the number of subscribers, increase in total number of products/services. This section also National ICT Agenda) (G4-EC8), Also, the percentage encompasses Alfa’s community investments and cash of orders with local suppliers reached 70% in donations, which amounted to more than $3 Million in 2014 and more than $3 Million in 2015, in addition to 2014 and 62% in 2015 out of the total amount its positive impact on other sectors that are affected by telecom. (G4-EC8) of placed orders. (G4-EC9) 42 3rd Sustainability Pillar Positive Economic Spill-Over Statistics and Facts about B. ENCOURAGING ENTREPRENEURSHIP THROUGH Figure 21 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Alfa's Financial Performance Alfa is very keen on fostering innovation and cultivating an Alfa subscribers increased by 222% to reach 1.9 million environment of creativity in Lebanon, which ultimately drives subscribers today economic activity in today’s digitalized world. For example, Alfa changed and upgraded its entire infrastructure in close Alfa launched its own application store: the “Alfa App Store,” coordination with the Ministry of Telecommunications in which allows local app developers to upload their applications Lebanon for free and showcase their creativity to more than 2 million Alfa added 50% more employees and completely re-invented Alfa mobile subscribers in Lebanon. The “Alfa App Store” is a its position and branding free application available on Android, Symbian and Blackberry mobile operating systems while iOS applications are available In Lebanon, mobile penetration increased by 124% to reach through a web portal managed by Alfa. The app also offers 90% its developers Operator Billing capabilities where fees can be Alfa Market share increased by 7 points to reach 47.8% in deducted straight from Alfa costumers from their Alfa postDecember 2015 paid bill or Alfa prepaid credit account. Alfa Data subscribers grew by 4000% to reach over 1 million In 2015, we further embedded our social commitment into data subscribers to date our service offering, and used it to push our approach to sustainable product design and innovation. As show in the Over 2700 2G/3G+/4G LTE SITES ON AIR figure below, the year 2015 witnessed the development 1300 2G sites on the network, a 200% increase since 2009 of many “first of their kind offers” that help customers stay connected. Alfa network covers 99% of Lebanon More than 1200 3G+ sites to date deployed in three years 250 4G LTE sites to date Smartphone Penetration rate reaches 90% Data Traffic reaches unprecedented rates of 900TB per month Drop call rate drops to 0.5% while 1% is the average worldwide figure Figure 22 Timeline of First of their kind Offers 43 3rd Sustainability Pillar Positive Economic Spill-Over C. VALUE CHAIN As indicated in Figure 21, Alfa’s value chain is a robust channel that encompasses important players including: • Network equipment suppliers: provide Alfa with equipment and technology. • Content providers: provide content for Alfa’s users through Alfa’s network. • Service partners: are Alfa’s partners in creating new products and services. • Data service providers: ISPs that provide internet access to Alfa. • Distributors: are Alfa’s sales partners who are responsible for selling Alfa’s subscriptions through their channels. • Subscribers: are the users who buy Alfa’s SIM cards and services and use them to communicate. They represent the end client that Alfa strives to satisfy. All these players work in tandem to ensure amplified value creation in the Lebanese economy. (G4-EC8) Figure 23 Alfa's Value Chain 44 3rd Sustainability Pillar Positive Economic Spill-Over D. FEATURED STORY The National Director of SOS Children’s Villages Lebanon, Mrs. Alfa launches new initiative in support of SOS Children’s Viviane Zeidan, commended the cooperation between SOS Villages aiming to develop the association’s sewing and Children’s Villages and Alfa as part of the Alfa-4-Life CSR program, embroidery production which is a pioneer in providing support to civil society, noting that Beirut Lebanon on February 26th, 2015: In a press “Alfa is a leading company in the field of conference held today at the Press Club, Alfa, managed social responsibility and its experience in this by Orascom Telecom, launched a new initiative in support area is a true example for others.” She thanked of SOS Children’s Villages that includes securing financial Alfa for its support “that turned this project into reality.” support and the necessary equipment for the development Zeidan added, “A Chinese proverb says: Teaching someone how of the association’s sewing and embroidery workshop. to fish is better than giving them fish.” This wisdom is the best This initiative is part of the “Alfa-4-Life” CSR program and description of this partnership. Alfa’s initiatives in support of promoting and supporting the presence of Lebanese women in society. The aim of our project is to enable the ladies to strengthen their family’s capacities by teaching them new skills that will highlight Alfa Chief Communication Affairs Officer, Mrs. Aline their creativity and help them reach economic and financial Karam declared that this step comes in the context of Alfa’s autonomy with dignity and self-respect.” She concluded: “Thanks ongoing cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages since to this partnership, 2,000 children who are cared for by their the launch of the Alfa CSR program, adding that “Alfa will mothers will benefit from our program strengthening family secure the necessary equipment for the development of capacities. Thank you Alfa!” the workshop’s activities to help the association produce a full and sophisticated range of sewing and embroidery Then the President of the Graphic Designers Union in Lebanon, products that are more competitive in the local market.” She Rita Moukarzel, talked about the strategy and graphic and announced that “we will achieve several targets through this marketing plan for the development of the workshop activities and step, namely to secure permanent income for the association production, as well as the relevant steps that will be followed in that through developing the existing potential and building on it. context. This is in addition to supporting and strengthening the role of Lebanese women and securing employment opportunities for them, especially SOS mothers who play a noble role in the The coming months will witness the production of a full range of community, as well as strengthening the sector of Lebanese handcrafted products for all occasions to be displayed and sold. The craft products and preventing its extinction.” profits will go directly to SOS Children’s Villages. 45 We nurture talent and empower Change agents 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing PILLAR 4 EMPLOYEE NURTURING Alfa is cognizant that a true element of its success as a company comes from having an engaged, agile, and empowered workforce that attracts the most talented individuals. This pillar encompasses Alfa’s commitment to being an employer of choice and its various initiatives to support and nurture various forms of internal talent development. We take pride in being an employer of choice and embodying best practice across our employment practices. The main elements of this pillar encompass the following: A. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Table 5 Training Development Categories We are cognizant that investment in our employee training and development is essential to help them progress in their General Categories Category Details Business roles given the fast-paced technological industry which we CommunicationHuman belong to. Our Training and Development Framework Resources develop technical, management and leadership related Hard Skills Finance competencies for our employees. (Technical and Marketing We have deployed around 13,260 hours of training in job-related skills) Project Management Sales 2014 and 19,766 hours of training in 2015 covering a range Quality and Risk of topics including hard skills (specific technical and jobManagement related skills), information technology, soft skills, telecom Data Treatment and behavioral trainings, among others. IT / Programming We are proud to report a successful implementation of IT Security learning opportunities with efficiency measurement, IT / Networking Information Technology Overseas conference for exceeding set KPIs. training and exchange of expertise Safety and Security Trainings: IT Products and Services  Driver Improvement Program for 111 members driving Decision Making company-owned or personal vehicles to perform job Soft Skills Social Intelligence Management and Leadership duties (“YASA”, 2014 & 2012) Communication and InterSpecific Behavioral personal Skills  Tower Climbing Safety for 23 technicians and engineers Trainings for Customer Customer Service Excellence Service team (“Capital Safety”, 2014) Telephone Skills Overseas conference for  Information & Physical Security awareness sessions for training and exchange of expertise all Alfa employees Telecom Products and International Programs for Colleagues’ Development: Services Telecom Systems and  Some examples for 2015-2014: Programs by Franklin Telecom Equipment related trainings Covey, Arbinger Institute (e.g. “The Choice”), Quadrant (Installation, Configuration, Operation, Maintenance and 1 (e.g. “Real People Management”) and others to ensure Troubleshooting of Hardware, quality learning content and methodologies Software and Network; Note: in other years, we had programs with INSEAD (“Innovation System upgrades, Latest Program”, 2013), London Business School (Leadership, 2009) & technologies; Billing Systems) Informa Telecoms Academy (Mini-MBA, 2009), among others. Microsoft Office Microsoft Office 48 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing B. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES At Alfa, we strive to ensure a supportive workplace that reflects equality, diversity, and inclusionthe cornerstones to our sustainability efforts and our company success. We focus on the inclusion on including and supporting employees of different genders, religions, and age groups. At the end of 2014, we had a total of 911 employees comprising of 362 females and 549 males. As for 2015, our workforce increased to 958 employees with the overall female representation reaching around 40%. The tables below summarize the total number of employees by employment contract and gender and the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender in 2014 and 2015. (G4-10) Alfa strongly believes in eliminating gender discrimination; in fact, over 40% of the total employees of Alfa are women, including 15% of the Board of Directors and 29% of management. (G4-10) Table 7 TOTAL NUMBER OF ALFA EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER IN 2014 Table 8 TOTAL NUMBER OF ALFA EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER IN 2015 Permanent Contractual Consultant Total Permanent Contractual Consultant Total Female 308 52 2 362 Female 331 57 0 388 Male 470 73 6 549 Male 513 70 7 590 Total 778 125 8 911 Total 844 127 7 978 Table 9 TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER IN 2014 Beirut PoP Chtaura Halba Warehouse Jounieh Nabatieh Saida Female 398 1 4 4 10 1 6 Male 625 1 7 4 9 3 4 4 Total 1023 2 11 8 9 13 5 10 Table 10 TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER IN 2015 Beirut PoP Chtaura Halba Warehouse Jounieh Nabatieh Saida Female 414 13 4 4 0 10 1 7 Male 617 18 7 4 9 3 4 3 Total 1031 31 11 8 9 13 5 10 Our diversity and inclusion approach is reinforced throughout our organizational culture and used as a framework for our management to set gender-balanced recruitment and retaining objectives. Our new hires in 2014 amounted to 35 employees while this number grew to 58 employees in 2015. In 2015, our females’ new hires increased to 47% of the total new employees compared to 17% in 2014 (table 11). Our female engagement policy is also reflected in the low turnover rate for female employees of 33% compared to 67% for males (table 12). In total, our total leavers number dropped from 86 employees in 2014 to 48 employees in 2015. Table 11 RATE OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES IN 2014 AND 2015 BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION (G4LA1) AGE GENDER LOCATION <30 yrs 30-50 yrs >50 yrs Male Female Headquarter Stores/PoPs 2014 63% 37% 0% 83% 17% 86% 14% 2015 69% 29% 2% 53% 47% 43% 57% Table 12 RATE OF EMPLOYEE TURNOVER IN 2014-2015 BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION (G4LA1) AGE GENDER LOCATION <30 yrs 30-50 yrs >50 yrs Male Female Headquarter Stores/PoPs 2014 64% 36% 0% 67% 33% 78% 22% 2015 56% 38% 6% 67% 33% 85% 15% 49 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing Our permanent employees have many additional TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES THAT TOOK benefits including but not restricted to life and medical Table 13 PARENTAL LEAVE IN 2014 AND 2015, BY GENDER (G4-LA3) insurance and parental and other personal leaves. (G4LA2) Pregnant women are entitled to 90 calendar days of maternity leaves, before or after delivery. Newly dads Maternity Leave Paternity Leave Total benefit from 3 calendar days upon the spouse’s delivery. 2014 22 33 55 In 2015, 327 of our employees were entitled to parental 2015 31 32 63 leave. During 2015, 63 of our employees made use of parental leave compared to 55 in 2014. We are proud to announce that all our colleagues who opted for parental leave taken during 2014 and 2015 returned to work after the leave ended. While all employees who returned to work after their parental leave ended were still employed twelve months after their return to work in 2015, only one of our female colleagues opted to leave our employment within twelve months after the expiration Table 14 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY LEAVE TYPE of her maternity leave in 2015. IN 2014 AND 2015, AND BY GENDER (G4-LA3) To ensure a good work-life balance, we have also 2014 2015 sustained our personal leaves policy to increase our Wedding Leave employee motivation and commitment at work. At Alfa, Male 10 27 we have different types of leaves including: (G4-LA2) Female 14 15  Wedding leave: employees getting married are entitled Nursing Mother's Special Leave to a one-week leave . Female 51 43  Nursing mother’s special leave: all nursing mothers Parents' Special Leave can benefit from a reduction of a one hour of their Male 41 81 working hours per day until their newborn reaches his Female 65 72 first year of age. Students' Special Leave  Parents’ special leave: parents with children under 10 Male 5 10 years old can take one hour of their working day three Female 3 8 times per week to assist their young children in the event where a half-day leave cannot be taken during a specific day for business reason.  Students’ special leave: employees pursuing their post graduate studies can benefit from a one working hour reduction up to three times per week similar to the one given to parents provided the study schedule is regular over the weeks. OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE TO PHYSICALLY As a corporate citizen, we try to address the challenges Figure 24 CHALLENGED EPMPLOYEES of our community and improvise appropriate solutions. Accordingly, we “walk the talk” and strive to employ people with physical challenges because we sincerely want 01 EQUAL BENEFITS 02 WORKPLACE WELLBEING to turn any disability into ability and try integrating these 03 EQUAL TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES people into the workforce. Our physically challenged 04 EQUAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITIES employees are granted an array of opportunities as 05 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES shown in the figure below. 06 ACCESSIBILITY TO FACILITIES AND SERVICES 50 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing Actually, in Alfa we exceeded the 3% quota, stipulated by the Law 220/2000 which promotes the rights of the disabled and was ratified by Parliament in Dec. 1999. In 2009, we initiated a partnership with LPHU (Lebanese Physical Handicapped Union) which is still in force until today. We believe that our involvement in such program has only resulted in positive gains, such as:  Benefiting from more diversity with all what diversity can bring to the workplace.  Compliance with the Law 220/2000.  Developing our corporate social responsibility.  Raising awareness among colleagues in regards to the rights of the people with disabilities. This year, we made additional efforts to attract, engage and retain people with disability. We continuously work to best equip our premises to address the needs of all our challenged colleagues and facilitate their integration in our working environment. Within this scope, a specialized training for HR team members was conducted in February 2015, and had the following objectives:  Getting familiar with the best way for approaching employees with disabilities from an HR perspective.  Knowing the tools needed to have at workplace facilitating the integration of employees with disabilities.  Learning about the cultural change needed enabling a proper integration of employees with disabilities (Recruitment, Strategy, Communication, etc.). C. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Alfa offers its employees fair and competitive compensation and benefits as compared to market rates. We also complement our salaries by various noteworthy benefits, over and above those required by the Lebanese labour law, including: 18 to 30 days of paid vacation days commensurate with tenure, special days off in cases of bereavement within the employees’ families, special hours off per week to attend to the education needs of minor children, medical insurance, life insurance, transportation allowance, school benefits for employee children, mobile allowance, canteen tickets, company doctor at employees’ disposal during working hours, and advances on salaries if and when needed. D. EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELLBEING The success of Alfa is directly tied to the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees. We have a comprehensive Technical Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines and our goal is always to protect people by preventing injuries, and we invest in safety training every year. We also encourage our employees to lead healthy lifestyles by creating internal awareness, for example, in relation to the benefits of healthy eating habits and risks associated to smoking. 51 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing During 2014 and 2015, we recorded only 2 work related incidents among our workforce (1 male and 1 female of our colleagues). In both cases, the injured employees were given direct first aid assistance and then were taken to the hospital (G4-LA6). At Alfa, we believe that our employees are our greatest asset. Accordingly, engaging our personnel is a top priority across our various practices and everything we do. We implement programs to boost our employees’ motivation and commitment by providing a stress free and collegial environment, in addition to programs that open new horizons for our employees to excel on the business side. Internal engagement initiatives that took place in the last two years include: the annual Christmas Parade and Village, Alfa Christmas Kids Party, Mothers’ Day celebration and our annual Gala dinner regrouping all Alfa family. E. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT The Performance Management Program aims at improving and recognizing Alfa employees’ performance and supporting their career development while ensuring that their individual objectives are being met in line with Alfa corporate goals. Each employee’s contribution is mapped to corporate goals achievement, and a mid-year review exercise is performed in order to ensure proper follow-up on objectives achievement progress. The review is also based on selected criteria that reflect performance in terms of core, technical and managerial competencies. Accordingly, Alfa employees are given feedback on their performance, behaviour, communication style and skills through the Performance Appraisal System which is conducted on a yearly basis. A development plan is also synthesized according to the areas of improvement identified in the appraisal, during which employees are provided with constructive developmental feedback on their performance and guidance on future career growth and plans helping them grow to their potential. In 2015, 928 of our full time employees were subject to the performance assessment program with an individual final rating being divided as follows: (G4-LA11) • 30% related to competencies assessment (core, technical and managerial), in addition to other criteria related to corporate culture adherence . • 70% based on yearly objectives achievements. Figure 26: Talent Development at Alfa NEW EMPLOYEE ONBOARDING Onboarding for new employee and SKILL DEVELOPMENT supporting material TNA and learning strategy CAREER DEVELOPMENT Learning references for selfSuccession planning development Learning and development for individuals and teams: Training implementation Capitalizing on high performers Management development Recognition of internal expertise: Learning and development for the Internal trainers organisation: Specific awareness campaigns Safety and security awareness CONTINUOUS LEARNING CULTURE QUALITY FRAMEWORK 52 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing F. TALENT MANAGEMENT, RECOGNITION AND REWARD PROGRAMS Alfa employees are the heartbeat of our business; consequently, talent management is an important cornerstone of our long-term business strategy and an important element of Alfa’s branding and competitive strategy. Our business performance and long-term sustainability depend on our ability to effectively develop, retain and engage the most talented people. For this purpose, Alfa has developed its Talent of the Quarter Program, which recognizes and rewards its high-performing talents that exceed set targets. At Alfa, we also make sure to treat all employees equally, irrespective of gender or race. We advocate the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We also pay equal wages to our employees based on the nature of the work performed. G. DISCIPLINARY AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS H. HUMAN RIGHTS Alfa takes pride in its proactive and disciplined approach Alfa abides by ethical business standards in accordance with to ensuring that its practices instill confidence in its international norms and standards of best practice. We stakeholders, including its employees. Accordingly, we conduct our operations and business relationships in line have put in place a Disciplinary Policy, which clarifies the with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon and principles of disciplinary measures inside the company our internal code of conduct. We endorse the Universal and outlines the procedures that need to be taken in case Declaration of Human Rights by respecting and promoting of any misconduct. This policy takes into consideration ethical conduct amongst our employees, customers, the Lebanese Labour Law and gives Alfa employees an stakeholders and business partners. opportunity to clarify their stand on the case. In 2014 and 2015, a large number of our operations have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments such as: (G4-HR9)  LPHU Training 2015: Out of Alfa’s concern in recruiting & integrating people with disabilities at work, 19 members of HR Team were trained by the “Lebanese Physical Handicapped Union” to enhance related process and make sure that our organization is fully equipped humanly and physically to support people with disabilities.  Physical Safety and IT Security trainings are extended to all colleagues; assessment of employee knowledge through quiz; reminder and communication about related policies and procedures.  Existence of around 75 members trained on First Aid and Emergency Evacuation; emergency evacuation drills are conducted. 53 4th Sustainability Pillar Employee Nurturing I. FEATURED STORY Alfa celebrates International Girls in ICT Day for the third year with the participation of female students from several schools who competed on technological innovation. Beirut, Lebanon, May 13 2015: On the occasion of “the International Girls in ICT Day,” an International Telecommunications Union (ITU) initiative, Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, organized for the third year a tour in the company offices for female students from several Lebanese schools. The visit included an interactive discussion with the women in the Alfa team as well as technological innovation competitions. Alfa seeks through this initiative to encourage girls who are about to start university to pursue studies in the ICT field by informing them about the various employment opportunities available to them in the sector. In this respect, Alfa CEO and Chairman Marwan Hayek commended the students on their creative abilities and their passion for technology, noting that “there are promising job opportunities for women in the ICT sector”. He added, “Our role as a responsible corporation requires from us to contribute in guiding the younger generation toward these opportunities and allow them to engage actively in the sector”. Hayek also said, “Alfa provides equal job opportunities to all segments of society and believes that women need to participate in the massive development taking place in the ICT field. It is therefore not surprising that women make up nearly half of the company’s total staff and that they are in charge of major tech tasks”. The celebration day included a tour for the female students in Alfa’s main tech departments that aimed to inform the students about how to operate the network and how to technologically develop the various projects and services as well as their methods of implementation. It also included a detailed explanation of the nature of work in these sections by female managers and employees at Alfa, allowing students to interact with the female staff in Alfa. The event comprised a competition aimed to test the students’ innovation and creativity abilities by asking them to visualize their schools in the year 2050. 54 We Act for Life beyond the walls of our business 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment PILLAR 5 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT This pillar encompasses our commitment to help the communities around us, by addressing issues that matter most to the Lebanese today like community support initiatives, youth empowerment, digital inclusion, health, and environmental stewardship. The main elements of this pillar include the following (G4-15): A. ALFA 4-LIFE Alfa’s signature project since 2006, Alfa 4-Life program, Alfa 4-Life Success Stories: is a program aimed at helping children in communication Alfa creates significant social value through its in kind support needs (physical and mental challenges) and children with and contributions. In 2015, we spent more than $190,000 on social problems in different parts of the country receive Alfa 4-Life initiatives where the largest portions of our support special care and build skills that will enable them to were allocated to Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf (FAID), interact and integrate in our community. Lebanese Autism Society (LAS), ACSAUVEL, SESOBEL, SOS and Alfa 4-Life supports a number of NGOs that share Alfa’s Lebanese School for Blind and Deaf (LSBD). As for 2014, our total vision and values, including: Lebanese Autism Society contribution to Alfa 4-Life amounted to more than $380,000 (LAS), SOS Children’s Village, Acsauvel, SESOBEL, Father (figure below) with the majority of the support allocated to Andeweg Institute for the Deaf (FAID) and the Lebanese Sesobel and Lebanese School for Blind and Deaf (LSBD). School for the Blind and Deaf (LSBD). Figure 27 ALFA 4-LIFE PARTNERS Alfa also launched the first donation via SMS activity which allows all its subscribers to donate $1 to the partner NGO LEBANESE associations through the short code 1004. AUTISM SESOBEL SOCIETY Subscribers donations for LEBANESE SCHOOL FOR BLIND AND DEAF SOS CHILDREN'S VILLAGE 2014-2015 FATHER ANDEWEG INSTITUTE FOR THE DEAF ACSAUVEL $157,000 56 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment Figure 28 ALFA 4-LIFE MAIN INITIATIVES AND COST IN 2014 Figure 29 ALFA 4-LIFE MAIN INITIATIVES AND COST IN 2015 57 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment In support of promoting the presence of Lebanese 26 Feb. 2015: Sewing and embroidery production SOS We launched a new initiative in support of SOS Children’s Villagesthat women in society, we also sponsored several events includes securing financial support and the necessary equipment for the development of the association’s sewing and embroideryworkshop during 2015 as part of our Alfa 4-Life initiative as shown in the figure below. Our work with the different NGOs 7 May 2015: Girls in ICT day reflects our commitment to maintain and expand our We celebrated “the International Girls in ICT Day” by holding round tables and hosting several activities and a tour in the company in presence in the country in the long term. For example, In addition to technological innovation competitions for female students from several Lebanese schools. February 2015 we sponsored an event organized by SOS 28 Mar. 2015: Rénover Ne Pas Jeter FAID Children’s Villages that includes securing financial support We organized In collaboration with the Father Andeweg Institute for and the necessary equipment for the development of the Deaf the “Rénover ne pas Jeter” exhibition at Farra Design Gallery in Mkalles, which featured 18 pieces of old furniture that were redesigned the association’s sewing and embroidery workshop. and renovated by the Institute’s students. This year we also celebrated the International Girls in ICT 20 Jun. 2015: Sports Show Acsauvel Day which provides an opportunity for girls and young We held the annual sport event for Acsauvel children with special needs, at the Champville Stadium in Deek El Mehdi. women to get an insight into ICT sectors and careers. For the third year in a row, we also organized in our company offices a tour for female students from several We know that people have different priorities, passions and Lebanese schools and introduced them to our Alfa team interests. That is why we seek to balance our sponsorships and technological innovation competitions. The purpose of events to cover different areas and categories. This of such tour was to raise awareness and inspire young year, we increased the total value of our sponsorship from women to see technology in a whole new perspective. $1,672,405.00 in 2014 to $2,007,442.00 in 2015. CONTRIBUTIONS TO COMMUNITY: Figure 31 CATEGORIES AND THEIR COSTS (2014) CONTRIBUTIONS TO COMMUNITY: Figure 32 CATEGORIES AND THEIR COSTS (2015) 58 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment B. ARTS AND CULTURE C. SPORTS Alfa strives to promote arts and culture in Lebanon and Alfa encourages national sports by supporting national sponsors key festivals and music concerts, including: sports events, Lebanese leagues, athletic facilities, and Beiteddine Festival, Batroun Festival, Byblos Festival, Julia Lebanese athletes including: Champville Basketball team, Boutros Festival, among others. Riyade Basketball Team for ladies, Lebanese Judo Federation, In collaboration with the Lebanese Autism Society (LAS), Bauchrieh Volley Ball team sponsorship, HOOPS Club, we have also launched in June 2014 the 1st Lebanese Art Tannourine Volleyball team, Athletico Club for young Academy, the first academy of its kind in Lebanon for footballers, Ali Wehbe Run for LAS, Tripoli Half marathon, teaching arts to people with special needs. among others. Since 20112012 season Alfa took the lead in Through Alfa 4-Life, we have launched the 1st EcoClub reviving sports spirit in Lebanon and specifically by promoting for mentally Challenged children of Acsauvel who have and fully supporting the Lebanese national football league, launched the Ecobags initiative and raised awareness on by bringing back to light a game that was forgotten for long. ecological causes. Since then, Alfa is the official sponsor of the National Football League that is now officially named “Alfa Lebanese League” or “ALL”. At Alfa, we do believe that our Business successes and achievements if not intertwined with the wellbeing of our community, has not reach its full potential. Accordingly, we are continuously supporting our Lebanese players in wide variety of sports, all over Lebanon. Figure 33 AREAS COVERED BY ALFA'S BAYTI LINE D. DIGITAL INCLUSION (G4-EC7) Alfa strives to develop good networks for its customers and provide them with connectivity and the technology that is vital for living, learning, and advancing in today’s hi-tech economy. Digital inclusion is a priority for Alfa and a strategic way in which we opt to give back to our society and the community in which we live and work. We take on the added responsibility to facilitate access to technology for those who are marginalized or deprived from access. For example, Alfa launched its Bayti fixed wireless landline that allows customers in remote villages in Lebanon to conduct and receive national and international voice calls, providing them with important Internet access. 59 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment E. AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS G. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (G4-EN30) Grounded in our role as a responsible business, we always Alfa considers environmental stewardship as an important go the extra mile to raise awareness about the harms of part of its drive to be a sustainable business and an important using our technology during unsafe situations like texting component and pillar of its sustainability strategy. At Alfa, we and driving. For example, in 2014, we launched the “Last assess our environmental footprint and seek means to reduce Seen” awareness campaign on road safety in partnership it, both internally, within our organization and externally, within with KunHadi, in addition to a campaign with the Internal our community. We consider ourselves as the environmental Security Forces (ISF). advocates of our community, by adopting pioneering Alfa also introduced a wide range of awareness responsible environmental initiatives, embracing the latest campaigns covering topics related to breast cancer, waste technologies in terms of energy savings and operational management, blood donations, among others. efficiency towards renewable energy sourcing, and working towards a sustainable and precautionary growth. F. HEALTH Accordingly, we have taken active steps to introduce green We are keen to follow international quality standards service initiatives, secure energy efficiency, manage our waste, and protocols in relation to the Human Exposure Limit introduce green areas, acquire value enhancing services or Regulation for safety and public health with respect products, among others. to possible health impacts of the radiations caused by mobile network equipment. All Alfa cells across Lebanon are compliant with the ICNIRP standard (International Commission on NonIonizing Radiation Protection, 1998), which produces guidelines and recommendations on the Electromagnetic Radiation measurements exposure rates. We have also introduced strategic apps that support community health such as the Najat Application, which aids the Lebanese Red Cross in efficiently identifying the address of the person in distress, thereby facilitating and accelerating the work of paramedics. 60 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment  Green services initiatives: e-billing and e-recharge services  Energy Efficiency Reducing energy consumption Adopting energy efficient technologies such as installing electronic type ballasts energy efficient in our premises all floors and cafeterias, settling a Power Shut down for floor lightings and kitchen pantries, and installing motion detectors in parking and toilets, cutting back our energy consumption by more than 40%. Using energy efficient components in our buildings (offices, networks, cooling systems, end-user equipment) Renewable energy sourcing: powering our base stations with SOLAR ENERGY Energy efficient company fleet “Exhaust Oxygen Sensor”  Waste Management: Purchasing Recycling bins Disposing Recycling bins in strategic areas Conducting awareness to all Alfa employees Deciding on storage areas Collecting papers Monitoring process Ewaste recycling  Selecting Green Agents from Alfa units  Business process engineering efforts  Invest in and acquire value enhancing services or products (mobile banking/shopping/entertainment, internet providers, IPTV, customized offers...) Allow on-the spot purchase through NFC  Greening efforts: one tree is being planted by Alfa’s partners on the Lebanese territory against each allocated site on the Alfa network TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE RECYCLING BY TYPE DURING Table 16 2013-2015 (G4-EN23) CARDBOARD PLASTIC MIX ALUMINUM YEAR PAPER (KG) (KG) (KG) (KG) 2013 3 10 2 10 2014 1991 2100 522 22 2015 2968 2602 423 31 62 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment H. FEATURED STORY Alfa organizes the 6th exhibition of autistic The Launch of a New Brand Image of Sesobel’s artist Ali Tlais “Flowery Autism Happening” at Chocolates and Sweets Products the Beirut Art Fair Beirut, Lebanon, 3rd of December 2014: As part of the Beirut, Lebanon, on September 18, 2015: Under “alfa 4-Life” CSR program, and in support of Sesobel’s the auspices of His Excellency the Minister of chocolates and sweets products, the launch of a new brand Telecommunications, Mr. Boutros Harb, Alfa, image for these products was announced today. The managed by Orascom Telecom, organized as part of event, which was held at the Smallville hotel in Badaro, was its “Alfa 4-Life” CSR program the fourth exhibition attended by alfa CEO and Chairman, Mr. Marwan Hayek, of autistic artist Ali Tlais from the Lebanese Autism Sesobel President and Director-General Mrs. Fadia Safi, in Society (LAS) at the Beirut Art Fair, which is the sixth addition to executives from alfa, managed by Orascom in his career. Telecom, and Sesobel, as well as media representatives and interested parties. Titled “Flowery Autism Happening”, the works of Tlais were showcased next to those of professional To begin with, Hayek pointed out in his speech that “the painters and artists from around the world, in the launch of this project, which will last for a year, coincides presence of figures from diplomatic, political, social, with the International Day for persons with special needs media, and art circles, as well as the Alfa team. on December 3, a symbolic occasion which is valued by alfa”. He added, “Hence was this initiative, through which In his collection of paintings, Tlais reflected hope and we hope to contribute in ensuring the continuity and positivity by drawing the picturesque nature. He also sustainability of Sesobel and its production of chocolate surprised his fans by drawing in front of them during and sweets so that it can remain competitive in a market the exhibition, displaying exceptional capabilities that marked with competition”. Hayek assured that “today’s resulted from his continuous art therapy training initiative is a continuation of our cooperation with offered by Alfa and supervised by the President of Sesobel for the past years.” He added: “Society needs the Graphic Designers Union in Lebanon Mrs. Rita such associations, as without them it would be empty Moukarzel. of human meaning”. He finally hoped that Sesobel will continue to love giving and from alfa, he wished that the It is worth to note that the proceeds from the association continues to love life. exhibition went to Tlais and the LAS. In her speech, Safi said, “Our collaboration with alfa is not fortuitous, but rather a journey of several phases in which the company contributed to the development of our programs to serve our cause”. She added, “838 young girls and boys with special needs benefited from our services this year in the fields of rehabilitation, education, and health. This is in addition to more than two hundred people who benefited from the permanent training center”. She went on to say, ‘brotherly love’ is our motto for this year, a motto that embodies alfa’s loyalty and commitment to us”. Then the President of the Graphic Designers Union in Lebanon, Ms. Rita Moukarzel, gave details about the new brand image of these products as well as the redecoration of the points of sale. 63 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment Alfa Organizes Second Exhibition of Sculptures By He also said, “Their creativity is a living proof that blindness Students of the Lebanese School for the Blind and is not a barrier to creativity. Deaf Entitled “Feel With the Heart”: Exceptional Creativity and Unlimited Ability to Give A hundred years ago, Lebanese renowned writer Gibran Beirut – Lebanon, November 6, 2014: Under the high Khalil Gibran said that all work is emptiness unless mixed patronage and in presence of H.E., the Ambassador with love, and this love has come to crown the students’ of France in Lebanon, Mr. Patrice Paoli, and as part of the hard work, giving admirable results with outstanding professionalism and exceptional vision”. “Alfa-4-Life” CSR program, The “Feel with the Heart” (Sentir Avec le Coeur) exhibition by the Lebanese He ended his speech by saying, “This initiative makes me School for the Blind and the Deaf (LSBD) was held and everyone else in the Alfa family feel proud of our at the Pine Residence in Beirut on Wednesday 5 Alfa-4-Life program and its message, which aims for the November 2014. This is the second exhibition for the LSBD Students in two years, and it has offered social integration of persons with special needs in society them the opportunity to display their sculptures and through enhancing their communication abilities”. artistic creations, and it was attended by Alfa CEO and Chairman Mr. Marwan Hayek and his wife, along with cultural, artistic, political and media figures, in addition to Alfa executives and staff. The exhibition featured 56 sculptures that reflected the LSBD students’ vision of their community and dreams, and of the meaning of life derived from their daily experiences: from motherhood and art in its minute details, to love and nature, as well as other elements of life that remain vibrant in their hearts, feelings, and fingertips. The exhibition was the culmination of the specialized and ongoing workshops that were given to the students by sculptor Naim Doumit, and the President of the Graphic Designers Union in Lebanon, Ms. Rita Moukarzel. Several sculptures were sold during the exhibition, and all proceeds were donated to the LSBD. During the event, speeches were delivered by Ambassador Paoli, Alfa CEO and Chairman Mr. Marwan Hayek, LSBD Vice-Chairwoman Ms. Janet Shamoun, Mr. Doumit, and Ms. Moukarzel. In his speech, Mr. Hayek thanked “Ambassador Paoli for his ongoing support to this initiative and the students’ talent”. He added, “We are witnessing through this exceptional exhibition the birth of new creations by the LSBD students, who are able once again to dazzle us with their ability to give, challenging their circumstances and unleashing their potential”. 64 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment Alfa Holds “Rénover ne pas Jeter” Exhibition In Farra Gallery owner and General Director Mr. Ronald Support Of The Integration Of The Students of Farra said that “Farra Gallery’s support to and hosting of The Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf In this outstanding exhibition stems from its belief in in its The Workplace and the Community role toward the community since 75 years”. Beirut – Lebanon, March 31, 2015: Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, organized in collaboration Skaff Home Collection General Director Mr. Philippe with the Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf the Skaff said that “helping and supporting the community is “Rénover ne pas Jeter” exhibition at Farra Design a culture that is deeply rooted in us”. Gallery in Mkalles, which featured 18 pieces of old furniture that were redesigned and renovated by For her part, Mrs. Rita Moukarzel, the head of the Syndicate the Institute’s students. This new initiative is part of of Graphic Design and Illustration in Lebanon, described the Alfa 4-Life CSR Program and aims to integrate the preparations and training steps that were followed students with special needs in the community, and with the students in the workshops. She also talked about especially in the workplace. their artistic abilities that exceeded expectations. Alfa Chief Communication Affairs Officer Mrs. Aline The one-week exhibition ran until Tuesday April 7, 2015. Karam affirmed that this initiative is a continuation of the years of cooperation with the Father Andeweg Institute and comes in the context of the roadmap Alfa started with the Institute two years ago. This roadmap aims to train students with handiwork potential to help them effectively integrate in the community and develop their communicative abilities, thus preparing them to integrate the workplace. She pointed out that some students chose to learn carpentry and upholstery, noting that the proceeds of the furniture sold will go to the students and the Institute. Karam thanked all those who contributed to the success of this initiative. For his part, Father Andeweg Institute’s Chairman Dr. Toufic Takchi thanked Alfa for its support throughout the years within the “Alfa 4-Life” program, and especially with this exhibition, which helped and supported a group of students who worked on the renovation of old furniture. He added that the aim of this work is to discover and develop the skills of the students and help them integrate in the community effectively and independently. Takchi thanked Farra Gallery for hosting the exhibition, in addition to Skaff Group and all those who contributed to the success of this event. 65 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment Annual Acsauvel sports event for children with special needs Beirut on July 1, 2015: As part of the “Alfa 4-Life” CSR Program, Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, held the annual sport event for Acsauvel children with special needs, at the Champville Stadium in Deek El Mehdi. It was attended by Alfa CEO and Chairman, Marwan Hayek, Acsauvel Director Nabila Fares, in addition to members of both entities and interested parties. Hayek said, “This annual sports event aims to promote mental and physical health for children with communication difficulties at Acsauvel as part of their integration in the community”. He added that Alfa is pursuing its community-based strategy to support civil associations and organizations that help people with special needs integrate in the community. The Alfa basketball and football teams and players from the Champville basketball club took part in the event, which was punctuated with basketball, volleyball and football games as well as gymnastics. The children showed exceptional enthusiasm and an ability to interact with and challenge each other. At the end, Hayek distributed medals to the participating children. 66 APPENDICES Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment For this section, please refer to the GRI Implementation Manual at: https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/ GRIG4-Part2-Implementation-Manual.pdf A. GRI GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES DATA COLLECTION (REQUIRED) Details located from pages 23 to 61 in the GRI Implementation Manual GRI General Standard Disclosures Core Application Level GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General UNGC Standard Description Principle Pages Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of of Continuing 2 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Support ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 6 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters 6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the 6 sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 6 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 6 customers and beneficiaries) Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations G4-9 6-7-78 Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who Principle 6 49 are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Principle 3 N/A G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 14 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 10-31 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination 68 Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 56 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 Participates in projects or committees 10 Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or N/A equivalent documents is not covered by the report a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report 20 Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 19 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of G4-20 the following two approaches and report either: 22 The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements G4-21 for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect 22 is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons G4-22 for such restatements N/A G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder 14 Engagement G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder 14 Engagement Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the Stakeholder 16-17 Engagement engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and G4-27 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its Stakeholder 16-17 Engagement reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Sphere of 10 Influence G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Sphere of N/A Influence G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Sphere of 10 Influence G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Sphere of 11 Influence 69 Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally Sphere of Influence 11 assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the G4-33 scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Sphere of N/A Influence c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Principles G4-34 1-10 28 body ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as code of G4-56 Principle 10 26-28 conduct and code of ethics B. GRI SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DATA COLLECTION SUGGESTED BY CONSULTANT TEAM, SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY OF DATA Details located from pages 68 to 235 in the GRI Implementation Manual GRI General Standard Disclosures Core Application Level SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects DMA and Indicators UNGC Pages Principle ECONOMIC DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Economic Performance How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC4: Financial assistance received from government DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Market Presence How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principls 6 28 G4-EC6: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Indirect Economic Impacts How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-EC7: Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 59 supported G4-EC8: Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 42-43-44 DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Procurement Practices How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. 42 G4-EC9: Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 70 Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment ENVIRONMENT DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material Energy and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material Water and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Emissions G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material Effluents and Waste and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principle 8 62 G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Transport How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principles G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and 7, 8 and 9 60 other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Supplier Environmental How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Assessment G4-EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SOCIALLABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Employment G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover Principles 49 by age group, gender, and region 3-6 G4-LA2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 50 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3: Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 50 DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Occupational Health and How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principles 52 Safety 3-6 G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 82-84 Training and Education employee category Principle 6 G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 82-84 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 52-82-84 development reviews, by gender and by employee category 71 Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Diversity and Equal How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Opportunity G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Equal Remuneration for How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Women and Men G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Supplier Assessment for How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Labor Practices G4-LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria SOCIALHUMAN RIGHTS DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Investment How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-HR2: Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Non-Discrimination How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Assessment How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principles 53 1-2 G4-HR9: Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Supplier Human Rights How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Assessment G4-HR10: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 72 Appendix 1: GRI G4 “Core level” Initial Assessment and Deployment SOCIALSOCIETY DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Local Communities How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Anti-Corruption How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Principle 10 30 G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Supplier Assessment for How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. Impacts on Society G4-SO9: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society SOCIALPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Customer Health and Safety How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-PR2: Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material Product and Service Labeling and the evaluation of management approach 34 How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-PR5: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction DMA: Why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material and the evaluation of management approach Customer Privacy How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts. G4-PR8: Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 73 Appendix 2: Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Core Area UNGC Principles Examples of Implementations at Alfa Principle 1: Alfa's ethical business standards and internal code Businesses should support and respect the of conducts in accordance with international norms protection of internationally proclaimed human and standards of best practice. rights Alfa's operations and business relationships in line with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon Alfa endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by respecting and promoting ethical conduct Human Rights amongst our employees, customers, stakeholders and business partners. A large number of our operations have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments such as LPHU Training in 2015 Principle 2: -Same as above Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Alfa abides by ethical business standards in Businesses should uphold the freedom of accordance with international norms and standards association and the recognition of the right to of best practice. We conduct our operations and collective bargaining business relationships in line with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon and our internal code of conduct and endorse the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Principle 4: Progressive employment practices pertaining to The elimination of all forms of forced and diversity, equal opportunity, training and talent compulsory labor development, occupational health and safety Compliance with Lebanese Labor Law Principle 5: Alfa advocates the Convention on the Rights of the Labour The effective abolition of child labor Child. Principle 6: Progressive working conditions for staff as shown The elimination of discrimination in respect of in the Report where we aim to include and support employment and occupation employees of different genders, religions, and age groups Alfa believes in eliminating gender discrimination and advocates the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities We ensure a supportive workplace that reflects equality, diversity, and inclusionthe cornerstones to our sustainability efforts and our company success. 74 Appendix 2: Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 7: “Alfa 4-Nature” initiative Businesses should support a precautionary Adopting new ways to reduce our energy approach to environmental challenges consumption and cut down on our carbon emissions such as installing electronic type ballasts energy efficient in our premises Principle 8: “Alfa 4-Nature” initiative Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Assessing Suppliers based on Environmental issues Offering environmental friendly products such as E-bill and E-recharge service Principle 9: Energy Efficiency Encourage the development and diffusion of o Reducing energy consumption environmentally friendly technologies o Adopting energy efficient technologies Environment o Using energy efficient components in our buildings o Renewable energy sourcing: powering our base stations with SOLAR ENERGY o Energy efficient company fleet “Exhaust Oxygen Sensor” Waste Management: o Purchasing Recycling bins o Disposing Recycling bins in strategic areas o Conducting awareness to all Alfa employees o Deciding on storage areas o Collecting papers o Monitoring process o Ewaste recycling o Allow on-the spot purchase through NFC Principle 10: We do not tolerate any form of bribery and Businesses should work against corruption in all its extortion and we aim to maintain a zero tolerance Anti-Corruption forms, including extortion and bribery policy against all forms of corruption, both internally and externally 75 Appendix 3: Implementation of the ISO 26000 Core Subjects ISO 26000 Issue Pages Refer to section: Core Subjects Issue 1: Accountability 1st Sustainability PillarGood Governance Issue 2: Transparency 1st Sustainability PillarGood Governance Organizational Issue 3: Ethical behavior 26-31 1st Sustainability PillarGood Governance Governance Issue 4: Respect for stakeholders’ interests 1st Sustainability PillarGood Governance Issue 5: Respect for the rule of law 1st Sustainability PillarGood Governance Issue 1: Due diligence 29 Enterprise Risk Management Issue 2: Human rights risk situations 51 Employee Health, Safety, and Wellbeing Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity 53 Operations subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments Human Issue 4: Resolving grievances 53 Disciplinary and Grievance Mechanisms Rights Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups 49 Diversity and Equal Opportunities Issue 6: Civil and political rights 53 Human Rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights 53 Human Rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work 53 Human Rights Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships 48-54 4thSustainabilityPillar-EmployeeNurturing Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection 48-54 4thSustainabilityPillar-EmployeeNurturing Issue 3: Social dialogue 51 Employee Health, Safety, and Wellbeing Labour Practices Issue 4: Health and safety at work 51 Employee Health, Safety, and Wellbeing Issue 5: Human development and training in the 48 Training and Development, and workplace Performance Management Program and Career Development Issue 1: Prevention of pollution Environmental Stewardship Issue 2: Sustainable resource use Environmental Stewardship The 60 Environment Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental Stewardship Issue 4: Protection of the environment, Environmental Stewardship biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 76 Appendix 3: Implementation of the ISO 26000 Core Subjects Issue 1: Anti-corruption 30 Anti-Corruption Issue 2: Responsible political involvement 28 Alfa’s Policies, Codes and Guidelines Fair Operating Issue 3: Fair competition 29 Enterprise Risk Management Practices Issue 4: Promoting social responsibility in the 31 Supplier Assessment on Environmental, Social, value chain and Governance Issues, and Value Chain Issue 5: Respect for property rights 39 Customer Privacy Issue 1: Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 34-39 2nd Sustainability PillarCustomer information and fair contractual practices Centricity and Experience Issue 2: Protecting consumers' health and safety 51 Health (5th pillar) Issue 3: Sustainable consumption 36-37 Customized Services and Responsible Products, and Encouraging Entrepreneurship Consumer through Responsible Products Issues Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and 34 Customer Experience Management complaint and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy 39 Customer Privacy and Data Security Issue 6: Access to essential services 38 National Network Coverage Issue 7: Education and awareness 60 Awareness Campaigns (5th pillar) Issue 1: Community involvement 56-63 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment Issue 2: Education and culture 59 Arts and Culture Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development 48-54 4th Sustainability PillarEmployee Nurturing Community Involvement and Issue 4: Technology development and access 59 Digital Inclusion Development Issue 5: Wealth and income creation 42 Economic Development and Financial Performance Issue 6: Health 60 Health (5th pillar) Issue 7: Social investment 56-63 5th Sustainability Pillar Community Investment 77 Appendix 4: Alfa’s Products (G4-9) P&S LAUNCHED IN 2014 Alfa Products Date of launching Description Alfa has launched exclusively and for the first time in Lebanon the “Alfa Anghami” Alfa Anghami music bundle. It is a data bundle that enables postpaid and prepaid Alfa subscribers Jan-14 to download and share millions of songs and tunes, and listen to them anytime and anywhere on their device via the “Anghami” app. Alfa 111 call center 24/7 Alfa’s 111 customer service representatives are available to take customers’ calls Feb-14 around the clock (24/7). Postpaid Mobile Alfa Mobile broadband postpaid users can now access the Internet while abroad; Feb-14 using their current MBB data only card. Broadband Roaming Alfa launched the “Pick Your Line” online application that provides not only new postpaid lines, but also prepaid one starting today 17th of February 2014. “Pick Your Line” allows everyone (having an Alfa account or not), to book online a new number from a predefined list, and then pick it up from any Alfa store. Pick your line online for Feb-14 Reservation period per line booked online is 7 working days. After those 7 days, if the postpaid and prepaid reserved line was never picked up from any Alfa store, the reservation will be cancelled and the same line number will be for sale again. **It is worth to note that only 1 postpaid regular number, 1 prepaid regular number and 1 postpaid Bronze number is allowed per user. Alfa launched its own application store: the “Alfa App Store,” which allows local app developers to upload their applications for free and showcase their creativity to more than 1.85 million Alfa mobile subscribers in Lebanon. The “Alfa App Store” is available on Android, Symbian and Blackberry mobile operating systems while iOS applications will be available through a web portal managed by Alfa application store Alfa. It can be uploaded for free by mobile users. Developers have already started Mar-14 submitting their applications on the store, and over 140 applications are already available; these include free local and paid applications. Among the other advantages of the Store, is that it allows developers as mentioned to submit their apps for free, as well as it offers them Operator Billing capabilities where fees can be deducted straight from Alfa costumers from their Alfa postpaid bill or Alfa prepaid credit account. Alfa Mobile TV Thanks to Alfa TV, Alfa postpaid and prepaid subscribers can now enjoy watching Jun-14 over 45 TV channels, with Alfa Mobile TV! Reduction of prices Alfa made its first online announcement for price decrease and data bundle capacity Jun-14 increase. Lawyer Offer Alfa launched the lawyers’ offer for postpaid lines dedicated to all lawyers registered Jun-14 at the Bar association. Alfa will be selling lawyer’s offer starting July 1st in all Alfa Stores. Alfa launched the Rannat offer: every new Alfa line (excluding el khat el askary, Bayti, MBB and M2M), a predefined “Rannat” tone is offered free of charge replacing the Rannat offer on new line standard caller tone for a period of 1 month. Jul-14 “Rannat” tone will be automatically renewed after 1 month (70 cents/tone); It can be deleted by dialing 1001 (extra $0.9/min) or 1002 (extra $1/min) and modified by dialing 1002 (extra $1/min). 78 Appendix 4: Alfa’s Products (G4-9) Alfa selling devices Alfa selling devices by Cash allows the purchase of handsets from any of our Alfa by Cash Jul-14 stores. “‫ـط العســكري‬ ّ ‫ ”الخـ‬from Alfa is available as a Prepaid plan exclusively dedicated to the General Security forces. *VAT excluded El khat el askary for Sep-14 ّ By subscribing to “‫ الخــط العســكري‬ prepaid plan, General Security members will be General Security benefiting from a 55% discount compared to the regular Alfa Prepaid plan. General security members willing to benefit from the new El Khat El Askary Prepaid line, will need to refer to the General Security administration. Services activation Alfa users can activate your mobile services by simply sending an SMS to 1050 (free of through SMS Sep-14 charge) enclosing the relative abbreviated command of the service. Alfa launched U-Can, a new line from Alfa, dedicated exclusively to all Lebanese U-Can Sep-14 people with special needs registered at the Ministry of Social Affairs. U-Can is available as a prepaid and postpaid line. Alfa launched the “Najat” application for the Lebanese Red Cross. The “Najat” Najat application app helps the Lebanese Red Cross directly identify the address of the distressed Oct-14 person when it receives calls to its free emergency number 140, thus facilitating and accelerating the work of paramedics. iPhone 6 This offer allows users to purchase the Apple iPhone 6 device from any Alfa store at Nov-14 discounted prices. Alfa re-launched an awareness campaign for the Alfa Mobile TV application for Alfa Mobile TV postpaid and prepaid subscribers. Nov-14 With Alfa Mobile TV, you can enjoy watching over 45 national and international TV channels. In collaboration with BLOM bank, Alfa provides eligible Alfa postpaid subscribers the BLOM Jan-15 chance to purchase from any Alfa store, the newest smartphone and pay for it by installments (6 or 12 months) without any deposit, at 0% interest rate. The $90 postpaid bundle offers up to 48% discount compared to Alfa postpaid rates. It includes 1000 local minutes, 60 International minutes, 5GB of Data and 300 local SMS which will be automatically renewed every month on your bill cycle date for $90 (VAT and monthly subscription are excluded). Remaining minutes, Data or SMS, if any, will be lost. Extra rates will be applied in case you consumed all your bundle minutes, Data or SMS before your bill cycle date. Charges applied are as follows: if you are calling another Alfa number, you will be charged 16 cents for each extra $90 postpaid bundle local minute Apr-15 if you are calling a non-Alfa local mobile number or a fixed number, you will be charged 16 cents and 10 LBP per extra local minute if you are calling an international number, you will be charged 16 cents in addition to the tariff of the destination country per extra international minute In addition, you will be charged 7 cents per extra MB and 9 cents per extra local SMS. (all prices are VAT Excluded) This offer is limited. To activate the $90 postpaid bundle press the star sign to be transferred to our customer service representatives. 79 Appendix 4: Alfa’s Products (G4-9) Alfa prepaid subscribers now have the flexibility to recharge the denomination of their choice at any Alfa Store, Alfa Franchise stores and Distributors Follow these easy and simple steps to recharge your Alfa line: Alfa Top-up Visit any Alfa Store, Alfa Franchises or Alfa Distributors, ask for the Alfa Top-up Apr-15 (starting $1.5), select the amount you want to recharge your line with from the table below and provide you Alfa mobile number or Top Secret Number* to the seller. *Top Secret Number (TSN): In case you do not wish to reveal your Alfa mobile number to the seller, dial *123# to receive a TSN number by SMS and share it with the seller. U-Share allows Alfa subscribers to share their current mobile internet or mobile broadband data bundles of 10GB and above, with up to 3 secondary postpaid or U-share prepaid account users at a time. May-15 Secondary account users are able to benefit from the shared data bundle on their mobile phones, tablets, dongles, or routers for 2$, renewable every 30 days, and follow the primary line data bundle’s lifecycle. MT Roaming enables you to receive calls while abroad in addition to sending and receiving SMS without any preliminary subscription fee, and you will only be charged MT Roaming for the incoming calls and outgoing SMS based on local operators' tariffs. Jun-15 MT Roaming is activated by default on your Alfa postpaid line, and can be deactivated at any time. The service is available in all countries operating a GSM network having an international roaming agreement with Alfa. Alfa 4x4 offers up to 68% discount compared to Alfa prepaid rates. It includes 40 local minutes, 400MB of Data and 400 local SMS which will be automatically renewed every 30 days for $12 (VAT included). Remaining minutes, Data or SMS, if any, will be lost. In addition, Alfa 4x4 allows you to make 4hrs of free calls during the weekends (4hrs/30 days) to one Alfa preferred number of your choice. Extra rates will be applied in case you consumed all your bundle minutes, Data or SMS before the service renewal date. Charges applied are as follows: The local call per minute during Peak hours is 25 cents, the local SMS is for 5 cents, the international SMS is for 18 cents, the MMS is for 36 cents and each extra MB is for 20 cents. Alfa 4x4 During 10 pm and midnight, the costs are reduced as follows: Jul-15 Local call: 20 cents Local SMS: 4 cents International SMS: 14.4 cents And from midnight till 8:00 am , the costs are subject to additional reductions as follows: Local Call: 15 cents Local SMS: 3 cents International SMS: 10.8 cents if you are calling an international number, you will be charged the local charge in addition to the tariff of the destination country per extra international minute (all prices are VAT included) This offer is limited. 80 Appendix 4: Alfa’s Products (G4-9) Malak-e watch is a location tracking watch with a phone functionality which enables you to stay connected with your children through voice calls at all times. Malak-e watch can be purchased from any Alfa store branch, Alfa franchised Stores or from e-spaces outlet located at Zalka highway, for $114 VAT excluded. The watch includes a prepaid plan from Alfa that offers 40 local minutes, 20 local Malak-e watch 2 Oct-15 megabytes, and unlimited SMS notifications, for $4 renewable every 30 days. All remaining minutes and Megabytes if any, will be lost upon plan renewal. In case you consumed all your allocated minutes or Megabytes, before the renewal date, you will be charged as follows: 25 cents per extra local minute and 1 cent per extra local Megabyte (all prices are VAT included). This offer is limited! You can purchase an iPhone 6S device from any Alfa Store or franchisee, at a discounted price starting $54/month (excluding VAT) How to get the iPhone 6S? Eligible Alfa postpaid subscribers will have to pay for the device by monthly iPhone 6S installments on their bill (over period of 6 to 12 months) without any deposit and at Nov-15 0% interest rate. OR Eligible Alfa postpaid and prepaid subscribes need to subscribe to a Mobile Internet data bundle or upgrade their current bundle it any, and benefit from a discount up to 40% with our special LTE devices offer. It’s for you if U-shop A great catch is only a click away and all you need to do is hold an Alfa number. Alfa U-shop brings exclusive shopping deals for Alfa users from high end brands and local shops with just a simple click. To benefit from the discounted offers, all you have to do is download the Alfa U-shop Alfa U-shop Dec-15 application on your phone, register and you can start an exciting new shopping experience like no other. Browse the different categories (Travel and Transport, Entertainment, Retail and Fashion, Food and Drinks, Education and Kids, Health and Sports, etc...) to choose your shopping items from. Once you find the best for you, tap on “Get Coupon” and visit the respective shop to redeem your offer. 81 Appendix 5: Training Hours The average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by Gender and Employee category in 2014 (G4-LA9, LA-10, and LA-11) NB OF LEARNING TOTAL HOURS OPPORTUNITIES TRAINING Total Total General Categories Category Description Level Males Females Total Males Females Learning Hours Lessons Per Category -Business Communication Top Management 0 2 2 0 2 2 -Corporate Social Responsibility -Finance Senior Manager 12 5 17 207 5 212 Hard Skills -Human Resources (Specific technical and job-related skills) -Logistics -Project Management Manager 32 20 52 459 19 478 661 -Quality and Risk Management Engineer 62 7 69 889 7 896 Sales -Other specific job-related Hard Skills Staff 101 53 154 1176 53 1229 Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Data Treatment -IT Networking Senior Manager 5 1 6 40 1 41 -IT Overview Information Technology -IT / Programming -IT Service Management Manager 24 8 32 350 8 358 980 -IT Security Engineer 33 5 38 613 5 618 -IT Products and Services Staff 69 15 84 1513 15 1528 -Communication and Interpersonal Skills -Creativity Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Customer Service Excellence and Complaints Handling Senior Manager 3 0 3 38 0 38 -Management and Leadership Soft Skills -Problem Solving and Decision Making -Public Speaking & Presentation Skills Manager 47 32 79 594 32 626 234 -Self-Management and Personal Productivity Engineer 33 8 41 279 8 287 -Social Intelligence -Strategic Thinking & Planning Staff 127 140 267 1067 140 1207 -Overseas conference for training and Top Management 1 0 1 18 0 18 exchange of expertise -Telecom Systems and Equipment related Senior Manager 2 1 3 38 1 39 trainings (Installation, Configuration, Telecom Operation, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of Hardware, Software Manager 37 9 46 566 9 575 691 and Network; System upgrades, Latest Engineer 93 30 123 1534 30 1564 technologies; Billing Systems) -Tower Climbing Safety Staff 89 8 97 1283 8 1291 Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Manager 1 0 1 6 0 6 -MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, MS Office Tools MS Project, MS Visio Manager 5 0 5 32 0 32 99 Engineer 16 3 19 130 3 133 Staff 32 9 41 222 9 231 Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Communication and Interpersonal Skills Specific Behavioral Trainings for Customer -Customer Service Excellence Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 200 -Telephone Skills Service team Engineer 0 0 0 0 0 0 Staff 246 183 429 1073 778 1851 TOTAL 1070 539 1609 12127 1133 13260 2865 82 Appendix 5: Training Hours The average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by Gender and Employee category in 2015 (G4-LA9, LA-10, and LA-11) NB OF LEARNING TOTAL HOURS OPPORTUNITIES TRAINING Total Total General Categories Category Description Level Males Females Total Males Females Learning Hours Lessons Per Category -Business Communication Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Corporate Social Responsibility -Finance Senior Manager 6 2 8 79 22 101 Hard Skills -Human Resources (Specific technical and job-related skills) -Logistics -Project Management Manager 28 23 51 370 253 623 501 -Quality and Risk Management Engineer 24 8 32 318 88 406 Sales -Other specific job-related Hard Skills Staff 85 62 147 1125 681 1806 Top Management 6 1 7 103 18 121 -Data Treatment -IT Networking Senior Manager 16 1 17 274 18 292 -IT Overview Information Technology -IT / Programming -IT Service Management Manager 23 11 34 394 199 593 1036 -IT Security Engineer 27 13 40 463 236 699 -IT Products and Services Staff 66 24 90 1131 435 1566 -Communication and Interpersonal Skills -Creativity Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Customer Service Excellence and Complaints Handling Senior Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Management and Leadership Soft Skills -Problem Solving and Decision Making -Public Speaking & Presentation Skills Manager 32 16 48 367 192 559 291 -Self-Management and Personal Productivity Engineer 31 9 40 356 108 464 -Social Intelligence -Strategic Thinking & Planning Staff 168 167 335 1927 1998 3925 -Overseas conference for training and Top Management 1 0 1 18 0 18 exchange of expertise -Telecom Systems and Equipment related Senior Manager 2 1 3 38 1 39 trainings (Installation, Configuration, Telecom Operation, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of Hardware, Software Manager 37 9 46 566 9 575 691 and Network; System upgrades, Latest Engineer 93 30 123 1534 30 1564 technologies; Billing Systems) -Tower Climbing Safety Staff 89 8 97 1283 8 1291 Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Manager 2 0 2 35 0 35 -MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS PowerPoint, MS Office Tools MS Project, MS Visio Manager 76 13 89 1312 146 1458 908 Engineer 155 55 210 2677 615 3292 Staff 123 13 136 2125 145 2270 Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 -Communication and Interpersonal Skills Specific Behavioral Trainings for Customer -Customer Service Excellence Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 41 -Telephone Skills Service team Engineer 0 0 0 0 0 0 Staff 160 91 251 657 374 1031 TOTAL 1080 538 1624 14064 5702 19766 2882 84 www.alfamobile.com.lb
