United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 FOUNDER’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Euromonitor International has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since May 2012 and we remain fully committed to supporting and upholding all of the 10 principles. We take our responsibilities towards society and the environment seriously and we are pleased to be able to demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement in this Communication on Progress. We are incredibly proud of the actions our staff members have taken this year to promote the Global Compact’s 10 principles. Highlights have been a Women in Leadership Panel in Chicago; the development of employment programmes across our offices and the completion of our first project with the international water charity Just a Drop. More information on these and other projects can be found later in the report. On behalf of Euromonitor’s Chief Executive, Board of Directors and employees around the world, I am delighted to present this report which we will be sharing with all of our stakeholders over the coming months. Robert Senior Founder May 2016 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 2 ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and insight on countries and consumers. Euromonitor International is headquartered in London, with regional offices in Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai, Vilnius, Santiago, Dubai, Cape Town, Tokyo, Sydney, Bangalore and São Paulo. We have a network of over 800 analysts worldwide. “Our corporate responsibility programme is extremely important to us. We’re incredibly proud of what has already been achieved by our staff members and we’re very much looking forward to growing and developing our programme in the years to come.” Sarah Hunter HR and CSR Director EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP ROBERT SENIOR TREVOR FENWICK TIM KITCHIN Founder Executive Chairman Chief Executive Leadership Team ANDY CARTER ANTHONY IRWIN VP Sales VP Research BRAD BORGMAN CAROLYN HARRINGTON VP Consulting, Product Strategy and Development Finance Director DANIEL MELONE LISA TOMLINSON Operations Director VP Sales SARAH HUNTER HELENA NIMMO HR and CSR Director Chief Technology Officer SOCIAL MEDIA Euromonitor maintains a range of Social Media accounts as part of the company’s commitment to dialogue and transparency. You are welcome to follow Euromonitor on: © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Euromonitor International supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The scope is broad but includes: • non-discrimination against, and behaviour towards, vulnerable groups • civil and political rights • economic, social and cultural rights • fundamental principles and rights at work We recognise there are global differences in accepted practices with regards to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. However, we ensure we work to the highest standards across all regions rather than just meeting local requirements. We are committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors, creating safe, positive and professional work places. Implementation Our company Staff Handbook and global intranet include policies regarding equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, work-life balance and anti-harassment and bullying amongst others. All new employees are briefed at induction and given full details on all policies embraced by the company. Euromonitor International believes an important part of upholding and promoting human rights is the commitment we make as a business to our local communities. Working with community organisations we aim to support individuals to better their lives and those of their family members. Article 23. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. Working in partnership with charitable organisations Euromonitor provides CV and interview workshops to young people seeking employment and parents looking to return to work after taking a career break. Participants are provided with advice and guidance on their CV and given the opportunity to attend a practice interview with a senior manager. We also deliver employment focused mentoring and work experience opportunities. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 4 Spear Employment Workshop Samuel Rhodes Mentoring Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. Since 2013 Euromonitor International has been committed to ensuring all staff members are paid a realistic living wage. In the UK we ensure contracted staff members earning an hourly rate are paid the London Living Wage, increasing their remuneration yearly in accordance with the Living Wage Foundation’s recommendations. Globally, reviews are undertaken annually to ensure we are meeting the same standards across our 12 offices. Article 25. Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being of himself and of his family… Since August 2014 we have donated 1% of all our website sales to the international water charity Just a Drop. Just a Drop works with community partners to provide local, clean, safe water supplies to poor communities around the world. Through them we are funding the provision of a new borehole well, water distribution system, toilets and hygiene training to the rural village of Parangani, Tamil Nadu India. Whilst many of us take water for granted, the families in Parangani currently have access for about 30 minutes a day from a communal hand pump and in the summer, when the water table drops, the pump dries up and they are forced to walk 3km to the nearest source. The new borehole well will provide clean safe water 24 hours a day 7 days a week and has been specifically designed to withstand the expected growth of the community over the next 30 years. When asked what this means to them Gulab, a spokeswomen for the village, talked about the amount of school and work that is missed collecting water, the frequent bouts of diarrhoea they suffer, their inability to wash regularly, and the struggles to ensure they have enough water to drink and cook with. “We will no longer have to walk across fields for hours, the children will go to school, I will be able to work. Health, people won’t be ill and clothes will be washed. It means everything.” © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 5 Left: Mr Sait and his family outside the first toilet to be built in the village; Top Right: water bowls lined up outside a house; Bottom Right: the women of the village come together to receive an update on the progress of the project. Measurement Management of Euromonitor offices is regularly reviewed by the Leadership Board to ensure all policies are being implemented correctly. Euromonitor is compliant with all legal requirements in every respect, and in many cases, exceeds minimum requirements. In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. The CR Manager works with all community partners to evaluate the impact of supported projects. Reports are published on the Corporate Social Responsibility Blog on our global website and internally on the global intranet. “Euromonitor values diversity and believes that a range of backgrounds brings a variety of ideas, perspectives and experiences that will create a productive work environment in which talents are fully utilised and the Company’s objectives are met.” Euromonitor International: Equal Opportunities Statement © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 6 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment At Euromonitor we respect and value the individuality and diversity that all our employees bring to the company. It is our policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status, age and/or disability. We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our employees and we actively encourage and support them in the development of relevant skills to progress their careers. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. Implementation Euromonitor International has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. All directors, managers and staff are aware of our equal opportunities policy and are expected to adhere to it. Staff members are encouraged to share any matters of concern with us without fear, in the knowledge that they will be taken seriously and that the matters will be investigated properly. The procedure for raising such concerns is outlined in our Whistleblowing Policy. Euromonitor believes in investing in employee development in order to ensure productive and motivated employees and safeguard business continuity. We continue to offer a comprehensive internal training programme through an online portal “Euromonitor University” and have in the last year invested in better online meeting software to support more cross office training and collaboration. Euromonitor recognises that in the wider business world women still face a challenge to receive the same salaries as their male counterparts and to attain the promotions that will place © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 7 them in leadership roles. We are proud to have a 50-50 split of men and women on our Leadership Team and globally our work force is 51% female. Diversity underpins the success of our business and maintaining a balanced workforce at all levels is important in driving our goals in a responsible way. To promote women in the workplace our Chicago office hosted a “Women in Leadership Panel” in March 2016. Panellists included some of our most senior female leaders including Lisa Tomlinson (VP of Sales), Keli Frazier-Cox (Global Sales Director), Lauren Beth (Head of Global Communications), Jennifer Paruch (Head of North American Consulting) and Beth Higgins (Head of Country Research for the Americas). Our Chief Technology Officer Helena Nimmo also participated in a ‘Women in Leadership Q&A’ as part of City University London’s Women in Business Society series. A transcript of her talk is available below Women in Leadership Q&A – Helena Nimmo, Chief Technology Officer, Euromonitor We remain a member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) sharing information with our clients on four key areas: labour standards, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. In 2015 the UK government introduced the Modern Slavery Act, we have committed to reporting, annually, on our efforts to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or any part of our business. Actions to mitigate risk include: building long standing relationships with local suppliers and making clear our expectations of business behaviour and a global training programme for those involved in the recruitment and management of employees. Measurement Euromonitor International’s HR team periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. We continue to monitor all health and safety incidents, recruitment statistics and sickness records to ensure compliance with our policies. “We always seek to conduct our business honestly and properly at all times. However, all organisations face the risk of their activities going wrong from time to time, or of unknowingly harbouring malpractice. We will take appropriate measures to identify such situations and attempt to remedy them.” Euromonitor International: Whistleblowing Policy © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 8 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Although Euromonitor International’s direct impact on the environment is relatively small we are keen to ensure continued commitment to our internal policies and controls. We take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. Specifically, we are committed to: • Conserve natural resources and reduce the environmental burden of waste generation • Reduce the consumption of energy through building assessment and control, and by encouraging employee awareness, individual action and proactive involvement • Reduce the level of air travel and balance the impact of unavoidable flights Implementation Staff Engagement In April 2016 we celebrated our 4th annual global Green Week. The week is about encouraging and enabling staff members to conserve and protect the world in which we live. In our London office we launched food recycling with a goal of reducing the amount of general waste we generate and our Cape Town, Singapore and Tokyo offices all held awareness raising activities to increase their recycling rate. As well as promoting greater environmental responsibility Green Week is also about engaging with the communities where we have offices. This year a team from our Bangalore office spent a morning helping to maintain and nurture saplings planted near Jakkur Lake by the organisation Say Trees. In Sao Paulo volunteers delivered a recyclable material puppet building workshop for 145 children from CEPAC, an NGO which helps children and adolescents from a disadvantaged neighbourhood in the city. In London 20 staff members spent a day at a local primary school assisting with an outdoor-focused environmental education project called Plant Environment. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 9 Many of the children at the school do not have gardens or access to green space at home. Plant Environment gives them the change to interact positively with nature, growing food and developing spaces for wildlife in their school grounds. Energy Management In July we completed our first Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) organisation-wide energy audit. The audit was carried out by Sustain Ltd and they produced a list of recommendations for reducing energy consumption. “Summary of Findings The survey at Britton Street was conducted post completion of a major 3 year building refurbishment project whereby Euromonitor had already taken significant action to reduce their energy consumption and improve the indoor environment for their employees. During the survey it was noted that Euromonitor has already installed low energy lighting (including sensors), new HVAC services, and new windows amongst other measures. Sustain therefore focused on ensuring that the controls for the fixed services were appropriate for Euromonitor to occupy the building. “ Sustain’s assessment highlighted metering, monitoring and targeting and BMS optimisation as key areas for us to look at with a potential cost saving of £6,219, approximately 9% of total energy spend. Carbon Balance We have been offsetting carbon emissions associated with London flights since 2012, and have balanced over 1,600 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions and by doing so have contributed over £24,000 to the World Land Trust’s Carbon Balanced Programme. All contributions in the last year have been allocated to the Nangaritza-Maycu reserve in Zamora Chinchipe Province, Southern Ecuador. The area contains foothill rainforests that are the only intact and natural corridor providing connectivity between the forest of the high Andes in the West and the Cordillera del Condor mountain range in the East. The area is considered to be one of the most biologically diverse areas on Earth and has some of the most endangered plant species in the world. In October we expanded the carbon emission balance programme to all offices and are now also working in partnership with Save the Organutan. The money donated is funding a reforestation project in the Mawas area of Indonesian Borneo. In an attempt to establish rice paddies in the 1990s large parts of Mawas were drained by canals and cleared for access. The project failed but left the peat dry and receptive to fires and accessible for illegal logging. Save the Orangutan are working with a local NGO to train the local community to collect local seeds, grow plants in nurseries, block the canals, plant the seedlings and monitor and manage the reforestation of the area. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 10 Ethical Labels Ethical Labels, researched in 2015 and published in May 2016, is a new addition to our flagship global market information system Passport. Passport provides statistics, analysis, reports, surveys and breaking news on industries, countries and consumers worldwide. The Ethical Labels database has been created in response to the growing movement towards social responsibility and sustainability. Initially covering 26 countries it is designed to quantify the sales of products with ethical labels around three platforms: people, environment/sustainability and animal welfare. Measurement Euromonitor International’s leadership team is committed to reducing our environmental impact. The CR Manager, working with the Director of Operations and Office Managers has day to day responsibility for our environmental programmes and activities. Energy consumption is monitored across each office and targets for reduction are set accordingly. Our current target is a 5% reduction; achievements against this target are reviewed and adjusted as necessary. The ESOS recommendations were considered by the Director of Operations and London Office Manager, to date changes have not been implemented but will be considered again as we review the performance of the building after one year’s occupancy. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling and approved carbon balanced programmes. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. “Sustainability and ethical initiatives and schemes are a global conversation not unique to environmental issues. The evidence continues to build and suggests that it makes commercial sense to go ethical and appeal to the constantly increasing number of consumers in the elusive label.” Alan Rownan Ethical Labels Analyst © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment As a world leader in our field, Euromonitor International recognises that we have a duty to set the very highest standards for ethical business practice. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy sets out our responsibilities, and those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption. It also provides information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. The policy is supported by a web-based learning module available via Euromonitor University as well as employee briefings and complementary policies for example our Whistleblowing Policy. Measurement All new staff members are issued with a copy of the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy and asked to sign an acknowledgement slips, all acknowledgements are kept in the employee’s file by HR. Any suspicions, concerns or queries are reported in the first instance to the Operations Director and subsequently shared with the CR Manager for the purpose of monitoring and identifying any areas where additional support or training may be required. During the last 12 months Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. “Euromonitor International’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption must be communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter.” Euromonitor International: Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy © Euromonitor International CONTACT DETAILS Catherine Hodgson Corporate Responsibility Manager Euromonitor International 60-61 Britton Street London UK EC1M 5UX www.euromonitor.com © Euromonitor International
