UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 RØRBÆK MØLLER OG RØRBÆK OG MØLLER ARKITEKTER APS ABOUT RØRBÆK OG MØLLER ARKITEKTER At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we contribute to understand how the architectural design has a influencing and developing the built environment. fundamental influence on the sustainability within Our projects and buildings must be a source every project. Core members of staff ensure the of joy and inspiration for present and future firm is up to date with the latest developments generations and they should be a natural part in this field and they take part in developmental of the local history and community. We strive to projects concerning, for example, energy maintain sustainable growth through developing, renovation and Cradle-2-Cradle building. One among other things, our skills and competencies of our architects is a certified DGNB consultant and forming strategic partnerships throughout (certification system for sustainable building). Scandinavia. TRUST DEVELOPMENT Mutual trust between a client and our company Innovation, in its broadest definition, is a has, for more than 60 years, been paramount to central tenet of our company. It is of great our success. Many of our projects are completed importance that every member of staff is part for clients with whom, over many years, we have of a professional community that focuses on developed a close partnership. We require high development and improvement in relation to standards in our building projects and building changes in the society and the profession. Our technique and value fast and effective decision core skills within project planning and building making processes. We are highly aware of the are continuously improved through a systematic responsibility that comes with controlling budgets evaluation of our work. Strategic skills within while offering creative and visionary advice to our intelligent design, building technique and new clients. materials, as well as sustainability, are managed by employees that ensure this knowledge is an QUALIFIED STAFF integral part of any project group. We are, over Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter represent a core and above this, extremely involved in employing group of skilled, experienced staff that ensure new, young, talented staff so they can gain quality and continuity in our services. The staff experience and utilize our company as a learning is balanced around a range of professional platform. experience levels, and project groups are composed in reference to the skill sets required SUSTAINABILITY by our clients. In addition to our regular staff, we The latest knowledge on sustainability is draw on a network of freelancers that provide integrated into all our projects. Our staff flexibility when staffing our projects. Communiction in Progress 2015 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT January 2016 Dear Mr. Secretary-General Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter ApS are proud to be part of the Global Compact since October 2009. We strongly believe that corporate social responsibility in relation to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption is fundamental to ensuring a thriving business and a progressive society. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. As a business and employer we strive to ensure compliance with the Human Rights in our policy, our business partners and the projects we carry out as an architecture company. In respect to the principles on Labour it is central to our business that all labour involved in our business operations has the right to collective bargaining and the freedom of association. Further, we want to emphasise that we conduct our work with the aim of contributing to good working conditions and a good working environment for the workers who build our houses and the people who use them when they are completed. Being part of a sector that through pro-active care and attention can have a true and real impact on the environment, it is at the core of our business to continually seek out the most energy efficient solutions. We believe that anti-corruption and open competition is the best way to making long-lasting good business. Our business is built on strong integrity and we shall never use unethical methods to get an advantage in front of our competition, in Denmark or abroad. Kind regards, Nicolai Overgaard Managing Director Communiction in Progress 2015 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES We contribute to ensuring human rights through establishing universal access for all in our 1. Businesses should support and respect building projects. Most of our projects comply the protection of internationally proclaimed with strict accessibility standards as defined by human rights. the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. One from our staff has attended 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in relevant courses/seminars in order to keep our human rights abuse. practice up to date on the latest accessibility measures. OUR COMMITMENT Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter supports the United Through our projects we strive to continuously Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. develop a free, open and democratic society. Many of our buildings in the educational sector ACTIONS TAKEN support the development of a democratic system We operate in Denmark and Scandinavia and and free individuals by enforcing open spaces comply with the national legislation of Denmark, and social interaction that invite all individuals to which meets the international conventions. participate and engage in activities. We have a running membership of Architects As a business we employ people regardless of without borders. gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual FUTURE ACTIONS orientation and family status. We strive to ensure We will continue to respect and uphold the a multicultural staff and a 50/50 share between human rights principles. Buildings that invite the genders. We believe it is an advantage to people to engage and participate and that ensure our business to have as many different kinds of accessibility for all is a focal point in all our people in order to create the best solutions. business projects. We will develop buildings that through open, common areas support an open, As an employer it is in our best interest that democratic society with the freedom of speech all employees have the right and possibility to and movement. express their opinion freely and speak openly if they encounter abuse of power or illegal acts through the projects they work on. Communiction in Progress 2015 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES conditions. A number of our employees have 3. Business should support a precautionary taken further education in building site safety to approach to environmental challenges. ensure safe working environment on site. 4. Business should undertake initiatives to Rørbæk og Møller Arkiteker does not employ promote greater environmental responsibility. children under age. We use a job appraisal review tool that ensures that all employees 5. Business should encourage the get a professional job appraisal review and a development and diffusion of development plan. The tool facilitates the review environmentally friendly technologies. and the follow-up process. The reviews are held once a year. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We operate in Scandinavia only and trust that our clients and business partners follow the same OUR COMMITMENT standards and terms of labour as we do. We Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter supports the hold a membership of “Foreningen for Byggeriets International Labour Organization’s Declaration Samfundsansvar” (Association of Social on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. responsibility in Building & Development). ACTIONS TAKEN FUTURE ACTIONS We respect all employees’ right to enter into We will continue to maintain the same standards associations and recognize the right to collective for all employees and labour involved in our bargaining. All employees have individual projects. We form close partnerships with the contracts stating terms, conditions of service and companies we work with and trust that they notice of leave. follow the same standards. We employ working environment coordinators in order to secure Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter gives equal that our projects are built under best practice opportunities to all present and future employees, together with the responsible staff. Accordingly, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, the coordinators take care of security and health. nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, Most of our building projects are carried out political or sexual orientation and family status. according to the ILD-conventions. Contractors are legally obliged to employ a certain amount of Every individual workplace is checked by an apprentices as part of the general conditions for occupational therapist to ensure good working public construction projects. Communiction in Progress 2015 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES ACTIONS TAKEN Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter make proactive 7. Business should support a precautionary efforts to minimize the environmental effects of approach to environmental challenges. our building projects. An environmental policy has been the basis of our company for more than 8. Business should undertake initiatives to 20 years, and we make a great effort to advise promote greater environmental responsibility. our clients to choose the most environmentally friendly solutions. Not all environmentally friendly 9. Business should encourage the solutions are feasible, but we aim at setting new development and diffusion of standards regarding sustainable architecture. environmentally friendly technologies. A group of three employees are continuously retrained and oversee all projects to guarantee OUR COMMITMENT a continuous development of our firm within this Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The Rio area. Declaration on Environment and Development. At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we believe that Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter specifically high quality architecture is key to enduring contribute to increased sustainability by ensuring sustainability in the built environment. Future transformation, renovation and refurbishment of buildings require a core sustainability strategy existing buildings. Through good architecture and and as architects we play a key role through creative solutions we extend a building’s life and the solutions we advise. The parameters functionality to meet modern requirements and of sustainability are manyfold: ie the use of needs at minimised costs and use of resources resources during the building process, the use compared to new developments. Transformation of resources in the daily use of the building, the is an area we are very interested in because integration of natural and renewable energy, the it presents an opportunity to incorporate quality of materials etc. all influence the long term sustainable solutions utilising the massive sustainability of a building resources represented in existing buildings, and offsetting the huge amount of resources required Through essential factors such as location to replace them. and orientation of the building, use of daylight, reducing material consumption, money and Archiving digitally is standard on all new projects time, we lower the use of energy and resources in the office and reduces our paper consumption by deploying simple classical architectural significantly. We have implemented a separation principles. of biodegradable waste, paper and cardboard from regular waste. Furthermore, half of our staff In order to meet the present environmental cycle to work. challenges we keep updated on the latest relevant technologies and knowledge within the architecture and building industry. We seek the most sustainable solutions within the given framework of our projects and are highly aware of our great responsibility and role in securing long lasting sustainable solutions in the built environment. Communiction in Progress 2015 6 FUTURE ACTIONS We are committed to continue to seek out the Internally, we continue to work on reducing our most sustainable solutions for ourselves as a energy consumption by using less electricity, company, and for the projects and solutions we minimizing the use of paper and managing the build and implement as a business. use of heat. Our company has recently relocated to new offices, gathering our different units and making transportation for both staff and clients to and from the city shorter. This will reduce the overall carbon foot print related to our company. Communiction in Progress 2015 7 EXAMPLES OF ENERGY-EFFICIENT PROJECTS The purpose of the building is to create a science DTU LIFE SCIENCE & BIOENGINEERING and research space of international standard. Client: DTU, Technical University of DK The building contains a large open area which Location: DTU Lyngby Campus will provide a platform for social activities and interaction between students, professors, Year: 2016 scientists and visitors and be a hub of innovative Type: Educational exchange of ideas and minds sparking new subjects to be studied and dissected. Oceanographers, Food Scientists and Veterinary The building is in accordance with the tight DTU Researchers can look forward to take on the requirements of sustainability in energy, social new facilities when DTU brings AQUA , the Food and financial matters. It incorporates maximum Institute and the Veterinary Institute together use of daylight, natural ventilation, and is highly at Lyngby Campus in the new building for Life insulated. Science and Bioengineering. Communiction in Progress 2015 8 EXAMPLES OF ENERGY-EFFICIENT PROJECTS DTU FOTONIK the space for common social events. These activities are visible from the outside through the Client: DTU, Technical University of DK “line of light” that cuts through the building like a Location: DTU Campus, Lyngby piece of glass, illuminated at night when in use. Year: 2013 2016 This way, the façade of the building also reflects Type: Research facility, light and laser the activities and the subject of research going on inside. DTU Fotonik is a ”state of the art” experimental The building is constructed in accordance with the tight DTU requirements to sustainability in facility for experiments and research in led, laser energy, social and financial matters. In agreement and fiber optics at the DTU Lyngby Campus. with DTU five focus areas have been chosen: The building is naturally incorporated into the reducing the overall energy consumption, surroundings and provides a new base for the securing a good indoor climate as well as many users of the building: researches, students, optimised acoustic and day light conditions lecturers, staff, visitors and professional partners that supports a healthy research environment, of the university. a building that requires minimum maintenance ”The line of light” names the common area which and, not least, a building that is flexible and represents the didactive environment. The social easily transformed to house other functions in the activities take place here where you also enter future. During the period of construction we have the building. The students can meet for coffee kept a close eye to the use of resources and breaks or group work and the institute can use waste management. Communiction in Progress 2015 9 EXAMPLES OF ENERGY-EFFICIENT PROJECTS MARITIMT VITENSENTER piece of glass that after dark conveys a subtle Client: Randaberg Kommune glow and forms a discreet landmark of the striking nature it is part of. From inside the Location: Randaberg, Norge building there is a terrific view over the coast, Year: 2015 – the sea and the landscape that the museum is Type: Museum, science & knowledge center dedicated to. While housing innovative, flexible and inspiring Maritimt Vitensenter is a museum center exhibition and educational facilities the museum designed to communicate and display must also maintain a reduced use of resources knowledge and science on nature, environment and be an example of sustainable development. and technology focused on the unique resources The building is compact in structure in order to of the sea and how the maritime industry has keep a smaller surface and reduce the heat loss shaped modern day Norway. while maximizing the use of daylight. Geothermal The museum is constructed like a stylised heating is used for heating in combination with landscape gently integrated into the beautiful a natural ventilation system. Solar cells on the coastline. The project incorporates the roof deliver energy, and rain water is used in meandering pathways along the coast with the the toilets. The building is highly insulated and building and creates a new “path of knowledge”. intelligent lighting regulates automatically in From the water the building looks like a giant relation to the amount of day light. Communiction in Progress 2015 10 EXAMPLES OF ENERGY-EFFICIENT PROJECTS RØDOVRE VUC The building is designed to create a functional, Client: Rødovre VUC flexible, and sustainable environment. It integrates a number of sustainable functions, such as Location: Rødovre reusable building materials manufactured using Year: 2013 2014 minimal resources, optimized biodiversity in its Type: Educational building outdoor spaces, temperature control through thermal mass elements, natural ventilation Rødovre VUC is a building complex that deals and green roofs and terraces to aid rainwater with architectural sustainability on a macro retention. scale. It offers a new relationship between public and private space and provides green rooftops The building qualifies for DGNB –Bronze and terraces with optimal growth conditions for certificate. vegetation. Rødovre VUC is a sustainable development, planned as an open educational workspace and an integrated active part of the streetscape. It has an open façade on ground level housing public and common functions supplemented by a large roof garden. Communiction in Progress 2015 11 EXAMPLES OF ENERGY-EFFICIENT PROJECTS KONGSHOLMCENTRET, BLOCK M sunny days the perforated plates alternate as shading from the sun. Inside, an urban, industrial Client: Albertslund Kommune look has been created by laying bare the Location: Albertslund installations and constructions of the ceiling. Year: 2015 2017 Block M has been chosen as test building for Type: Creative, energy efficient office building a new type of light and data technology, the Block M of Kongsholmcentret is a creative co-called intelligent ceiling. The new technology office building that is made to greet the future. uses luminaires with built in sensors that register Block M is designed to create an innovative and indoor climate, day light and persons overload. experimental work community with flexible office Throughout the shifts of day light and numbers of hours and collaboration across professions and people using the building, light and air condition businesses. will automatically regulate to the exact needs. The entire installation uses low voltage connected to a The core space of the building is a lecture hall special router through 12V Ethernet cables. of double ceiling height which can be used for conferences and concerts, Christmas markets, The new technology will, when implemented, social clubs and a wide range of performances. prevent over consumption of energy and The hall opens towards a central outdoor square electricity. Additionally, the building is designed to which through glass doors is drawn in to the maximize the use of day light, it is highly insulated indoor space and activities. This way, the building in three layers and has a ventilation system that and the square in communion contribute to the reuses the air in the heating system. On the roof surrounding city creating a richer city life. there are sun cells supplying the building with renewable energy. The façade of the building is covered with perforated plates of aluminium which gives the building a light, transparent look and feel. On Communiction in Progress 2015 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES FUTURE ACTIONS 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continuously all its forms, including extortion and bribery uphold Danish and international legislation. Our COP will be available both on the United Nations OUR COMMITMENT Global Compact website and our own website Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The United and intranet. Nations Convention Against corruption and fully comply with Danish and international legislation. CONTACT Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter ApS ACTIONS TAKEN Thoravej 7, 1 Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter only operate in 2400 København NV Denmark and Scandinavia and has never been involved in or exposed to offers, ideas or actions Tel: +45 39 40 10 11 linked to or in any way to be likened to corruption. www.r-m.dk According to the 2010 Corruption Perceptions Nicolai Overgaard Index Denmark has the lowest rate of corruption CEO, partner together with Singapore and New Zealand. no@r-m.dk Communiction in Progress 2015 13
