UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Communication on progress As managing director of Goodpoint AB I hereby confirm our continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. Goodpoint integrates the Global Compact principles into our code of conduct, our organisational culture and business strategy. We will continue to promote the Global Compact’s responsible and sustainable principles in our relations with clients, partners and other stakeholders. Stockholm, 9th June, 2016 Magnus Boman Managing director and owner Goodpoint AB Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Introduction Goodpoint supports and respects the ten principles of the Global Compact. We actively integrate respect for human rights, labour and the environment into our business operations and take an absolute stand against corruption and unethical business conduct. Leading our business in a responsible manner gives us a social licence to operate which builds trust and relationships with our stakeholders. Responsibility strengthens both our brand and profitability. For this communication on progress, the reporting period covers June 2015 until June 2016. Management approach As of June 1st 2016, Goodpoint has 17 employees, and is headed by a managing director/owner who reports to the board. For the last five years, the board of Goodpoint has included an employee representative. However, the permanent employee representation to the board has been discontinued since the board has an advisory function only. Employee representatives are invited to board meetings on occasion when issues of particular concern are on the agenda, such as business development or issues concerning key accounts. Employees have the opportunity to raise issues or concerns regarding their work situation in biweekly meetings with all staff and the managing director. Goodpoint has an elaborate management system, including policy documents and guidelines that guide us in our daily operations. The management system includes, inter alia, procedures for nonconformity reporting and follow-up. All employees have access to, and know how to use, the system. Internal and external audits are conducted on an annual basis and followed up through management reviews. Goodpoint was one of the first companies in Sweden to be certified according to the new version of the ISO:14001 and ISO:9001 standards released in 2015. During the reporting period, Goodpoint continued to work with our internal code of conduct and the four issue areas of the Global Compact: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. If any situation occurs in our work with clients, we discuss it in our biweekly meetings and take action according to our code of conduct. In the period covered in this communication on progress, Goodpoint hired seven staff members with diverse areas of expertise, while three employees left the company. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals As outlined in our code of conduct, Goodpoint supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and adheres to the same principles as the Global Compact in this field. Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and will not comply in any actions that might violate human rights. We encourage all of our partners to respect human rights. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any human rights violations directly to the Managing director. Violations of the law will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External operations Goodpoint’s most important contribution to the implementation of the human rights principles is through helping our clients manage human rights-related risks within their own operations. This often involves anticipating and counteracting risks and events that may occur related to social responsibility and human rights. We give our clients and organizations advise on how to manage and work with human rights within their supply chain. In this area, we assist our clients with a range of measures to minimize and manage risks, including education, evaluations, analyses and audits. Goodpoint actively works to advance human rights within our clients' business. We also help our clients to communicate their work related to human rights in their sustainability reports. Our operations have resulted in raised awareness about human rights with our clients. We have assisted a number of clients in developing and/or updating their codes of conduct making sure they include respect for human rights and takes into account complicity in human rights abuses. Furthermore, we conduct risk analyses from a human rights perspective on behalf of our clients. Internal operations We have an elaborate management system, including policy documents and guidelines, which guides us in our daily operations and facilitates non-conformity reporting and follow-up. Goodpoint’s code of conduct also provides support on internal human rights related issues, including discrimination and the right to privacy. Each year we review the policy documents and guidelines and we do internal audits of the management system. We evaluate our suppliers to try to make sure that we only buy products and services from suppliers who respect human rights in their own operations. We do not sign agreements with suppliers that could compromise our ability to work according to our values. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Outcomes No violations of human rights have been reported in relation to Goodpoint’s operations throughout the reporting period. Goodpoint has contributed to a greater understanding among our clients of the link between human rights and business and human rights-related risks linked to clients’ business operations. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and respects labour standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our code of conduct provides support in the field of labour rights. Goodpoint has procedures for dialogue on labour-related issues between management and the local independent trade union representatives. Violations of the law will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External operations Goodpoint actively works to transmit knowledge about labour standards to our clients, e.g. through training activities, development of codes of conduct, factory audits and gap-analyses against ISO 26000. One of Goodpoint’s main operations is to assist our clients in managing their risks related to labour rights and social justice. We help our customers anticipate and solve labour-related problems, and we spread awareness and knowledge about labour standards and social justice. Our aim is to assist our clients to implement working conditions in line with legal requirements (local and international), both at our clients and at their suppliers. During the period reported, we assisted several clients in developing and updating their codes of conduct, including provisions on labour. We also conducted a number of supplier audits and labour risk analyses for our clients. Internal operations Goodpoint works actively to create a safe and healthy workplace by trying to minimize physical and psychosocial risks. Goodpoint strives for equality and diversity in the workplace and we do not accept any forms of discrimination, harassment or other types of abuse. We do not, under any circumstances, accept child labour or forced labour. We welcome our employees to join independent trade unions and engage in collective bargaining. All of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement under Swedish law. Goodpoint welcomes an open dialogue within its own organisation. Regular individual performance reviews take place with all employees, which provide an opportunity to bring forward opinions and encourage discussion. There is an ongoing dialogue within Goodpoint about possible improvements, including appraisals and surveys. Employees are given the opportunity to influence their work situation as anonymous employee surveys are conducted at least once a year. In these anonymous surveys, employees can openly comment on their job satisfaction and work environment. Desired changes and Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 improvements that surface in the employee survey are discussed and implemented if required. Meetings are held every two weeks with the entire staff, where ongoing matters are commented on and discussed. Salary negotiations are held yearly between management and labour union representatives. Employees are also invited to an individual salary negotiation with management. All permanent employees are covered by a health insurance. Outcomes In the anonymous employee survey and at the individual performance review, some employees expressed that variations in workload and work-life balance sometimes lead to high stress levels. Management takes this issue seriously and monitors the workload of the consultants. Stress and work-life balance is discussed regularly both with individual consultants who suffer from stress and at biweekly meetings. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint supports and respects the principles set by the Global Compact. Since 1998, Goodpoint has an environmental management system and the organisation is certified according to ISO 14001. Our environmental policy states that we shall make a positive impact on the environment through increasing our clients’ awareness about environment and climate issues. We also consider our negative impact in everything from purchased goods and services, to travel. Goodpoint’s environmental goal states that 90% of our projects classified as environmental projects should result in (real) environmental benefits (by improving our clients’ environmental performance). External Goodpoint has extensive experience and knowledge in the fields of chemistry and environment. Our main contribution in this field is helping our clients create more sustainable and environmentally sound operations. We help our clients increase their knowledge within these areas through training, internal audits, legal compliance and by implementing environmental management systems. We contribute to a better understanding of the subject matters and help set requirements for chemicals in products and goods. Internal Goodpoint’s environmental work is guided by our environmental management system. We apply environmental criteria as well as quality criteria when purchasing goods and services. We recycle as much waste as possible. We work to reduce our environmental impact by actively selecting modes of travel and use of equipment that will lower our impact on the environment. We compensate for the CO2 emissions that cannot be avoided, through funding the offsetting of CO2. Outcomes We try to measure our impact on our clients’ environmental performance through external and internal surveys after project closure. However, it has proven difficult to derive the performance to our specific project when a lot of parameters influence client environmental performance and the results often show several years after project closure. In 2015, we achieved the targets for the project followed up on during the year, where one of our clients reduced their CO2 emissions as a result of the project. Due to the difficulties in evaluating our impact in our clients´ environmental performance we will develop a new environmental goal during 2016. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Furthermore, over 90 % of our office consumables are eco-labelled (KRAV, Nordic eco-label or Fairetrade). Our electricity comes from renewable energy and Goodpoint’s landlord has a green electricity contract. Heating and cooling and electricity are included in the lease. During 2015 (January-January) Goodpoint emitted 7,4 ton CO2 due to travel (air and rail). This is an increase compared to the previous year, due to the need to travel by air in several projects. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se UN Global Compact Communication on progress June 9th 2016 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Goodpoint follows and respects Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption and complies with Swedish Law, including anti-corruption and competition laws. Goodpoint’s code of conduct covers these areas and stipulates that we do not accept any forms of corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has also developed guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits. The guidelines are meant to help Goodpoint employees act ethically and avoid doubtful situations. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any cases of corruption or bribery directly to the CEO. Any law violations will be reported to the appropriate authorities. External Goodpoint has great expertise in anti-corruption work. We help our clients to increase their knowledge about anti-corruption legislation and to manage their risks through qualified advice, risk analyses, training sessions, workshops and development of policy documents on corruption and bribes. Internal Goodpoint has a code of conduct and guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits which is communicated to all new employees. Outcomes Goodpoint has assisted clients in developing e-learning modules on anti-corruption and business ethics and organised a number of anti-corruption trainings and workshops. No cases of violation of the principles, suspected corruption or bribery has occurred within Goodpoint’s operations. Goodpoint AB | Norrtullsgatan 6 | 113 29 Stockholm | Tel 08-789 04 00 | E-post info@goodpoint.se | www.goodpoint.se
