1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT QURI.QA ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary engineering consultancy company with over 1,400 employees located in offices around Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We provide impartial consultancy in a variety of fields, such as construction and infrastructure, public utilities, environmental and natural resources, climate change and energy, planning and development consulting. Our special trademark is an interdisciplinary and innovative approach to projects, and we take pride in transforming clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956. Today, NIRAS is one of the leading consultancy companies in Denmark. We are not affiliated with contractors, manufacturers or suppliers, and we are a member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Carsten T. Boesen Chief Executive Officer At NIRAS, we are committed to excellence in improving social and environmental issues for our clients, meanwhile supporting sustainable development of the society and a balanced life for our employees. We consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. During 2015, we continued our efforts to ensure, that employees, clients and societies are able to rely on our business ethics and concern for the environment and society. The issue on Human Rights and the importance of compliance pervades all NIRAS’ activities, which in 2015 comprised more than 200 development projects in about 60 countries outside of Scandinavia. NIRAS launched a Young Professional Programme, combining classroom training with on-the-job training during two years in our offices all over the World. During 2015, NIRAS improved labour management, focused on prevention and management of sick leave and initiated an internal leadership development course. NIRAS develops sustainable and environmentally sound solutions for our clients and our own organization. E.g. in 2014 NIRAS designed projects for storm surge protection of coastal areas and protection of urban areas by heavy rains. Besides, NIRAS advises non-industrialized countries in climate projects and CO2 reductions, at the latest on waste treatment and recycling in Mozambique In 2015 NIRAS has updated the Integrity Management System (IMS) according to the actual international anti-corruption instruments. Consequently, in 2016 we will continue to improve and commit ourselves to further sustainable development. Carsten T. Boesen, Chief Executive Officer 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Full subscription to charters and conventions on Human Rights is reflected both internally in the organisation, i.e. as an integral part of NIRAS’ human resources policy, and in the projects and programmes that NIRAS implements internationally. In 2015, NIRAS was present in about 60 countries, carrying out more than 200 development projects outside of Scandinavia. The issue on Human Rights and the importance of compliance pervades all NIRAS activities; and where possible NIRAS, through instruction to its employees, seeks to promote and encourage respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, language and religion. Prior to entering into contracts and agreements, we screen projects for issues related to human rights. NIRAS’ approach is to become the ‘good example’ by having full transparency in management and decisions, and by respecting and applying the rights of all human beings assigned by NIRAS or benefiting from the projects in which NIRAS is engaged. NIRAS launched a Young Professional Programme combining classroom training with on-the-job training during two years in our offices in Europe and all over the World. The performance and targets for 2015 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS fully subscribes to all charters and international conventions on Human Rights. This encompasses Rights of the Child, Rights of Indigenous People, gender related issues including Elimination of All Forms of Decimation of Women as well as the Rights of LGBT. NIRAS ensures all present and future employees equal opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. NIRAS ensures a work environment free of harassment, including discrimination. NIRAS considers diversity to ensure clients a better quality of service and promotes inspiration inhouse. The culture and values in NIRAS are based on respect for the individual and this also implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and clients. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME NIRAS continuously improves easy access to management support and to information and guidelines for employees. During 2015, NIRAS initiated an internal leadership development course, resulting in improvement of and support to of labour management. Also, NIRAS initiated an internal project, specifically focusing on prevention and management of sick leave. To improve NIRAS’ duty of Care we have signed a membership of Falck Global Assistance Group. NIRAS does not employ children who are under age. The performance and targets for 2015 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, making space for “the whole person”. Our aim is to be reflected in the way in which we relate to and act towards one another. NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into associations and to enter into collective bargaining with management. All NIRAS employees have individual contracts, and the employment conditions comply with current national legislation and requirements. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where employees have good job satisfaction and good potential for development, as well as comprehensive security assistance to all travelers. Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and in-house operations must be performed such that the health, safety and welfare of the affected human beings are ensured to the greatest possible degree. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME NIRAS develops sustainable solutions for our clients and our own organisation. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of client projects relating to buildings, industry and construction as well as water, energy and wastewater systems. A.o NIRAS in 2015 was responsible for a project in Ringsted municipality, using rainwater as a resource to enhance natural and recreational areas and avoids impacts of urban areas by heavy rains. In Køge municipality NIRAS has developed proposals for storm surge protection of three coastal areas being secured against inflowing seawater as well as against large rainwater volumes in a way that improves the natural and urban life. NIRAS has been responsible for the engineering design of the first sustainable retirement home, Vonsild Garden neighborhood in Kolding, following the official sustainability certification DGNB. Under the auspices to the UN National Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) NIRAS advises nonindustrialized countries in climate projects and CO2 reductions, at the latest by projects on waste treatment and recycling in Mozambique. NIRAS prepares a yearly “climate account” for our activities. The performance and targets for 2015 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS takes our responsibility towards climate change, environment and society seriously in our approach to our services and operation of business. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions that are compatible with the principles of sustainable development. NIRAS supports the International Federation of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommendations on the environment and sustainable development. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME In 2015 NIRAS has updated the Integrity Management System (IMS) according to the actual international anti-corruption instruments. Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ Integrity and Ethics Policy are strongly emphasised in all contracts with employees, managers and sub-consultants. NIRAS’ Integrity and Ethics Policy is also emphasized whenever NIRAS expands its business through joint ventures or acquisition of companies and activities anywhere in the World. NIRAS has further established procedures to encompass a very short response and action time in case incidents or suspicions of fraud and corruption are being reported. All employees, joint venture partners and sub-contractors are thoroughly instructed and sign a declaration of compliance with NIRAS’ IMS. The performance and targets for 2015 have been met at satisfactory levels. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS has a zero-tolerance policy to corruption and fraud, and NIRAS will actively contribute to combating corruption and fraud in all of its forms. NIRAS has developed an Integrity Management System, including Business Integrity and Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. The system and policies are in compliance with the international anti-corruption instruments, defined by OECD, FIDIC, Transparency International and United Nations. 7 OUR WORLD NIRAS A/S Reg. No. 37295728 Denmark T: +45 4810 4200 Sortemosevej 19 FRI, FIDIC F: +45 4810 4300 8 3450 Allerød, Denmark www.niras.com E: niras@niras.dk
