ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 1 ECI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ARE YOU READY FOR THE FUTURE? 2 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Greetings from our President and CEO: Darryl Edwards ...................................... 4 A note from our Group Chairman: Shaul Shani .................................................... 5 About ECI ........................................................................................................... 6 2015 Sustainability Highlights ............................................................................... 8 2015 Sustainability Dashboard .............................................................................. 9 Stakeholder Consultation ..................................................................................... 10 Sustainability priorities ........................................................................................... 11 Getting ready for the future ................................................................................. 13 Providing solutions for the future .......................................................................... 17 Helping service providers to evolve their networks .......................................... 19 A smart grid future for utilities and strategic industries ..................................... 22 Supporting cloud services and data centers of the future ................................ 26 Providing impeccable service to our customers .................................................... 30 Organizing for the future ..................................................................................... 33 Future fitting our supply chain .............................................................................. 38 Environmental performance ........................................................................... 39 Ethics, Governance and Transparency the foundation of the future .................... 41 A culture of ethics ........................................................................................... 41 Governance ..................................................................................................... 41 Sustainability transparency and disclosure ....................................................... 41 About this report .................................................................................................. 44 UN Global Compact ............................................................................................ 45 GRI Content index ................................................................................................ 47 4 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 GREETINGS FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO: DARRYL EDWARDS I am pleased to introduce ECI’s 2015 Sustainability to support society and protect the environment. In Report. This is our fifth annual report, describing how the past year, we have further reduced our energy we make a difference through the work that we do. consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and water use, all while building our business and increasing our In this report, we focus on the future. That’s where market presence in many countries. We continue to our customers are going, and we plan to help them make a contribution to society, and have advanced get there using our new ELASTIC strategy and technological education and STEM programs for solutions, which we have been perfecting over the schoolchildren. We maintain a supportive workplace past few years. In doing so, we are turning on their and invest in the continuing development and head some long-standing myths about the way professional growth of almost 1,700 employees technology companies should work. Most technology worldwide. companies try to tie their customers in to proprietary hardware and closed proprietary infrastructure This evolution for ECI and our customers is an software, making change costly and complex, and opportunity not without challenges. Every day, our prohibiting innovation. Such companies focus on frame of reference shifts a little as new technological what they have to sell rather than what makes their innovations appear, so the speed at which we can customers more agile. At ECI, we have reconsidered adapt and grow is key to our success. Another main our role as a technology company. As we see it, the challenge is attracting, developing, and retaining future is more about software, not hardware; open the right people with the right skills or the ability to collaboration, not programming lockdown; and acquire them. I am sure that our corporate culture meeting customers’ needs for flexibility, not vendor of equal opportunity, flexibility, collaboration, and asset protection. It’s about dynamic markets, agility, respect are what makes people stay at ECI. It all knowledge-sharing, and co-creation with openness comes back to doing business with integrity. in mind. That’s the radical change in our approach, reflected in our new ELASTIC enterprise. Our focus I hope you will find this report interesting. As always, is squarely on innovation and value proposition, as we welcome your feedback. we develop unique, future-critical applications on common open software platforms, such as Software Darryl Edwards Defined Networks (SDN) and Network Function President and CEO Virtualization (NFV). Our ELASTIC solutions are more power-efficient, interoperable, and integrative than ever before. They will evolve with technology and network demands to help customers protect their investments, improve returns, and reduce operational costs. With ELASTIC solutions, they can compete more effectively, reach new markets, and support greater global connectivity, while using fewer resources. ELASTICITY means simple, open, cost-effective, sustainable, fast, and innovative solutions that can help people around the world better connect to each other. At the same time, we continue to operate in line with our values and ethics, and with a conscience ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 5 A NOTE FROM OUR GROUP CHAIRMAN: SHAUL SHANI With ECI, I think we can all be ready to take on the future with confidence. At the forefront of today's innovation in network solutions, ECI is driving the uptake of new technologies that are truly transformational. They change how we do business and how we live our lives. Through this, ECI is also helping the industry to evolve to be more open, efficient and flexible. This is good for ECI and it's good for our customers. It's all built on a foundation of ethical conduct, treating employees with respect and minimizing our environmental footprint. We want to be a recognized expert in network solutions as well as an exemplary corporate citizen in everything we do. I believe that our global team at ECI can continue to be both. That gives me confidence for the future. Shaul Shani Group Chairman 6 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ABOUT ECI Founded in 1961, ECI Telecom Ltd. is a privatelyare open to ideas that challenge convention, owned provider of ELASTIC networks that scale seek diversity of views and drive innovation. and operate efficiently using open, secure and We encourage both individuals and teams to vendor agnostic technology. constantly search for innovative technologies and creative business solutions and recognize ECI's ELASTIC solutions ensure open, futuretheir achievements. proof, and secure communications. With ECI, customers have the luxury of choosing a network • Integrity: We are committed to conduct that can be tailor-made to their needs today as well ourselves in a manner consistent with the highest as seamlessly and cost effectively upgraded to meet standards of integrity. We are honest, ethical, future requirements. and fair in all our activities. We keep our word, deliver on our promises, and acknowledge our We serve hundreds of customers, including mistakes. Our personal and business conduct communications service providers (CSPs), utility ensures that ECI is a company worthy of trust. and critical infrastructure companies, as well as data center operators and cloud service providers • Customer-centric: We are dedicated to worldwide, through an international sales force, creating value for our worldwide customers local agents and resellers in nearly 30 regional sales by developing and providing technologically and service centers. advanced solutions and services. We build lasting relationships with our customers by ECI also maintains a network of resellers in over 70 listening, understanding, and anticipating our countries. At the end of 2015, we employed over customers’ needs. We are easy to do business 1,600 people in 30 countries. with and always strive to be responsive and professional. ECI customers can trust our commitment to their success. OUR VALUES • Respect for the Individual: We treat one another with respect and dignity, appreciating individual, cultural, and national differences. We seek to learn and therefore we listen to one another attentively and compassionately and communicate often and openly. We encourage individuals to express their views and use their talent to the fullest. All persons are treated with dignity and respect. • Team Spirit: Our team spirit binds us together, transcending organizational, functional, and geographic boundaries. We work hard towards a common goal and strive to deliver beyond DARRYL EDWARDS expectations. We cooperate, collaborate, and HONORED WITH CEO AWARD empower one another in recognition that a global effort translates into exceptional solutions Darryl Edwards, ECI’s President and CEO, and services. was one of seven CEOs to be recognized by People & Computers as Best CEO for 2015 • Innovation: We constantly strive to redefine the for outstanding achievements in the field of IT standard of excellence in everything we do. We and technology. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 7 TRANSPARENT NETWORK EVOLUTION 8 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 1 669 82% -16% employees in 30 of customers confirmed energy countries improvements in consumption in service from ECI Israel 24% women in 65 achieved in the TL9000 -13% greenhouse gas management telecom industry quality emissions in Israel roles in Israel index, above industry average ZERO injuries in India 96%-98% of customer downtime -2% water withdrawal and China incidents restored to full in Israel service within 4 hours 0.191 injury rate per 100 ZERO Critical findings in audits: -8% total waste employees in 2015 OHSAS18001, ISO14001, in Israel (6 injuries) SA8000 78% of employees in Israel Several contributions to +7% waste volunteered in the ONOS Open Source recycled community community 4total522 hours Darryl Edwards, President 97 CDP supply chain volunteered in the and CEO: Best CEO disclosure score and community for 2015 for outstanding GOLD EcoVadis achievements in the performance field of technology rating ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 9 2015 SUSTAINABILITY DASHBOARD EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 EMPLOYEES (WORLDWIDE) 2,671 2,062 1,730 1,644 1,669 WOMEN EMPLOYEES 23% 23% 25% 25% 24% WOMEN MANAGERS 16% 18% 18% 19% 24% LOST TIME INJURY RATE 0.061 0.192 0.236 0.102 0.308 LOST DAY RATE 0.052 0.032 0.067 0.026 0.023 VOLUNTEER HOURS PER EMPLOYEE (AVERAGE) 5.78 8.01 6.68 7.71 5.10 ENVIRONMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ENERGY CONSUMPTION -13% -30% -52% -54% -61% CO2e EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 & 2) -12% 18% -50% -49% -57% CO2e EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) N/A -45% -56% -52% -41% WATER CONSUMPTION -2% -6% -7% -1% -3% WASTE GENERATED -31% -65% -61% -62% -65% WASTE TO LANDFILL -39% -81% -56% -60% -64% WASTE RECYCLED (AS % OF TOTAL WASTE) 31% 57% 12% 19% 21% SUPPLY CHAIN AUDITS OF KEY SUPPLIERS 3 10 5 6 1 ECOVADIS SCORE N/A N/A SILVER GOLD GOLD Notes: • Data refers to Israel operations only unless otherwise stated • Environmental and supply chain performance (except for waste recycled) reflects cumulative change in annual performance using 2010 as our base year • Water consumption for 2014 was restated due to errors 10 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION In early 2016, in order to seek feedback from a range ROLE MODEL of stakeholders in Israel, we conducted a roundtable discussion to hear views and expectations of ECI as ECI must act as a role model and not a global technology company based in Israel. This hide its activities to was our first such dedicated group discussion with support communities. stakeholders, and it was attended by 8 participants from civil society, our supplier network, academic and business subject experts. Five managers from ENGAGEMENT ECI attended, including Adi Bildner, ECI’s Vice In order to fully President for Global Human Resources. The key integrate sustainable insights received from the group include: practices into production and supply • Increased transparency and publicity chain activities it is vital of community activities: ECI should to engage employees become more of a role model by publicizing SUSTAINABILITY in technical roles in the achievements for other companies to emulate. need for sustainable It is important that practices in order • Develop more sustainable products and ECI continues to be a to ensure these are logistics processes: ECI should engage leader in sustainability fully integrated into reporting in production and supply employees to implement sustainable practices Israel and in the chain operations. in product design and logistics and improve technology sector, packaging sustainability. as this will have a positive impact both • Expand community impacts through inside and outside collaboration: ECI should engage with of the company. other organizations, including customers, By reporting on in shared community initiatives to increase sustainability overall impact. activities, ECI acts as a role model PRIORITIES • Derive greater business benefits from which will encourage I believe that one of sustainability activities: ECI should place other companies to the top sustainability adopt sustainability priorities for ECI more focus on creating business value through practices. should be creating addressing social and environmental needs. business advantage • Continue to advance global business from sustainability activities. For while retaining the core in Israel: ECI example, production contributes great economic value for Israel of energy efficient through its global activities, and this should equipment will benefit continue, while at the same time retaining customers which will the core in Israel to drive local innovation and VOLUNTEER translate to business contribute to strong local infrastructure. It is a company’s advantage for ECI. obligation to provide employees with an opportunity to volunteer in the community. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 11 SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES In today’s changing world, we must be flexible and innovative, creating ELASTIC networks which enable customers to succeed. In this period of increased cost cutting and challenged revenue streams, we must help our customers provide best value by continuously improving the resource efficiency of our products and services. At the same time, we aim for maximum resource efficiency in our operations to maintain a cost-efficient business and display sustainability leadership. We provide a positive, safe and inclusive workplace where employees grow and develop and are engaged with our mission and values, working together to achieve our sustainable business objectives. We must embed ethical conduct at all levels of our business and through our supply chain to maintain trust with stakeholders and safeguard against business and reputational risk. Our Sustainability Priorities are: ELASTICITY EFFICIENCY • Meeting and anticipating customer • Improving the resource efficiency of needs our products • Partnering to deliver the best solutions • Reducing our energy consumption • Providing outstanding customer • Reducing waste and increasing service recycling EMPLOYEES ETHICS • Engaging and developing employees • Maintaining integrity and ethical • Employee health, safety and wellbeing conduct • Engaging employees to support our • Upholding human rights communities • Driving ethical standards throughout our supply chain We have also considered the new global Sustainable Development Goals, ratified by the UN in September 2015, setting out an ambitious agenda for global development to 2030. ECI supports this initiative and will be considering where we can further align our business operations with these global objectives in coming years. In the meantime, we believe that we make a meaningful contribution to 5 goals, while supporting many of the others in different ways. Throughout this report, we note where our impacts support the global Sustainable Development Goals. 12 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 OPEN YOURSELF TO ENDLESS POSSIBILITIES ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 13 GETTING READY FOR THE FUTURE Helping our customers prepare for the future has MATERIAL IMPACT always been at the heart of ECI’s approach to doing PARTNERING TO DELIVER THE BEST SOLUTIONS G4-EC8 business. By anticipating technology developments and understanding our customers’ competitive INNOVATION STRATEGY BUILDING BLOCKS landscapes, we are able to offer ELASTIC solutions • Open source innovation • Software centric that are resource efficient, flexible, adaptable, • Vendor agnostic • Partnerships energy saving and offer an optimum platform for our customers’ business expansion. “rollOpen-sourced, vendor-agnostic, software-centric may not off the tongue so easily, but it means a world of difference The ELASTIC Network for our customers. We believe that an open, competitive ELASTICITY expresses our sustainable approach to system is good for business – both for ECI and for our customers and for their customers. It’s quite a departure doing business because it's how we help our customers from our traditional focus on hardware development. Instead achieve their objectives in the marketplace. Taking of developing hardware and then writing programs to advantage of the newest, fastest, most efficient support it, we first develop the software that solves complex technologies, while retaining compatibility with old technology needs and then we define the hardware needed ones, means that we deliver the best capability for the long term, requiring minimal changes as our ” to support it. Hayim Porat, CTO customers adapt. The sustainability impacts we achieve through our ELASTIC solutions encompass Opening up Open Source customer needs in the area of networks, cloud-based In line with our new strategic framework for innovation services, utilities infrastructure and cyber protection, in a competitive environment, we have wholeall supported by uncompromising customer service. heartedly adopted an open source approach and In this section we describe how we anticipate and have become active members of the open source meet our customer needs by delivering future-ready community. This is entirely in line with the principles technology and partnering for innovation. and concepts of ELASTIC Networks and we believe, creates new possibilities for advancement with GRI – DMA | INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS benefits all along the technology development chain. We are one of only a few technology companies MATERIAL IMPACT to uphold the four principles of open innovation MEETING AND ANTICIPATING CUSTOMER NEEDS G4-EC8 initiatives. Step change in strategy for innovation Our focus is squarely on innovation as the key to future proofing our business and supporting our FOUR PRINCIPLES OF OPEN INNOVATION customers doing the same for theirs. Our business • Open Source: • Open Ecosystem: and innovation strategy uses our knowledge and • Open Application ecosystem partnership will aspirations regarding ELASTIC networks and Programming Interfaces: ensure needs are filled feedback from our customer satisfaction survey. It can interface with HW/SW • Open Architecture: of various vendors includes access points represents a real step-change in our thinking and planning. The core concepts in our strategy support • the move of our customers from closed systems to ECI’S SUPPORT FOR OPEN open systems, from vendor lock-in to vendor agnostic, INITIATIVES ADVANCES THE UN from proprietary IP to open source innovation and SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS from physical hardware to cloud-based software. 14 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 A major advantage for us in contributing to the We have taken a strategic approach to developing open source community is that cooperating with such partnerships and established a new Partner other companies on development frees up resources Program for our business partners based on a to invest in creating advanced applications which commitment to mutual success. The program offer differentiating added value for our customers. includes incentives and rewards for partners who Ultimately, this leads to a more dynamic and more demonstrate commitment and success in generating competitive marketplace which supports further business and supporting our markets effectively. We innovation and benefits users everywhere. have put in place new teams at ECI to enable business generation, and collaboration with business partners. In 2015, we made several contributions to the open We have formalized programs for knowledge sharing source community, including writing an extension though activities such as monthly webinar sessions for multilayer software-defined control of optical that are delivered (live) by our leading product and layer networks for the ONOS community. ONOS is marketing teams and established a new e-learning one of the open source SDN networking developers program, which is used for commercial and technical for service provider networks architected for high staff by our partners. We once again held a congress performance, scale and availability. event for our partners in Cyprus in 2016 with attendance by around 50 companies representing “understand While many companies use open source, not all companies the value of giving back to the open source global current and potential partners. We are in community. We believe that if we cooperate with other the process of upgrading our partners’ portal to companies and give code to the community, we will help provide updates, marketing materials and technical create a vibrant community and everyone will benefit. Tali Rosenwaks, Executive Vice President of Strategy and ” information. Technology MATERIAL IMPACT “contribute, As part of the ONOS consortium we intend to actively and hopefully, take a thought leadership role. At PARTNERING TO DELIVER THE BEST SOLUTIONS G4-EC8 the base of our ELASTIC network strategy we have sworn TWO PARTNERSHIP FOCUS AREAS to provide our customers with an ecosystem which is open, vendor agnostic and secure. In doing so, we believe we can • Partnership with technology vendors, which expands our core offer the customer the greatest flexibility in choosing what is solutions. The mutual objective is to deliver excellence and a best for them. As we have great confidence in the value and ‘best of breed’ portfolio to a broader range of customers. the superiority of ECI's technology, it is also our belief that • Developing and enabling our business partner community ECI will not only help to create a best in breed, universal ecosystem of around 100 companies worldwide. These are standard within the consortium but will also be the ultimate the system integrators and value-added resellers who help ” choice of customers based on merit. Hayim Porat, CTO expand our market reach. A strategic approach for collaboration A major part of the team effort revolves around A key element of our open and flexible strategy is on-site activities with our partners: roadshows, the development of business partners, value-added onsite training and local events to improve their resellers and technology partnerships which help understanding of the ECI offering and to refine, expand our advanced solutions and bring them to a with our partners, the go-to-market strategy and broader range of users. This has become especially performance. An example of the value of the Partner relevant in our new market focus in the areas of Program is shown in a press release in early 2016, utilities, mission critical networks, cloud and data by Jasco Carrier Solutions, an African-based valuecenter connectivity and cyber security solutions, as added reseller. ECI awarded “Gold Partner” status to part of our ELASTIC networks strategy. Jasco. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 15 “consistent Being awarded Gold Partner status is recognition of the contribution Jasco Carrier Solutions has made comprehensive security in their existing or new network infrastructure. LightSEC™ is now deployed to ECI’s business, serves to acknowledge our commitment by several European customers and helps them to the ECI offering, and affirms our ability to implement and support ECI solutions. This accolade ensures that we mitigate the risks associated with increasingly have been thoroughly trained on ECI equipment, software critical vulnerabilities through a comprehensive and network management, and requires high levels of security solution spanning every network location. performance, which must be recognized not only by ECI, LightSEC™ delivers the widest set of threat detection ” but by our customers too. Martin Ferreira, Executive at Jasco Carrier Solutions tools available to our customers. Each sector may have its own specific vulnerabilities. For example, the utilities sector is largely migrating Protecting customers from cyber threats from legacy network infrastructure to a modern, IP-based network, to meet new Smart Grid “economy We estimate that the likely annual cost to the global from cybercrime is more than $400 billion. … most requirements for clean and smart energy. In doing countries and governments and companies underestimate so, this sector is exposed to a new dimension of how much risk they face from cybercrime and how quickly security vulnerabilities and must protect themselves this risk can grow…. G20 nations suffer the bulk of losses from a wide range of attacks. and losses from cybercrime for four largest economies in the world (the US, China, Japan, and Germany) reached DPI $200 billion. Low-income countries have smaller losses, Deep packet inspection an advanced method but this will change as these countries increase their use of of network transaction classification that makes the Internet and as cybercriminals move to exploit mobile it possible to identify, report, filter out malicious ” platforms. Center for Strategic and International Studies June 2014 network transactions and offload security functions. SCADA/ICS In response to the growing need of our customers for A family of command and control protocols built-in network security and protection from cyber employed by utilities. Recently multiple targeted threats, LightSEC our new Cyber Security Suite, attacks against this protocol have been identified. launched in 2014, provides a comprehensive response ECI delivers specific functions to protect utilities to network and operational security needs. Our from these target attacks. cyber solutions are ELASTIC, offering a rich set of mature and innovative security functions developed in line with the needs of today’s industry with “andOursecurity customers understand that all existing technologies solutions were built in order to combat known security functions such as encryption, DPI, SCADA security threats, but as the threat landscape fast changing, protection, and more. These functions operate both they are seeking for solutions that will allow them to combat with ECI technology and on other platforms that our against future threats. Our open, NFV (Network Function customers deploy, offering complete flexibility and Virtualization) platform enables our customers not just to scalability together with all-round protection. consolidate multiple network security functions, but also allows them the option to deploy additional security tools LightSEC™ includes a virtualizated, comprehensive that will be available in the future, fighting against new threat management system running on-top of our ” threats as they arise. Yaron Bielous, VP Cyber Security Line of Business Mercury™ NFV hardware platform that can be deployed as a stand-alone appliance or integrated as a blade into ECI Neptune product family. LightSEC integrates seamlessly with our Neptune Transport platform, enabling customers to integrate 16 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 17 PROVIDING SOLUTIONS FOR THE FUTURE The industries we operate in today are characterized “willITincrease decision makers’ spending on security technologies 46% in 2015, with cloud computing increasing by vendor lock-in – meaning that once you opt for a 42% and business analytics investments up 38%. Enterprise certain technology, there is a high cost of replacing investments in storage will increase 36%, and for wireless infrastructure associated with making a change. Most & mobile, 35%. Cloud computing initiatives are the most such systems rely on rigid architecture and limited important project for the majority of IT departments today interoperability, thereby limiting a service provider’s (16%) and are expected to cause the most disruption in the speed and agility in the market place. At ECI, our ” future. Forbes.com, referencing Computerworld Forecast Study 2015. ELASTIC solutions put an end to that. Seamlessly incorporating existing systems, using open source and virtualization, with fully flexible programmability, we One of the driving forces behind the explosion of offer our customers the best of all worlds – continued internet traffic is the accessibility and affordability support of legacy equipment with state-of-the-art of mobile technology, as well as the expansion technology tailored to meet each company’s needs. of enterprise solutions in the cloud for greater Reducing costs, increasing efficiencies, improving scalability, innovation and affordability. This places competitive positioning – our customers get to huge bandwidth demands on networks everywhere expand their business while using fewer resources and influences the kind of solutions that enterprises, – generating economic, social and environmental small and large, are now seeking to support business advantages using a truly sustainable platform. Our growth. The migration to the cloud is not simply a ELASTIC solutions support the migration to the technical matter. It’s an almost entirely different way cloud in across three major segments: of doing business for many players in the market. COMMUNICATIONS UTILITIES CLOUD SERVICES AND SERVICE PROVIDERS AND CRITICAL DATA CENTERS Mobile and fixed networks INFRASTRUCTURES Providers of cloud networking which provide connectivity Grid operators and providers services that support large and data transport and offer a of essential national services volume data traffic for wide range of communication connectivity across multiple services for enterprises and locations in complex private customers operations These segments have similar core needs – fast, reliable, flexible, cost-optimized, power-optimized, safe and secure infrastructure that can be easily scaled up or down to meet changing needs. All these segments can successfully utilize our advanced packet-optical transport solutions and all can benefit from migrating from proprietary infrastructure to cloud-based applications. Software Defined Networks (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV) are the core components of our flexible network architecture 18 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 SOFTWARE DEFINED NETWORKS (SDN) An architecture that is dynamic, manageable, cost-effective, and adaptable, making it ideal for the high-bandwidth, dynamic nature of today’s applications. (ONF) NETWORK FUNCTION VIRTUALIZATION (NFV) An initiative to virtualize the network services that are now being carried out by proprietary, dedicated hardware. If successful, NFV will decrease the amount of proprietary hardware that's needed to launch and operate network services. (techtarget.com) ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 19 HELPING SERVICE PROVIDERS EVOLVE THEIR NETWORKS “cleaner The ICT-enabled economy of 2030 will not only be and more prosperous, but will support a better quality of life. We believe ICT has the power to transform lives and to put the individual at the heart of the new knowledge economy. Our modeling finds that an additional 2.5 billion people will be connected to ICT by 2030. Global ICT access could bring e-healthcare solutions to 1.6 billion people across the world and help half-a-billion people gain access to quality, affordable education through e-learning. We believe e-learning solutions alone have the potential to raise incomes by 11% on average per e-degree, creating more than $0.5 trillion in additional annual income by 2030. (SMARTer2030, GeSi) ” Networks are the traditional core of our business and still represent our major source of growth and development around the world. We support the world’s leading service providers as they connect entire countries to advanced high-speed networks or scale up services to offer the widest variety of connectivity or entertainment in the home, business or on the go. This gives us at ECI the satisfaction that we are partners in improving the lives of millions and enabling sustainable economic development and growth, particularly in emerging economies that so critically need such developments in order to survive and thrive. Our ELASTIC solutions for network service providers offer unique advantages that reduce total cost of ownership (TCO) for service providers through increasing operational efficiencies and minimizing additional capital expenditures on equipment by virtualizing their functionality in cloud-based networks. Using ECI’s technology, service providers can manage multi-layer networks from one control point, enabling the most extensive flexibility and optimization control at each single network layer. This means more reliable service, lower overall energy consumption and increase in the flexibility of service combinations offered to enterprise or private users. Operating in the cloud also enables minimal new investments in dedicated equipment. 20 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 In this section, we provide examples of our network In 2015, our long-standing customer, Bharti Airtel, solutions in the context of our material impacts: selected ECI's Neptune (Native Packet Transport meeting and anticipating customer needs and NPT) family of products to expand its mobile partnering to deliver the best solutions. transport capabilities across India to support the increasing demand for bandwidth. All mobile By the end of 2015 there were 3,336,261,156 internet users in the world networks are being upgraded to 4G in the first project to support 4G and enable broadband connectivity across India. 46.4% “service Our packet transport solutions were developed to help of the global population (internetworldstats.com) providers flexibly and cost-effectively cope with the surge in data traffic. Our products are uniquely scalable, enabling our customers to stagger their investments as their ECI’S SUPPORT FOR NETWORK needs change over time. As such they are ELASTIC enough PROVIDERS ADVANCES THE UN to serve the needs of operators like Bharti as well as smaller SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT service providers. Bharti’s decision to choose ECI solutions is GOALS a huge vote of confidence and gives us the opportunity to support making life more connected and more productive MATERIAL IMPACT ” for the Indian population. Sorin Lupu, EVP Global Sales and Marketing. MEETING AND ANTICIPATING CUSTOMER NEEDS G4-EC8 MATERIAL IMPACT CHANGING REGIONAL PARTNERING TO DELIVER THE BEST SOLUTIONS G4-EC8 CONNECTIVITY IN SOUTH EAST ASIA In a market in South East Asia, we have leveraged CONNECTING INDIA NATIONWIDE our extensive experience in the telecommunications sector to support a new service provider entering In India, we continue to enjoy a long-standing the marketplace. To date, two companies have relationship with leading network providers and all dominated, so a new player entering the market major mobile operators – in fact – we have played has real opportunity to stimulate competition a significant role in leading the 4G advanced, and generate benefits for users in terms of speed, high-speed wireless broadband revolution in India. offerings, price, service and reliability. ECI’s equipment reaches every single part of this expansive country, with hundreds of thousands of Our customer is establishing an entirely new telecommunication cabinets based on our Neptune (greenfield) network to offer broadband services Packet Transport solutions, bringing broadband for enterprise customers covering an entire internet capabilities to rural and remote areas as country. We have been involved from the outset well as major cities. in the design phase of this major initiative and are supporting the deployment with our advanced packet-optical transport infrastructure and all Though our customers peripheral equipment required to connect millions in India, more than 600 of new customers across the country. The project is 600M million subscribers currently underway, with construction of hundreds benefit from advanced of communications sites and is targeted for mobile and internet completion in 2016. This project is another in a long service and capabilities. line of initiatives that we have supported in our 20 ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 21 years of operation in this region, led by our team In Africa, we are helping our customers – primarily of local professional staff. Meeting and anticipating network service providers and utilities customers our customers' needs, our ELASTIC solutions are – to develop, scale, improve efficiencies, improve supporting this nationwide initiative that is poised service and reliability and above all, change the to considerably change the market for the benefit quality of life for populations across this incredible of the local population. continent. We operate in several African countries, adapting our support to meet the different local 30M More than 30 million internet users in the needs in each market. One of the most significant aspects of our approach is to provide infrastructure South East Asia gain the that can serve as a base for growth and expansion benefit of our advanced without having to replace elements as technology ELASTIC networks advances or as providers are capable of investing in network upgrades. In this way, we make connectivity accessible to our African customers when they need “underlying Introducing additional advanced capabilities to the intelligent infrastructure will enable our customers it, and we help them grow efficiently when they are able. to stay at the forefront of innovation and constantly adapt to the ever changing needs of both their business and residential Nigeria: In 2015, we partnered with our customer ” customers. Mickey Wilf, General Manager, ECI APAC to create a significant enhancement of capacity to bring connectivity infrastructure up to advanced SCALING UP IN EASTERN EUROPE levels, comparable with Europe. We did this through deploying DWDM technology to all the customer’s Liberty Global is the largest video content provider landing stations which connect Nigeria to traffic in Europe with a significant presence in most flows from all over the world. With approximately European countries. UPC, a subsidiary of Liberty 182 million inhabitants, Nigeria is the most populous Global, is the customer-facing provider of Liberty country in Africa and the world's 20th largest Global’s content and is the largest cable operator economy. Enabling the Nigerian population to in Europe with more than 13 million customers. benefit from reliable, uninterrupted, high-speed In Romania and in the Czech Republic, we have infrastructure nationwide is one of the keys to supported UPC’s network upgrade using our Apollo sustainable development in this country. packet-optical transport system which enables UPC to deploy its optical network at lower cost per bit DWDM through highly efficient switching platforms. Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing is an optical multiplexing technology used to increase bandwidth over existing fiber networks. NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE DWDM works by combining and transmitting DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA multiple signals simultaneously at different wavelengths on the same fiber. ECI in Africa Angola Cameroon “theWecontinent have a long-standing commitment to Africa, across and across the technology spectrum. We Chad Madagascar are excited to contribute to sustainable growth in Africa, Kenya Mozambique and we plan to support its achievement every step of the Nigeria Namibia way by providing internet and mobile infrastructure that is Tanzania South Africa Zambia accessible, affordable and super-efficient.” Lior Tourgeman, Sales Director Southern Africa & Nigeria 22 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 A SMART GRID FUTURE FOR UTILITIES AND STRATEGIC INDUSTRIES ECI offers ELASTIC solutions for smart grids “built. Infrastructure is the foundation upon which societies are The state of a nation’s infrastructure determines what networking, grid automation for reliable power supply, is possible for that nation to achieve. Infrastructure includes and network controls and service. Our customers the basic physical and organizational structures needed for require reliable, safe and stable networks and flexibility the operation of a society or enterprise the services and to manage capacity to match demand to maximize facilities necessary for an economy to function. efficiency. Equally, in the transportation sector, This includes: transportation, energy, water and waste network reliability is critical to maintain safety of rail services, communications networks and postal services, and and other transportation networks. ECI’s platforms all the legal, financial, healthcare, social and welfare services are both upgradeable and scalable, thus allowing provided to citizens to function effectively in society. (University of California) ” capacity expansion using software for maximum flexibility with no addition of physical installations “developed Utilities firms play a role in creating wealth in both the and underdeveloped world. Water and sanitation, while also supporting legacy infrastructure to enable upgrades of existing networks with minimal need to for example, are fundamental to human sustenance, health replace existing hardware or systems. and dignity, and by extension, to economic opportunity. Affordable and reliable energy is integral to household productivity, and the development of most industries, from IN EUROPE, ECI CONTRIBUTES TO NATIONAL PROSPERITY agriculture to finance to healthcare to communications. (Harvard University, Christopher N. Sutton) ” BY SERVICING THE LARGEST UTILITIES COMPANIES IN GERMANY, FRANCE, THE NETHERLANDS AND SWEDEN. ECI’S SUPPORT FOR UTILITIES As a company offering leading communications AND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE solutions to hundreds of critical utilities and ADVANCES THE UN SUSTAINABLE infrastructure companies worldwide, ECI plays a DEVELOPMENT GOALS role in the global economy and the development of infrastructure for improving the quality of life for MATERIAL IMPACT individuals everywhere. MEETING AND ANTICIPATING CUSTOMER NEEDS G4-EC8 Utilities and critical infrastructure industries rely MATERIAL IMPACT on extensive data and information networks to PARTNERING TO DELIVER THE BEST SOLUTIONS G4-EC8 monitor and control the production and distribution of energy and water and other national services, as well as facilitate national access to life-saving In this section, we provide examples of our utilities and life-sustaining services. Not only do these and critical infrastructure solutions in the context industries provide the basis for a functioning and of our material impacts: meeting and anticipating thriving economy, their role in assuring continuity of customer needs and partnering to deliver the best governments, businesses and civil society is critical. solutions. Utilities and critical infrastructure sectors also have a major opportunity to improve the efficiency and SIGNIFICANT TRANSPORT NETWORK environmental impacts of the way we live. By using EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT IN smart technology to control and enhance networks, SWEDEN by furthering the supply of renewable green energy, by virtualizing physical infrastructure, these industries Trafikverket (The Swedish Transport Administration) can help the world combat climate change in a very is the government agency responsible for the overall significant way. long-term infrastructure planning of road, rail, sea and ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 23 air transport with a mission expressed as: “Everybody visibility. We are delighted to continue our long and valued arrives smoothly, the green and safe way.” Through partnership with ECI, which we trust to consistently develop the safe and efficient operations of Trafikverkert, and provide innovative tools and solutions to keep us ahead life for Sweden’s 97 million inhabitants is easier, ” of the curve. Kristoffer Stromberg, Head of Network Development and Planning, Trafikverket smarter, safer and more connected. In the OECD Better Life Index, Sweden is the top performer in environmental quality, and ranks above the average TRANSFORMING THE TELECOM in civic engagement, education and skills, work-life NETWORK FOR A MAJOR GRID balance, health status, subjective well-being, jobs OPERATOR IN THE NETHERLANDS and earnings, housing, and social connections – all aspects of life that are supported by sound national We have been involved in the network transformation infrastructure. of a major Dutch energy grid operator in the Netherlands, which operates energy networks Sweden has the 10th to distribute gas and electricity to over 3 million highest number of inhabitants. In the OECD Better Life Index, the internet users in the Netherlands performs well in many measures of wellworld: 92.5 per 100 being relative to most other countries, ranking above inhabitants. (World Bank) average in work-life balance, jobs and earnings, housing, income and wealth, education and more. Trafikverket is a customer of ECI for over 20 years Advanced energy services and telecom network and has continued to expand and upgrade its infrastructure support the high quality of life in this operations over the years to provide improved country. service and safer, greener operations. In 2015, in In 2013, our customer was forced to change its order to further enhance network efficiency and existing leased copper line network and opted to visibility, Trafikverkert installed ECI’s LightAPPSTM establish an in-house optical network, connecting SDN applications to automate and optimize its around 350 sites. To support this transition, we are network operations, enabling Trafikverket to ensure engaged in a partnership with a leading network capacity and improve network utilization by up to integrator, demonstrating confidence in our joint 30%, saving money by avoiding capital expenditure ability to consistently meet this major Dutch grid on new equipment, reducing ongoing operating operator’s needs in the framework of a long-term expenses while improving service to customers. For contract over a period of several years. example, with the new network, Trafikverket can analyze transportation bottlenecks in real time and In our partnership to support the customer, we supply balance overall power requirements accordingly. the network packet-optical transport equipment and network management systems and our partner LightAPPSTM: ECI’s Software Defined Network (SDN) adds components such as services, cabinets, power applications increase network efficiency and utilization, and converters and environmental monitoring as a simplify network operations. Other benefits include better operational responsiveness, shorter time to activate services turnkey network solution. We commenced work in and fewer human errors. late 2013 and are scheduled to complete by mid2016. “wanted In order to optimize our current network resources, we a system that would increase efficiency, reduce FIBER OPTICS: Compared to copper lines, fiber optic cables enable faster data transmission, enhance signal strength, reduce resources, automate tasks and simplify operations with an fire hazard and require less frequent replacement. intuitive interface and management dashboard for increased 24 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 “andOverall, we enabled our customer to transport legacy new traffic over a stable new network. We met the future plans to develop a smart grid that will further improve efficiency, control and service throughout challenging schedule to migrate legacy traffic to the new the network. network before the old network was decommissioned. To date, the transition has been seamless and now contributes to the reliable, efficient and consistent energy supply for LightSOFT® ECI’s network management system for ” millions of customers in the Netherlands. Piet den Ouden, Regional Sales Manager communications service providers. It supports complex networks end-to-end, providing optimum operational control of the network with continuous data flow and service availability. MORE RELIABLE ELECTRICITY IN GERMANY “scale As utility operators look ahead, they must cost-effectively their infrastructure to support upcoming requirements TenneT is one of Europe's top 5 electricity transmission without compromising performance, availability or the system operators with activities in the Netherlands reliability expected from the critical services they deliver. and Germany. TenneT supplies power to more By choosing ECI and 3M, TenneT will enjoy a new futurethan 41 million users over 22,000 kilometers of high ready transmission network, while seamlessly converging voltage lines in these countries. In the OECD Better legacy with packet traffic and keeping the required strict Life Index, Germany performs well in many measures service availability attributes. For the last 15 years, ECI and 3M Services have worked together to bring the most of well-being relative to most other countries ranking cost-effective and optimized telecom solutions to their above the average in education and skills, work-life balance, jobs and earnings, environmental quality ” customers. Christian Erbe, Head of Strategic Industries Solutions, ECI EMEA and more. The quality of electricity infrastructure is a key enabler of such quality of life parameters. TenneT requires a resilient and highly robust system to provide reliable services to their customers. In order to stay at the top of their game, TenneT decided to upgrade its network to provide more extensive control and tighter monitoring of critical data transport. In order to support TenneT, ECI connected with a long-standing partner for services provision in Germany, 3M Services, a system integrator with strong utilities and municipality services expertise. Together, we are modernizing TenneT’s network to enable ongoing provision of reliable services to millions of customers. TenneT deploys ECI’s Neptune (NPT) and Apollo families of packet-optical solutions as well as ECI'S LightSOFT® multi-layer management system. As is typical of ECI’s ELASTIC solutions, we enable TenneT to deploy new tools while maintaining legacy equipment with possibilities to grow capacity efficiently as network requirements expand. Not only this, the modern network will support TenneTs ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 25 UNLOCK YOUR POTENTIAL 26 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 SUPPORTING CLOUD ECI offers customers in the cloud services sector a suite of solutions to make data center operations SERVICES AND DATA more flexible, more reliable, more efficient and less power intensive. As part of the rapidly expanding CENTERS OF THE migration of physical assets to cloud-based operations in businesses around the world, the FUTURE role of cloud services, including large cloud-based data centers, in global economies is substantial. Cloud-based services and data center operations contribute to sustainable development by making The growth of cloud-based services in consumer data transfer more accessible, reliable, affordable and and business applications during the past five greener than ever before. The opportunity for cloud years has been spectacular. Projections are that services and data centers is to continue to expand this trajectory will continue during the next five to meet growing demand while ensuring transparent years. By 2019 mobile network traffic is forecasted connectivity, high resolution controls, flexibility and to increase tenfold. Half of this increase will be power optimization. in video services, and an additional 10% will be in social networking applications. At the same time, ECI’s ELASTIC solutions for cloud services and business cloud computing services are expected data centers support these sustainable goals. to increase at a 40% average annual rate. By 2019 We promise maximum flexibility and ultimate there will be 60% more data centers in the world’s security with guaranteed performance and minimal metropolitan areas than there are today, and data operating expenditure – the four top items on the center interconnect volumes will increase by more wish-list of cloud-service users. than 400%. (ACG Research, white paper) ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 27 WHO USES CLOUD SERVICES? • Cloud services providers – a range of companies that use, own or manage data centers, providing hosting and services for enterprises • Internet Exchanges (IXs) who offer carrier services and connectivity solutions • Communication service providers of connectivity services between data centers and between customers to data centers and cloud • Large corporations such as financial institutions who transfer of enormous amounts of data across national and international locations • Other players in the internet markets around the world. Our connectivity solutions include tools to connect data centers, cloud applications to connect enterprise data centers to private or public cloud applications and storage connections between enterprises and data centers for disaster recovery and business continuity applications. As usual, our solutions offer maximum flexibility and support legacy infrastructure so that our customers can continue to use existing assets while upgrading their platforms. For example, we help customers meet demand challenges at lowest compatible cost with solutions for bandwidth on demand, bandwidth scheduling and automation, secured connectivity and cyber security. In addition, we continue to enhance our technology to improve the efficiency of both the data centers and data transport, offering the best power and space utilization rates available in the market today. ECI’S SUPPORT FOR GROWING CLOUDSERVICES SECTOR ADVANCES THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MATERIAL IMPACT MEETING AND ANTICIPATING CUSTOMER NEEDS G4-EC8 MATERIAL IMPACT PARTNERING TO DELIVER THE BEST SOLUTIONS G4-EC8 In this section, we provide examples of our cloud management and data center solutions in the context of our material impacts: meeting and anticipating customer needs and partnering to deliver the best solutions, as well as supporting the global efforts to mitigate climate change. 28 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 MAKING THE CLOUD WORK IN including three significant data center migration GERMANY projects over the past two years. In each case, ECI supported the seamless migration of the company’s The cloud is well-established in Germany, the largest customers’ in-house data center operations to its own national economy in Europe. The use of cloud data center network, enabling each customer in turn services is set to continue its rapid growth from an to reduce costs and benefit from a more sophisticated estimated EU 8.8Bn in sales value in 2015 to close to network with built-in back-up and recovery solutions. EU 20Bn in 2018 (Bitkom, 2014). In such a market, Through this process, more business operations the opportunity to support economic expansion, in Italy can now safely and efficiently transfer data drive connectivity reliably and efficiently and tailor between their data centers, benefiting millions of solutions to the needs of different customers depends customers in Italy who rely on a range of services in on cloud architecture which is flexible, adaptable and different sectors. responsive. In Italy, we collaborate with Sirti, a large Italian One of the providers of cloud services in Germany business systems integrator, who ensures the overall is GRASS-MERKUR, a Hannover-based firm networks operate to requirements and integrates specializing in housing, hosting, managed services, ECI solutions in the optimum way. cloud services and the operation of an own securitydata-center and enterprise solutions. GRASSMERKUR’s customers include large insurance ADVANCING EDUCATION WITH companies, banks, energy suppliers, automotive CLOUD-BASED SOLUTIONS sector and other enterprises who require secure and National Research and Education Networks (NREN) seamless data transportation and transfer to and from require the most sophisticated connectivity solutions central servers as well as between multiple operating due to the sheer volumes of data that need to be locations. stored, transported and shared in order for national ECI has supported GRASS-MERKUR for several and global research networks to function effectively. years, helping the company expand its business to ECI has been a partner to the development of offer increasingly sophisticated cloud solutions for several such networks, enhancing knowledge sharing its customers. At the heart of GRASS-MERKUR’s and research capabilities for hundreds of universities operation in data center connectivity is ECI’s packetand research institutions in several countries. optical transport system (Apollo), and a full 24/7 NRENs tend to be advanced in their approach to service package that enables GRASS-MERKUR technology and generally ahead of the curve. We to maintain continuity around the clock for its are currently supporting several NREN customers in customers. By supporting GRASS-MERKUR, we Europe as they consider how best to migrate their support the uptake of cloud solutions in Germany complex networks to the cloud, enabling greater that benefit millions of end-users who need fast and control, flexibility, reliability and of course, reduce professional service from a range of institutions. infrastructure and running costs. NREN SOLUTIONS FROM ECI ENABLING EFFICIENT CLOUD IN • In 2012, we installed the German Research Network (DFNITALY Verein) ECI has been supporting data center operations • In 2013, we completed the Swiss education network (Switch) in Italy for a prominent telecom operator and its • In 2014, partnered with Ericsson to create a research and customers for several years over several projects, education network in Greece (GRNET) ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 29 “proposition Today, as cloud services are becoming an attractive for education networks, many NREN customers are laying the foundation to transfer their networks. This will enable these NRENs to take advantage of the most advanced technology and provide their users with unprecedented levels of access and information. With our vast experience in this sector, and our innovative ELASTIC solutions, we are confident that we will support these developments effectively. For us at ECI, it’s not just about the technology. Contributing to advancing the quality of education and research is a motivating and inspiring mission and we are ” proud to support our customers in this sector. Christian Erbe, Head of Strategic Industries Solutions, ECI EMEA 30 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 PROVIDING IMPECCABLE SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMERS We aim to offer our customers the timely, responsive 2015 Customer Service Improvements – and effective service that they require in order to Number of customers affected use our products and services successfully and serve their markets well. In 2015, we made great Implemented new marketing reviews strides in improving areas of our service where our 15 customers had indicated an interest. In some cases, Improved frequency and depth of customer discussions this meant enhancing the quality and timeliness of 12 our transparent communications with customers Instituted periodical meetings with customers about the status of our service and in other cases, it 9 involved deep introspection and procedural changes Conducted customer knowledge-sharing workshops within our operations in order to meet record levels 9 of service. In this section we share some examples of Provided new and improved technical options for customers how we responded to our customers’ needs in 2015. 6 Improved sales processes GRI-DMA 6 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING One example of improving sales processes included a MATERIAL IMPACT drastic reduction in delivery lead-times for customers PROVIDING OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER SERVICE G4-PR5 – an area where improvement is always welcome. In 2015, we revised communications procedures CUSTOMERS EXPRESS SATISFACTION between our sales and our operations divisions and instituted new processes which reduce delivery times In 2015, we conducted a customer satisfaction pulse by over 30%. survey to assess the effectiveness of changes made in response to feedback received from customers in our 2014 survey. In this 2015 survey, 82% of customers IMPROVING MATURITY QUALITY surveyed acknowledged that ECI had made a marked In 2015, we also invested in improving our procedures improvement in areas they had previously identified to accelerate the time required for products to as opportunities to better meet their needs. During reach maturity as measured by the TL9000 Quality 2015, we implemented more than 169 individual Management Standard. activities to improve our service to customers in a range of areas many relating to communications ECI TL9000 Quality Index with customers and increasing real-time updates. In addition, we launched a new web-based customer 70 service portal to make it easier for customers to connect with ECI on any topic. 65 The topics that were primarily highlighted by customers as having improved during 2015 60 ranged from implementing new market reviews Industry average (15 customers) to improving our sales processes (6 customers). This is shown in the graph “2015 Customer Service Improvements” 52 Pre-2015 2015 2017 Target ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 31 Our new accelerated maturization process for our Apollo and NPT products has enabled us to exceed the industry average for maturization speed and quality in considerably less time than for legacy products. This means that our customers can enjoy the benefits of high quality from new technology more quickly to serve their markets and grow their business. TL9000 A Quality Management Standard developed to meet the supply chain quality requirements of the worldwide telecommunications industry RESTORING SERVICE IN RECORD TIME In 2015, we also improved our service to customers by achieving our best ever score for restoring service to customers who have experienced downtime for whatever reason. We restored 96-98% of service downtime incidents back to full service within 4 hours – many within 2 hours. This far exceeds industry norms and average performance which stands at around 90%. of customer downtime incidents restored to full service within 96-98% 4 hours in 2015 – our best ever result, and well above industry average of 90% 32 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 33 ORGANIZING FOR THE FUTURE As we realign our business focus to develop ELASTIC solutions for our customers, so we are ECI’S POSITIVE WORKPLACE ADVANCES THE UN SUSTAINABLE continuously evolving our organization to empower DEVELOPMENT GOALS our employees to support our mission, vision and values in a positive organizational culture that drives innovation and customer responsiveness. GRI – DMA GRI – DMA GRI – DMA LABOR LABOR LOCAL PRACTICES AND PRACTICES AND COMMUNITIES We aim to create a nurturing and supportive, safe, DECENT WORK DECENT WORK open and flexible workplace where each employee has the encouragement and the capability to MATERIAL MATERIAL MATERIAL contribute at her or his best. We recognize that IMPACT IMPACT IMPACT supporting social causes is a strong motivator and we ENGAGING AND EMPLOYEE ENGAGING OUR encourage our employees to volunteer their time to DEVELOPING HEALTH, SAFETY EMPLOYEES TO support local communities. Through our employees, EMPLOYEES AND WELLBEING SUPPORT OUR we can succeed at innovation and at creating truly G4-LA1 G4-LA9 G4-LA6 COMMUNITIES ELASTIC solutions for our customers. G4-LA10 G4-LA11 G4-SO1 FUTURE FITTING OUR ORGANIZATION TALENT REVIEW In 2015, we advanced the future readiness of our organization with the development of a • Developing people as a management comprehensive talent map to support strategic responsibility Human Resources planning, succession planning, • Systematic and measurable tracking of talent management development and retention, and • Identifying high potential individuals individual development programming. The • Customized development programs process included a full review of the individuals • Identification of succession risks in the organization, their skill sets, potential for advancement and development needs, together • Identifying bench strength of divisions within with an assessment of ECI’s future requirements and the organization the gaps that must be filled to ensure our business continuity and success. The result was an overall talent map by company, divisions, departments and groups within the organization, providing us with a robust platform for organizational planning and personal development. In 2015, we started to use this map to make decisions relating to succession planning and development plans for high-potential individuals. 34 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ADVANCING WOMEN IN TECH their goals. I believe that women’s contribution to Traditionally, technology professions have been productivity in the workplace is significant, and also male-dominated and still, around the world, most influences the way men approach their work and technology companies have underrepresentation of collaborate effectively. This can benefit everyone in women in senior and management roles. At ECI, the ” the workplace, not just women. Sigalit Shavit Executive Vice President of our Global Technology Division, Tali Rosenwaks, has created opportunities for women to rise to the most senior strategic roles SIGAL BARDA VP R&D Cyber, in the company with 44% of roles in this senior NFV and Apps management team being held by women. Time at ECI: 7 years Time in role: < 1 year WOMEN IN “career. I have worked in several companies during my In many companies, no matter how talented SENIOR ROLES you are, as a woman, advancement to leadership positions is not always a natural progression, as development decisions are not based primarily 4 of 9 most senior strategic roles in our Global on merit. At ECI, my experience is completely Technology Division are held by women. different. I have never worked in a company with so many women in senior positions. Not only that, ECI gives an equal opportunity to women in “onAnmeritopen culture, where individuals can advance based is what characterizes our way of working at ECI. business and technical forums which is the heart of the company’s strategic development. I think At the same time, I actively try to create opportunities for more companies should to follow ECI’s example. ” women to succeed in strategic roles. Tali Rosenwaks, EVP of Strategy and Technology They need to make a place for more women in management as women contribute their different skills set to create a healthier and more balanced ” organizational culture. Sigal Barda SPOTLIGHT ON WOMEN IN TECH SARIT TAGER VP R&D SDN, LSO & Access Time at ECI: 10 years SIGALIT SHAVIT Global CIO Time in role: 1.5 years Time at ECI: 4.5 years Time in role: 2 years “based In my experience, ECI promotes employees on ability. This fits with my outlook on life. “thisI decided to study computer science as for me, is the subject of the future. I have been working I believe in people, not in labels – if someone is making a strong contribution, he or she should be in the field for many years, and have managed considered for promotion. My advice to women is large projects and units in a variety of companies. I to believe in yourself and believe that there is no respect women who do not give up on themselves glass ceiling. What would make me really happy is if and what is important for them, or allow the maleequality in the workplace were no longer an issue to dominated world to distract them from achieving ” be discussed and resolved. Sarit Tager ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 35 A CULTURE OF SAFETY We continue to invest in ongoing efforts to ensure our employees are aware of all potential safety risks and take measures to prevent safety incidents, as well as ensuring compliance with all applicable safety regulations covering our operations. In Israel, where 53% of our employees are based, our overall injury level is low, at just 6 injuries in 2015. These injuries caused 20 lost workdays in 2015. This is the lowest rate of lost workdays due to injury that we have ever recorded, indicating a reduction in the severity of injuries. We aspire to achieve zero injuries across all our sites. In China and India, with 550 employees in total, we recorded zero injuries in 2015. This is the first year in which these local operations have recorded safety performance. Going beyond our positive safety record in our Indian operations, we were responsive to additional requirements of our customers to create more comprehensive safety procedures for specific tasks out in the field such as installation of new communications towers. We conducted workshops for working at height and safe driving practices in 2016 and our plan is to train selected employees as fire safety officers in the coming year. LOWEST EVER LOST WORKDAY RATE IN ISRAEL: 6 INJURIES 20 LOST WORKDAYS IN 2015 36 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ENGAGING WITH OUR LOCAL for students via a non-profit organization called COMMUNITIES Magshimim. • Encouraging students in STEM by supporting “is The children wait all week for their trip to ECI. No one ever sick on that day! For many of these children, their 5x2, an initiative lead by The Ministry of ECI tutor is the first adult with whom they can share their Education aimed at doubling the number of experiences, their difficulties and their dreams. At ECI, students who finish high school in Math, Science they are introduced to the magical world of books which and Engineering tracks at the 5-study unit level. are often not available at home. The impact of this can been seen in school where today 80% of children borrow • Mentoring non-profit organizations: Since books from the library as opposed to 20% prior to ECIs 2010, ECI managers, including 8 senior ” involvement. Itzik Marcos, Principal, Komemiot School managers, serve as volunteer mentors for CEOs of non-profit organizations. In Israel, we partner with several non-profit organizations to support our local communities. • Helping to reduce food waste and food Our activities are primarily focused toward youth insecurity by volunteering with Israel's education and the development of technology skills. National Foodbank, Leket Israel, by harvesting In 2015, 688 employees volunteered 4,522 hours in tons of nutritious food in agricultural fields, to community activities. be donated to those in need. In addition, we distribute food parcels twice a year for 300 Some of the activities our employee volunteers families. engage in include: “influence I became involved in 5x2 because I wanted to help teenagers to choose a technological career path • Helping schoolchildren make progress with our annual program of adopting several classes and make them aware of their options. During my lectures of fourth to seventh grade children who visit I got very positive feedback from the students. They asked questions, and raised dilemmas. This work is important for our offices weekly. ECI volunteers provide me as these are our future employees, and they will create assistance in reading, English and Hebrew studies. ” the future for all of us. Michelle Koren, Department Manager of Network Software Technologies, volunteer with 5x2 • Inspiring youth by providing lessons in technological subjects at a local youth village in partnership with the Different Lesson Association, which matches managers in companies with the educational needs of youth, to provide inspiration and practical help. • Breaking the glass ceiling: This program is designed to assist young girls from disadvantaged backgrounds and support them up to high school matriculation. The young girls visit ECI throughout the year and meet with ECI volunteers who help them prepare toward major mathematics exams. • Promoting cyber and computer education through donations and involvement in activities ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 37 START WITH THE END IN MIND 38 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 FUTURE FITTING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We continue to improve the eco-efficiency of our Working with suppliers: We also aspire to drive own supply chain and ensure that we uphold human ethical work practices through our supply chain and rights standards throughout our network. encourage our suppliers to uphold globally accepted standards of human rights in their business practice. In our own operations, we succeeded in achieving Increasingly, we are considering suppliers’ ethical further reduction in our energy consumption, profiles as we make large procurement decisions. emissions, water and waste values both for absolute Specifically, we conduct periodical audits for social levels of use and for relative usage per employee. We practices at our two major turnkey manufacturing also increased the rate of recycling to 21% of the small suppliers, one in Israel and one in China. In 2015, we amounts of waste that we generate. Overall, in the conducted one audit with zero critical findings. past five years we have reduced our environmental footprint very significantly, thanks to the ongoing Conflict minerals: We aim to ensure zero use of efforts of our engaged employees. Initiatives to conflict minerals in our supply chain and have further optimize logistics and packaging also play a a dedicated team to monitor and manage our role in helping us to stay highly eco-efficient. supply chain performance. We follow procedures established by the Electronic Industry Citizenship SA8000: We aim to minimize risk in our supply Coalition (EICC) and by the Organization for chain by operating according to widely accepted Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) best practice ethical standards and this year, we to manage our sourcing of metals in our products were once again successfully audited for compliance and ensure complete traceability of all metal to the SA8000 (Social Accountability) standard components. We requested suppliers to provide the covering socially acceptable labor standards in the origin of the metals used in the manufacture of our workplace with zero critical findings. products for ECI. To date, 47% of suppliers confirm ECI’S IMPROVING OUR responsible sourcing of metals (up from 35% last ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS year). ADVANCES THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS G4-DMA: ENERGY G4-DMA: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS FOR LABOR, 61% 52% ENVIRONMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL IMPACT ENERGY REDUCTION GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCING OUR RESOURCE CONSUMPTION 2010-2015 EMISSIONS REDUCTION G4-EN4 | G4-EN5 | G4-EN6 2010-2015 MATERIAL IMPACT REDUCING WASTE AND INCREASING RECYCLING G4-EN23 ZERO CRITICAL FINDINGS 0 IN OUR EXTERNAL AUDITS MATERIAL IMPACT AGAINST OHSAS18001 DRIVING ETHICAL STANDARDS THROUGHOUT OUR ISO14001 AND SA8000 SUPPLY CHAIN G4-LA14 | G4-EN32 AUDIT IN 2015 ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENERGY CONSUMPTION TOTAL GIGAJOULES GIGAJOULES PER EMPLOYEE 85,823 83,255 69,679 50,796 89.12 93.44 57,107 78.64 47,259 35,027 26,148 22,419 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Purchased electricity (Scope 2) Gasoline (Scope 1) Total energy consumption GREENHOUSE GAS TONS CO2e PER EMPLOYEE EMISSIONS TONS CO2e (SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 ) 13,127 13,593 944 11,783 859 1,156 9,919 10,914 15.26 9,137 13.63 13.30 2,349 1,735 1,490 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total GHG emissions WATER WITHDRAWAL m3 WATER WITHDRAWAL m3 PER EMPLOYEE 16.194 17.285 17.017 16.82 19.40 19.21 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 40 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 WASTE IN TONS WASTE IN TONS PER EMPLOYEE 135 134 123 120 109 97 0.141 0.150 0.139 16 25 27 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Recycled Landfill Total waste PACKAGING EFFICIENCY DELIVERY OPTIMIZATION During the last year, we have been continuing We continue to target a reduction in the environmental our efforts to optimize and reduce the amount of impact of customer deliveries from suppliers by packaging needed to transport our components consolidating deliveries wherever possible. This such as cabinets, cables, installation accessories and remains somewhat of a challenge, as our customers more. Generally, for such components, packaging typically want their components delivered as fast specifications are not standardized and often the as possible (by air). Consolidation has the risk of choice of packaging is made by the dispatching delaying the overall shipment. However, through operation based on the nature of the overall discussion and collaboration with customers, and by shipment. On occasions, this resulted in small items making some changes to procedures with customer being packaged in oversized boxes for no particular consent, in 2015, we increased the number of reason with empty space filled with airbags. consolidated customer deliveries from approximately 50% to over 70%. This not only improved the energy In order to improve packaging efficiency, we profile of our shipments, it also reduced the amount conducted a systematic mapping of our components of packaging waste we generate. and appropriate packaging and consulted with all our 2014 Q4 packaging suppliers. We defined smaller packaging 53% 47% sizes and created a new set of packaging guidelines 2015 Q1 for our components. As a result, we have achieved an 54% 46% average of 10% improvement in packaging efficiency that also saves transportation costs and reduces 2015 Q2 48% 52% environmental impacts. We now monitor packaging efficiency (% of empty space) and address issues as 2015 Q3 they arise. At the same time, we took the opportunity 52% 48% to remove non-recyclable packaging materials 2015 Q4 such as polystyrene and polyurethane from all our 71% 29% processes. Full shipment Partial shipment ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 41 ETHICS, GOVERNANCE AND TRANSPARENCY THE FOUNDATION OF THE FUTURE Our Board of Directors is composed of two members, both of whom are non-executive and A CULTURE OF ETHICS non-independent. The Chairman of the Board is Our Code of Ethics is a guide to the standards of Mr. Shaul Shani, founder of the Swarth Group and ethical behavior we expect from all employees in chief shareholder of ECI. The Board of Directors our business, including full compliance with laws and maintains one Board Committee, the Remuneration regulations in the countries in which we do business. Committee, composed of both members of the All employees receive detailed training in a dedicated Board. The purpose of this committee is to govern online module on our Code of Ethics when joining the administration of executive compensation and the company and confirm their understanding and associated benefits and options, and management agreement upon completing the module. Our Code of the stock options program within the company. of Ethics is available to all employees on our internal We regularly report our sustainability performance website, and on our corporate website for other to the Board of Directors and receive guidance on stakeholders. Several channels are open to employees strategy and areas of material focus. to report suspected ethical breaches. We investigate all issues, including those reported anonymously, and encourage employees to speak out without fear SUSTAINABILITY TRANSPARENCY of reprisal. Our Ethics Council continues to meet AND DISCLOSURE regularly to ensure communications and training in ethical principles, and deal with ethical issues as they Gold Ranking with EcoVadis arise. In our most recent annual assessment by the EcoVadis We remain committed to upholding human rights organization in April 2015, in our workplace and through our value chain in line we improved our score from with our Human Rights Commitment which defines Silver (58%) to Gold (63%). our approach. The Commitment is available on our The Gold ranking, according corporate website. to EcoVadis, an internationally recognized supplier evaluation and accreditation sustainable MATERIAL IMPACT development platform, is achieved by only 5% of MAINTAINING INTEGRITY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT G4-34 companies assessed. The assessment covers four categories of responsible business: environment, OUR CODE OF ETHICS IS labor practices, fair business practices and AVAILABLE IN 7 LANGUAGES sustainable procurement. GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors ensures that strategy, risk management and operational controls are appropriately addressed in our business at all times. Regular internal and third party audits ensure that we maintain strictest attention to compliance and compliance education within our business. 42 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 Platinum Plus ranking in Israel In the 2015 ranking in Israel, performed by Business for Social Responsibility in Israel ( Maala ), we once again achieved the highest possible ranking of Platinum Plus. We have participated in this ranking in Israel since its inception in 2004. Since 2008, we have consistently achieved the highest possible ranking each year. Maala is a not-for-profit organization promoting corporate social responsibility in Israel. The annual ranking based on self-declared performance in five areas: ethics, responsible workplace, community investment, governance and environmental protection. Large, public and private companies representing over 50% of business in Israel participate in this ranking. Improved CDP Scores In 2015, our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) submission score increased to 97 (from 69 in 2013). The average Supply Chain Disclosure ranking for all companies submitting supply chain data to CDP in 2015 was 60. Our score, significantly better than the global average and compared to prior performance, reflects our commitment to continuous improvement and sustainability transparency. CDP is a non-profit organization that advances sustainability disclosure with more than 4,000 companies taking part at a global level. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 43 44 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is ECI's fifth annual Sustainability Report with visits to our offices, documentation reviews covering the role we play in society as a global and several management interviews. business, our business activities, and our impact on people, communities and the environment. Data in We hope this report will encourage dialogue this report relates to the 2015 calendar year unless between ECI and our stakeholders. We welcome otherwise stated, with relevant information and case your feedback, queries and suggestions. Please studies from early 2016. The scope of data in this contact Eynat Rotfeld, CSR Manager, by email at report is all global business operations owned by Eynat.Rotfeld@ecitele.com or by telephone: ECI. External operations at sub-contracted vendors +972-3-926-6507 are excluded. This report is written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability reporting standards Core option, which we believe represents the most advanced sustainability reporting framework available today. The Global Reporting Initiative is a not-for-profit multistakeholder organization which acts to increase the level of business transparency through sustainability reporting. The most recent version of the GRI framework, G4, was launched in May 2013. This is our fourth annual Sustainability Report written in line with the G4 standards. ECI’S TRANSPARENT REPORTING ADVANCES THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The selection of content for this report was the result of a materiality process conducted in 2013, and confirmed by our management in 2015, to determine the priority impacts of our business and stakeholder interests. In the preparation of this report, we have considered additional input from our stakeholders gathered throughout the year and specifically the feedback received in a stakeholder consultation in Israel. This report was not verified by an independent third party, as we believe our internal data monitoring and tracking is robust and confirmed through internal audits. In developing the content of this report, external consultants reviewed information provided ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 45 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ECI confirmed participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2002, the first company in Israel to do so. This report includes our annual Communication on Progress (COP). For further details about the UN Global Compact and our history of COP reports, please see the UN Global Compact website: www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/3081 The table below shows the correlation of our GRI G4 disclosures with the UNGC principles Global Compact Principles GRI G4 Reference Our Commitment 1 Businesses should support • Human Rights Aspects Respecting human rights at ECI is a core value. We conduct and respect the protection our business responsibly according to the highest ethical of internationally proclaimed standards, including respect for all human beings, and human rights. acknowledgement of their rights. We do everything within our power to uphold such rights. Read our Commitment to 2 Businesses should make sure • Human Rights Aspects Human Rights: www.ecitele.com/abouteci/CorpResp/Pages/ that they are not complicit in • Local Communities Corporate-Governance.aspx We work with our suppliers make human rights abuses. Aspects them aware of our standards relating to human rights and encourage them to adopt similar standards. 3 Businesses should uphold • G4-11 We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association the freedom of association • Freedom of Association and collective bargaining. We aim to maintain collaborative, and the effective recognition and Collective Bargaining open and positive relationship with employees and address of the right to collective Aspect issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. bargaining. • Labor/ Management Relations Aspect 4 Businesses should support • Forced and Compulsory We do not engage in any practice which could be construed the elimination of all forms Labor Aspect as forced labor. All ECI employees are employed within the of forced and compulsory provisions of the law and employment contracts signed by labor. employees of their own free will. 5 Businesses should support • Child Labor Aspect We respect and support the rights of all children, and we are the effective abolition of committed to preventing harm and actively safeguarding their child labor. interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. 6 Businesses should support a • Environmental Aspects ECI is driven to provide customers worldwide with network precautionary approach to telecom infrastructure that will enable them to address current environmental challenges. and future business challenges, and in doing so, consider environmental impacts through the use of environmentally7 Businesses should undertake • Environmental Aspects friendly technology and technology-driven infrastructure. We initiatives to promote greater are committed to achieving high standards of environmental environmental responsibility. quality and have established, implemented, and maintained 8 Businesses should encourage • Environmental Aspects environmental and health & safety systems in line with the the development and highest global standards available. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 9 Businesses should • G4-10 We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and enjoy a high support the elimination of • Labor Practices and level of diversity among our workforce around the world. discrimination in respect Decent Work Aspects Recruitment and human resources policies are designed to of employment and nurture non-discriminatory practices for new and current occupation. employees in all matters relating to their employment with ECI. 10 Businesses should work • Anti-Corruption Aspect We are committed to behaving with integrity and act against all against corruption in all its • Public Policy Aspect forms of corruption. forms, including extortion and bribery. 46 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 47 GRI CONTENT INDEX G4 General Standard Disclosures Response / Page / Link G4-1 CEO statement Page 4 Name of reporting G4-3 ECI Telecom Ltd. organization We are the ELASTIC Network ™ Company. See our website for Solutions, Products and G4-4 Products Services: http://www.ecitele.com/ G4-5 HQ location. Israel G4-6 Countries of operation Headquarters in Israel, R&D centers in China, India and Israel. ECI Telecom Ltd is a private company, wholly-owned by ECI Holding whose shares are held G4-7 Legal form by the Swarth Group, a private equity company, and Ashmore Investment Management Ltd, one of the world's leading investment managers. G4-8 Markets served We maintain sales in over 25 countries. See all our global offices on our website: www.ecitele.com/about/#global-offices G4-9 Scale of the organization Page 6. As a private company, we do not disclose details of revenues or market capitalization. G4-10 Number of employees We report our full-time, permanent employees, worldwide, and report temporary and supervised employees for our Israel operations only. See tables on page xx for total employees by gender and by region. Full-time permanent employees are by far the majority of our workforce. We employ small numbers of individuals on temporary contracts or as supervised employees from time to time. There are no significant variations in or employee numbers due to seasonality. G4-11 Collective bargaining In 2015, 34 ECI employees in Israel were covered by collective bargaining agreements. This agreements represents 4% of employees in Israel. This data is not available for employees in our global offices. G4-12 Supply chain Page 38: Future fitting our supply chain G4-13 Significant changes There were no significant changes during the reporting period. G4-14 Precautionary approach We take a proactive approach to risk management with regard to climate change and environmental impacts and perform regular reviews of risks in our operations and supply chain. G4-15 External charters We support the Carbon Disclosure Project and submit data annually. We adopt several ISO standards, including ISO14001, and other standards such as TL 9000, OSHAS 18001 and SA8000. G4-16 Memberships of We participate in the United National Global Compact and, in Israel, we are members of associations the not-for-profit organization, Maala and have participated in an annual CSR ranking since 2008. G4-17 Entities ECI Telecom Ltd and all local subsidiary offices are included in this report. These can be viewed on our website at: www.ecitele.com/about/#global-offices. In this report, we disclose environmental data from our operations in Israel only, where 53% of our people are employed. Our offices in other countries are smaller and use minimum electricity and fuel. Human Resources is for global operations unless otherwise noted. G4-18 Process for defining the Page 11: Sustainability priorities. This report was informed by our material issues in a report content process which considered the principles for defining report content: materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. G4-19 Material Aspects Page 11: Sustainability priorities Aspect Boundary within G4-20 Page 51 the organization 48 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 G4 General Standard Disclosures Response / Page / Link Aspect Boundary G4-21 Page 51 outside the organization Certain EHS data has been restated due to updated reporting methodologies and employee G4-22 Restatements data. Significant changes from There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 previous reporting Boundaries. Our stakeholders include: owners, customers, employees, suppliers, governments and local List of stakeholder communities in the locations where we operate. We maintain dialogue with stakeholders G4-24 groups in order to understand their needs and communicate with them transparently about our sustainability impacts and performance. G4-25 Selection of stakeholders The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders is our primary business interactions with employees, customers and suppliers. We interact with these groups on a daily basis and they have the greatest impact on our business. In addition, we engage with other stakeholders, including industry organizations and governmental authorities. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder Page 10. In 2015, we held a first-ever stakeholder round table consultation at our offices in engagement Israel. Selected stakeholder comments from the event are included in page 10. G4-27 Key topics raised Page 52. The issues that our stakeholders have raised are reflected in our material Aspects. through stakeholder See our response below to G4-26 for specific issues raised. engagement G4-28 Reporting period Page 44: About this report G4-29 Date of most recent 2014 previous report G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 44: About this report G4-31 Contact point Page 44: About this report G4-32 GRI Content Index Page 44. About this report. This report has not been externally assured. G4-33 External assurance Page 44: About this report G4-34 Governance structure Page 41: Governance G4-56 Values Page 6: About ECI. Our Values, Page 41: A culture of ethics. Ethics and Human Rights ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 49 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects (G4-19) G4 Specific Disclosures Page / Link Several examples reported in the sections entitled Indirect Economic G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts Getting ready for the future, starting on page13 and Impacts Providing solutions for the future starting on page 17. In India, China and Israel, an estimated 80% of purchases Proportion of spending on local Procurement are local. Our outsourced turnkey manufacturers make G4-EC9 suppliers at significant locations Practices their own purchasing decisions. Administrative purchases of operation are all locally based. G4-EN3 Energy consumption Page 39 Energy consumption outside of G4-EN4 Page 39 the organization Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity Page 39 Reduction of energy G4-EN6 Page 39 consumption Water G4-EN8 Water withdrawal by source Page 39 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 39 Energy indirect GHG emissions Emissions G4-EN16 Page 39 (Scope 2) G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Page 39 Total weight of waste by type Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Page 40 and disposal method Impact mitigation of Products and G4-EN27 environmental impacts of Page 38: Future fitting our supply chain Services products and services Supplier New suppliers screened using We screen our strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no Environmental G4-EN32 environmental criteria new suppliers in 2015. Assessment Type of injury and rates of injury, Occupational Health G4-LA6 occupational diseases, lost days, Page 53 and Safety absenteeism, and fatalities Programs for skills management Page 33: Organizing for the future G4-LA10 and lifelong learning Training and Education Percentage of employees Page 53 G4-LA11 receiving regular performance and career development reviews Supplier Labor New suppliers screened using We screen our strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no Practices G4-LA14 labor practices criteria new suppliers in 2015. Assessment Supplier Human New suppliers screened using We screen our strategic turnkey suppliers. There were no G4-HR10 Rights Assessment human rights criteria new suppliers in 2015. Operations with implemented 53%. This represents employees in Israel where we have local community engagement regular community involvement activities. Other ECI Local Communities G4-SO1 programs country sites are small and do not track community engagement consistently. Results of surveys measuring Page 30: Providing impeccable service to our customers Product and Service G4-PR5 customer satisfaction Labeling 50 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 CHARTS AND TABLES G4-10 EMPLOYEES BY 2013 2014 2015 REGION AND GENDER Male Female All Male Female All Male Female All % All China 154 72 226 156 61 217 152 62 214 13% India 260 38 298 272 39 311 279 48 327 20% Israel 723 240 963 666 225 891 670 216 886 53% Rest of world 188 55 243 173 52 225 189 53 242 14% All employees 1,325 405 1,730 1,267 377 1,644 1,290 379 1,669 100% Split male77% 23% 77% 23% 77% 23% female 2014 2015 EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT Male Female All Male Female All Permanent contract 1,088 321 1,409 1,101 326 1,427 Temporary contract 6 4 10 0 0 0 All employees 1,094 325 1,419 1,101 326 1,427 2014 2015 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE Male Female All Male Female All Full time 1,078 285 1,363 1,080 286 1,366 Part time 16 40 56 21 40 61 All employees 723 240 1,419 1,101 326 1,427 2014 2015 DIRECT EMPLOYEES AND SUPERVISED EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Male Female All Male Female All Direct employees 1,094 325 1,419 1,101 326 1,427 Supervised employees 43 13 56 36 23 59 All employees 1,137 338 1,475 1,137 349 1,486 Note: Employees by contract, type and direct/supervised employees refers to ECI in Israel, China and India, representing 86% of all our direct employees. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 51 G419, G4-20, G4-21 Material Aspect Performance Material Topic Internal External Notes (G4) Indicators (G4) Meeting and anticipating customer Our ability to serve needs Indirect economic customers has a direct G4-EC8 impact in the market, impacts Partnering to deliver benefiting end users the best solutions by providing them with new connectivity and Providing outstanding Product and Service capabilities. G4-PR5 customer service Labeling Improving the resource Efficient products enable Environmental: Products efficiency of our G4-EN27 customers to compete and services products more effectively. Reducing our energy G4-EN4, G4-EN5, Reducing energy impacts Environmental: Energy consumption G4-EN6 our costs. Reducing waste places less Reducing waste and Environmental: Effluents G4-EN23 of a burden on landfill and increasing recycling and waste materials sourcing. Social: Labor practices and decent work: Providing employees with Engaging and opportunities and a safe Employment G4-LA1 developing employees workplace is critical for us G4-LA9, G4-LA10, to maintain the resources Training and education we need to conduct our G4-LA11 business. Employee health, Social: Occupational G4-LA6 safety and wellbeing health and safety Engaging employees Investing in local Social: Local to support our G4-SO1 communities helps them communities communities thrive. Good governance Maintaining integrity General Standard Governance protects our business and ethical conduct Disclosure G4-34 against risk. Upholding human Human rights: Supplier G4-HR10 rights human rights assessment General Standard Supply chain The way we drive ethical Disclosure G4-12 practices through our Social: Labor practices supply chain impacts the Driving ethical and decent work: societies and communities G4-LA14 standards throughout Supplier assessment for in which our suppliers live our supply chain labor practices and work. Environmental: Supplier environmental G4-EN-32 assessment 52 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 G4-26 We make efforts to understand our stakeholders and be updates, community volunteering, and informal responsive to their needs. Through internal meetings and conversations at all levels. Employees expect job security, discussions, we gain stakeholder insights that help us drive fair compensation and benefits, and opportunities to our strategy. In 2015 we conducted a specific round table develop. discussion to hear from stakeholders in Israel. In general, our primary stakeholders are: Suppliers Our most strategic suppliers are involved in our product Owners development and implementation teams, and share in ECI’s owners are represented on our Board of Directors. the decision-making process on many levels. We expect Through our Executive Management, they are involved suppliers to comply with ECI procurement and ethical in development of sustainable performance planning standards. and updated on a regular basis at Board Meetings. The key issues raised by the Board of Directors are business Government expansion and sustainable profitable growth, expanding Governments expect ECI to uphold the law and all market presence and innovation. local regulations and also collaborate in partnerships for sustainable development, where relevant. Customers Our customers expect us to be leaders in innovation, Local communities product performance, reliability and service, and resource We engage with social and environmental community efficiency to positively impact their competitiveness. partners as needed to advance joint programs of mutual interest. Community partners enjoy our investment and Employees involvement in supporting local communities. We engage our employees through strong internal communications, annual performance reviews, business G4-LA1 2015 ECI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE NEW HIRES BY AGE Male Rate Female Rate All All new hires rate Below age 30 105 8% 28 7% 133 8% Age 30 50 82 6% 25 7% 107 6% Over age 50 23 2% 1 0% 24 1% All new hires 210 16% 54 14% 264 16% 2015 ECI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE LEAVERS BY AGE Male Rate Female Rate All All turnover rate Below age 30 44 3% 14 4% 58 3% Age 30 50 111 9% 33 9% 144 9% Over age 50 25 2% 4 1% 29 2% All leavers 180 14% 51 13% 231 14% ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 53 G4-LA6 INJURY RATE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of injuries 16 2 5 5 2 6 Injury frequency rate 0.378 0.061 0.192 0.236 0.102 0.191 INJURY SEVERITY RATE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of lost days due to injury 258 78 38 65 23 20 Injury severity rate 0.134 0.052 0.032 0.067 0.026 0.014 2013 2014 2015 ABSENTEEISM (ISRAEL ONLY) Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of absentee days 6,850 3,250 5,070 2,700 3,545 1,960 Absenteeism rate (by gender) 0.021 0.032 0.016 0.029 0.011 0.021 Absenteeism rate (all employees) 0.023 0.019 0.013 Notes: • Injury rates are calculated per 100 employees and include Israel, India and China. Employees in these three countries represent 86% of our total workforce. • India and China are reporting for the first time. G4-LA9 2014 2015 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE 15 17 Note: Refers to average training for all employees worldwide. Split by gender and employee type not available. G4-LA11 2014 2015 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Male Female Male Female Management 67% 70% 78% 73% Non-management 77% 80% 76% 84% Total by gender 75% 79% 76% 82% Total 76% 77% Note: Refers to Israel, China and India. Employees in these three countries represent 86% of our total workforce. 54 | ECI Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN3 Energy consumption in gigajoules Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Gasoline (Scope 1) 72,019 46,095 35,027 26,148 22,419 -14% 22,545 Electricity purchased from grid 83,478 78,887 50,796 57,107 47,259 -17% 53,439 (Scope 2) Total energy consumption 155,497 124,982 85,823 83,255 69,678 -16% 75,984 Notes: • Data is converted to gigajoules using the GRI Indicators Protocol set guidelines. • ECI does not use heating, cooling and steam. • In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time. G4-EN5 Energy in gigajoules per Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 employee (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Gasoline (Scope 1) 48.01 38.87 36.37 29.35 25.30 -14% 15.80 Electricity purchased from grid 55.65 66.52 52.75 64.09 53.34 -17% 37.45 (Scope 2) Total energy intensity 103.66 105.38 89.12 93.44 78.64 -16% 53.25 Note: In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time. G4-EN8 Water withdrawal in m3 Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Total water withdrawal 17,116 16,536 16,194 17,285 17,017 -2% 18,032 Water withdrawal: m3 per employee 11.41 13.94 16.82 19.40 19.21 -1% 12.64 Notes: • All water is sourced from municipal water supplies. • Data for 2014 has been updated. • In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time. ECI Sustainability Report 2015 | 55 G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 Greenhouse gas emissions in tons Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CO2e (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Scope 1 emissions (Gasoline) 4,830 3,091 2,349 1,735 1,490 -14% 1,498 Scope 2 emissions (Electricity) 16,997 17,235 9,919 10,914 9,137 -16% 10,548 Scope 3 emissions 1,951 1,081 859 944 1,156 22% N/A (Business flights) Total greenhouse gas emissions 23,777 21,406 13,127 13,593 11,783 -13% 12,046 Notes: • Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. • Scope 1 emission factors use DEFRA Emission Factors. • Scope 2 emissions factors use IEC emission factors for Israel. All other electricity emissions factors use the GHG Protocol. • Scope 3 emissions use International Civil Aviation Organization emissions factors. • In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity in Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tons CO2e / employee (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Scope 1 emissions (Gasoline) 3.22 2.61 2.44 1.95 1.68 -14% 1.05 Scope 2 emissions (Electricity) 11.33 14.53 10.30 12.25 10.31 -16% 7.39 Scope 3 emissions (Business flights) 1.30 0.91 0.89 1.06 1.30 23% N/A Total greenhouse gas emissions 15.85 18.05 13.63 15.26 13.30 -13% 8.44 Notes: • Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. • In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time G4-EN23 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Change Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 in tons (Israel only) in 2015 ECI Recycled 76 70 16 25 27 7% 28 Landfill 166 52 120 109 97 -11% 100 Total waste 242 122 135 134 123 -8% 127 Note: In 2015, total ECI includes Israel, India and China. India and China are reporting for the first time. ABOUT ECI ECI is a global provider of ELASTIC network solutions to CSPs, utilities as well as data center operators. Along with its long-standing, industry-proven packet-optical transport, ECI offers a variety of SDN/NFV applications, end-to-end network management, a comprehensive cyber security solution, and a range of professional services. ECI's ELASTIC solutions ensure open, future-proof, and secure communications. With ECI, customers have the luxury of choosing a network that can be tailor-made to their needs today – while being flexible enough to evolve with the changing needs of tomorrow. For more information, visit us at www.ecitele.com
