Sustainability REPORT 2015 A sustainable THREE KEY VISION QUICK GUIDE STRATEGY AREAS Our sustainability strategy is OVERVIEW 4 GREAT PRODUCTS 36 a five-year plan, consisting of Highlights and key achievements 2015 4 Product development and innovation,  three key areas: Statement from the CEO 6 sustainable design 38 Oriflame in brief 8 Product safety 40 We believe in the power of people’s dreams. Because of this Our markets 9 Social & ethical standards 41 belief, our business has grown and we have helped millions of Sustainability strategy 10 Goals & commitments 42 people improve their lives. Organising for improvement 12 THRIVING PLANET 44 Valuing our culture 13 Sustainable sourcing 46 We know that to continue on this journey we need a business Stakeholder engagement and dialogue 14 Carbon footprint and climate change 48 that thrives in harmony with the natural world, and contributes Materiality – understanding our impact 16 Water 50 to a fair society where everyone can prosper – today and in SUCCESSFUL Opportunity and risk management 18 Waste management 51 Ethics and Code of Conduct 20 the future. PEOPLE Oriflame sites & operations 52 SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE 22 Two new LEED® certified factories 53 That is why our plan is to continue being a successful business Consultants 24 Goals & commitments 54 while focusing on contributing to a more sustainable planet. Employees 26 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS 58 Human rights 28 Oriflame’s supply chain 60 Oriflame Foundation 30 World Childhood Foundation 32 ABOUT THIS REPORT 62 ’’ Supporting local communities in Indonesia 33 GREAT Goals & commitments 34 PRODUCTS Statement from the CEO page 6 My vision for the future is for Oriflame to be a sustainable company, having a net positive impact. The impact from our business opportunity is already positive. But my dream is that all other areas, how we source, produce, distribute and sell, in future will have a zero or positive impact. THRIVING Magnus Brännström, CEO & President PLANET 2 3 HIGHLIGHTS and key achievements 2015 • 500 million units sourced • Since 2010, we have cut our carbon dioxide emissions by 31%. OVERVIEW In 2015 they decreased by almost 6% compared to 2014. • Sales of €1,212 million • Oriflame reached a score of 99B in the CDP 2015 climate • 3,246,000 active Oriflame Consultants change evaluation – an international recognition for our actions to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the business risks of climate • €320 million distributed to consultants as bonuses or change. other recognition. • In 2015 98% of our catalogue paper came from credibly • 87% of employees would recommend Oriflame as a good certified sources and 85% of the display packaging cartons place to work. and leaflets were sourced from FSC certified forests. • In June, the Noginsk production site in Russia received Silver • During 2015 Oriflame successfully launched a first trial run using certification using the LEED® for New Construction rating system. a biopolymer bottle in its Love Nature range. • In July, Oriflame’s new Wellness facility in Roorkee, India received Gold certification under the LEED ® for New Construction • Since 2014 Oriflame is only using natural origin exfoliants in its new developments. During 2015 four new products were rating system. launched, one of these was Love Nature Face Scrub containing almond shells. • In 2015 10% of palm oil used was mass balance certified palm oil, and the remaining share was covered by GreenPalm credits. • During the year, Oriflame’s actions included the donation of In October the Swedish Initiative on Sustainable Palm Oil in Cosmetics and Detergents was launched with Oriflame as one more than 90 000 products to local aid organisations around of the co-initiators. the world. In response to the ongoing refugee crisis in Europe, products such as soaps, shampoos and toothpaste were donated in the heavily most affected countries. 4 5 STATEMENT In the past 30 years the world has experienced fantastic economic and social As always, there are many challenges ahead. One key challenges for us is working progress, people have left poverty in a way we have never witnessed before. At with the areas beyond our own operations and direct control. How can we enthe same time, we see the economic development resulting in an unsustainable sure fair working conditions along the supply chain? And what is the full impact of exploitation of our planet. Just during my lifetime, I can clearly see that the world consumers using our products, and discarding the packaging once consumed? We from the CEO has changed, and definitely not always for the better.The long white winters of my youth, are no longer something my kids can expect the way I could. Next year Oriflame celebrates its 50th anniversary. From the beginning, our amhave a number of external commitments and targets within many of these areas and are also working on implementing the UN Guiding principles on Business and Human Rights. I hope to share more details about this work in the years to come. OVERVIEW bition to be a good corporate citizen, respecting both people and our planet, has My vision for the future is for Oriflame to be a sustainable company, having a net In what state do we hand over our planet to the next generation? been an integral part of who we are. Our sustainability strategy focuses on three positive impact. The impact from our business opportunity is already positive. But For me personally, this is what sustainability is all about. key areas – providing opportunities for people to improve their lives, bringing my dream is that all other areas, how we source, produce, distribute and sell, in beauty and wellbeing through responsible products, and driving environmental future will have a zero or positive impact. We know this is still far away, but I am I have three children, and I want to leave them a better world sustainability. optimistic about the future. Thank you for your interest in our sustainability work, than the one we have today. and I hope you share my excitement about the years ahead. During the past few years we have made significant progress. We have been able to expand our business opportunity geographically, making it accessible for more people around the world. When I travel I see the positive impact that Oriflame has on people’s lives. More and more people, mainly women in developing countries, are being given the opportunity to be financially independent. This opportunity is risk free and open to anyone interested, regardless of ethnicity, Magnus Brännström age or education. CEO & President I am also proud of our progress in the way we operate. Our two new factories in India and Russia were recently awarded LEED® certifications, fantastic achievements. Another important area is how we source forest-based raw materials. Palm oil which is used in many of our products, and paper for our product My vision for the future packaging and catalogues. We are purchasing GreenPalm credits to cover our full palm oil consumption, and it is with great pride I can say that, in 2015, 98% of our catalogue paper came from credibly certified forests. Improving the sustainability profile of our products is high on our agenda. Our is for Oriflame to be a most responsible product range to date, Ecobeauty, puts Oriflame at the forefront of our industry. Ecobeauty is relaunching during 2016, and during the development we have tried our hardest to find the most sustainable solutions available. sustainable company, We learned a great deal in this process, and are working to integrate the insights and solutions into other product ranges as well. There is still a lot to do, but we having a net positive impact. are making good progress. 6 7 ORIFLAME Founded in 1967, Oriflame is a beauty company selling direct in more than in brief offering fantastic opportunities and high-quality products with easy-to-follow 60 countries. Our wide portfolio of Swedish, nature-inspired, innovative beauty beauty routines, all at a great price. The aim is to enable women and men around OVERVIEW products is marketed through approximately 3 million independent Oriflame the world the chance to look, feel and live better. Consultants, generating annual sales of around €1.2 billion. Respect for people Sweden is also known for being innovative and forward-thinking. It is this same and nature underlies Oriflame’s operating principles and is reflected in our social desire, to always do things better, that drives Oriflame to follow the very latest and environmental policies. Oriflame supports numerous charities worldwide trends in fashion, technology and society. Through the Skin Research Institute in and is a Co-founder of the World Childhood Foundation. Oriflame is a Swiss Stockholm, Oriflame works on the forefront of science and research. Having company group listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Exchange. a strong respect for nature, and constantly looking to harness its efficacious EUROPE properties, has been part of Oriflame’s Swedish heritage since day one. CIS THE BUSINESS MODEL Last but not least, Oriflame takes huge pride in being known as a Swedish brand you can trust. A company to rely on, that keeps its promises, and delivers TURKEY, AFRICA & ASIA LATIN AMERICA Oriflame’s business model has proven its resilience, sustainability and validity for high levels of quality as a result. Oriflame has held these values very closely since almost 50 years – in emerging, as well as mature, markets. The key drivers, such CORPORATE OFFICES the very start in 1967, and will continue to do so for as long as the company exist. as being your own manager, setting your own goals, the low barriers of entry and MANUFACTURING FACILITIES exit, the lack of discrimination regardless of one’s gender, ethnicity, age, education, physical condition or financial resources, are all in line with a growing population THE PRODUCT OFFERING MAIN SOURCING MARKETS Our markets of entrepreneurs that are less dependent on secure employments. Oriflame has a broad product offering that spans over six categories; Skin Care, Oriflame offers attractive ﬁnancial rewards as well as social beneﬁts, i.e. Colour Cosmetics, Fragrance, Personal & Hair Care, Accessories and Wellness. the possibility to look great, make money and have fun. Some join as a way of Oriflame offers high-quality products that leverage the best of nature, science supporting their family, while building a business and fulﬁlling a career dream. and the offering´s Swedish origin – expressed in the four following attributes; Others see it as a way to achieve a more ﬂexible life or make extra money while accessible, natural, progressive and trustworthy. studying, being in between jobs or simply extending one’s social life. Oriflame is continuously developing a strong and customer-relevant product SALES OFFICES Consultants also join in order to save money through discounted purchases portfolio with reduced complexity, focusing on the core categories Skin Care Sales in over 60 markets, including markets operated by franchisees, Global Corporate and Management offices in Switzerland and of cosmetics and personal care, by enjoying a discount valid for themselves and and Wellness. organised in four Global Business Areas around the world. Luxembourg. Support and Global Services offices in seven countries. their families. THE VISION PRODUCTION SUPPLY CHAIN THE BRAND To be the No 1 Beauty Company Selling Direct Six production facilities in four countries. Around 500 million units are sourced annually from more than 60 global and Oriflame is proud of its Swedish heritage. It plays a vital role in what makes the regional suppliers and shipped to Oriflame’s markets worldwide. Oriflame Company unique and has helped to define how to behave and operate as a THE MISSION GROUP DISTRIBUTION manufactures around 50% of its cosmetics product volumes in-house. company – colouring not only the core values, but also the view on the world around. As with many things in Swedish society, Oriflame believes in the simple To fulfil dreams CENTRES Main sourcing markets include Germany, Russia, Poland, UK, idea that great things should be available and accessible. For Oriflame, this means Four Group Distribution Centres in four countries. India, France, Sweden, the Netherlands and China. 8 9 SUSTAINABILITY We have a vision to become a sustainable company. To achieve this vision we have a strategy strategy that helps our business succeed while aiming to contribute to a more sustainable planet. We know we are on a long journey but we are already making good progress. OVERVIEW Sustainability is part of our heritage us – within our own operations and along the length of our value chain. From this foundation we built a sustainability strategy that focused on our most significant Since the very beginning we have aimed to be recognised for our commitment impacts and where we have the biggest opportunities to achieve change. to the environment and have understood our own responsibility as a good corporate citizen (Oriflame Values, 1969). Our long-term commitment to become a sustainable company is echoed across our business strategy – it is in An exciting journey our core values, our brand commitment to being trustworthy and our focus on Our medium term ambition is to become known as a champion for sustainability. using ingredients from nature. If we achieve this, we will be able to use our sustainability initiatives to build our brand and increase credibility among stakeholders. Our five year strategy Our business strategy is influenced in a number of ways: is detailed in the Oriflame Sustainability Plan and consists of three key areas, 14 goals and 40 commitments. • All our operations should be characterised by trust and respect. This is the foundation of our Values and Operating Principles. It means that we are open • Successful People – we are creating opportunities for people and transparent, we keep our promises and act in a truthful and fair way, in to improve their lives our relationships and our interactions. • Great Products – we are making products that bring beauty and wellbeing • One of our key Operating Principles is to pursue long-term growth by acting • Thriving Planet – we are driving environmental sustainability “as a good corporate citizen by showing a strong sense of social responsibility throughout our business and respect for nature”. These areas all have a clear link to our material impact and to our business • One of the four key strategic brand pillars for our products is nature: opportunity. We are already making progress against all of them, and will continue “We were one of the first companies to develop products with ingredients to meet our strategy’s time-bound commitments over the next five years. You sourced directly from nature. The inspiration from nature and natural can follow our progress regarding each key area, goal and commitment in this ingredients continue to play an important part in our product portfolio”. Sustainability Report. Managing sustainability based on impact Since 2010 we have adopted an impact based approach to achieveing sustainability. We started by identifying and understanding how we impact the world around 10 11 ORGANISING for improvement Valuing our To make sure our sustainability strategy is successful, we need to give it the same kind of attention, respect and level of organisation as our other business strategies. That is why our Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors oversee We have taken several steps to make sure this responsibility is felt and acted upon: CULTURE OVERVIEW the sustainability strategy. • We are integrating sustainability goals into performance targets of Senior Oriflame’s culture is based on entrepreneurship and respect for and belief in peoA global sustainability team is responsible for developing global targets, supManagers (and lower levels when appropriate). ple’s capabilities. It consists of three core values: togetherness, spirit and passion. porting the organisation by identifying responsibilities, helping to set goals and These values derive from the passionate, team-playing people in our organisation, targets and monitoring and reporting progress externally. The Vice President Sus• We have a section dedicated to sustainability in our internal education and are characterised by the pursuit of new solutions and improved results. tainability is part of the Group Management. program – the Oriflame Academy. We understand that culture does not just happen, so we take care to nurture However, because of the collaborative nature of our business and the entreand enhance it whenever possible, also in seminars and training. Because it is preneurial people we employ, we have structured the strategy so that the respon• We provide ongoing training in specific areas of sustainability to those who important that our Consultants also understand and represent our culture, we sibility of fulfilling its commitments is spread right across our business. require it. present and discuss our values in our initial business opportunity presentation, at conferences and in all Oriflame Academy trainings. Our values are also included • We communicate with employees about sustainability through our intranet in our Code of Conduct, which is rolled out to all employees as well as in the and other channels. During 2014 we launched an e-learning to all employees Consultant Code of Conduct. BOARD OF DIRECTORS globally, which gives a basic introduction to sustainability and what it means to our business. We are also working on more ways to engage both our employees and our TOGETHERNESS Togetherness is about inspiring a dynamic and energetic community. Believing 3 million Consultants around sustainability issues. GROUP MANAGEMENT that working with others achieves more than working alone. Having the ability to absorb and respect opinions and beliefs that are different from your own in order to move forward. CEO SPIRIT Entrepreneurial spirit – the heart of an explorer with the unstoppable courage VP SUSTAINABILITY SENIOR VPS to make ideas tangible and successful. Daring to create opportunity, even with limited resources. An unwavering winning attitude and can-do spirit. PASSION GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY This is the emotional fuel that drives our beliefs and moves us forward. More than SUSTAINABILITY REPRESENTATIVES logic or what is rational, this is the feeling inside that propels actions and guides TEAM decisions. Passion inspires, sustains and changes lives for the better. 12 13 HOW WE ENGAGE KEY ISSUES RAISED STAKEHOLDER CONSUMERS • Product ingredients & safety • Consumer research, primarily product focused • Sustainable/environmentally • Consumer surveys, sometimes including Oriflame Consultants in their role as consumers responsible products • Customer engagement engagement and dialogue CONSULTANTS • Online surveys, collecting information on overall Consultant satisfaction regarding product range, price, quality, support, training, customer service etc. • Consultant engagement • Job creation/recruitment & benefits OVERVIEW • New method to measure consultant satisfaction launched in 2014, the Net Promoter System • Community engagement Our business’ success is created by people – from our employees, Consultants, customers and suppliers, to our shareholders, civil society and the general public. • Performance management These are all our stakeholders, and they rightly expect global companies – like • Employee engagement survey covering Oriflame’s main markets. Information collected about employee work EMPLOYEES • Recognition and rewards Oriflame – to pursue the highest levels of social and environmental responsibility. situation regarding managers, performance management, recognition and rewards, development, empowerment etc. • Personal development We are determined to become a leader when it comes to meeting that ex• For our most recent materiality assessment, short survey with 30 senior managers on priorities within sustainability • Empowerment – leadership, pectation. To that end, we maintain a good level of dialogue with our stakeholder • Continuous training and feedback corporate culture groups so we can better understand and incorporate their expectations. We engage our stakeholders through a range of methods, including Consultant meet• Sustainable sourcing INVESTORS ings, consumer questionnaires, employee surveys and investor dialogues. • Meetings with investors – one-on-one meetings, quarterly road-shows and conference calls • Supply chain Beyond this, we consult non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to discuss • For our most recent materiality assessment calls/meeting with selection of investors/analysts • R&D and ingredients sustainability challenges and receive feedback on our efforts. This is a vital part of • Customer relations how we stay accountable and continue to improve our performance. During our materiality assessment, we collected input from all major stake• NGO Roundtable meeting hosted by CEO with approx. ten NGOs attending giving feedback on sustainability • Supply chain holder groups to help validate our identified material issues. strategy, open forum for discussion and feedback • Transparency & communication NGOs • One-on-one meetings discussing both general strategy and more specific questions • Product ingredients & safety • Discussions at industry events • Female empowerment Memberships of associations or SUPPLIERS • Regular meetings/site visits with Oriflame teams regarding purchasing, packaging etc. advocacy organisations • Regular site audits • Sustainable product development • Supply chain The organisations below are some of those that • Supplier self-assessment survey Oriflame is a member of, or works closely with. • Cosmetics Europe • Participation in industry initiatives and standardisation bodies. E.g. • DSA (Direct Sales Association) • Global Compact • Responsible sourcing SOCIETY •  Cosmetics Europe • The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) • Human rights • RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) • Ethics and fraud • Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights • Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights • Community involvement, including Oriflame Foundation initiatives 14 15 Below you will find the final shortlist and corresponding graph of most of our material sustainability aspects. A IMPORTANT FOR FOR STAKEHOLDERS IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDERS D B A G C E N L D B J G CF E N LP O H F J M OVERVIEW P K In 2013, we started taking action on a new sustainability strategy in order to O H M I expand and deepen our progress. During the development of this strategy we K I conducted an in-depth materiality assessment to gain a clearer view of the issues most material to our business. Materiality refers to the issues that reflect an organisation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts, and substantively influence the decisions of stakeholders. In addition to conducting the in-depth analysis, we are continuously monitoring and evaluating relevant areas to IMPORTANT FOR ORIFLAME make sure we are focusing on the right issues. IMPORTANT FOR ORIFLAME A. PRODUCT PROFILE A. B. PRODUCT ECONOMICPROFILE AND VALUE CREATION I. ETHICS AND FRAUD J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT I. ETHICS AND FRAUD A closer look at our process C.ECONOMIC B. CUSTOMERAND VALUE CREATION ENGAGEMENT J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT K. FEMALE EMPOWERMENT In the first step of our materiality assessment we used all our existing knowledge C. D. CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT K. FEMALE EMPOWERMENT SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN L. CARBON FOOTPRINT and research of our direct and indirect impacts to create a list of material aspects. D. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN L. CARBON FOOTPRINT E. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING M. ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT The next step was an extensive review of media, industry associations and E. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING M. ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT F. PRODUCT SAFETY N. ANIMAL WELFARE peers to identify what social, environmental and economic topics were raised by F. PRODUCT SAFETY N. ANIMAL WELFARE G. HUMAN RIGHTS O. HEALTH AND SAFETY G. HUMAN RIGHTS O. HEALTH AND SAFETY our stakeholders. We also made sure that the topics that we report to Global H. TALENT MANAGEMENT P. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY H. TALENT MANAGEMENT P. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY Compact were considered in the list of material issues. We then asked our most important stakeholder groups to help us prioritise what they believed were the most relevant aspects to them. This included speaking with Oriflame employees, customers, investors and social actors such as NGOs. The result was a prioritised list of aspects, which we then combined with our Oriflame’s materiality process follows the below steps, sustainability strategy and other indicators from the Global Reporting Initiative as recommended by the GRI: (GRI). We used this to inform and reevaluate our original list of Oriflame’s biggest MATERIALITY PROCESS MATERIALITY impacts and relevant issues. This approach meant we could be certain the final list did not omit any issues – STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Identification Prioritisation Validation REPORT such as, for example, the wide range of environmental issues that are so important to our business strategy. And that we could prioritise the list accordingly. As a result of this work, we have been able to identify the GRI indicators that we – understanding our impact report on. Moreover, it has helped us to fully understand our business impact, to improve our knowledge on what our stakeholders find important and care for, STEP 4 and to develop our priorities and processes. Review 16 17 Opportunity and TRANSPORTATION Managing risk and impact: Creating opportunity: As with transportation, the more waste-efficient we make our packaging, the RISK MANAGEMENT greater cost savings we will see overall. Working to ‘close the loop’ drives innoOur Consultants and customers are located in over 60 markets, which means vation. For example, we have found ways to use materials for packaging – such we ship products around the world. Transportation therefore has a significant as plastic – that has already been recycled. impact on our carbon footprint. The vast majority of shipments are by sea or truck freight – we try to avoid air freight as much as possible. Creating opportunity: OUR CONSULTANTS OVERVIEW Oriflame’s strategy takes a value chain approach to managing risk and creating opportunity Managing the environmental impact of transportation has a direct positive Managing risk and impact: Every year Oriflame invites its top sales Consultants to conferences at different – see below for what this looks like in practice. impact on the costs of transportation. For example, due to ongoing changes to our packing and loading routines (so that more can fit in each container) we locations around the world. These events are a core part of our business model have saved more than €5 million since 2010. because they provide thousands of leaders with an incentive to achieve new targets. We have started to implement our Sustainable Conference Guidelines, which will help us limit the environmental impact and improve the social impact RAW MATERIALS ensure compliance with our standards further up the supply chain – that is, CONSUMER USE PHASE of our conferences as much as possible. the people who work with our direct suppliers. For example by making sure Managing risk and impact: Managing risk and impact: Creating opportunity: that the farmers who supply us with palm oil and forest based products work We are working to reduce the impact of the raw materials we select for our We want to help our customers make less impact when they use our products. As well as their environmental impact, these conferences also have a social in acceptable conditions. products. Palm oil and paper have significant negative environmental impacts For example, can we encourage our customers to use less energy to heat water impact – a positive one. Together with our day-to-day work, they are one of if not sourced from sustainably managed forests, therefore we work actively Creating opportunity: for their showers? We are also working to reduce the emissions to water from the main channels for us to help our Consultants build their self-confidence, with improving our sourcing. We are gradually working to reduce the use of When we take this kind of social and environmental approach it makes sense our rinse off products – like shower gel and soap, and we still have areas to networks, abilities and knowledge. They also give us a good opportunity to petroleum in formulations, and replace them with plant-based alternatives where to build longer term relationships with our suppliers. As a consequence, the address such as hair colourants. This is particularly important in countries with educate and inspire our Consultants on sustainability issues. possible. Other efforts we are working on is to manage a number of potentially relationships strengthen and transaction costs are brought down because of underdeveloped water treatment plants. One way we can do this is through contentious raw materials, including plastic micro beads and fragrance allergens. an increased level of mutual trust. finding ways to improve our choice of raw materials. Creating opportunity: PRODUCT DESIGN Creating opportunity: Looking at raw materials from a risk perspective and proactively hunting for MANUFACTURING If we communicate our sustainability efforts and achievements properly, and get Managing risk and impact: better substitutes makes us more creative. A proactive approach to finding our Consultants and consumers to participate in our journey, we will improve We are working to incorporate sustainability into our product development right low-impact alternatives will help us earn and keep the trust of customers and Managing risk and impact: our brand image and strengthen our relationship with them. This can lead to from the design phase. This affects decisions about the materials we choose, as other stakeholders. The work we are doing with plant stem cells is a great Although the impact of our own manufacturing sites is relatively low from a improvements in customer loyalty and satisfaction. well as ensuring products can be efficiently produced and transported, as well example of this, another area is the work to improve the biodegradability product life-cycle perspective, it is symbolically important. Approximately 50% as guaranteeing products can be recycled at the end of life. profile of our rince-off products . of our cosmetic products are produced internally at different sites in Poland, Russia, India and China. WASTE Creating opportunity: Our products bring beauty and wellbeing into the lives of our customers. Creating opportunity: Managing risk and impact: SUPPLIERS When we manufacture our own products we have better control over the The packaging we use for our products constitutes a significant share of our Our big ambition is to be able to include sustainability into that offer as well. Responsible products will help us attract new customers, strengthen our brand Managing risk and impact: whole production environment, from the ingredients used to making certain waste. We want to reduce waste by using materials more efficiently, by reusing and push us to be more innovative and efficient. A significant share of our impact comes from our supply chain. We are workproduction is efficient and limits waste, and ensuring compliance with internamaterials wherever possible and by contributing to increase recycling, both ing hard to ensure social and environmental standards are met by those who tionally recognised standards in relation to labour conditions. within our own operations and among our consumers. For example, we are manufacture our ingredients, components and products. We also want to using post consumer recycled (PCR) plastics where possible in our plastic tubes. 18 19 Follow-up of the Code of Conduct Conduct or actions that are, or may be perceived as, infringements of National Ethics and Laws or the Oriflame Code of Conduct are to be reported. Employees are encouraged to report any such conduct or action to their superiors, or, if the superior is involved in the situation or will not act upon it, to the next level in the organisation. Employees may also choose to report their concern by sending an CODE OF e-mail to an address that created for that purpose.The e-mail address is owned by the General Counsel. The report will be handled with the utmost confidentiality. Reporting anonymously by using a non-identifiable email address is also possible. OVERVIEW Oriflame has a range of disciplinary measures available to match the severity CONDUCT of the breach of the Code of Conduct. Oriflame has established a Governance Committee composed of members of the management. This committee reviews all reports in connection with the Oriflame Code of Conduct and conducts investigation where necessary. Supplier and Consultant Code of Conduct For us at Oriflame, we want all our business activities to be recognized by honesty Through audits and close co-operation with suppliers, Oriflame works to and respect. We do not accept any form of corruption. Our Code of Conduct ensure compliance with internationally recognised labour standards, principles reinforces our position on zero-tolerance towards corruption, and spells out and ethics. Oriflame’s Supplier Code of Conduct applies to global suppliers the way we do business. The code formally displays our mission and vision, core and this document outlines requirements regarding working conditions, health values, operating principles, and business practices. The way we deal with the and safety, discrimination and environmental impact, including a consideration world around us, helps us define who we are as a company. on corruption. We have also created a separate Code of Conduct for our Oriflame Communication and training on Code of Conduct Consultants. This is to ensure that everyone involved with Oriflame acts and does business the way we want to. Oriflame’s Code of Conduct applies to all Oriflame employees, and compliance is mandatory for everyone. When commencing their employment, employees are required to confirm that they have read, understood and that they will abide by Risk management framework the terms of the Code of Conduct. Our principles and guidelines can be found Ethical and corruption risks are continuously being identified, assessed and on our intranet. addressed within Oriflame’s general risk assessment process. Training regarding the Code of Conduct and Oriflame policies are an integral The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment part of the Oriflame training system, The Oriflame Academy. During 2015 we and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. Oriflame’s risk strengthened our training procedures and senior management are together with management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks to which the the compliance team raising awareness throughout the company. Specific groupGroup is exposed, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks approved training materials were developed and all sessions and participants and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed on a are logged. An e-Learning course regarding the Code of Conduct is also part regular basis to reflect changes in market conditions and in the Group’s activities. of this training system. During this course employees are trained on the Code Furthermore, in order to further strengthen the attention to risk and compliance of Conduct and make a formal commitment to live by Oriflame’s principles and matters within the organisation, Oriflame appointed a Vice President Group Risk values, including our anti-corruption policies. In the past two years more than and Compliance, beginning of 2013. 2 000 employees have completed this course. During 2015, no intervention actions were required from the Audit Committee. 20 21 SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE We are committed to creating opportunities for people to improve their lives. SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE Social responsibility is important for Oriflame because of the impact and potential influence we have on people around the world. Through our employees, our Consultants, our suppliers, the communities where we operate and our customers, our business touches millions of lives every day. Oriflame’s business model creates value by offering people around the world the chance to improve their lives: enabling entrepreneurial opportunities for Oriflame Consultants, attractive career opportunities for employees and a unique shopping experience for customers. Our commitment to social sustainability is an on-going one, but below are a few highlights of what we have achieved so far. HIGHLIGHTS • Through bonuses and other forms of recognition we distributed • During the year, Oriflame’s actions included the donation of more €320 million to Consultants in 2015 – the majority of whom are than 90 000 products to local aid organisations around the world. women in developing markets. In response to the ongoing refugee crisis in Europe, products such as soaps, shampoos and toothpaste were donated in the heavily most • Our Oriflame Capabilities framework helps us identify what our affected countries. company needs from its employees to perform at its best. This helps us recruit, define roles and expectations, design training and help • During 2015 we conducted an in-depth study assessing the major managers assess competence and potential. human rights impacts throughout our business. One outcome is a list of our most salient risks, that we are now working to ensure are • In 2015, Oriflame Foundation distributed more than €1.1 million to adequately addressed. children and young women. 23 CONSULTANTS SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE We believe that giving people the opportunity to earn an extra income ’’ or run their own business is the best way to help them improve their lives. Anyone can become an Oriflame Consultant, as long as they live in one of our In 2014, we introduced a new method of measuring Consultant satisfaction on 60+ markets around the world. We offer an attractive business opportunity an ongoing basis, the Net Promoter System (NPS), that allows us to see how and make it easy and risk-free to join. likely our Consultants are to recommend Oriflame to a close friend or relative. Our Consultants benefit from access to flexible income. It is always up to We also get feedback about what the Consultants expect from us and the individual how much she or he wants to work: our Consultants can achieve indications on where we can improve. By analysing the results, we have been everything from earning a little extra money, to having a part-time income, to able to identify the main areas in each market, in which we should focus our maintaining a full time career. As well as the immediate profit of around 20% improvement efforts. These areas include the Consultants’ perceived product that Consultants make when they sell a product, in 2015 we distributed more availability, deliveries and our customer services. Improvement actions have than €320 million in bonuses and other forms of recognition. been initiated in all relevant areas. Because a majority of our Consultants are women who live in developing In 2015 the NPS program was introduced in 12 new markets, and as a countries, this kind of income has the potential to make a big difference to their result 20 of our largest markets now participate. Feedback from over 25,000 ’’ lives – such as increasing their purchasing power and giving them more indeconsultants globally has been received and we are very proud that the majority pendence. Beyond income, Oriflame Consultants also benefit from access to of our consultants highly recommend Oriflame, and are very satisfied with the As a young couple we had one major concern; how coaching and training, which increases their earning potential across the board. quality of Oriflame products. to get financial security in life. We were not sure how Through the Oriflame Academy, we offer progressive levels of training – from this could be achieved. Thanks to Oriflame today we basic business skills right through to advanced leadership training. Moreover, every Oriflame Consultant belongs to a friendly, dynamic and Using the power of our network have complete financial security for ourselves and for global community that is committed to improving their wellbeing. Because of Oriflame operates in regions that differ hugely in economic development and our children. We are also helping thousands of others this, we believe that joining Oriflame gives many of our Consultants something cultural characteristics, and our reach is both vast and complex. Not only to change their life and lifestyle. beyond simply access to income and new skills. can we use this reach to improve lives, we can also use the power of our networks to facilitate social and environmental progress. This is an opportunity Kamini and Pn Jah Oriflame Global Leaders, India Consultant satisfaction for us because many of our Consultants and customers are in markets with low interest and understanding of sustainability issues. That is why one of our It is very important that we understand how all our Consultants are getting most ambitious commitments in this area is to reduce consumer impact by on – wherever they are in the world and however much they are earning. providing educational information to one million people by 2016. Measuring their satisfaction provides insights to how the brand is meeting their expectations and is essential for our long-term success. 24 25 EMPLOYEES Oriflame’s Engagement Survey 2015 Gender characteristics in total workforce • Response rate: 96% MEN WOMEN • The overall Sustainable engagement score: 86% 25% • 87% responded that ‘I would recommend Oriflame as a good place to work’. • 92% responded that ‘People in my team treat each other with respect and 20% fairness’. • 90% answered that their manager effectively works with people that are 15% Our people are the reason for our success. different from him or herself – something which is crucial for Oriflame as we SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE operate in different markets with employees from all over the world with 10% diverse backgrounds, ethnic group and beliefs. 5% We have always understood how important our employees’ health, happiness help managers assess competence and potential. Our Integrated Performance Based on the survey results, action plans and goals have been created to address 0% and wellbeing is to the success of our company. We fulfil this commitment to Management (IPM) process helps us deliver this. improvement areas. Plans have been built on three organisational levels: team <30 30 – 40 40–50 50 – 60 >60 our employees by investing in personal and professional development, improving The IPM process plays a vital role in ensuring that we live up to our stated – function – country, in order to develop comprehensive strategies. In addition the diversity of our workforce and valuing our corporate culture. We also focus vision and maintain a performance driven culture in Oriflame. It also serves to to local plans, common themes and actions have been incorporated into global SENIORITY: 7,8 years AVERAGE AGE: 35 NUMBER OF NATIONALITIES: 70 on ensuring that Oriflame provides a safe and healthy working environment facilitate the employee’s understanding of what is expected of him/her during action plans. for all employees. the coming year and provides a platform to discuss future development. The In the workforce as a whole we have a good gender-balance. In 2015, women process also gives the employee an opportunity to give feedback on the departImproving our diversity represented 39% of the global management team, constituting the Company’s top 200 managers, a slight increase compared to 2014. By the end of 2015, the Attracting and retaining talent ment, the company and the manager and works as the foundation for succession planning within the company. We strongly believe that one of our greatest strengths is our diversity. We have Group Management consisted of 2 women and 7 men (compared to one women Attracting, empowering and retaining high performing individuals with the right We offer development and training through the Oriflame Academy. The focus seen over and over again that a balanced mix of gender, nationality and culture out of nine members in 2014). We are taking steps to increase representation of skill-sets and experience is crucial for Oriflame’s success. In Oriflame we want for middle management is on leadership training and to provide channels for leads to the creation of better perspectives, ideas and products. Oriflame women in management positions, during the year we launched a new Diversity to do this by offering a unique working environment and promoting the best sharing expertise and best practices within the organisation. We also continued has a presence in more than 60 markets around the world. When recruiting, and Equal Opportunities policy and established new goals. conditions for our workforce. to develop and launch new e-learning courses during the past year. The courses we aspire to reflect the global audience that we serve. Overall, more than 70 We work hard with identifying our talent needs within the organisation and we invest in acquiring the best talent worldwide. We have a range of attractive offered now cover areas such as the Code of Conduct, the IPM process and nationalities are represented in our global workforce and in our Group Support Office in Stockholm, more than 40 nationalities are represented. Protecting health and safety Sustainability, among others. In total, our employees completed 1 000 trainings international internships, which provide young individuals an opportunity to start during the year. Employees participate in additional local training events and In Oriflame we acknowledge that we have the duty to protect our employees their careers with us. During 2015, we had more than 30 people participating courses, both in-house and externally. by mitigating health and safety related risks, as well as improving the quality Gender diversity in total workforce in internship programs in our Global Support Offices (GSOs) as well as in the of the workplace and working conditions. We work to put in place the right measures that ensure that our workers are protected, healthy, and satisfied. Employee engagement MEN WOMEN sales organisation. In addition, a limited number of opportunities are offered to young profes100% In general, our operations pose a low risk when it comes to the health and sionals through our Global Business Leader program, Oriflame´s trainee program In 2014, more than 3000 employees from 14 countries on four continents, rep90% safety of our factory workers. We gather and monitor incident and accident 80% for future leaders. The program has an ultimate goal to find future Managing resenting Oriflame’s biggest markets, growth markets and GSOs, participated data from our sites, and analyse results to help us implement any necessary 70% Directors for countries where we operate. The trainees get a unique chance to in Oriflame’s Engagement Survey. The survey addressed several different areas improvements or preventive measures. 60% reach a senior management position and experience Oriflame in fast growing including Oriflame’s strategic direction, feedback about immediate managers During 2015, there were no fatalities at any of our manufacturing sites. In 50% and developing markets. In 2015, 7 young professionals enrolled in the program. and the performance management process. 40% total there were six accidents per million hours worked and the absentee rate In 2015 we conducted the Engagement survey focusing on the Finance, legal 30% was 2.3%. None of these were considered major accidents. At our major sites we have established health and safety committees repInvesting in development and IT population in Oriflame. The survey had an excellent response rate of 96% – well above the benchmark for high performing companies. 20% 10% resenting the total workforce. Meetings usually take place four times a year, Our Oriflame Capabilities framework helps us identify what our company 0% depending on the location, and involve representatives from the workers and ORIFLAME GLOBAL GROUP BOARD needs to perform at its best, which we then use to recruit, design training and MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT OF DIRECTORS health and safety authorities. TEAM 26 27 Human RIGHTS SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE Oriflame takes a strong stance on social and ethical Some of our products are sourced from markets that are classified as high risk in terms of e.g. child labour and forced labour, mainly in Asia. As part of our issues and we are proactively embedding this position supplier evaluation process, we put additional resources into verifying compliance across our value chain. by conducting sustainability audits in these markets, in addition to using the Supplier self-assessment tool. We have dedicated staff for this purpose in both Oriflame operates in several high-risk areas in terms of breaches of human India and China. See the section on suppliers for more detailed information. rights. In order to understand the risk as fully as possible, we have developed a Corporate Human Rights Due Diligence process. Sustainability and human As a business, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and right risks are incorporated into our corporate business risk assessment process. the United Nations Global Compact. We have integrated the ten principles of the Global Compact into the Oriflame Code of Conduct, the Supplier Code During 2015 we conducted an in-depth study assessing the major human rights of Conduct and other policies. These principles speak directly of human rights, impacts throughout our business. The assessment included an overall analysis of labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, and help guide us in our value chain and the major impacts our operations have on people. In order making good decisions across our business. Trainings regarding the Code of to identify our most salient impacts, we conducted interviews with some of our Conduct and Oriflame policies are an integral part of the Oriflame training key internal stakeholders, including business unit heads and representatives from system, the Oriflame Academy. all our regions. The evaluation was completed with desktop research on the major human rights issues in our markets and business sectors. As a result, we We are currently working on strengthening Oriflame’s Human rights statement, have identified our most salient risks and we are now working to ensure these basing it on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights. To make are adequately addressed. For some areas we are developing action plans to sure these principles become an everyday part of how we do business, we have mitigate risk and potential human rights impact, while seeking the opportunity made a commitment to educate our employees on our business responsibility to to increase our positive contribution to society. respect human rights. We are starting this in 2016 with an education program aimed at our global management team. We are integrating human rights issues into existing risk assessments when entering new markets and have committed to conducting country specific Oriflame also participates in the Swedish Network for Business and Human assessments for high-risk markets. This is important because it also allows us Rights, a business network that focuses on exchanging best practices. This to concentrate our efforts on those areas where we have the highest level of allows us to build our knowledge and competence, as well as stay up to date influence. on developments in this area. 28 29 UKRAINE CASE STUDY In order to engage consultants with charitable actions, Oriflame Ukraine made a promise to its top leaders to donate 1M UAH (€ 35 000) to a charity of their choice, given that specific recruitment goals were reached during the autumn of 2014. foundation After successfully reaching and even exceeding SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE their goal, Oriflame’s Top 15 leaders in Ukraine ORIFLAME made the decision to split the donation between two organizations, SOS Children’s Villages and Tabletochki. At SOS Children’s Villages, the donation was used to finance surrogate families housing displaced children outside of Kiev and Lughansk. Tabletochki, a new progressive organization that provides care for Oriflame Foundation aims to empower children and young women children suffering from leukemia, used their donation by providing opportunities for them to change their lives for the better. to provide medicine for children in need. EGYPT CASE STUDY Malnutrition of school children in Egypt is a wideOur role as an aspiring socially sustainable company allows us to create a lot of The Foundation allows us to make long-term charity commitments and partnerspread epidemic among many primary governmenpositive change across our value chain. But we want to reach further than our ships, and measure the quantity, quality and overall impact of our investment. tal schools that can result in neurological disorders, own area of influence. That is why we have the Oriflame Foundation – it is our It also means we can reinforce our brand image and reputation as a socially stunted growth and at worse death. In efforts to way to create long-term value for the people we do not connect with through responsible company, and attract more talented and value-driven employees support children in need, Oriflame Egypt donated new our business, specifically children and young women. and Consultants. consultant registration fees collected during the month of Ramadan to the Egyptian Food Bank’s program for Highlights from the Foundation’s charitable work: How the Foundation works feeding children from low-income families during their From the beginning, Oriflame has strived to support NGOs and charity organeducation. • The amount of money raised in accordance with the strategy and concept isations around the world. These include the World Childhood Foundation, This meal program aims to provide a warm daily developed by the Oriflame Foundation reached more than €1.1 million in founded by H.M. Queen Silvia of Sweden and co-founded by Oriflame and the nutritional meal to impoverished children in the coun2015. Since 2009 the total amount raised amounts to more than €7 million. Af Jochnick Foundation. try’s poorest schools. Oriflame believes that healthy • In 2015, 46 of our markets were involved in charitable activities. The Oriflame Foundation also provides grants to projects that have been nutrition is the basis for both physical and intellectual • We created a Volunteer Guide to help increase the number of Oriflame selected or initiated by local market teams, and/or makes donations to projects growth and the right of every child. No child should be volunteers and currently 18 markets have volunteering programs in place. that Consultants are fundraising for. limited the nutrition needed to perform intellectually • We have officially recognised the World Childhood Foundation and SOS But there are many other ways people across our business can contribute to in the classroom. When today’s malnourished children Children’s Villages as our preferred global NGO partners. the work of the Foundation. For example, employees are actively encouraged become part of tomorrow’s working population, their experience in the classroom will have a lasting impact Why we introduced the Oriflame Foundation to become involved with their local projects and in fundraising activities, or they can support local charities by volunteering their time. through adulthood. The simple act of offering a nutriOriflame has always supported charitable causes, but we decided we would We also develop accessories and products that we sell specifically to raise tional meal at school can impact a child’s entire future. make a bigger impact if we combined all our efforts under one umbrella – the funds. Markets are also encouraged to raise additional funds through fun, creative Oriflame Foundation, established as an independent Foundation. and innovative activities, for example through galas, sponsored walks and raffles. 30 31 Cooperation with Supporting WORLD LOCAL CHILDHOOD COMMUNITIES SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE foundation in Indonesia The Tesso Nilo forest in Indonesia is unique in many ways, for its high biodiversity and as a habitat for threatened species. Indigenous Sialang Honey is found in During 2015 Oriflame launched a new fragrance, Tenderly Promise, in support the park and has long been sustainably harvested by local communities for their of World Childhood Foundation. The fragrance was developed in cooperation own consumption. For people living around the forest there are few income with World Childhood Foundation, represented by H.R.H Princess Madeleine generating opportunities apart from expanding farm land into the forest, which of Sweden, and for every bottle sold Oriflame makes a donation to World contributes to deforestation. Oriflame therefore wanted to support the develChildhood Foundation, with the aim of raising over €1 million over a three opment of sustainable livelihoods, and is helping the local community find new ’’ year period. The goal is to help children who are neglected, abused, exploited markets for sustainable forest products such as the Sialang honey. and alone to have happier, healthier childhoods full of dreams and the promise In the project’s first half year Oriflame sold more than 40 000 bottles of honey of a brighter future. through our catalogue, providing the community with a steady income. This has positively impacted the community by reducing the dependence on forest timber products and the threat of deforestation. Oriflame is at present working to expand the sustainable livelihood program to include other local communities. I respect the work that Oriflame does to support and empower children. As one of the co-founders of World Childhood Foundation, they have worked in close collaboration with us over the last 15 years, raising close to €2 million. This new initiative shows the company’s clear dedication to help children fulfill their dreams by having a better childhood. All children should have the opportunity to dream, and the opportunity to pursue those dreams. H.R.H Princess Madeleine of Sweden Honorary Board Member of World Childhood Foundation 32 33 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Create opportunities to 4 RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THOSE TOUCHED BY OUR OPERATIONS 5 SUPPORT ORIFLAME FOUNDATION TO ALLOW CHILDREN & YOUNG WOMEN IMPROVE PEOPLE’S LIVES COMMITMENT 6 Educate our employees on our business responsibility to respect TO CHANGE THEIR LIVES FOR THE BETTER COMMITMENT 9 SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE human rights. All in global management team by 2015. Help educate children by doubling the amount of money donated Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: More to do to Oriflame Foundation by 2020. Workshops and trainings for selected teams were conducted during 2015 as Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track 1 PROVIDE ORIFLAME’S UNIQUE BUSINESS 2 USE THE POWER OF OUR NETWORKS part of commitment to educate employees. During the fall 2016 the top 100 During 2015, the total amount of money raised by Oriflame Foundation was OPPORTUNITY TO OUR CONSULTANTS TO FACILITATE SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL managers will be trained on human rights. more than €1.1 million, similar to 2014. Since 2009 the total funds raised PROGRESS amounts to more than €7 million. COMMITMENT 1 COMMITMENT 7 Continue to grow the business in order to increase the number of COMMITMENT 3 Respect Human Rights by setting up a corporate HR due diligence COMMITMENT 10 individuals receiving payout from the Success plan as well as the total Reduce consumer environmental impact by providing educational process by 2015 which includes the requirement to conduct HR Support Oriflame foundation by engaging 100% of our established amount paid out to Consultants annually. information to 1 million people by 2016. risk assessments for all new markets. markets in Oriflame foundation fundraising activities by 2016. Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: More to do Deadline: 2016 2015 Progress: On track Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed Deadline: 2016 2015 Progress: On track During 2015 we distributed more than €320 million directly to our ConsulWe have started introducing environmental messages in our catalogues and During 2015 a human rights due diligence process was outlined. As part of In 2015, 46 markets were involved in charity activities, by raising money for tants through bonuses and other forms of recognition, slightly down from through social media, mainly in connection with product communication this, an impact assessment was initiated assessing the human rights impacts the Oriflame Foundation or by developing other activities with the employ€330 million in 2014. related to Ecobeauty. We are currently working on a concept to increase throughout our business. Our most salient impacts have been identified and ees, local communities and NGOs. communication and reach a wider audience, this will be launched during we are now working to ensure these are adequately addressed. No new COMMITMENT 2 markets were entered in 2015. 2016. Help raise self-esteem by doubling the number of Consultants trained via Oriflame Academy. COMMITMENT 8 Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track 3 PROVIDE SAFE AND REWARDING Continue implementation of the Oriflame Global Supplier In 2015 a total of 100 000 leaders participated in a special one day business PLACES TO WORK Evaluation Program. training run by Oriflame. In addition approximately 180 000 consultants Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed COMMITMENT 4 participated in Oriflame Business and Beauty academy trainings, learning Create great places to work by improving employee engagement survey The roll-out of the 5 step Supplier Evaluation program continued. The business skills as well as more about our products. The roll-out of the open ratings year on year. self-assessment tool has been further rolled out to global suppliers, suppliers e-learning platform continued. In 2015 33 of our markets participated, up representing 60% of our total direct and indirect procurement spend and Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: Completed from 31 during 2014. In total 47,000 Consultants have completed at least more than 95% of our Finished Goods suppliers, currently use the tool. For one of the e-learning modules. An engagement survey was launched to the finance, legal and IT population. our high risk suppliers, mainly located in Asia, we conducted sustainability The response rate was excellent at 96% and the overall sustainable engageaudits during the year covering approx. 35% of the global direct and second ment score 86%. tier accessories suppliers. COMMITMENT 5 Ensure equal opportunities for all women and men, by ensuring that the minority gender represents no less than 40% in management teams. Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: New 34 35 GREAT PRODUCTS Our vision is to bring beauty and wellbeing to millions through our products. At Oriflame, we are committed to creating responsibly-made products that bring more wellbeing into the lives of our customers. Finding GREAT PRODUCTS inspiration in nature and respecting the environment are key to our philosophy. We are constantly striving to make our products, processes and packaging more ethical, sustainable and safe throughout their lifecycle. Below are a few highlights of our achievements so far. HIGHLIGHTS • We launched Ecobeauty in 2011 – the world’s first cross • In 2015, we successfully carried out a trial run of biopolymer-based category cosmetics range approved by four leading independent packaging in our Love nature range – a plant-based alternative to organisations – Fairtrade, Ecocert, The Vegan Society and the petroleum. Forest Stewardship Council. • Our environmental scientists review every single ingredient’s • E cobeauty has won numerous awards for its sustainability approach, sustainability profile, assessing how natural, ethical and including the prestigious 2014 Eco Beauty Awards organised by environmentally responsible it is. Cosmetic Executive Women. • We have reduced the use of petroleum as an ingredient in our • We measure and report on our palm oil use and were one of the product formulations by 80% since 2009, replacing it with plantfirst companies to commit to purchasing 100% of our volume usage derived alternatives. sustainably though GreenPalm credits. • We apply a thorough safety evaluation process and have certificates • In 2012, we also launched the world’s first foaming product of safety for 100% of our 1,000+ cosmetic products. containing RSPO-certified segregated sustainable palm oil*. • We are removing plastic microbeads from our formulations; all new • In 2015, 10% of palm oil used was mass balance certified palm oil, product developments use exfoliants from natural origin. Indeed, all and the remaining share was covered by GreenPalm credits. new products launched in 2015 contained natural origin exfoliants. * The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil developed a standard for the certification of sustainable palm oil production. The Segregation supply chain model ensures that RSPO-certified oil palm products delivered to the end user comes only from RSPO certified sources. For more information, please visit www.rspo.org. 37 Product development and innovation We also look to nature for inspiration during our concept stage, and are developing new formulations with ethically and environmentally responsibly sourced Below are some of the initiatives we are actively working on to improve the impact of our packaging. SUSTAINABLE DESIGN ingredients in mind. For example, our search for sustainable anti-ageing active ingredients led us to plant stem cells, which bring many benefits to our products. Cartons, liners and leaflets Furthermore, in 2015 we launched our first biopolymer packaging as a trial – a • We started working with the Rainforest Alliance to improve the impact of plant-based alternative to petroleum-based plastic. This kind of initiative helps our paper and other wood-based packaging. With their help, we set goals GREAT PRODUCTS reduce the total environmental impact from the packaging. We continuously to increase the percentage of materials that are FSC certified. look for improvements like this everywhere – from eliminating unnecessary • During 2015 we sourced 85% of display packaging cartons and leaflets from We want products that keep us healthy and beautiful components to reviewing the materials we use. FSC certified sources and although percentage decreased compared to 2014, to also help keep our natural world at its best. we are still on track to meet our 2016 target of 100%. Understanding our ingredients FSC certified product packaging Ecobeauty proves this idea is possible. It is the most natural, ethical and environ93% In addition to our safety assessments, we put all new cosmetic raw materials 100 92% mentally responsible range we have ever developed. It has received widespread 85% recognition for its sustainability profile – including winning the 2014 Eco Beauty through a rigorous sustainability review process and assess it on the following 80 Awards organised by Cosmetic Executive Women. three criteria: 60 53% As well as showcasing sustainability, Ecobeauty is our innovation laboratory • Naturalness: this addresses origin and determines whether the material has 40 – we use it to develop new ideas and share them across our product lines. come directly from nature or has been processed in some way – such as 20 This culture of innovation and sharing delivers real value for our business and physical pressing like avocado oil, or a biotechnical process like fermentation. • Environmental impact: this involves checking whether a material has come 0 our customers. Beyond this tangible positive impact, Ecobeauty also symbolises 2012 2013 2014 2015 Oriflame’s deep and long-held connection with nature and our firm commitment from an endangered plant or ecosystem, and evaluating its biodegradability and potential aquatic toxicity. Reducing impact from plastic to embed sustainability across our product development. • Ethicalness: we look at whether the ingredient is animal-based, contains • In 2011 we started using post-consumer recycled plastics (known as PCR plastics) in some of our tubes. Ecobeauty and Love Nature are examples Partnering with nature genetically modified organisms or has any connections with child labour or conflict concerns. of ranges using PCR plastic, and our ambition is to increase usage across all Nature and ingredients from nature play an important part in our product our brands. We are also constantly monitoring scientific reports on environmental issues • The vast majority of the materials we use are recyclable and our ambition philosophy. This explains why we do not use materials derived from protected to stay up-to-date and informed. By building this holistic understanding of our is use only recyclable materials. One small but important achievement was or endangered flora and fauna, and why we were one of the first companies ingredients we can make accurate reports to our internal and external audithe development of the Ecobeauty pump which is made out of only plastics, in the world to use ingredients sourced directly from nature. For example, ences and know where and how to make the most impactful improvements. and therefore 100% recyclable. Pump-based products are notoriously hard instead of using petroleum-based synthetic alcohols in our Eau de Toilettes and aerosols, we use natural origin alcohols that most often come from fermented to recycle because of their mixed material makeup; the Ecobeauty pump grains. Moreover, we track the palm oil content of all our products and are the Packaging that performs however does not contain any metal and is, as a result, much easier for our customers to dispose of responsibly. first company in the world to offer a foaming cleansing product that contains RSPO-certified segregated sustainable palm oil. Oriflame’s cartons, bottles, tubes and jars are a large part of our environmental • In 2015 we successfully carried out a trial run of biopolymer-based packaging In a similar way, we wanted to stop using plastic microbeads in our exfoliimpact. The vast majority of our packaging materials consist of paper and other in our Love nature range. Because this uses plant-based materials rather than ating products. We started testing alternatives at the start of 2013 and identiwood-fibre materials, plastics and glass. We make sure all our primary packs petroleum, it has a lower climate impact. fied a number of alternatives of natural origin, including plant waxes, nutshells for example, the tube or bottle a product comes in are recyclable so they and seeds. These all meet our high performance and safety expectations. can be disposed of responsibly where recycling facilities are available. And we Recycled glass During 2015 four new exfoliating products were launched, all with natural origin are continuously working to find the right balance between more lightweight • We used recycled glass in our Ecobeauty EdT which was launched in 2012. scrubs, one of these was Love Nature Face Scrub containing almond shells. packaging and durability. However, because of a lack of demand from other fragrance companies, our supplier has stopped production and the product is discontinued. 38 39 Oriflame has a team of safety experts working with internal and external specialists. Together, they make sure every ingredient we use and product we sell meets our high quality, safety, ethical and environmental standards. We use Social & ethical the same high standards wherever in the world our products are made or sold. For all our cosmetic products, we apply a comprehensive evaluation that includes STANDARDS the following: GREAT PRODUCTS • We conduct a thorough evaluation of all raw materials. We only use reputable suppliers, and only select ingredients that are supported with satisfactory data. • We carefully measure safe concentration levels. Our team of expert toxicologists ensure ingredients are safe for intended use and intended consumer group. We are committed to marketing products • We test our final formulations for irritation and sensitisation on healthy human volunteers in independent laboratories, and also use ‘in vitro’ (non-animal) that meet our own social and ethical standards, tests to further confirm the safety of our products. and those of our customers. • Post-launch, we proactively collect feedback from consumers and data about any unwanted effects. Oriflame cares about animal welfare and endangered species and we have high standards for all materials we source: All Oriflame cosmetic products are made to be safe in accordance with the • We do not use animal fur and only accept leather from cattle that have been provisions of the European Cosmetics Regulation (EC No 1223/2009) and other bred for human consumption. major International Regulations. In markets where regulations are less developed, • For some products, we use selectively sourced animal by-products – such Oriflame applies the European regulation requirements for safety as a minimum. as beeswax and honey, lanolin derivatives (a secretion from wool-bearing We have the same strict safety measures for our wellness products. All animals) and dairy products. ingredients are of the highest food grade purity, fully approved internationally • We do not use plucked animal hair or feathers and only accept animal hair and for use in food and selected for optimum safety and efficacy. Everything we feathers cut from living, domesticated animals including pony, goat and boar. make meets EU Regulations (EC No 178/2002), as well as recommendations • We use fish oil from sustainably managed stocks in our Wellness food supfrom various global health authorities, including the World Health Organisation. plements range. We are proud to have our product development based in one of the world’s Product most scientifically advanced countries, and to further ensure the safety of the We have never tested our products or ingredients on animals at any stage during range, it is evaluated and endorsed by renowned Swedish experts in the field product development. We have always advocated alternative test methods SAFETY of medical science and nutrition. and use the latest in-vitro (non-animal) methods for any tests that are not We have certificates of safety present for 100% of 1,000+ products we have appropriate for human volunteers – for example, eye irritancy. on the market. In 2015 there have been no incidences of non-compliance with However, in certain countries we have to submit our finished products for regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of additional testing for regulatory reasons. When this is the case, we offer other our cosmetic or Wellness products during their life cycle in any of our markets. safety guarantees and try to persuade the relevant authorities to accept this 100% of Oriflame’s global cosmetic, accessory and Wellness products follow data. We also work with the European Cosmetic Trade Association, Cosmetics strict internal procedures and are assessed prior to launch to ensure they meet Europe, to bring these kinds of local laws into closer alignment with European regulations. When unsuccessful, we must occasionally – and reluctantly – submit We never compromise on the safety of our consumers the relevant labelling requirements in all markets in which the products are sold e.g. EU Cosmetics Regulation No 1223/2009 for cosmetics, 1169/2011 finished products for further testing, which may include animal testing. For more – their wellbeing is of paramount importance to us. for Foodstuffs. details, please see our policy on animal testing. 40 41 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Bring Beauty & Wellbeing through COMMITMENT 13 Continuously increase the use of post-consumer recycled (PCR) 8 FOCUS ON PRODUCT INGREDIENTS AND SAFETY RESPONSIBLE plastics in our cosmetic packaging materials. Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: On track COMMITMENT 17 PCR content is being introduced in plastic tubes wherever possible. Due Continue sustainability review of ingredients used across our product portfolio. Review all cosmetic ingredients by 2015. GREAT PRODUCTS PRODUCTS to a number of reasons, e.g. limitations in suppliers providing PCR, the percentage of tube concepts launched during 2015 containing PCR material Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed decreased to 10%. 100% of our current cosmetics raw materials have been sustainability reviewed and profiled. 7 FOCUS ON INNOVATION COMMITMENT 18 Focus on ingredient impact and work to phase out prioritised COMMITMENT 14 ingredients from a safety, environmental or ethical perspective. Launch at least one sustainable Oriflame product innovation annually, for example the innovative Ecobeauty range, from 2015. Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: Completed Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed We currently use only a small number of ingredients that feature on the Sin 6 IMPROVE THE SUSTAINABILITY In 2015 all of our new scrub products launched with natural origin beads, e.g. 2.1 list (list of 626 chemicals identified as harmful by NGO ChemSec). We are closely monitoring these ingredients, and address ingredient topics through PROFILE OF OUR PRODUCTS poppy seed, almond shell, silica and sugar. In 2016 we will see the re-launch our Ingredient Integrity Process. of a more refined, luxurious Ecobeauty range which will include some certiCOMMITMENT 11 fied organic skincare products and certified Fairtrade skincare products. COMMITMENT 19 Drive continuous progress by ensuring that product Continue to implement the Oriflame Product Safety Evaluation categories improve sustainability profile year-on-year. COMMITMENT 15 process ensuring a single global safety standard. Launch a biopolymer packaging. Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: On track Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed Several initiatives are in progress with the aim to improve the products’ In 2015 there were no incidences of non-compliance with regulations and sustainability profile looking at both the raw material and product perspecIn 2015 we carried out a successful industrialisation trail of a biopolymer voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our cosmetic tive. A number of launches with a clear sustainability direction are being bottle in one of our manufacturing sites, and subsequently launched 100,000 or wellness products. The safety evaluation process applies to 100% of our developed. All exfoliating products launched in 2015 contained natural origin bottles on the market. We are currently assessing feasibility of driving the cosmetic and wellness products. scrubs. Our Ingredient Integrity Process progressed allowing us to address use of biopolymers further. specific ingredients. Strategy work within all categories is being formalised. COMMITMENT 16 9 MARKET PRODUCTS THAT MEET COMMITMENT 12 Focus on innovation by increasing use of actives from plant biotechnology. HIGH SOCIAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS Develop a tool to drive sustainability improvements in product Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: Completed development by 2014. COMMITMENT 20 We have incrementally increased the use of plant stem cells in our products Deadline: 2014 2015 Progress: Completed from 4 products on the market in 2013 to 20 products on the market in Respect animal welfare by never using cosmetic ingredients derived The tool has been launched and applied to a number of relevant ranges 2015, and will continue to drive forward. from dead animals or which cause harm or suffering to animals. enabling us to drive improvements by comparing different alternatives during Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed the development process. No products were launched during 2015 breaching this commitment. 42 43 THRIVING PLANET We are committed to reducing the impact of our business. THRIVING PLANET We have a bold ambition: to make our business environmentally sustainable. To reach this goal, we launched a new environmental strategy in 2010, which we updated in 2014. The strategy, and its accompanying actions, is built on both a thorough understanding of our impact and a long held business-wide commitment to the principles of sustainability. Below are a few highlights of our achievements so far. HIGHLIGHTS • In 2015, 98% of our catalogue paper came from credibly certified We are proud of these achievements but we recognise we still forests. have a long way to go. To ultimately reach our goal of business-wide • In 2015, the Noginsk production site in Russia received Silver environmental sustainability we need to: certification using the LEED® for New Construction rating system. • Source only renewable or recycled materials In addition Oriflame’s new Wellness facility in Roorkee, India • Ensure no emissions to water and no negative impact received Gold certification under the LEED® for New Construction on water availability rating system. • Achieve neutral or net positive carbon emissions • We stopped more than 90% of our manufacturing waste from • Send no waste to landfill going to landfill in 2015. • Develop sites and operations with no negative impact. • Since 2010, we have cut our carbon dioxide emissions by 31%. In 2015 they decreased by almost 6% comparing to 2014. • Oriflame reached a score of 99B in the CDP 2015 climate change CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON IMPACT evaluation – an international recognition for our actions to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the business risks of climate change. We have made commitments under each of these five areas. To sustain progress, most of these commitments focus on taking action • In 2013, WWF gave us 11 out 12 on their Palm oil Scorecard, where our business makes the biggest impact, and where we can placing us among the best in our industry. influence real change. As our journey continues, we will increase the • We undertook a comprehensive water impact study in 2013 and number and reach of these commitments to further reduce our impact are working to reduce impact focusing mainly on emissions to across our value chain. water from our products. 45 We are working to make our business sustainable across our value chain. Because Progress on palm oil a significant proportion of our impact comes from the raw materials we use, we need to make the right decisions about how, where and what we source. We are among the industry leaders when it comes to sustainable sourcing of Today, we select sustainable and renewable materials whenever possible. We one of our main raw materials – palm oil. Palm oil is one of the world’s most have commitments for two of our main raw materials: paper and palm oil. widely used raw ingredients and demand continues to rise. This is a problem because its cultivation has a number of serious environmental impacts – such as Progress on paper large-scale forest conversion and habitat loss, soil erosion, pollution and climate THRIVING PLANET change. However, compared to other vegetable oils, palm oil gives the highest Our main raw material is paper and other wood-based products, which we yield per hectare and requires the fewest fertilisers and pesticides. use for catalogues and packaging. Forests are a vital part of global and local By 2020, we have committed to source 100% certified sustainable palm oil* eco-systems – they provide habitats, preserve biodiversity, clean our air and by physical supply chain. While there is enough of this resource available in its water, absorb carbon and provide people with materials, food and livelihoods. raw form, there is a very limited supply of its derivatives. Because it is these In line with a strategy developed in collaboration with the Rainforest Alliance derivatives that go into our product ingredients, we cannot switch as quickly in 2010, we have committed to source 100% of our paper and board packaging as we would like to physically segregated palm oil. See our sourcing commitand publications from credibly certified or recycled origins by 2020. In practice, ments page or the RSPO website (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) for this means giving preference to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified information on this issue. paper when possible. If FSC is not available, we allow other certifications that meet our minimum requirements – these are very closely modelled on FSC This commitment will be a significant challenge, but we have a strong track Controlled Wood requirements. record to work from: Every year we ask our paper and board suppliers to report on their paper • In 2010, we started purchasing GreenPalm credits to cover 100% our conuse and full supply chain. We ask for data on the quantity of paper and board, sumption and raise awareness of the issues surrounding palm oil. We were the location of the forests and the exact species of the trees. This data is among the first in the cosmetic industry to do this. consolidated and we report publicly on the results. We have not yet had these • In 2012, we made the world’s first foaming product that contained only RSPO results independently audited, but are working closely with the Rainforest Allicertified segregated sustainable palm oil. ance to understand and analyse our suppliers’ responses and documentation. • In 2013, WWF gave us 11 out 12 on their Palm oil Scorecard, placing us For example, in 2015, we were able to trace 98% of our catalogue paper to among the best in our industry. a credibly certified origin. • In 2014 we started purchasing mass balance certified palm oil and in 2015 this represented 10% of our total volume. We plan to increase the share of mass balance materials further during the coming years. • We have participated in RSPO Conferences since 2011, and are currently a Credibly Certified Catalogue Paper member of four different working groups within the organisation. We are 94% 93% 98% recognised as a role model in our industry and continuously work to share SUSTAINABLE sourcing 100 84% insights with companies who want to make their palm oil use sustainable. 80 • In October the Swedish Initiative on Sustainable Palm Oil in Cosmetics and 55% Detergents was launched with Oriflame as one of the co-initiators. 60 40 * The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil developed a standard for the certification of 20 sustainable palm oil production. The Segregation supply chain model ensures that RSPO-certified 0 oil palm products delivered to the end user comes only from RSPO certified sources. Our ambition is to source only renewable and recyclable materials. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 For more information, please visit www.rspo.org. 46 47 Carbon emissions, 2010–2015 Carbon footprint and 100 000 80 000 CLIMATE CHANGE OTHER 60 000 tCO2e BUSINESS TRAVEL 40 000 LOGISTICAL THRIVING PLANET TRANSPORTATION 20 000 BUILDING We are taking action to cut emissions across our business. By 2020, we want to cut Oriflame’s CO2 impact by half *. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ENERGY Carbon emissions are a serious global challenge. There is more carbon dioxide the scope of issues under consideration. We will continue to review the likely in more than 50% decrease in emissions from globally organised transportation in the atmosphere today than there has been for 650,000 years. Fourteen out impacts of climate change on our business and supply model. since 2010. of the fifteen warmest years on record have occurred since 2001, and the • We are gradually consolidating local warehouses and moving our product number of extreme weather events continues to rise. Results since 2010 sourcing, catalogue printing and Global Distribution Centres (GDCs), closer Changing global climate patterns will mean more extreme and unpredictable to our major markets, resulting in lower environmental impacts as well as weather with for example more frequent storms, heat waves, droughts and By implementing a company-wide program, we reduced the emissions from reduced lead times. floods. Greenhouse Gases, including carbon emissions, are one of the major Oriflame’s operations by 6% compared to 2014 and by 31% since 2010. • We are continuously reviewing the packing and loading routines so that more contributors to climate change. In addition they contain particles that result in The emissions intensity measured as emissions per €M revenue can fit in each truck and container. The average number of pallets shipped local air pollution and health issues. (tCO2e/€M) was 45.1 in 2015, a reduction of 13% since 2010. Compared in each truck and container have increased by more than 50% since 2010. Our business has a presence in countries that are already experiencing the to 2014 the ratio decreased by almost 2%. The emissions per square meter (This helped saved us €5.4 million between 2010 and 2015!) effects of climate change, which encourages us to take bold action to reduce (tCO2 /m2), an indicator of energy efficiency, decreased compared to 2014 • We are improving our transportation routes, and focusing on reducing our our impact. Results from lifecycle assessments show that Oriflame impacts the and by 34% since 2010. air shipments. This also includes increasing the share of shipments directly climate in a multitude of ways; e.g. through the materials we source, manufacIn particular, reductions have been achieved thanks to the significant modificafrom suppliers to Oriflame markets’ warehouses. turing, transportation and travel and how the products are disposed at the end tions and changes to the set-up of our distribution network, which has resulted EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN 2015 • When selecting road carriers the aim is to utilise Euro 4, 5 and 6 standard of life. Working to reduce our climate impact throughout our whole value chain trucks wherever possible, thus reducing particle emissions. will make us more efficient as a company and help drive innovation. Emissions breakdown 2015 Since we track and analyse the emissions that are under our control, we Part of the reduction in emissions was also due to a 36% reduction in the Renewable energy consumption in manufacturing have been able to develop a strong strategy for where to make savings in both number of total pallets shipped since 2010, which was mainly due to lower sales. 40 000 emissions and cost. At our manufacturing sites we are also continuing to implement energy In line with the business strategy and Oriflame’s long-term vision to become a 29% efficiency measures, contributing to an absolute decrease in emissions and 35 000 TRAVEL 30 000 sustainable company, actions are being taken to reduce our carbon dependence achieving our 2015 targets. Initiatives include developing lower energy process25 000 through a wide range of initiatives. We started by focusing on our factories, 51% ing techniques, upgrading lighting and lighting control, improving heating and MWh 20 000 and then moved on to our operations and other areas over which we have ENERGY ventilations systems and focusing on better building insulation. 15 0000 control – such as our offices and our travels. Finally, we are continuously working to increase our share of renewable 10 0000 The next step is to start working on areas that we can influence but do not 20% energy across the business with the long-term ambition to achieve 100% renewLOGISTICS 5 0000 control. This means reaching along our value chain to find and create opportuable energy in Oriflame owned buildings. During 2015 42% of total electrical 28% 28% 26% 44% 39% 21% nities for change among our suppliers and our consumers. We intend to expand consumption, and 21% of energy use in manufacturing came from renewable 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 our strategy both in terms of reach across the supply chain but also regarding sources. The decrease is mainly due to divestment of Swedish factory and a ENERGY CONSUMPTION RENEWABLE ENERGY * This goal is based on emissions relative turnover from 2010 as our base year. ramp up in our new Russian factory. . 48 49 To understand these challenges better, we conducted a water impact study of Waste is an area of significant impact for our business. A large proportion of the lifecycle of a representative selection of our key products in 2013. our products and their packaging end up in landfill, which is problematic as The results of this study have helped us define the focus areas for our water unmanaged landfill creates a lot of harmful gases and contaminants, including strategy and strengthen our existing commitments. For example, we learned methane – a particularly potent greenhouse gas. just how much of our water footprint comes from customers using our prodWe realise the scale of our waste challenge and are committed to tackling it. ucts – and how much higher the impact of this is in water-scarce countries like Much of our progress will come from creating better, more efficient packaging India. Because of this, we are looking at how we can engage our customers in the first place. That means continuing to increase the number of materials we THRIVING XXXPLANET around more sustainable water use. use that have already been recycled, and making sure consumers can dispose of We know that the water impact from our manufacturing sites is a limited our products responsibly. Even though the volume is smaller, it is also important part of the life cycle impact, however, for local communities this impact may for us to address the waste that is created across the rest of our business. be important. Therefore we have looked at the exact locations of our manufacturing sites and we conducted a first analysis of the risks and impacts of the different locations. New targets for reducing water usage at our sites have Packaging for cosmetics now been set for 2020. Another important focus area raised by the study is the biodegradability of our ingredients. Many beauty products end up in the water system – in particular, rinse off products like shower gel and shampoo. We have already committed to using only biodegradable cleansing ingredients in our personal care products and the findings of our study are helping us prioritise how to strengthen this 45% PLASTIC commitment further, for example by phasing out specific ingredients. 41% GLASS WATER FRESHWATER WITHDRAWAL Life cycle stages shampoo 20 8% 6% PAPERBOARD METAL Waste We are limiting our impact on water END-OF-LIFE LITRE / CONSUMER USE 15 – globally and locally. USE STAGE A snapshot of the different materials we use for packaging our cosmetics, by weight. This information helps us decide where to make the most impactful changes. DISTRIBUTION Water is an important part of our environmental impact. Today, water security 10 is one of the most serious and fastest-growing environmental challenges facing MANUFACTURING Towards zero waste to landfill MANAGEMENT our world. Demand for water is increasing and analysis suggests that by 2030 By 2020, we plan to send zero waste to landfill across our manufacturing – in the world will face a 40% gap between what we need and what is available. PACKAGING PRODUCTION 2015 90% of our waste avoided landfill, the vast majority going to recycling. Water issues are therefore a global challenge, but because we operate in 5 INGREDIENTS We will also be working to find new ways to help our three million consultants water-scarce countries, it is important for us to consider the implications on a local level too. Looking specifically at our business, there are two main challenges We are taking responsibility for waste reduce their waste – both while at our service centres and elsewhere in their lives. The first step is making sure all our service centres have recycling facilities we need to address: water contamination and water scarcity. 0 across our value chain. – today, more than 50% offer at least some form of recycling. 50 51 Oriflame sites and OPERATIONS OPR, RUSSIA THRIVING PLANET The manufacturing facility in Noginsk, Russia, has implemented many innovative environmentally conscious measures. For example, a highly efficient mechanical Our business can make a positive social and environmental impact ventilation system in combination with a triple-glazed facade were installed to increase energy efficiency in the building. In addition, a special aluminium-zinc roof in the communities where we operate. ensures that summer heat is not absorbed into the building, reducing the need for air conditioning. We want to reduce the impact of our events, projects and facilities – it is innovative measures focusing in particular on water and energy efficiency and Compared with the LEED® baseline, water usage for personnel occupying the important we get our own house in order. Increasing the sustainability profile included the installation of roof mounted solar panels. building has been reduced by 46%. Carbon dioxide meters in the meeting rooms of Oriflame’s buildings and operations is a key priority. We have also developed internal guidelines and audits to improve our enviand industry-leading certified flooring materials ensure that the building has a LEED ® – or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design – is a green ronmental performance across our business sites. The ‘Oriflame Green Office healthy indoor environment. building certification program that recognises best-in-class building strategies Guide’ includes detailed instructions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Transportation to the site has been planned to limit the use of cars by encourTwo new and practices. We are aiming towards LEED ® certifying all our new construcminimising waste, sourcing sustainably and optimising water use. In 2015 the aging the use of cycling for local workers and by the provision of a company bus tion and major renovations. We are proud to say that our new Manufacturing internal audit program continued to be rolled out at production sites, warehousservice to transport workers from nearby villages. A large number of materials facility at Noginsk, Russia was awarded a LEED ® Silver certification in 2015 es and offices. The audits are focused on environmental sustainability including were sourced locally during construction to minimize carbon impacts associated LEED certified using the LEED ® for New Construction rating system. In addition our new energy efficiency, water consumption and waste. The results have helped us with transportation. Manufacturing sites at Roorkee, India received Gold certification under the identify areas of improvement and establishing energy saving programs that ® FACTORIES LEED ® for New Construction rating system. The project incorporated many can be replicated across the facilities. All manufacturing sites have targets to reduce their impact. OHI, INDIA Our goal is to apply sustainability to every project and event that we plan. The Wellness facility in Roorkee, India, has also included many innovative meaFor example, we need to improve the overall impact of our global conferences. sures. The design incorporated extensive rainwater harvesting, and water saving We already include travel for business and consultants travelling to Oriflame sanitary fittings throughout the wash rooms and canteen. This minimizes water conferences in our CO2 scope – and have seen a significant decrease in emisusage and discharge from the facility, with recovered and treated waste water sions from travel since 2010. We have invested in video conferencing systems and are making sure everyDuring 2015, our two new manufacturing facilities being re-used for landscaping. Energy consumption has been minimised by innovative designs, such as heat one has access to the right software for online conferences, and knows how and in Noginsk, Russia and Roorkee, India received reflective roof paint for minimising the heat island effect and thus saving on coolwhen to use it. We also regularly communicate with our employees to keep silver and gold certification under the LEED® for ing energy. For lighting we have installed motion sensor technology in the offices, them informed on our targets, progress and the actions we are undertaking. corridors and wash rooms, along with high efficient lights, all to contribute to Our Global Travel Policy encourages all our employees to make travel choices New Construction rating system. LEED® – or energy conservation. Roof mounted solar panels have been installed, providing that balance cost, convenience and environmental impact. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design – around 10% of the running power requirement.The remaining share of electricity We have also published a collection of Guidelines for Responsible Conferis drawn from the state municipal supply which is largely hydro generated. ences, which are designed to help us run more sustainable conferences that is a green building certification program that recognises Many of the construction and installation materials were sourced locally, in create pride and a sense of belonging among our leaders and employees. best-in-class building strategies and practices. order to minimize the impact associated with transportation. 52 53 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Drive environmental  REDUCE EMISSIONS TO AIR COMMITMENT 31 SUSTAINABILITY Increase renewable energy in factories to 70% by 2018. COMMITMENT 26 Long term ambition to achieve 100% renewable in Oriflame owned buildings. Reduce CO2 emissions from global Oriflame operations by 50% by 2020. Deadline: 2018 2015 Progress: On track Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track During 2015 42% of total electrical consumption, and 21% of energy conTHRIVING PLANET During 2015, the total greenhouse gas emissions from our operations sumption at Oriflame factories came from renewable sources. The decrease decreased by 6% in absolute terms and almost by 2% in relative terms. is mainly due to divestment of the Swedish factory and the ramp up of  SOURCE RENEWABLE AND SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT 24 Since our base year 2010, absolute emissions are down by 31% and relative factory in Noginsk, Russia. Source 100% of catalogue paper from credibly certified origin by 2016. emissions by 14%. MATERIALS WHENEVER POSSIBLE. Deadline: 2016 2015 Progress: On track COMMITMENT 27  REDUCE EMISSIONS TO WATER COMMITMENT 21 In the annual supply chain analysis of our catalogue suppliers we found that Reduce CO 2 emissions from factories by 20% by 2015. Source 100% certified sustainable palm oil by physical supply chain by 2020. 98% of catalogue paper was fully compliant with our paper commitment – COMMITMENT 32 Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track which means it came from a credibly certified source with an intact chain of Use only biodegradable cleansing ingredients in 100% of our custody. We are continuously working to increase our share of renewable energy Personal Care products. In 2015 we continued to purchase certified segregated palm oil for our while becoming more energy efficient. The electricity at our largest manutrademarked product. In 2014 we started purchasing mass balance certified Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed COMMITMENT 25 facturing site in Poland is from 100% certified renewable sources. Our new material and during 2015 this volume represented 10% of the palm oil used. Only biodegradable cleansing ingredients were used in our Personal Care Source 100% of display packaging cartons and leaflets from FSC certified Wellness factory in India is getting part of its electricity from solar panels. In We plan to increase the share of mass balance materials further in the developments during 2015. We are investigating how to broaden our focus sources by 2016. total our CO2 emission have decreased by 23% in absolute terms and 13% coming years. on biodegradability going forward. Deadline: 2016 2015 Progress: On track per unit since 2010. COMMITMENT 22 The analysis of our supply chain for packaging cartons and leaflets purchased COMMITMENT 33 COMMITMENT 28 Promote sustainable palm oil by purchasing GreenPalm credits during 2015 showed that 85% of the material was certified by the Forest Start to phase out plastic micro beads in all new products from 2014. Reduce CO2 emissions from factories by 15% by 2020. to cover 100% of our consumption. Stewardship Council (FSC), a decrease compared to previous year mainly Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: New Deadline: 2014 2015 Progress: Completed Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed due to lower global volumes in combination with a growth in Asia. In 2015 all of our new scrub products launched with natural origin beads – We purchased GreenPalm credits to cover our full 2015 volume. COMMITMENT 29 e.g. poppy seed, almond shell, silica and sugar. We are continuing to add to Reduce energy use in factories by 15% by 2015. the portfolio of natural origin scrubs with olive stone in some future launchCOMMITMENT 23 Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed es. There will be no manufacture of products containing plastic microbeads Source 100% of wood fibre from credible certified sources by 2020. after end 2016. Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track Numerous initiatives to reduce energy consumption have been implemented during 2015, e.g. by improved technical processes. The energy consumption In total, all paper and board surveyed in 2015 showed a compliance rate has decreased by 22% in absolute terms since 2010 while energy consumpof 97%. We will keep working to ensure that 100% of our paper is proven tion per unit increased slightly. acceptable by our policy. COMMITMENT 30 Reduce energy use in factories by 15% by 2020. Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: New 54 55 GOALS & COMMITMENTS  REDUCE SOLID WASTE  REDUCE IMPACT FROM ORIFLAME ACTIVITIES, EVENTS, PROJECTS & FACILITIES COMMITMENT 34 Reduce waste disposed at all our factories by 10% by 2015. COMMITMENT 38 THRIVING PLANET Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed Pursue LEED Green Building scheme certification for all new construction We have reduced the waste produced per unit by 13% since 2010. and major renovations and pursue environmental effectiveness on all our In absolute terms this represents a decrease of 36%. premises. Deadline: Ongoing 2015 Progress: Completed COMMITMENT 35 During 2015 two manufacturing sites received certification using the LEED ® Reduce waste disposed at all our factories by 15% by 2020. for New Construction rating system. The Noginsk production site in Russia Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: New received Silver certification and our new Wellness facility in Roorkee, India received Gold certification. COMMITMENT 36 Send no waste to land-fill from our factories by 2020. COMMITMENT 39 Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: On track Reduce water use at all our factories by 10% by 2015. In 2015, approximately 90% of all waste produced at Oriflame’s factories Deadline: 2015 2015 Progress: Completed avoided ending up in landfill. In absolute terms, water consumption has decreased by 13% since 2010. However, due to a drop in units and changes in product sizes, the per unit COMMITMENT 37 consumption has increased by 18%. Increase recycling of packaging by gradually introducing recycling facilities at our service centres worldwide. COMMITMENT 40 Deadline: Year on year 2015 Progress: More to do Reduce water use at all our factories by 15% by 2020. In 2013, 90% of our offices and service centres were surveyed on recycling Deadline: 2020 2015 Progress: New practices. 30% of locations recycle at least three different materials, the most common being paper (60% of locations), carton (53%), plastic (31%) and glass (25%). The main reason not to recycle is the lack of infrastructure (20% of respondents). 56 57 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS We want to reach along our value chain to find and create opportunities for change among our suppliers. A large proportion of the overall social and environment impact of a company occurs in its supply chain, beyond the direct scope of operations. In Oriflame, we believe that integrating sustainability criteria within the procurement practices is essential in order to move towards a more sustainable supply chain. We believe that companies should work towards guaranteeing responsible practices throughout the supply chain and work alongside their suppliers to help improve their performance. Below are presented a few highlights of our work so far. HIGHLIGHTS • We strive to move sourcing closer to our main sales markets, and during the year we increased regional sourcing by buying more from suppliers based in strategic locations, particularly in the CIS region and India. • During 2013, a new self-assessment tool was launched to strategic • In 2015, Oriflame audited more than 35% of global direct and global suppliers. The trial results were positive, and the tool has been second tier accessory suppliers, above the annual target. further rolled out to more key suppliers during 2014 and 2015. Suppliers representing 60% of our total direct and indirect • All global suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and procurement spend and more than 95% of our Finished Goods every new global supplier is requested to do this before entering suppliers, currently use the self-assessment tool. into a business relationship with Oriflame. 59 Oriflame’s Oriflame produces close to 50% of cosmetic products in-house with manuSustainability audit score results Asia Sustainability audits Asia, % compliance facturing sites located in Poland, Russia, India and China. External suppliers in Western and Central Europe, Russia, Ukraine and Asia produce the majority of 60% FORCED LABOR SUPPLY the remaining products, including cosmetics, accessories and wellness products. CHILD LABOR & YOUNG WORKERS Through different regional sourcing initiatives, we strive to source as closely 50% to our markets as possible, to shorten the supply chain and increase service EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS levels. During 2015 we continued to increase regional sourcing by buying more DORMITORY & KITCHEN 40% from suppliers based in strategic locations, particularly in the CIS region and DISCRIMINATION India including locally produced raw materials, components and finished goods CHAIN 30% WORKING HOURS & WAGES to both support in-house manufacturing and to build external competences. FACILITY SAFETY & HEALTH 20% Helping our suppliers improve CHEMICAL SAFETY FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Our Oriflame Global Supplier Evaluation program is an important way for us 10% CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM to improve sustainability performance, including human rights, across our value ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION chain. The program allows us to objectively assess our suppliers on a range of 0% sustainability criteria. Every global supplier is part of this program, and joins it EXCELLENT GOOD ACCEPTABLE WEAK 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% by committing to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have a five-step process that sets out requirements and details how suppliers are evaluated, scored and developed. The foundation of this process is the Supplier Code of Conduct which outlines our requirements regarding for This self-assessment tool enables us to collect and evaluate sustainability data taken for any non-compliance. Oriflame has staff located in both China and example working conditions, health and safety, discrimination and environmental from our suppliers. Suppliers are required to provide relevant documentation India dedicated to conducting sustainability audits. During 2014, audits were impact. The Code applies to all our direct suppliers; however, we encourage our that evidences their sustainability performance, for example, energy audits, also carried out at all key trading houses themselves to evaluate their systems suppliers to implement this Code of Conduct upstream in their own value chain. certifications, social compliance data, and so on. The data is analysed and audited and processes and our plan is to repeat these audits on a regular basis. A limited The Supplier evaluation process also helps us to identify high-risk suppliers in order to evaluate the supplier and rate it, checking that its performance is amount of accessories are developed locally and we are currently working to and prioritise their audit and evaluation. We conduct regular site visits at all of acceptable for Oriflame. A number of aspects within the areas of environment, put processes in place to ensure that quality and sustainability aspects at these our product subcontractors and packaging suppliers, and undertake sustainability social issues, supply chain and ethics are being considered during this evaluation. local suppliers are acceptable. audits at high-risk suppliers, especially in Asia. When non-conformances are found and suppliers do not achieve minimum We support suppliers willing to make improvements, and will stop working with any that score below the requisite grade and are unwilling to commit to requirements through this evaluation system, we make sure that we work with them and provide the support for them to improve and achieve acceptable levels. Audits of accessories suppliers in 2015 making a positive change. Suppliers representing 60% of our total direct and indirect procurement In 2015, Oriflame audited more than 35% of global direct and global second tier When screening and selecting new suppliers we also take sustainability perforspend and more than 95% of our Finished Goods suppliers, currently use the accessories suppliers, above the annual target. Some of the suppliers received mance into consideration. A risk evaluation process also includes considerations self-assessment tool. follow-up audits during 2015. The majority of these audits achieved results on human rights issues such as child and forced labour. that were considered good or acceptable, however, work to improve supplier Accessories from Asia performance is ongoing. Environmental protection, CSR management systems, Supplier self-assessment tool For our global accessories suppliers, Oriflame works in co-operation with and freedom of association are the top three issues of non-conformance found during the audits. When non-conformances are found a corrective action plan During 2013 a new self-assessment tool was launched to strategic suppliers. established trading houses that conduct annual audits of their subcontractors. In is put in place and the supplier is given a set amount of time to improve their The trial results were positive, and the tool has been further rolled out to more addition to these audits, Oriflame conducts its own audits to ensure compliance performance. key suppliers during 2014 and 2015. with the Supplier Code of Conduct, and to verify that necessary actions are 60 61 ABOUT THIS report Oriflame has a strategy for becoming a more sustainable company about the development of the Company and its operations, references which includes communicating openly on our commitments and are made to the Oriflame Annual Report for the fiscal year 2015. progess. During the last years, we have increased our reporting Unless otherwise specified, all data concerning suppliers and supplier gradually and we published our first separate Sustainability Report factories includes all suppliers and factories that were active and in 2014. approved for production during the reporting period. Our GHG emissions calculations and reporting is aligned with the GHG Protocol This Sustainability Report covers material sustainability strategies, and Defra. This methodology has been reviewed and approved by an activites and performances for the company Oriflame Holding external party, SGS, which also conducted a limited assurance review AG (called Oriflame in this report) during the period January 1 to of our logistics and manufacturing emissions, in accordance with the December 31, 2015, unless stated otherwise. Franchise operations are requirements set by the CDP. not covered in this report. This report was published on Oriflame’s website, www.oriflame.com, on May 18, where you can also find This report has been developed and reviewed by Oriflame´s additional information about our sustainability efforts. sustainability team, relevant experts in the company, and is approved by the CEO. Our reporting in this document is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, level Core and a GRI index with references for all applicable principles is found on our website. CONTACT INFORMATION Information and facts are selected on the basis of sustainability aspects Antonia Simon-Stenberg assessed essential for Oriflame’s operations, and are based on the best VP Sustainability & Quality Management possible sources known by the company. Regarding some information Antonia.Simon-Stenberg@oriflame.com 62 63 © 2016 Oriflame Cosmetics AG
