ITG COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS United Nations Global Compact 1 April, 2015 – 31 March, 2016 Integrated Technology Group www.itgsolutions.com ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO Statement of continued support by our CEO April, 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm and reaffirm ITG’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Integrity and good business ethics is what ITG was and is committed to since its first days of operation. And as we grow further, our commitment towards such positive values remains stronger than ever, as we strive to maintain good conduct at all times, and in all markets and countries in which we operate. We believe in doing the right thing. We believe that it is a responsibility we hold towards ourselves and towards others, and thus we aim to ensure that this is reflected in everything we do, among ourselves, with our partners, suppliers, clients, competition, and our community. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Walid Tahabsem President & CEO … 2 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP Human Rights Principles HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES ITG supports the UNGC on Human Rights. The company has clear SHOULD SUPPORT AND policies supporting human rights under its “Code of Conduct” RESPECT THE PROTECTION communicated to all employees and published on the ITG OF INTERNATIONALLY employee portal. Our company is highly committed to providing an PROCLAIMED HUMAN equal opportunity work environment. ITG encourages openness RIGHTS; AND and honesty, and aims to provide an environment that is supportive, and where everyone is treated fairly, and with PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE courtesy and respect. ITG believes in its responsibility towards the THAT THEY ARE NOT various communities in the countries it operates, and continues to COMPLICIT IN HUMAN demonstrate its strong commitment towards helping in building RIGHTS ABUSES sustainable development. The company provides a safe and healthy environment, and is committed to the privacy of its staff. The plan is to grow ITG’s involvement in community development programs and initiatives that promote human rights by at least 30% for this upcoming year. Implementation Reporting of any violations of human rights is done through communicating such violations to the employee’s management and/or to HR, where proper investigation is conducted accordingly. ITG does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. A grievance policy is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. A suggestions box is also available for all staff to use as needed with the option for anonymity. A steering committee, of which HR is part of, is responsible for follow up and monitoring of the various cases and developing procedures as needed to ensure compliance. … 3 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP On another aspect related to community development, ITG carries HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES out various CSR programs. Such programs focus on the areas of education and empowerment of youth and women in underprivileged communities. As an example of one of ITG’s CSR programs is the “Knowledge Stations” (community centers) that ITG sponsors in various communities. ITG has established this initiative in partnership with local NGOs and CSOs. These Knowledge stations are developed with the aim to provide the women, men and children in these communities with access to technologies to help them develop their skills and improve their employability and job opportunities. Education is seen to ITG as a basic human right. As such, ITG is involved in global initiatives that aim to provide access to education for those in need, especially world refugees. ITG is a founding member of the “World Refugees School” initiative, of which phase I addresses the Syrian refugees’ crisis. Measurement of Outcomes Regarding the company’s grievances, Our HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all related issues and grievances. During last year, one grievance was filed. Actions was taken accordingly, and the issue was resolved. We will continue to monitor all incompliances and develop procedures as needed. … 4 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP Labor Principles LABOR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES ITG supports the UNGC principles on Labor. The company’s SHOULD UPHOLD THE employment contracts and bi-laws along with ITG’s Code of FREEDOM OF Conduct include a clear position on labor rights and principles and ASSOCIATION AND THE in accordance to the various employment laws in the countries in EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION which we operate. OF THE RIGHT TO ITG is also an equal opportunity employer. All employment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING; decisions at ITG are made based solely on job requirements and qualifications of applicants. ITG does not permit any discrimination PRINCIPLE 4: THE or harassment of any sort based on age, race, color, gender, ELIMINATION OF ALL religion, beliefs, origin, disability, sexual orientation, or any other FORMS OF FORCED AND basis as protected and applicable by law in the countries in which COMPULSORY LABOR; ITG operates. ITG believes in the significance of women’s participation in the workforce and as such is highly committed to PRINCIPLE 5: THE gender equity. ITG was awarded the UN Women Gender Equity EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF Seal in 2013 (ranked first in Jordan), thus ensuring that all activities CHILD LABOR; AND and operations in the company are aligned with such policies, and that its women employment rate is increased year by year. Our PRINCIPLE 6: THE current rate is around 40% where the country average is 14%. ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN ITG is also an active board member of the Jordan Strategy Forum RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT (JSF) which is an entity that encourages and helps in advocating for AND OCCUPATION positive changes in the country in various aspects. One of the involvements of ITG in labor related rights and activities is being one of the key initiators of a special initiative to be coordinated through JSF and with the Jordanian Ministry of Labor, to help improve not only the overall labor situation in the country, but also improve the country’s business environment related to labor. This is the “Golden List” initiative which provides rankings and … 5 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP incentives to companies based on various categories and benchmarks related to various labor and employments aspects LABOR PRINCIPLES such as equality, respect of labor rights, safety, health, etc. The plan is to maintain the momentum of high women participation in the company and work on maintaining this to a minimum of 40% over the years. Implementation Reporting of any violations, discrimination or inappropriate conduct is done to the employee’s management and/or to HR, and proper investigation is conducted accordingly. ITG does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. ITG employees must cooperate in internal investigations of potential or alleged misconduct. A grievance policy is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. A suggestions box is also available for all staff to use as needed. A team (a steering committee of which HR is part of) monitoring such discrimination cases is responsible for follow up and monitoring of the various cases and developing procedures and recommendations as needed to ensure compliance. Measurement of Outcomes The company’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievances issues. During last year, one grievance was filed. Actions was taken accordingly, and the issue was resolved. We will continue to monitor all incompliances and develop procedures as needed. … 6 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP Environmental Principles ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES ITG supports the UNGC principles on Environment. The company SHOULD SUPPORT A has clear policies, messaging and positions supporting PRECAUTIONARY environmental principles under its “Code of Conduct” APPROACH TO communicated to all employees and published on the ITG ENVIRONMENTAL employee portal. The company encourages all its employees to be CHALLENGES; responsible individuals, and act accordingly internally and externally, towards the community and the environment. PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE ITG is committed to promoting and encouraging environmentally INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE responsible actions. This goes beyond government laws and GREATER regulations. Our employees are encouraged to help protect the ENVIRONMENTAL environment and act to the best of their ability to demonstrate RESPONSIBILITY; AND such a responsibility through conservation of energy and water, recycling, minimizing waste, maintaining a clean environment, PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE equipment re-use or refurbishment programs, etc. THE DEVELOPMENT AND The plan is to grow the company’s environment related activities DIFFUSION OF at a rate of 30% during the upcoming year. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Implementation Decisions on equipment purchase are made with various aspects in mind, along with performance, energy conservation is also considered. The design of our data centers (and those we design for our clients) also take into consideration such aspects. Moving towards virtual computing and cloud services are other areas of decreasing our energy footprint as well. From another aspect, ITG encourages recycling activities. A number of recycling bins are in distributed throughout our premises and material (paper mostly) are periodically sent to recycling sites in the country. We are … 7 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP continuously advocating such environment protection related ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES activities within the company and at homes through our staff. ITG also works on refurbishing some of its equipment as applicable, and distributes such refurbished devices to underprivileged communities through its CSR programs including the knowledge stations (community centers) that ITG sponsors for these communities. As part of its efforts to promote environmental protection activities, ITG annually observes “Earth Day –Lights Out” March of each year, as a symbolic gesture to drive awareness, and encourages its staff to participate at homes as well. Another problem area in Jordan is the almost negligible coverage of trees (less than 1% of country area), a very sad reality that we are trying to continuously improve. In this respect, ITG is a member and a volunteer of an important organization in Jordan that aims to increasing the trees coverage through continuous planting. More on this organization can be found under www.apnature.org/en. ITG has planted over 500 trees in Jordan during the past year. This is implemented with the wonderful participation of ITG’s staff who were encouraged to get involved in such environmental issues. Measurement of Outcomes Recycling activities are on the increase. ITG will work on further developing environmental programs within the company, encourage staff to implement, and build related procedures to ensure implementation as applicable, especially related to recycling and energy conservation. On the trees planting front, ITG plans to increase the number of planted trees in Jordan at least by 50% in the upcoming year. … 8 of 9 ITG | UN Global Compact | CoP Anti‐Corruption Principles ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals PRINCIPLE 10: ITG supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption, and has a BUSINESSES SHOULD zero tolerance policy towards corruption. ITG’s staff is requested WORK AGAINST to abide at all times by applicable laws and regulations of the CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS countries in which they work and visit. The company has clear FORMS, INCLUDING policies on anti-corruption that are presented and communicated EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. to its staff through ITG’s Code of Conduct. These policies include areas of business courtesies, bribery, as well as fair and clean competition, as the company is committed to following anti-trust laws and competition laws in the countries in which we operate. Our plan is to continuously maintain our clean record. Implementation ITG’s Code of Conduct is posted on the company’s portal and is introduced to new staff when they join. Within its policies, issues related to anti-corruption of any sort are escalated to line managers and HR for proper actions. Measurement of Outcomes ITG has not been involved in any corruption related cases. Our financial audits are carried out by an external international auditing firm, ensuring that no corruption related activities are accepted. … 9 of 9
