2015-2016 Communication on Progress A report on BDP’s commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Statement from the CEO BDP Background I am proud to present BDP’s annual Communica6on on Progress (COP) BDP Interna6onal, Inc. (“BDP”) report. BDP remains commi<ed to good corporate ci6zenship in the global was founded in 1966, and is now established as one of the leading community. This report expresses our con6nuing commitment to the UN privately held freight logis6cs/ Global Compact and its principles. At BDP, we strive to ensure that these transporta6on management ﬁrms principles are ingrained in BDP’s business culture, opera6ons and mission as in the United States. We have a company. BDP’s most valuable assets are its integrity and ethical opera6ons in more than 120 commitment, which set us apart from the compe66on. Protec6ng these countries, including more than assets and our reputa6on is the duty of everyone in BDP. To that end, we 115 oﬃces across the world, and employ over four thousand also strive to inﬂuence those with whom we do business (including our employees worldwide. BDP agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) to adhere to People believe in delivering on and embody our guiding principles. As a member of the the promise of service excellence, UN Global Compact, we will con6nue to promote and integrity, fair dealing and social conform to these values with our sphere of inﬂuence. commitment. BDP provides a range of services, including ocean, air and ground Sincerely, t r a n s p o r t a 6 o n ; f r e i g h t forwarding; logis6cs consul6ng services; and state of the art web-­‐ based shipping management systems. Richard J. Bolte, Jr. Chairman & CEO 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress | 2 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION ANTI Businesses should Businesses should uphold the Businesses should support a Businesses should work support and respect the protec6on freedom of associa6on and the precau6onary approach to against corrup6on in all its of interna6onally proclaimed eﬀec6ve recogni6on of the right to environmental challenges; forms, including extor6on human rights; Businesses collec6ve bargaining; The Businesses should undertake and bribery. should make sure that they are not elimina6on of all forms of forced ini6a6ves to promote greater complicit in human rights abuses. and compulsory labor; The environmental responsibility; and eﬀec6ve aboli6on of child labor; Businesses should encourage the and The elimina6on of diﬀusion and development of discrimina6on in respect of environmentally friendly employment and occupa6on. technologies. Principle 3 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 10 Principle 4 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 13 Principle 7 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 16 Principle 10 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 25 Principle 1 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐ page 4 Principle 5 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 13 Principle 2 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 8 Principle 8 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 19 Principle 6 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 15 Principle 9 -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐page 24 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |3 HUMAN RIGHTS BDP’s equal employment policy is a global policy which applies 1. to business in all regions, in order to promote the principles of Principle 1 non-­‐discrimina6on and equal opportuni6es regardless of race, religion, na6onal origin, gender, sexual orienta6on, disability, veteran or any other protected status. Business should support and respect BDP employees are informed of the policy and have access to BDP’s Equal Employment processes and mandates through the the protec6on of interna6onally Employee Handbook and Global Code of Conduct. BDP also proclaimed human rights. 2. provides employees with an anonymous hotline and web complaint form via the company intranet, to report any viola6ons or complaints to Human Resources and the Legal Department. COMMITMENT BDP Supports the interna6onally recognized human rights Applicants are recruited, hired and trained for all jobs without contained within the Universal Declara6on of Human Rights 3. regard to race, color, religion, na6onal origin, gender, sexual orienta6on, disability, veteran status or any other status and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. protected by federal, state or local laws. PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Compensa6on, beneﬁts, discipline, and company sponsored Equal Employment: BDP Interna6onal is proud to be an 4. programs and ac6vi6es are administered without regard to race, color, religion, age, na6onal origin, gender, sexual Equal Opportunity Employer. We believe that diversity of our employees worldwide is a great strength of BDP. BDP orienta6on, disability, veteran status or any other status protected by federal, state or local laws. does not discriminate in employment opportuni6es or prac6ce on the basis of race, color, religion, age, na6onal Transfers, promo6ons and lay-­‐oﬀ decisions are made without origin, gender, sexual orienta6on, disability, union aﬃlia6on, regard to race, color, religion, age, na6onal origin, gender, veteran status or any other status protected by law. We 5. sexual orienta6on, disability veteran status or any other status expect that all employees will be treated equally without protected by federal, state or local laws. regard to these characteris6cs. Consistent with this policy, BDP Interna6onal strives to ensure the following: 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |4 HUMAN RIGHTS BDP HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY: BDP is commi<ed to developing an organiza6onal culture which implements a policy of support for interna6onally recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. BDP maintains and BDP seeks to iden6fy, assess and manage human enforces a Human Rights Policy to ensure that all BDP rights impact within the sphere of inﬂuence. employees regardless of their religion, are treated fairly Amongst other things, BDP will: and equally, without prejudice, abuse or exploita6on. This Respect the human rights of all employees established in includes discrimina6on and other forms of abuse, in the ILO’s Declara6on of Fundamental Principles and regions where US laws do not apply and civil rights Rights at Work. procedures are not en6rely clear or known to BDP. Select major suppliers and contractors based on the We strive to maintain a universally acceptable standard compliance compa6bility with BDP human rights and social policies. for human rights, in accordance with UN principles and our global Human Rights Policy. Employees are expressly Respect the cultures, customs and values of people in informed about the policy, which is available to and communi6es where we operate. enforceable for all levels of employees, including senior management. The policy is maintained on the company intranet, and trainings designed by BDP’s Legal, Human Contribute, within the scope of our capabili6es, to the advancement and fulﬁllment of interna6onally Resources and Compliance teams are created to recognized human rights in the communi6es opera6ng promulgate the policy company wide. We also strive to and society at large by improving economic, ensure that all oﬃces maintain adequate working environmental and social condi6ons as well as by condi6ons for employees. This includes opportuni6es for responsible public engagement. career advancement, adequate rest and annual leave, appropriate working hours and compe66ve pay. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |5 HUMAN RIGHTS BDP ANTI-­‐HARRASMENT POLICY: GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT An important aspect of BDP’s Equal Employment BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct (the “Code”). The Opportunity Policy is to ensure that all individuals have Code applies to every oﬃcer, director and employee at the right and opportunity to work in an environment BDP Interna6onal. We also expect that those with whom that is free from harassment of any nature. BDP we do business (including our agents, consultants, maintains an An6-­‐Harassment Policy which applies to suppliers and customers) to adhere to the Code. Our Code sexual harassment as well as harassment on the basis of is designed to help our employees comply with the law and race, color, religion, gender or sex, na6onal origin, maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct. All BDP veteran status, age, disability, sexual orienta6on, familial Interna6onal oﬃcers, directors and employees must carry status, ci6zenship, gene6c informa6on or any other out their du6es in accordance with the policies set forth in characteris6c protected from discrimina6on under this Code and with applicable laws and regula6ons. federal, state or local law. Harassing behavior consists of discriminatory in6mida6on, ridicule, or insult that has the purpose or eﬀect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or of crea6ng an in6mida6ng, hos6le or oﬀensive work environment, as viewed from the perspec6ve of a reasonable person. The policy also forbids all forms of physical, sexual or other kinds of harassing behavior. The policy is global, and provides for repor6ng procedures in order to ensure accountability. BDP also maintains an anonymous complaint form on the company intranet, and a repor6ng hotline. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |6 HUMAN RIGHTS SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT: Due to the company’s dedica6on to safety, the corporate headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was awarded the Governor’s Award for Safety Through its safety commi<ee, BDP aims to maintain a Excellence on September 18, 2015. safe and healthy workplace by elimina6ng workplace injuries, iden6fying hazards and sugges6ng ways to prevent them. ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE: BDP oﬀers access to health, dental and vision insurance. BDP also The objec6ves of the commi<ee are: oﬀers re6rement packages and tui6on reimbursement for employees who wish to further their educa6on. Our US-­‐based Promptly review all safety-­‐related incidents, injuries, accidents, Human Resource Management System provides employees access illnesses and deaths; to wealth of health and wellness knowledge which allows employees to proac6vely manage their own medical history. Onsite ﬂu vaccines are provided in several of our US loca6ons. Conduct quarterly workplace inspecaons, idenafy hazards and Addi6onally, it is a requirement for BDP oﬃces around the globe recommend methods for eliminaang or controlling the hazards; to provide health insurance and support to employees in case of health related emergencies, or personal crisis, in terms of leave Annually evaluate BDP’s workplace safety and health program from work (ﬂexible work arrangements where possible such as work from home or ﬂexible hours) and HR support, for work and recommend improvements to management. related guidance. WORK/LIFE BALANCE: BDP values the commitment every employee makes to the organiza6on and as such oﬀers many beneﬁts to help employees achieve greater work/life balance, including: paid 6me oﬀ (for vaca6on, sick or personal leave), select holidays oﬀ of work, short-­‐ term and long-­‐term disability as well as honoring any regional government laws such as the Family Medical Leave Act. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |7 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that PROCCESES & SYSTEMS they are not complicit in human Violaaon of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, Human rights abuses. Rights Policy, Child Labor Policy, Equal Employment Policy or Ana-­‐Harassment Policy: Any viola6on of applicable law or any devia6on from the standards embodied in the Code will result in disciplinary ac6on, up to and including COMMITMENT termina6on. Disciplinary ac6on may also apply to an At BDP, we pride ourselves on our people, processes and employee’s supervisor who directs or approves the technology that reach beyond simply delivering our business employee’s improper ac6ons, or is aware of those ac6ons services. To provide the ﬁnest service experience in the but does not act appropriately to correct them. In addi6on world, BDP emphasizes the values of accountability, to imposing its own discipline, BDP may also bring customer care and enduring rela6onships in all regions suspected viola6ons of law to the a<en6on of the where we have opera6ons. These values are consistent with appropriate law enforcement personnel. BDP encourages our culture of suppor6ng human rights. We uphold the employees to no6fy Human Resources if a situa6on arises interna6onally recognized human rights contained within which the employee believes conﬂicts any of these the Universal Declara6on of Human Rights and seek to avoid policies. Addi6onally, BDP maintains a hotline as well as complicity in human rights abuses, and combat them an intranet-­‐based complaint form both of which allow however we can. BDP also maintains separate policies to employees to anonymously report suspected viola6ons to reinforce our stance against child labor, harassment and the Legal Department. All polices operated by BDP human rights viola6ons respec6vely. encourage employees to report any viola6ons to the appropriate supervising authority. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |8 HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL TALENT MANAGEMENT TEAM: BDP’s Training, Educa6on and Development (TED) Local Leadership Globally: BDP has experienced local demonstrates that BDP is commi<ed to inves6ng in our most leadership in every BDP loca6on and staﬀ who important asset, our people, by having global responsibility thoroughly understand local laws, cultures, business for the educa6on and development of all employees. BDP prac6ces and regula6ons. University is used to administer global awareness programs Industry Thought Leader: As a sought aker industry such as: thought leader, BDP encourages clients and employees through our various trade communica6ons, Trendwatch, TradeAdvisory, and Gateway, to maintain ethical best 1. Hazardous Materials prac6ces in all regions of the world. BDP also par6cipates in and hosts events geared towards industry issues, 2. Industry Regula6ons externali6es and ethics. For example, in 2015 we co-­‐ organized the Ethisphere Oil and Gas Ethics Summit in 3. An6-­‐Dumping Procedures, Environmental Obliga6ons Houston, Texas and we also hosted the Export/Import Regulatory seminar in Houston, Texas; among other 4. Regulatory and Legal Compliance conferences we were involved in. Hotline: In the event that employees become aware of any 5. Government Security Programs facts surrounding a transac6on that might be suspicious and give rise to a viola6on of the Code of Conduct, they 6. An6-­‐Corrup6on Compliance may anonymously advise BDP by calling +1 (866) 631-­‐2807. 7. Business and Ethics Risk Management Anonymous Complaint Form: Employees may also inform 8. Eﬀec6ve Emergency Management the company with regards to poten6al viola6ons via an anonymous complaint form, easily available on the company’s intranet site. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |9 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Pay: BDP follows minimum pay requirements in each loca6on we operate and oﬀers compe66ve industry Businesses should uphold the compensa6on. freedom of associa6on and the eﬀec6ve recogni6on of the right to Performance Management: Each year, BDP publishes collec6ve bargaining. Key Performance Indicators for the en6re global organiza6on. These indicators are communicated clearly COMMITMENT and swikly throughout the organiza6on, and each employee is assigned personal Key Performance BDP strongly encourages all employees to own their Indicators by their manager. Through a semi-­‐annual personal career development through a variety of policies review process, each employee has the opportunity to and programs within our organiza6on. Through our discuss their progress towards mee6ng these goals performance based processes, every employee has the within the annual 6meframe and to communicate their ability to re-­‐nego6ate their posi6ons and wages during the expecta6on for increased responsibility and/or salary review period. Performance reviews and internal job requirements. pos6ngs are used to incen6vize career development and personal growth for all BDP personnel. Employee Classiﬁca6on: BDP classiﬁes employees under applicable employee categories for the region in which Further, BDP maintains assistance programs, such as they operate (ex. exempt/non-­‐exempt). All employees reloca6on assistance, and polices for accommoda6ng have a service date associated with their date of hire emergencies or other employee needs, for example in the that governs their eligibility for various beneﬁts such as case of disability. “Flex6me” or ﬂexible working hours are vaca6on accrual rates, service recogni6on and also available upon necessity and management approval, par6cipa6on in re6rement plans. Further, employees and performance reviews are conducted with employees have the opportunity to apply for internal job pos6ngs, every six months, to allow for the discussion of any transfers and promo6ons within BDP. employment-­‐related issues. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |10 LABOR STANDARDS Mentoring Program: Being a privately held, family-­‐owned DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES company that values personal rela6onships, BDP has historically used informal mentoring and networking Behavior Competencies throughout the organiza6on. BDP’s structured Mentoring Program varies vastly from informal mentoring as it is focused solely on the leadership development of a small group of high poten6al employees iden6ﬁed by management. The purpose of the Mentoring Program at Individual Development BDP is to foster career development and share career Tools experiences between management and high poten6al employees. The long-­‐term goals of the Mentoring Program are to: Iden6fy and reward high poten6als within the Succession Planning organiza6on by providing them with personal a<en6on and guidance from BDP management; Lay the founda6on for a succession plan throughout the organiza6on; Performance Development Improve morale and job sa6sfac6on of high poten6al employees; Establish a culture that values career development and networking while fostering trust throughout the organiza6on; & Aid in reten6on and recruitment of high poten6al employees. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |11 LABOR STANDARDS Leadership Development Program: The goal of BDP’s Leadership Development Program (LDP) is to cul6vate the next genera6on of leadership at BDP through a series of leadership development courses, networking opportuni6es and educa6onal classes. The LDP includes four major opportuni6es: Leadership Experiences: 1. One week consis6ng of intensive leadership development training delivered at the Global Corporate Headquarters, with training designed by Dale Carnegie. Leadership Development Speciﬁc BDP University Courses: 2. A series of courses and presenta6ons conducted by Senior Management designed to help enhance the skill sets of BDP’s future leaders as they prepare for the next level of responsibility at BDP. These courses are available on BDP’s online learning BDP University: BDP’s Corporate University helps keep plaoorm, BDP University. employees up-­‐to-­‐date on the latest transporta6on and logis6cs issues, regula6ons and best prac6ces. A Capstone Project: personalized curriculum with live classroom sessions, 3. Employees iden6fy an opportunity to be<er BDP, and then develop a business case study to implement that project. online webinars and self-­‐paced “on demand” courses assists staﬀ in professional and personal development. Networking: Training is available for legal, technical, industry-­‐speciﬁc 4. A strong network is essen6al for all leaders. All par6cipants in this and other educa6on topics, which will be of use in program meet with execu6ve leadership of the company in both assis6ng employees on the job. formal and informal sepngs in order to discuss their paths within the company 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |12 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 4 Viola6ons can lead to disciplinary ac6on such as proba6on, suspension and other penal6es, up to termina6on. BDP encourages all agents, customers and subcontractors to The elimina6on of all forms of follow these policies as well. forced and compulsory labor. BDP maintains an anonymous complaint form on its intranet website as well as a complaint hotline, to ensure accountability with our ethical mandate. BDP adheres to all social and labor obliga6ons to support its employees globally. These obliga6ons include, but are not limited to, employee medical beneﬁts, family and medical leave, term disability beneﬁts and paid vaca6on, Principle 5 consistent with requirements of each jurisdic6on. Also see The eﬀec6ve aboli6on of child labor. Principles 2 and 3. BDP also oﬀers employees ﬂexible working hours upon management approval, safety policies at the work place, sick leave, personal leave and other social/ life insurance beneﬁts for eligible employees. COMMITMENT Further, to combat exploita6on and abuse at home and abroad, BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct. BDP also BDP fully complies with the Child Labor provisions of the maintains an Equal Employment Policy, Human Rights Policy, Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state statutes, a Policy against Child Labor and an An6-­‐Harassment Policy. which govern the employment of minors. All staﬀ is no6ﬁed and trained with regards to these policies, and are accountable for adherence to them as well as the Global Code of Conduct. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |13 LABOR STANDARDS PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Policy: BDP requires that all employees and representa6ves shall recognize the U.N. Conven6on on the Rights of the Child, and that its business partners comply with all relevant na6onal and interna6onal laws, regula6ons and provisions applicable in the country of opera6on. Employees and partners obliged to take the appropriate measures to ensure that no child labor occurs at their place of opera6on. Each oﬃce manager shall eﬀec6vely communicate to all employees, as well as to local agents, the content of BDP’s Policy, and ensure that all measures required are implemented accordingly. Oﬃce Managers and all of BDP’s business partners are instructed to take appropriate measures to ensure that Background checks: BDP conducts background checks no child labor occurs at their place of opera6on. prior to hire to ensure minimum age requirements are met for all employees. Instruc6ons include: BDP maintains an ac6ve policy against child labor. All Never employ underage workers (i.e. workers below 15 staﬀed are no6ﬁed and trained with regards to the policy, years of age or any higher age prescribed by local laws and are accountable for adherence to it, as well as the and regula6ons). Global Code of Conduct. Viola6ons can lead to disciplinary ac6ons such as proba6on, suspension and Verify the age of all employees and anyone carrying out other penal6es, up to termina6on. BDP encourages all work for BDP against oﬃcial documents. agents, customers and subcontractors to follow these policies as well. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |14 LABOR STANDARDS Addi6onally, BDP ac6vely works to promote a conformable and Principle 6 friendly work environment for employees. To that end, managers are directly encouraged to avoid overly aggressive, rude and comba6ve behavior with subordinates, even if such behavior is prompted by work related or performance reasons. The elimina6on of discrimina6on in BDP treats complaints of harassment and employee discomfort in respect of employment and the work place with the utmost importance, and these issues can occupa6on. be reported to the regional Human Resources execu6ves. An6-­‐Harassment, Diversity and Cultural Sensi6vity Training: BDP conducts on-­‐going training for all employees to ensure that BDP maintains a workplace free from all forms of harassment. An6-­‐Harassment Policy: An important aspect of BDP Interna6onal’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy is to ensure Harassment Complaint Procedure: that all individuals have the right and opportunity to work in an BDP encourages the prompt repor6ng of complaints or concerns environment that is free from harassment of any nature. so that rapid and construc6ve ac6on can be taken. All allega6ons Harassment in any form including that of employees, applicants of harassment are inves6gated promptly and in as conﬁden6al a for employment, temporary employees, temporary agency manner as is consistent with eﬀec6ve inves6ga6on. BDP will take workers, vendors, maintenance workers or customers is appropriate correc6ve ac6on when warranted. BDP encourages unacceptable conduct that is not tolerated by BDP. all employees to assist in maintaining a harassment-­‐free workplace. Anonymous repor6ng is possible through BDP’s This policy applies to harassment on the basis of race, color intranet site or hotline. religion, sex, sexual orienta6on, gender iden6ty or expression, na6onal origin, veteran status, age, disability, marital status, ci6zenship gene6c informa6on or any other characteris6c protected from discrimina6on under law. Employees are no6ﬁed about the policy and trained about its requirements through courses and the employee handbook. The policy is also revised and updated periodically and published on our internal Human Resources intranet page. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |15 ENVIRONMENT BDP has con6nuously grown and improved upon Principle 7 its sustainability program since its incep6on in 2008. BDP’s Sustainability Manager is responsible for maintaining, improving and communica6ng all of Businesses should support a BDP’s sustainability ini6a6ves. BDP’s sustainability precau6onary approach to program is comprised of internal, external and global environmental challenges. community ini6a6ves. The Sustainability Manager stays current on all industry developments to keep BDP and its stakeholders informed and prepared for BDP is commi<ed to being an industry leader in corporate any regulatory or industry changes that may occur. sustainability. BDP seeks to operate in an environmentally responsible manner through educa6on and compliance, with In 2015, BDP reinvented its environmental policy. The sustainability at the forefront of daily business prac6ces. current policy highlights BDP’s commitments to the environment, health and safety of BDP’s employees, The global shipping industry is responsible for customers and the global community. The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy is approximately three percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions1. These emissions will con6nue to rise unless approved by all board members and management. In addi6on, BDP’s Chief Execu6ve Oﬃcer is fully ac6on is taken. BDP realizes the impact that the industry has suppor6ve and inﬂuen6al in shaping our on the environment and con6nually looks for new ways to reduce emissions. As a non-­‐asset based company, BDP environmental endeavors. This policy is works with suppliers, customers and all stakeholders to communicated to all employees and conveys our ensure its environmental, health and safety standards are commitment to operate with the environment, health and safety in the forefront of our prac6ces. Echoing high priority. this policy are several of BDP’s programs; BDP Sustainability Program, the BDP Green Team, the BDP EHS Program and Responsible Care. 1. h<p://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/transport/shipping/index_en.htm 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |16 ENVIRONMENT BDP SUSTAINABILITY BDP’s Sustainability program encompasses all of our policies, The BDP Green Team, Safety Commi<ee and Wellness programs and prac6ces for conduc6ng opera6ons in an Commi<ee are collabora6ng to create a more environmentally, as well as ﬁscally responsible manner. The BDP sustainable eﬀort in the global expansion of each Sustainability Program focuses on internal and external ini6a6ves; including an interac6ve training program for all employees, along group. In this expansion, they will join together as the with programs focused on energy conserva6on, paper reduc6on, EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) Team. The recycling, reuse and transit. To strengthen our external presence, main focus of the Environmental, Health and Safety BDP has become a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group Team will be to: (CCWG). BDP has also been elected a member of the CCWG steering commi<ee. The CCWG is a global business to business ini6a6ve comprised of carriers, shippers and logis6c providers. This membership allows BDP to collaborate with peers and business bring together the ideals and partners, calculate our customers’ carbon footprint, along with the standards embedded in each ability to review ocean carrier environmental data. Each of these area and communicate these areas further shape and deﬁne BDP’s commitment to society, the to our global BDP community. economy and our responsibility to protect the environment. BDP GREEN PROGRAM The BDP Green Team has made several advances in establishing environmental standards in the workplace. The Green team has appointed eco-­‐leaders within each region of the Un6ed States. These eco-­‐leaders support all ini6a6ves and facilitate these in the BDP oﬃces within their region. In 2015, the BDP Green Team collaborated with the Safety commi<ee and the Wellness Team to form the Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Team. The EHS Team collabora6on allowed BDP’s EHS ini6a6ves to reach every oﬃce across the globe. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |17 ENVIRONMENT Currently, we are proud to report the following achievements of 2015 and essen6al goals for 2016: Increased communica6on and awareness in all US oﬃces regarding recycling, paper reduc6on and energy conserva6on: Employee engagement via monthly internal newsle<ers, social networking sites and in person mee6ngs to enhance BDP’s goal of The BDP Sustainability training has con6nued to corporate-­‐wide awareness of sustainability. expand globally, aker its ﬁrst year. By the end of 2015, thirty-­‐ﬁve percent of employees had taken the sustainability training. This training highlights areas in Environmental events in 2015 included: the workplace and at home where employees can be environmentally conscious. -­‐Earth Day celebra6on with awareness events for all employees focusing on less In 2015, ﬁkeen percent of oﬃce and paper supply waste and reusable items; purchases in BDP’s US oﬃces were environmentally -­‐EHS Week celebra6on including a BDP friendly products. These products were made from University Course, a sponsored snack and an recyclable materials or can be recycled. EHS game; In 2015, BDP responsibly disposed of electronic -­‐Contest engaging employees to submit waste through a third party contractor who ensured photos or videos that portray how they properly recycling of the e-­‐waste. celebrate EHS. Con6nue to distribute reusable mugs to all employees in the US. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |18 ENVIRONMENT BDP Responsible Care®: BDP has been a Partner of the Principle 8 American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® ini6a6ve since 2003. Responsible Care is a global, voluntary ini6a6ve where Member companies that Businesses should undertake manufacture chemicals and supply chain companies work ini6a6ves to promote greater together to con6nuously improve and support the overall health, safety, environmental quality and community environmental responsibility awareness of chemicals throughout their life cycle. MEMBERSHIP & SUPPORTING PARTNERSHIPS: Clean Cargo Working Group: Suppor6ng BDP’s sustainability ini6a6ves, BDP became a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) in 2013. In 2015, BDP was elected as steering commi<ee member for the CCWG. The CCWG is a global business to business ini6a6ve comprised of carriers, shippers and logis6c providers. This membership provides BDP with several beneﬁts: As a Partner prac66oner in the Logis6cs Management Sector, BDP 1. The ability to calculate our customers’ carbon footprint using pledges to operate business according to the ethics, values and data and tools provided by the CCWG; principles set forth in the Responsible Care program elements: 2. The ability to review and compare ocean carriers’ environmental performance across a broad range of data; -­‐ Endorse the Guiding Principles of Responsible Care; -­‐ Measure and publicly report performance on an annual basis; -­‐ Implement the Security Code within a speciﬁed 6me frame; 3. Collabora6on with peers and business partners to improve -­‐ Implement the Responsible Care Process Safety Code of BDP’s environmental performance; Management Prac6ces; Help inﬂuence the development of tools, standards and -­‐ Implement the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS®); 4. methodologies for improving environmental performance -­‐ Obtain independent cer6ﬁca6on that a management system is in across the intermodal value chain. place and func6ons according to professional speciﬁca6ons. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |19 ENVIRONMENT BDP is pleased to report a robust agenda of Responsible BDP has declared support as a mul6na6onal company Care ac6vi6es in 2016. BDP employees at ALL levels and with global ac6vi6es. Our organiza6on will embrace departments within each BDP region, country and oﬃce and uphold the 6 key elements to the Global Charter will be engaged in Responsible Care educa6on. within our local business cultures and prac6ces. As such, BDP is developing a campaign to: The Responsible Care journey is strategically built into the Voluntarily implement the Global Charter to employees 5-­‐Year BDP Strategic Plan. Chemical Brand Dominance is across all BDP regions and countries; one of ﬁve “Pillars” for BDP growth and development. Generate awareness of Responsible Care ini?a?ves and Progress and successes with Responsible Care ini6a6ves in what the supply chain value membership brings to our 2016 and beyond will be internally measured against our workforce and our customers; Strategic Plan to support our company’s vision of Delivering the Best Global Logis6cs Solu6ons. BDP Demonstrate how and where BDP employees at every level Responsible Care communica6ons, educa6on and ac6vi6es are invested both in prac?ce and mindset: will be customized by region to ensure the highest level of employee engagement and content relevant in the focus We work as One BDP, One Team areas of: Responsible Care is the right thing to do Engage our customers and supply chain vendors BDP Responsible Care Global Charter Campaign: Engage employees through a strategic communica?on plan including internal webinars, training through BDP The Global Charter was developed by the Interna6onal University, Town Hall Mee?ngs with local leadership, Council of Chemical Associa6ons (ICCA) in collabora6on Social Networks and idea sharing; with select ACC Responsible Care Member companies. An updated Global Charter has been rolled out to the Engage employees in a celebra?on signing of BDP Global Responsible Care network of North America-­‐US Charter poster to signify their role as an integral headquartered Members and Partners. component in the Responsible Care ini?a?ve worldwide. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |20 ENVIRONMENT Responsible Care Process Safety Code of Many of the policies and processes documented Management Pracaces: under the Process Safety Code are standard opera6ng prac6ces for BDP US opera6ons. Beginning in 2014, BDP North America US began Formal implementa6on provides excellent implemen6ng the Process Safety Code of Management opportuni6es for our organiza6on to: Prac6ces set forth by the requirements deﬁned in the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS®): Evaluate and reﬁne exis6ng processes and opera6ng RCMS implementa6on is required for supply chain systems, Partner companies during a 3 year cer6ﬁca6on cycle from 2014-­‐2016; Iden6fy and close process gaps for con6nuous improvement. BDP’s Process Safety Code implementa6on focuses on US opera6ons and departments at this 6me; Create opportuni6es to iden6fy, reduce and manage process safety risk, RCMS implementa6on is required for supply chain Develop, customize and roll out training to support, Partner companies during a 3 year cer6ﬁca6on cycle from 2014-­‐2016. Enhance teamwork and communica6ons among BDP US departments and BDP Centers of Excellence. The Process Safety Code includes 7 management prac6ces: Leadership and Culture, Accountability, Knowledge, Exper6se and Training, Understanding and Priori6za6on of Process Safety Risks, Comprehensive Process Safety Management System, Informa6on sharing and Monitoring and Improving Performance ; BDP prac6ces and documenta6on will be sampled by an external audi6ng ﬁrm in March 2016 to determine RCMS cer6ﬁca6on; 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |21 ENVIRONMENT BDP Responsible Care Commieee: EDUCATION AND AWARENESS: The 28-­‐member Commi<ee represents BDP US To improve communica6ons and enhance informa6on-­‐ personnel and hosts four annual mee6ngs -­‐one mee6ng sharing on policies and ini6a6ves, BDP developed an intranet site to centralize all things BDP Responsible Care. BDP each Quarter-­‐ to introduce trending topics and discuss employees around the globe have site access to and can progress and con6nuous improvements with BDP easily ﬁnd content to enhance their educa6on on this topic. Responsible Care ini6a6ves. The Commi<ee has BDP This site oﬀers opportuni6es to increase awareness of where CEO-­‐level leadership and commitment along with BDP is invested in Responsible Care, and how employees can engagement in internal/external events: implement the core principles and policies in their regions to further strengthen our program. Par6cipates on monthly conference calls and webinars hosted by the US ACC Responsible Care Team; HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL Includes designated members that a<end annual EXPORT REPORTS: conferences and expos hosted by the US ACC BDP is highly strategic and mindful when it comes to the Responsible Care Team; safety and security associated with the handling, movement, and government repor6ng of hazardous chemicals. As a Collaborates with BDP US Safety Commi<ee and leader in chemical logis6cs management, BDP expanded their BDP Centers of Excellence to integrate hazardous shipment export reports to include all regions and Responsible Care educa6on into BDP’s EHS countries outside the US. These reports provide our company ini6a6ves and vice versa; with detailed informa6on about the hazardous shipments we export from all regions. We have data that highlights speciﬁc areas such as total kilograms of hazardous materials In 2016, the Commi<ee will expand to include transported, modes of transport, TOP ocean and ground members from BDP loca6ons in Asia Paciﬁc, carriers selected and TOP UN Numbers. This data builds the Canada, Europe, Middle East and La6n America. founda6on for BDP to have a stronger view of hazardous chemical export trends within the BDP global network. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |22 ENVIRONMENT REACH In this role BDP can: BDP is also ac6ve in promo6ng compliance with REACH (Registra6on, Evalua6on and Authoriza6on of Chemicals) which is the European Union’s single regulatory system for -­‐ Evaluate risks and exposure associated with our chemical management. As an Only Representa6ve, BDP is business: qualiﬁed to aid its customers, clients and suppliers. -­‐ Maintain all communica6ons and nego6a6ons with ECHA and all relevant Member State governmental bodies; -­‐ Iden6fy and communicate with all importers, distributors and downstream users; -­‐ Prepare and submit the technical registra6on dossier; -­‐ Make the ﬁlings, register the chemicals and pay all a<endant fees; -­‐ Coordinate data exchange and tes6ng strategies with SIEF group and Consor6um members; -­‐ Create and submit safety data sheets and chemical safety reports; -­‐ Audit and train internally as well as with out customer base where needed; -­‐ Address classiﬁca6on and labeling; -­‐ Perform any other obliga6ons resul6ng from authoriza6ons or restric6ons. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |23 ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 Paperless Marke6ng Communica6ons: All marke6ng communica6ons are now distributed electronically. Customers can register to receive weekly newsle<ers and business updates via Businesses should encourage the email, rather than in paper form. BDP reduced cost and paper usage diﬀusion and development of by conver6ng the 2016 BDP calendar to an electronic version. Marke6ng has made several advances to decrease BDP’s carbon environmentally friendly footprint in 2015 and will con6nue to expand upon these ini6a6ves technologies in 2016. Green Conferences: BDP has implemented a web based applica6on for external mee6ngs and events; elimina6ng the need for printed BDP’s IT Center of Excellence has a commitment, signage and mee6ng informa6on, ques6onnaires and end of supported by a corporate policy, to ensure BDP’s conference surveys. This signiﬁcantly reduces BDP’s paper waste as over 100 a<endees were present at this conference and could access technology purchases and endeavors to minimize all presenta6ons and conference informa6on on the applica6on. environmental impact. BDP’s main environmentally BDP has procured environmentally conscious giveaways for all friendly technology ini6a6ves include: conference a<endees: distribu6ng recycled pens and notebooks. BDP also does not have bo<led water at events and seminars, but Electronic Document Management: BDP con6nues its rather pitchers of water with glasses for a<endees. eﬀorts to become en6rely paperless via its Document Video Conferencing/Webinars/Conference Calls: Management System (DMS). DMS has been fully executed BDP has con6nued to increase u6liza6on of webinars and conference calls to cut down on travel costs. BDP has installed video in all US oﬃces. DMS will con6nue to be implemented in conferencing capabili6es into the corporate oﬃce so that employees all other oﬃces around the globe. can have global mee6ngs without having the environmental and economic eﬀects of travel. BDP has also transi6oned to Google To recognize their innova6on in sustainability, BDP’s Ro<erdam email, allowing easier access to web conferencing via Google oﬃce was awarded the BDP Green Leaf Sustainability Award. Hangout. Through u6lizing digital archiving, BDP Ro<erdam reduced signiﬁcant waste of documents, ﬁle folders, and archive space within the oﬃce. Paper waste was reduced by over ﬁve percent by the end of 2013 and con6nued to reduce each year thereaker. The BDP Green Leaf Award was created aker the innova6on of the Ro<erdam oﬃce and will con6nue each year to recognize excellence in sustainability. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |24 ANTI-­‐CORRUPTION Principle 10 The Code prohibits bribery in any form, including: extor6on, facilita6ng payments, kickbacks, poli6cal contribu6ons, and the oﬀer or receipt of giks, hospitality or entertainment. The Code also ensures Businesses should work against that BDP maintains complete and accurate ﬁnancial corrup6on in all its forms, including records and make annual an6-­‐bribery training available extor6on and bribery. for all principals, and key employees involved in sales, marke6ng and procurement. BDP also maintains a stringent an6-­‐corrup6on policy, COMMITMENT which prohibits any form of corrupt prac6ces, whether BDP is commi<ed to full compliance with both the they are bribes or other forms of illicit payments. An le<er and spirit of the laws and regula6ons in all anonymous complaint hotline and web forms have countries in which it operates. It is of the utmost been created to prevent any such ac6vity, and hold importance to BDP to conduct its business with perpetrators accountable. Those caught commipng integrity in accordance with BDP’s Global Code of corrupt acts are subject to termina6on. Employees that Conduct and all applicable laws and regula6ons. witness any suspicious behavior are encouraged to report such behavior to the Legal Department or PROCCESES & SYSTEMS anonymously through the intranet or hotline. Policy: BDP operates under a Global Code of Conduct Appointment of FCPA Compliance Oﬃcer: BDP (“the Code”). The Code applies to every oﬃcer, appointed an FCPA Compliance Oﬃcer who is director and employee of BDP. BDP also expects that responsible for the management and implementa6on those with whom we do business (including our agents, of the FCPA Compliance Program. This includes the consultants, suppliers and customers) will also adhere establishment, development and maintenance of the to the Code. compliance program and the communica6on of these standards to all current and prospec6ve business partners and employees. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |25 ANTI-­‐CORRUPTION The FCPA Compliance Oﬃcer is also responsible for We aim to ensure that all principals and key periodic repor6ng on the eﬀec6veness of the program employees involved in sales, marke6ng and through the implementa6on of a monitoring and procurement are cer6ﬁed in FCPA and an6-­‐corrup6on audi6ng system to detect criminal conduct. compliance globally. In addi6on, all employees must par6cipate in training annually and all new employees must complete training as part of their on boarding TRAINING orienta6on. BDP’s Legal Team conducts ongoing global FCPA BDP is also implemen6ng new training in line with the (Foreign Corrupt Prac6ces Act) and An6-­‐Corrup6on World Bank guidelines on the preven6on of fraud and Training through BDP University, live, in person training corrup6on. This extensive training covers the and live webinars. The training consists of a detailed guidelines issued by the World Bank in 2015 and will be PowerPoint presenta6on on an6-­‐bribery provisions of made available to all BDP employees, while mandatory local legisla6on, the FCPA and BDP’s Compliance for management execu6ves. Program. Employees are then tested on their knowledge through the training and must score at least an 80% to pass the training. BDP also conducts leadership and board training with reference to corrup6on and ethical risks along with the Cer6ﬁca6ons are then sent to employees to be signed. need for FCPA compliance. This allows execu6ves and The cer6ﬁca6ons state that the employee has board level staﬀ to understand the intricacies of the law completed the training, an will adhere to BDP’s and prac6ce involved in an6-­‐corrup6on eﬀorts.. compliance program. All original and electronic cer6ﬁca6ons are stored in our legal ﬁles. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |26 ANTI-­‐CORRUPTION DUE DILIGENCE TRACE CERTIFIED Included in BDP’s Code of Conduct is a sec6on on due BDP has been a cer6ﬁed agent of TRACE Interna6onal diligence in selec6ng interna6onal consultants, beginning in 2015. TRACE is a non-­‐proﬁt organiza6on intermediaries and joint venture partners. This sec6on that provides all members with an6-­‐bribery compliance provides execu6ves and employees with informa6on on support. TRACE members include thousands of iden6fying proper business partners, required enterprises throughout the world that work together to disclosures and the ﬁnal approval process. BDP also increase transparency in interna6onal business maintains a vepng process for selec6ng subcontractors transac6ons. Through TRACE, BDP is provided and agents. All partners need to cer6fy that they are customizable due diligence, training and advisory compliant in FCPA and an6-­‐corrup6on. services along with one complete an6-­‐bribery and third party compliance solu6on. In addi6on, BDP is in the process of adop6ng regional and global vendor vepng policies to ensure that all business partners are compliant and ethically sound. Such policies involve verifying the reliability of the vendor, collec6ng bank details, employee details, evalua6ng conﬂicts of interests, evalua6ng whether employees of the vendor are government employed simultaneously and collec6ng other ﬁnancial informa6on with respect to vendors. 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |27 ANTI-­‐CORRUPTION CONTRACT PROVISIONS: The Code also holds a sec6on detailing contract Will immediately advise a named oﬃcial of the company if the provisions and cer6ﬁca6on requirements for BDP’s cer6fying person should learn of or have reason to believe there has been any viola6on of the FCPA (and/or OECD Conven6on) in consultants, intermediaries and joint venture partners. connec6on with the company’s business. The provisions require that all par6es involved are fully compliant with an6-­‐bribery legisla6on, the Foreign Corrupt Prac6ces Act (“FCPA”) and the Organiza6on for BDP has been named 2016 World’s Most Ethical Company by Economic Coopera6on and Development (“OECD”) the Ethisphere Ins6tute. Conven6on, along with all other applicable laws and compliance procedures. All contracts also set out “This award recognizes those companies who align principle with accoun6ng and ﬁnancial provisions, repor6ng ac6on, work to make trust part of their corporate DNA, and by doing so, shape future industry standards by introducing requirements, disclosure informa6on, and termina6on tomorrow’s best prac6ces today. provisions for non-­‐compliance. The Ethisphere Ins6tute is the global leader in advancing the The cer6ﬁca6on terms require each consultant, standards of ethical business prac6ces that fuel corporate intermediary and joint venture partner to periodically character, marketplace trust and business success.” cer6fy that he or she: -­‐ Ethisphere Ins6tute Understands an6-­‐bribery legisla6on and the FCPA (and OECD Conven6on); Has not violated or caused the company to violate legisla6on (and/or OECD Conven6on) since the date of the prior periodic cer6ﬁca6on; Does not know or have reason to believe that any other person retained by the company has violated an6-­‐bribery legisla6on (an/or OECD Conven6on), or caused the company to violate them since the date of the prior cer6ﬁca6on; and 2015-­‐2016 Communica6on on Progress |28
