Fazer Group’s Corporate Responsibility Review 2015 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Welcome to Fazer's Corporate Responsibility Review Fazer’s Corporate Responsibility Review 2015 has been prepared for all stakeholders who are interested in the business of Fazer Group, the drivers behind the company’s development, and its ongoing efforts to operate in a sustainable manner. This publication describes how Fazer fulfils its economic, environmental and social commitments while creating value for its shareholders, employees, customers, consumers and other stakeholders. The report begins with an explanation of Fazer’s approach to corporate responsibility and continues on to describe activities and progress in the five sub-areas of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Programme: Running business, For health and wellbeing, People matter, Fair value chain and Part of the environment. 03 Group President’s review 16 For health and well-being 05 Group overview 22 People matter 06 Fazer’s approach 28 Fair value chain 12 Running business 33 Par t of the environment 2 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Building trust through responsible offering How we produce and consume food has a significant of renewable electricity, focused on responsible cocoa impact on the environment and on society. What we eat sourcing, continued to promote the cultivation of domestic every day also directly influences our health and well-being. rye in Finland, developed Fazer behaviours defining our Understanding these impacts, Fazer wants to be worthy expectations of our people, and enforced workplace safety. of your trust and build its operations on a sustainable Fazer has a long history of providing people with enjoyable foundation. We want to create taste sensations that make moments. Based on our strong heritage, we see that the key you feel good. to our future success lies in always being a little bit better. For Fazer, our responsible offering is directed towards This goes hand in hand with our corporate responsibility people’s everyday well-being, the sustainable use of the work; we aim for continuous development. planet’s resources and the shared value a company creates in We value the trust bestowed on us by consumers and society. In 2015, we updated our business strategies, focusing all our stakeholders, and consider it a prerequisite for our on the shifting business environment as well as taking evolving success. We provide a great amount of food every day – customer and consumer needs into account. The world is from meals to bakery and confectionery products – so we constantly changing, and we want to develop our products see it as our responsibility to contribute to the global shift and services to meet these needs. towards more sustainable food production. When looking at the trends affecting our business, we see With this report, we also reaffirm Fazer Group’s continued that many of them are linked to sustainability. We need to support for the principles of the UN Global Compact. manage risks related to raw material availability and costs, Through Fazer’s ethical principles, the Global Compact forms and understand how climate change, for instance, affects the essential basic guidelines for our responsible operations. food production. In addition, to ensure that our business is in best-in-class condition, we need to pay greater attention Christoph Vitzthum to resource efficiency. We also see more customers and President & CEO consumers looking for healthier and sustainable options. Fazer Group There is a need to implement more sustainable ways of working, as global interest in the Paris Agreement, the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, and the European Commission’s Circular Economy Package demonstrates. Since our last review, we have taken important steps towards developing our corporate responsibility. During WE SUPPORT 2015, we increased the share of vegetables in the portions we serve, created a human rights policy, increased the share Group President's Review 3 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Highlights in 2015 93% 100% Share of renewable electricity Share of responsible cocoa 80% 72% of the total amount of of palm oil for biscuit waste was recycled or products certified as recycled as energy RSPO ‘Segregated’ New marketing policy People Power focused on responsible index score Energy marketing to minors improved consumption decreased by Accidents reduced by 13.8% Share of vegetables 39% 3%per produced tonne New human rights Fazer's reputation on an policy approved excellent or strong level in Finland, Sweden and Russia Group President's GROUP OVERVIEWReview 4 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Group overview Fazer is an international family-owned company established in 1891. Fazer's mission is to create taste sensations. Fazer's operations are based on the company's values: passion for customer, quality excellence and team spirit. Fazer Bakery Fazer Confectionery Fazer Food Services Fazer Cafés Fazer Mill & Mixes BUSINESS AREAS & UNITS Fazer Bakery Employees 14,709 Fazer Confectionery Fazer Food Services Fazer Mill & Mixes Fazer Cafés OPERATING PROFIT, M€ NET SALES, M€ Offices 120 1,800 1,656.9 1,695.7 1,647.7 Finland 100.4 1,600 1,575.5 1,576.1 Norway Sweden * ** Russia 100 85.6 83.3 1,400 79.6 80.0 * * 80 68.6 1,200 FINLAND 54.2 1,000 *642 Restaurants 60 49.0 43.3 44.9 800 5 Fazer Bakery Shops 40 600 43 In-store bakeries 400 **14 Cafés 20 Estonia 200 SWEDEN 0 0 *194 Restaurants 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Denmark 30 Gateau bakery shops Operating profit Fazer Baker y Fazer Confectioner y * Latvia Operating profit before amor tisation of goodwill Fazer Food Ser vices Others NORWAY *120 Restaurants Lithuania DENMARK *155 Restaurants Fazer has operations in eight countries and exports to more than 40 markets. Group overview 5 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Fazer's corporate responsibility approach For health and well-being Choices based on knowledge and personal preferences bring balance and well-being. Enjoy Fazer your way. Fazer’s corporate responsibility vision is to create responsible taste sensations. The Group’s responsible offering consists of SI BL E O FF people’s everyday well-being, sustainable use of the planet’s P ON ER S IN resources and the shared value a company creates in society. Running business E People Fazer aims to offer products and services that make it easy R G matter for people to make healthy and sustainable choices. We bring Responsibility vision People make Corporate responsibility is an important part of Fazer’s prosperity to Fazer happen. corporate culture and identity. It plays a significant role in all business development within the Group, and is a success the company and society. FAZER FOR Fair play with everybody factor for Fazer’s businesses. Securing long-term business profitability is the basis for Fazer’s corporate responsibility RESPONSIBLE working with us. strategy. TASTE Responsible business is good business. Corporate SENSATIONS responsibility benefits Fazer’s reputation and brand value and contributes to cost reduction through the effective use of resources. It can also lead to well-being and increased productivity in the workplace and may help Fazer to attract new talent. Responsible business procedures can be used to Part of the control and mitigate risks related to the raw material base environment Fair value and ensure the availability of raw materials in the long term. chain We rely on the resources We operate responsibly nature gives us. We use and create fair business them responsibly. opportunities throughout the chain we are part of. Fazer’s approach 6 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 BUSINESS-SPECIFIC FOCUS AREAS 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fazer's business areas and business units work towards the Group’s corporate responsibility aims in their own responsibility projects. Fazer’s values, ethical principles, policies and management practices apply to all the 2015 E RY 2016 2017 2018 2019 ON business areas and country units. As shown below, the F EC TI RESPONSIBLE COCOA VALUE CHAIN Group’s businesses each place a strong emphasis on ON 2015 2016the cocoa used fulfils2017 2018 2019 C By 2017, the origin of the cocoa will be traceable and all certain focus areas. the criteria of responsible production. Responsible cocoa is a key focus area in Fazer’s Y N ER confectionery business. The aim is to make this raw NF EC TIO RESPONSIBLE COCOA VALUE CHAIN material as traceable as possible, support cocoa farmers CO By 2017, the origin of the cocoa will be traceable and all and their training, create a real impact in the cocoa-growing ES Y the cocoa used fulfils the criteria of responsible production. communities, and secure the availability of quality cocoa in VIC SER ERIOFN the long term. By 2017, all of Fazer’s cocoa will be traceable FO OD N FED N S CCTA É RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBLE COCOA FOOD VALUE CHAIN O A and will fulfil the criteria of responsible production. C VegetableByuse andthe 2017, sources theorigin of sustainable of the cocoa will proteins increase. be traceable and all Food thewaste cocoaand seasonality used fulfils thetaken strongly criteria into account. of responsible production. Fazer Food Services aims to provide responsible food ES VIC ER FÉS for consumers. Fazer is continuously working to increase OD C FO AND S A RESPONSIBLE FOOD the share of vegetables in its offering in order to gain both Vegetable use and the sources of sustainable proteins increase. health and environmental benefits. The Group also considers DS Food waste and seasonality taken strongly into account. seasonality and constantly takes action to reduce food waste. AIN YRV CEE S R I X S KESE In addition, Fazer conducts research on sustainable proteins BOAD FOMAINLLD C & M A FÉ RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABLE FOOD FARMING and aims to increase their use. Grain visionVegetable use and to minimise the sources nutrient load and of sustainable to promoteproteins increase.practices. best agricultural In the bakery business and Fazer Mill & Mixes, Fazer D Food waste and seasonality taken strongly into account. N Y A ES focuses on sustainable farming. The Group has been working K ER MIX with stakeholders to define the Fazer Grain Vision, which BA LL & MI SUSTAINABLE FARMING will set criteria for responsible cultivation of grain. With Grain vision to minimise nutrient load and to promote best agricultural practices. D the Grain Vision, Fazer aims to support sustainable farming AN S E RY IXE practices, minimise the nutrient load, empower farmers and K M communities, and prevent loss of biodiversity. BA LL & MI SUSTAINABLE FARMING Grain vision to minimise nutrient load and to promote best agricultural practices. Fazer’s approach 7 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT AT FAZER Corporate responsibility is an integrated aspect of all Fazer’s activities. While the roles and responsibilities of the corporate responsibility team, network and leadership forum have been clearly defined, the ultimate responsibility lies with the board of directors and Group Management Team. MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approves ethical principles Leadership Forum Network Ensures alignment within the Ensures corporate responsibility GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM Group; defines Group-level alignment within Fazer Group Approves policies and objectives strategies, policies, guidelines, Ensures the effective use of Group President: ultimate responsibility targets and positions resources Group’s SVP of Communications and Branding: responsible for corporate responsibility Assesses, monitors and develops Shares the knowledge, knowcorporate responsibility topics how and market views in HEAD OF FUNCTION within the Group different countries and Approves instructions Ensures the agreed actions are businesses implemented BUSINESS AREAS AND BUSINESS UNITS Escalates and prepares issues to Implement corporate responsibility programme, strategic outlines, and set targets and objectives the right decision forums Set corporate responsibility focus areas Follow instructions, practices and operating models CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TEAM Develops corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme, and supports its implementation Fazer’s approach 8 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 TRANSPARENT COMMUNICATION AND stakeholders helps Fazer to understand trends and signals STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT in the surrounding society. The Group also needs to be aware of the possible changes in the political and regulatory Fazer aims to have a continuous dialogue with its environment. Stakeholder feedback aids Fazer in wisely stakeholders, create engaging brand experiences, secure trust steering its activities, and enables the Group to address capital and strengthen its reputation. In the future, only the the matters that are essential to its stakeholders. Fazer has relevant and trusted brands will have a role. Transparency identified its most important stakeholder groups and has is needed in order to create trust. An active dialogue with outlined several engagement methods. STAKEHOLDER CHANNEL OF DIALOGUE Consumers Customer service, surveys, restaurant and café materials, websites, social media, packaging, factory visits Customers Meetings and cooperation, newsletters, customer feedback systems, customer events, websites, social media Shareholders Regular contact, meetings and events, Annual Review, Corporate Responsibility Review, tertiary reports, website, extranet Performance Management Process, continuous communication between managers and employees, induction, training, occupational health and safety management system, Employees personnel events, personnel surveys, Fazer Way helpline, intranet and other internal channels, theme days, Corporate Responsibility Review Suppliers Meetings, contracts, supplier requirements, supplier assessments, follow-up actions, partnerships, research, continuous collaboration between sourcing managers and suppliers NGOs and local communities Memberships, partnerships, joint projects and initiatives, websites, social media, questionnaires, Corporate Responsibility Review Universities and research institutes Partnerships, joint R&D projects, knowledge sharing, donations, thesis and job opportunities for students, lectures, excursions Healthcare professionals Knowledge sharing, events, lectures Media Media releases and events, interviews, websites, social media, visits Authorities and governments Regular contact, meetings, memberships, seminars, work groups Fazer’s approach 9 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 PARTNERSHIPS AND SPONSORING Shared partnerships Lithuania • Baltic Sea Action Group • The Order of Malta Relief Organisation • Cooperation with WCF to support the Biéby village in Ivory Coast Russia • EAT cooperation • SOS Children’s Villages • Exhibition at the State Hermitage Museum in cooperation Finland with the Finnish Institute of St Petersburg • Nenäpäivä charity campaign • Charity events in the Russian Museum and the Hermitage • Ketjureaktio bicycling campaign with Finnish Red Cross for children with disabilities • Tennis school for SOS Children's Villages together with • Donating bread to NGOs (Red Cross, etc.), and social care Jarkko Nieminen – The Final Night -event centres • Fazer personnel’s Christmas donation to SOS Children’s Villages • Lasten Liike pilot project to provide after-school activities for children • Pro-Baltic Sea carbonated spring water company Dropp • Research support to University of Helsinki and Hanken • Support to refugee centres • Cooperation with WWF Finland to protect biodiversity Sweden • SOS Children’s Villages • Friends Foundation • Stockholms Stadsmission • Pink Ribbon and the Breast Cancer fund Latvia • Cooperation with Ogre, Kegums, Lielvarde and Ikslile municipalities to donate bread for families and elderly people with low income • Donating bread to Latvian Red Cross shelter Gaizins • Latvia Olympians Social Fund Fazer’s approach 10 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 FAZER'S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EH O LD ER S A N D C O TAK MM PROGRAMME GS UN ITI G IN TRANSPARENCY ES GA EN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NUTRITION After assessing its stakeholders’ views, Fazer renewed its PORTIONING TASTE SENSATIONS corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme in 2014 to respond to the changing business environment and to the evolving demands of consumers. Fazer’s corporate PROFITABLE SAFETY BUSINESS responsibility programme is structured around five areas of For health and well-being AND GROWTH strategic focus, which guide the company’s activities: Choices based on knowledge EQUALITY and personal preferences bring NEW balance and well-being. Enjoy • Running business OPPORTUNITIES Fazer your way. EMPLOYEE • For health and well-being WELL-BEING • People matter Running business People matter STAKEHOLDER • Fair value chain VALUE We bring People make Fazer DEVELOPMENT • Part of the environment prosperity to the happen. Fair play with PR company and everybody working N society. with us. LEADERSHIP BRAND VALUE RESPONSIBLE IO IN OFFERING AT CI FAIR TREATMENT PL CONTINUITY IC ES UN Part of the environment Fair value chain AN MM ENERGY We rely on the resources We operate responsibly SUPPLIER DH EFFICIENCY and create fair business COOPERATION nature gives us. We use T CO UMAN them responsibly. opportunities throughout RAW TRANSPAREN WASTE the chain we are part of. RIGHTS MATERIALS RAW MATERIAL LOSS ORIGIN IC D WATER USE TRACEABILITY AL AN PR H O SUSTAINABLE QUALITY ET AC TI FARMING VE AWARENESS FOOD SAFETY DIA LO GUE Fazer’s approach 11 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Running business Fazer brings prosperity to the company and to society. ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 • Fazer's reputation on an excellent or strong level in Finland, Sweden and Russia (Reputation Institute's Goals: RepTrak score) • Secure profitable business and growth • Economic Value Added was 641 M€ • Return on Equity was 4.9 per cent, a 39.2 per cent • Manage issues which affect Fazer's reputation increase from 2014 • Follow Fazer's ethical principles in all businesses • Paid 42 M€ in taxes • Provided employment to almost 15,000 people • Secure and increase brand value • Approved a new Human Rights Policy • Bring added value to stakeholders Long-term profitability is the basis for responsible business Fazer aims to live up to these expectations and to both Developing and securing profitable growth within the secure and increase brand value in the long term. The Group changing environment are core elements of Fazer’s business also recognises that its business is dependent on natural strategy. Business continuity and long-term profitability within resources and their future availability. Fazer’s business are the best basis upon which to develop To that end, Fazer has set out ethical principles, a corporate responsibility. corporate responsibility policy and a corporate responsibility The role of business in society is undergoing a considerable programme to guide its work. To enforce these, Fazer is change. Stakeholder expectations regarding corporate continuously integrating corporate responsibility into its responsibility and transparency are continually increasing. business strategies and daily processes. running business 12 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 ETHICAL BUSINESS OPERATIONS Focus on Human Rights Fazer is aware of the risks related to human rights in its own Ethical principles guide employees in their daily work operations and the supply chain, and this was a key focus area In conducting business responsibly, Fazer believes in acting in for the Group in 2015. In December 2015, Fazer approved accordance with ethical principles. Fazer’s ethical principles a Human Rights Policy, which will be published in 2016. The are based on the company’s values and the UN Global policy sets out Fazer’s commitment to respect human rights Compact principles regarding human rights, labour standards, in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles, as well as the environment and anti-corruption. Ethical principles guide actions taken to enforce this. Fazer will report its progress in Fazer’s employees in treating customers, cooperation implementing the UNGPs on an annual basis, and the report partners and work colleagues in an equal and fair way. Fazer also includes information on how human rights risks have Group signed the UN Global Compact initiative in 2012. been addressed. The launch of the policy will be followed up Separate policies, guidelines and practices have been with a Human Rights Impact Assessment in 2016, with the defined for the different topics within these ethical principles. process continuing in the years to come. Every Fazer employee must read and follow the ethical principles and related policies and instructions that affect their New anti-bribery policy STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: respective areas of work, and every supervisor must assist Fazer adopted a new anti-bribery policy in October 2015. Respect for human rights their subordinates in familiarising themselves with these. Fazer’s The policy forbids all Fazer Group employees from offering Compliance function ensures that policy owners follow their or accepting bribes in any form. The policy also sets common It is our impression that Fazer Group genuinely seeks monitoring obligations. rules on giving and receiving gifts and entertainment, and puts to align its governance, procedures and practices to In cases of non-compliance with the principles, an employee approval limits in place based on value. the standard set out by the UN Guiding Principles or third party can anonymously report their concern to the Prior to the implementation of the policy, risk assessments on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Although Group CEO, Group Legal, Risk Management, HR, policy were conducted on a business unit management team implementation requires resources and a venture into owners or their own supervisors, depending on the case. level. Simultaneously, intranet-based registers for gifts and uncharted waters, Fazer Group appears to appreciate Fazer has also set up the Fazer Way Helpline, a confidential entertainment were put into use. In the future, if necessary, that the scaling up of ‘corporate respect for human rights’ will enable socially sustainable globalisation, telephone and web-based service for reporting misconduct. targeted internal audits will be conducted. as well as a level global playing field, enhanced risk The helpline is available in all of Fazer’s nine languages, 24 hours All employees are encouraged to report all suspected management and, over time, reduced operating costs. a day, every day of the year. Non-compliance is duly examined offences using the available tools. Face-to-face training sessions As experts on business and human rights, GLOBAL by the Group Legal and Internal Audit teams, and proper with targeted employee groups are held if and when necessary CSR is pleased to assist Fazer Group in developing action is taken to address misconduct. and an e-learning tool is planned to be introduced in 2016. capacity on both the UNGPs and human rights, as During 2015, nine new potential cases came via Fazer Way well as providing the practical tools to ensure proper Helpline. All these cases were recorded and investigated by Competition law compliance implementation. the Group’s Compliance and Security functions. The cases To support fair and open competition, Fazer has set up were related to conflict of interest, disrespectful behaviour a competition law compliance programme. It is based Sune Skadegaard Thorsen at work, theft, noncompliance with internal regulations and on the following elements: face-to-face training sessions CEO, GLOBAL CSR safety instructions. One investigation is still ongoing; the other with targeted employee groups, an e-learning course for cases have been investigated internally and the necessary key employees, a competition law manual and dawn-raid measures have been taken. guidelines, instructions for meeting with a competitor’s representatives and compliance statements. running business 13 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY AND RETURN ON EQUITY CREATING VALUE FOR FAZER AND ITS CASE: STAKEHOLDERS 600 540.3 566.1 556.9 511.3 30 Supporting academic research 474.1 500 25 Corporate responsibility 400 20 Fazer supports academic research in order to create integrated into business operations 300 15 shared value, substantiate the effects of its products, Corporate responsibility is embedded in Fazer’s processes generate new innovations and attract future employees. 200 7.8 10 and daily business operations. Business units have identified 5.3 5.4 3.5 4.9 Fazer cooperates with universities and research 100 5 their main areas of corporate responsibility which are institutes such as Helsinki University, the University of specific importance to their own business focus, and 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 of Eastern Finland, Uppsala SLU, Lund consortium and have made plans accordingly. Social and environmental Shareholder’s equity incl. minority interest, M€ Aalto University.The Group has also assisted several considerations have been integrated into its systematic risk Return on equity (ROE), % students writing master’s theses on real-life cases. and issues management processes. In 2015, Fazer made donations to two universities In 2015, corporate responsibility was also included in to support Finnish academic research. A donation of 100,000 euros each was presented to the University Fazer’s brand strategy. Fazer acknowledges that consumers of Helsinki's Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, and want to enjoy the moment and feel good about their choices. to Hanken School of Economics. Already in 2010, Therefore, Fazer has defined three key themes for the Fazer Fazer participated in Hanken's fundraising by donating brand, which have also been taken into consideration in the DIVISION OF ECONOMIC VALUE, M€ 100,000 euros. Fazer maintains ongoing partnerships company’s CR work: Always a little better, Inspire to enjoy, and with these and other research institutions and Personnel 538.1 Feel good about the choice. Fazer aims to constantly improve healthcare professionals to study topics that are Society 42.0 its corporate responsibility processes and performance, relevant to its offering. Owners 31.6 provide a balanced offering for consumers to enjoy, and to Financiers 2.2 build its operations on a sustainable foundation which enables Business development 27.1 consumers to feel good about their choice. Fazer believes that its corporate responsibility performance has a direct impact on its brand value and business profitability. Therefore, the Group is measuring success with social and environmental indicators in addition to financial and reputation ones. running business 14 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 TAXES COLLECTED, M€ Creating value for stakeholders Fazer’s business brings added value to stakeholders, Payroll taxes 102.1 THE WAY FORWARD personnel, suppliers and subcontractors. Business profitability VAT, net 57.2 Other taxes 6.7 • Further increase transparency in terms of Fazer’s allows the company to provide work and income for many value chain, corporate responsibility activities, people and to pay taxes to society. In 2015, Fazer provided challenges and future plans employment for almost 15,000 people and paid 42 million • Aim for resource efficiency, cost savings and finding euros in taxes. The Group also purchased 888 million euros new opportunities via circular economy thinking worth of goods and services from 9,314 suppliers. As a • Continue existing process of issue and risk food industry company, Fazer also has an important role in management, securing brand value, integrating supporting local agriculture. corporate responsibility into daily business and Fazer made investments worth 60 million euros in 2015 TAXES BORNE AND EMPLOYER'S CONTRIBUTIONS, M€ *) looking for new business opportunities and has planned to invest 100 million euros in Finland in the • Conduct a human rights impact assessment in 2016 Income taxes 15.5 to find out the company’s adverse impacts and to coming three years. Examples of such investments include the Taxes on property 1.3 define appropriate mitigation actions Group’s forthcoming visitor centre, and the expansion of its Excise duty on confectionery 24.4 oat mill. Employer's contributions 112.9 Other taxes 0.5 *) Insurance taxes and energy taxes not included. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED, M€ 2015 2014 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED: Customers (net sales, other operating income, 1,589 1,658 financial income, sales of assets) CASE: Suppliers Refugees in focus Direct purchases -553 -571 Indirect purhaces -334 -355 Fazer’s responsibility extends to the surrounding society. Fazer is concerned about the current refugee crisis and has Operative investments -60 -51 taken immediate action to support the communities it operates in, as well as making a plan for long-term support. Added value 641 680 Fazer works with the local authorities and other relevant organisations within the local communities, providing the ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED: kind of support that is best suited and needed. In Finland, Fazer has donated food to local support operators, collected Personnel (salaries, wages and other indirect -538 -560 clothes and necessities for refugee centres, supported long-term partners that work with refugees, such as SOS employee costs) Children’s Village, and invited refugee children to visit Fazer's factory. Society (taxes and donations) -42 -44 In 2016, Fazer will arrange catering at events in Finnish refugee centres, which will allow the Group to share Finnish Owners (dividends) -32 -21 food traditions and Fazer employees to do voluntary work. Fazer is also evaluating the possibility of employing refugees Financiers (interest and other financial expenses) -2 -2 with suitable skills. Economic value retained in business 27 54 running business 15 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 For health and well-being Choices based on knowledge and ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 personal preferences bring balance and • Increased the share of vegetables to 39 per cent in well-being. Enjoy Fazer your way. Fazer Food Services' offering • Launched several new products focusing on health trends, e.g. Health Energy bread Goals: • Launched a new marketing policy that puts special • Develop responsible offering emphasis on responsible marketing to minors • Began “nudging” pilots to encourage restaurant • Transparently communicate with consumers guests to make green and healthy choices about topics related to health and well-being • Joined the EAT initiative to better integrate food, health and sustainability as part of Fazer’s business by making • Participate in studies on food, health and use of scientific research and stakeholder dialogue sustainability • Published a study on consumption of dark chocolate as part of a balanced lifestyle • Initiated an after-school activities project in collaboration with Valo Balance brings well-being People are increasingly interested in healthy and sustainable lifestyles. Health and well-being is viewed as an important megatrend for the food industry and one that has an important influence on consumption. As the provider of a wide range of ingredients for a good life. For Fazer, balance is the key to welldifferent foods for all occasions, Fazer is in a unique position to being, whether it is serving meals or providing treats for special offer and encourage dietary balance. One of the key themes moments. A healthy diet has room for occasional delicacies, of Fazer’s brand strategy is to help people find their own and Fazer prides itself on producing enjoyment for all tastes, individual balance and feel good about their choices. but the all-encompassing taste sensations it builds are to be Obesity and excess sugar consumption are recognised enjoyed in moderation. Keeping the pleasures of life in balance health risks for consumers at large and therefore a hot topic is important in Fazer's common aim to feel good. for the entire food industry. Worldwide obesity has more than In order to make healthy and sustainable choices easier, doubled since 1980, and according to the WHO European Fazer is committed to providing a balanced offering, controlling Health Report 2015, 59 per cent of Europeans are overweight portion sizes, delivering accurate and sufficient information to or obese. Fazer is aware of this challenge and aims to help consumers and other stakeholders, and engaging in healthconsumers find a balanced diet and a healthy lifestyle, the key related studies and stakeholder cooperation. For health & well-being 16 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 A RESPONSIBLE OFFERING More vegetables on every plate The pilot was initiated in late spring 2015. During the a series of actions focused on salt reduction in their own Nordic Nutrition Recommendations advise increasing summer, three nudging pilots were carried out in Fazer Food restaurant. These include: one’s consumption of fruit and vegetables, since they are Services' restaurants in Sweden and in the autumn, two rich in protective nutrients but don’t contain much energy. pilots were carried out in Fazer's restaurants in Finland. Pilots • A menu with reduced salt Fazer Food Services is working continuously to increase showed that it is possible to increase the share of vegetables • A “Salt School” programme to raise awareness amongst the share of vegetables. As well as the health benefits, the on guests' plates by utilising nudging tools. restaurant staff environmental impact of plant-based food, on average, is • Salt reduction information on tables and in homemade also smaller than that of meat products. In 2015, the share of Moving to iodised salt spice mixes vegetables in Fazer Food Services' offering was 39 per cent. Studies have shown that the dietary intake of iodine is too low • A mini herb garden allowing guests to add flavour with The Green Buffet project was introduced in 2014 to help in Finland. In order to improve this, the National Nutrition herbs instead of salt Fazer’s chefs focus more on greens and vegetables, to make Council of Finland recommends the use of iodised salt with an them more appealing to guests, and to develop the green iodine content of 25 microgrammes (µg/g). In 2014, the council These actions will serve as an example for the rest of Fazer’s offering in the company’s restaurants. It is the first time in recommended the use of iodised salt in homes and in mass restaurants, and these changes will roll out on a larger scale Fazer Food Services’ history that chefs from all markets have catering. This recommendation was expanded to cover the throughout 2016. Fazer has also begun discussing salt reduction come together to create innovative solutions to meet the entire food industry in 2015, and, accordingly, Fazer has moved with its suppliers, asking for salt content information and increased guest demand for vegetables. In 2015, the chefs to iodised salt in all its bread products made in Finland. Fazer demanding products with less salt from them. involved created a vegetarian cookbook, and continued their Food Services uses iodised salt, and about 85 per cent of all salt constructive discussions. The long-term goal for these chefs used in its restaurants is iodised. is to become “green ambassadors” to educate personnel in The challenge of salt intake in general, however, remains. Fazer Food Services' restaurants in all markets. This should be reduced because of its adverse health In Finland, Fazer provides 900 million portions of effects. The current recommended intake level for salt is rye bread and 2.7 million kilogrammes of dietary Nudging pilots no more than five grammes per day, and this figure is taken fibre per year. Fazer Food Services is piloting “nudging” to direct guests into account in all Fazer’s restaurant portions and in the towards healthy and sustainable choices. Nudging is based development of its bakery products. Fazer also aims to on the assumption that consumer behaviour can be offer products with a variety of salt levels for consumers to impacted through the way food is displayed and arranged in restaurants. Nudging can be described as a systematic and choose from. The share of vegetables in friendly way to “push” guests in the “right direction” and a way to enable more guests to make better choices. With Salt reduction efforts in Norway In Norway, there is a salt reduction initiative underway, which Fazer Food Services' offering 39% nudging, the display and presentation of the food is in focus. takes the form of a collaboration between all segments of the Guests will not necessarily notice any changes in the range or food industry. Fazer is represented in a work group tasked with in the menu of the restaurants but the changes will rather be seeking new possibilities to reduce the amount of salt in food. about changing the descriptions of each course and that they As the Norwegian Department of Health is a customer might be presented in a different way or order. of Fazer Food Services Norway, one key outcome has been For health & well-being 17 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 NEW HEALTHIER PRODUCTS Root Vegetable Bread Health Energy product range The health and well-being megatrends have inspired In 2015, Fazer Bakery launched a new Fazer to develop its product offering accordingly. product range in Russia to respond to the The Fazer’s Rotfruktsbröd (Root Vegetable Bread), consumer demand for healthy, nutritious launched in Sweden during 2015, is a case in point. The alternatives. The Energiya zdorov’ya (Health health discussion, as Fazer perceives it, extends beyond Energy) range of breads contains five the figures of how much whole wheat and fibre is products, each of which emphasises distinct included, taking into account naturally nutritious raw health-related properties and ingredients. materials, such as seeds, nuts, fruit, berries, vegetables The benefits to consumers vary from low and root vegetables. The bread brings the latter to the fat and slimming recipes to heart health bread shelves, and is positioned in relation to culinary and better digestion. The product range as well as well-being trends. Root Vegetable Bread was succeeded in capturing the consumer’s launched in Finland in the beginning of 2016. imagination and exceeded sales targets. Fazer Alku harvest porrige Xylimax Fazer Alku Sadonkorjuupuuro (Harvest Porridge) Fazer has a wide range of products was selected by the public as the Finnish Food containing xylitol, a natural sweetener that Product of the Year 2015. The contest was protects teeth from decay. In 2015, Fazer organised by the Finnish Food and Drink Industries’ Confectionery launched new flavours of its Federation and the winner was announced in Xylimax xylitol-based chewing gum. Fazer connection with the Finnish Food Congress in the also released new Little My (a character Messukeskus exhibition centre in Helsinki on 5 from the Moomins series) xylitol pastilles May 2015. A public vote decided the winner of the for children. Fazer’s xylitol chewing gum and contest, strongly indicating that Fazer Alku porridges pastilles are widely recommended, and are have conquered the Finns’ hearts. used in kindergartens and schools after meals Fazer Alku Sadonkorjuupuuro is part of a wider to prevent tooth decay. Fazer Alku porridge range. The porridges come from Fazer's own mill and are prepared with Finnish oats. For health & well-being 18 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Responsible marketing Fazer takes a responsible stance in its marketing, particularly in relation to minors. A marketing policy was established in 2015, which governs the company’s marketing communications in terms of the veracity of any healthrelated statements it makes, the implications of its advertising messages, and a number of other factors. The policy applies to all marketing activities and communications including e.g. television, radio, online and direct marketing, shopper marketing, packaging, events, trade sales and other professional promotions and communications. It follows the framework guidelines set by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) for Responsible Food and Beverage marketing communication, as well as marketing communications principles issued by local self-regulatory organisations such as the Finnish Food and Drink Industries' Federation (ETL), and national advertisers’ association. To enforce this policy, Fazer arranges internal trainings and requires its communications partners to follow the same rules. For health & well-being 19 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 HEALTH-RELATED RESEARCH AND COOPERATION Consumer Lifemap study Collaboration through EAT initiative Fazer drew up a Consumer Lifemap in 2015, In spring 2015, Fazer joined EAT, a not-for profit, with the intention of analysing a bigger long-term initiative linking food, health and picture of consumer behaviour and needs sustainability across science, politics and business. than individual studies permit. The map has Through EAT, Fazer intends to engage in a dialogue generated health-related insights within the with stakeholders and gain important insights on how categories relevant for Fazer and will help to make its offering healthier and more sustainable. to steer product development and other initiatives within the Group relating to health and well-being. Chocolate study Valo cooperation A study commissioned by Fazer in 2015, and conducted by In 2015, Fazer began a pilot project with the department of food sciences of the University of Helsinki, Valo, the Finnish Sports Confederation, with demonstrated that consumers can enjoy a moderate amount a concept called Lasten Liike (“Children’s of dark chocolate every day as part of a balanced diet. 22 Exercise”). Its aim is to provide fun and active subjects with mild hypertension participated in the study for after-school activities for children, which are over 10 weeks. The subjects replaced their daily snacks with provided jointly by elementary schools and a corresponding amount (250 kcal) of dark chocolate (49g, sports organisations. seven Fazer pralines with 70 per cent cocoa). The project aims at including sports According to the study’s results, the moderate daily as a standard part of the school day and consumption of dark chocolate did not lead to an increase fostering collaboration between different in weight nor did it have any negative impact on the stakeholders. By taking an active role in these participants’ health. matters, Fazer intends to promote health, a sense of community and enjoyment of everyday life. For health & well-being 20 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Stakeholder dialogue CASE: Fazer engages in health-related research and stakeholder Oat derivatives dialogue in order to substantiate the health and sustainability STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: effects of Fazer's products and find new innovations. This Fazer’s In 2015, Fazer secured a licence to an invention cooperation creates shared value for both Fazer and society contribution to developed and patented by the Technical Research at large. research and Centre of Finland (VTT) in partnership with the In 2015, the Group continued its dialogue with development Natural Resources Institution Finland (Luke).This healthcare professionals in events such as the two-day allows healthy and valuable ingredients to be extracted Terveydenhoitajapäivät (“Nurse Days”) event in February and As a university professor, from oats, including oat beta-glucan, oat protein and Valtakunnalliset ravitsemuspäivät (“National Nutrition days”) I appreciate Fazer’s role oat oil. in October in Finland. as an employer hiring Fazer aims to respond to the growing oat boom In addition to the stakeholder dialogue via EAT initiative, students and graduates with these derivatives.The new nutrient-rich oats can Fazer is also present in the Healthgrain Forum, the Prolamin from us and hosting be used in heart-healthy snack bars, biscuits, dairy excursions which products, breads and dietary supplements. Working Group and the Antidiabetic Food Centre at the inspire students and On a global scale, the consumption of oats has been University of Lund. help teachers to relate a growing trend, and oat products are in high demand theory to practice. I also appreciate Fazer as an active particularly due to oat's proven health effects. Oats are participant in various research projects, such as the faba a stomach-friendly cereal that contain an assortment bean project, which aims to improve the domestic plant of good nutrients.The EU has approved four health protein balance. Fazer also offers topics for master's claims applicable to oats and related to heart health, theses and supports us in their supervision. cholesterol control, blood glucose and digestive health. 2015 was a special year for us in that Fazer also gave a significant donation to the University of Helsinki and to our faculty. I also appreciate Fazer’s efforts and investments into THE WAY FORWARD domestically grown cereals and their technologies, rye • Continue to introduce healthier options to Fazer’s and oats in particular.These grains are not only essential offering in agriculture and in nutrition but also represent an • Contribute to mitigation of societal challenges such area of unique technological know-how in this country. as obesity, and salt and sugar consumption However, I would like to see Fazer develop more oatbased products, including baked goods that could carry • Publish nutrition guidelines in 2016 beta-glucan-based health claims, and hence lead the way • Focus on portion sizes and communicate the energy in health-promoting foods. content of each portion • Continue research and stakeholder collaboration in Hannu Salovaara the sphere of health and well-being around themes Professor (emer.), Cereal Technology, University of Helsinki such as sourdough science, oats and wholegrain research, sustainable protein, superfoods, healthy snacking, sugar reduction and salt replacement For health & well-being 21 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 People matter ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 • Fazer Behaviours were agreed based on outcome from the High Performance Culture workshops with personnel • Fazer Philosophy was defined; it guides employees and People make Fazer happen. Fair play managers in all people topics with everyone working with us. • The People Power Index score from employee satisfaction surveys was 73.4 (2014: 71.7) • The well-being index was 71.7 (2014: 69.4) Goals: • The leadership index was 73.3 (2014: 70.9) • To have talented, motivated and healthy people, • The engagement index was 77.5 (2014: 75.5) and lead them well • The response rate of the employee survey was exceptionally high at 84.4 per cent • Respect all employees and offer them an equal • Work on a diversity plan began working community through meaningful work, • The LTAF (lost time accident frequency) decreased by 13.8 motivation and a safe working environment per cent from 2014 • Over 15,100 safety discussions with employees were • Develop a diversified working community as both held and the number of safety observations in Fazer's a strength and a success factor production sites increased by 38.4 per cent from 2014 • Minimum well-being actions for business units were defined and included in local action plans Fazer depends on its people Fazer is a performance-driven company whose aim is to be a responsible employer that continuously provides people with jobs and growth opportunities. Fazer’s around 15,000 Fazer’s People Philosophy is based upon the company’s employees make the Group what it is and its employer values, its ethical principles, people policies and guidelines. image and success depend on personnel who are motivated, These direct all Fazer management and employees in all people competent and have clear responsibilities and goals. Welltopics, and are implemented through everyday actions and being is an enabler for high performance and this requires behaviours. In line with the United Nations Global Compact, people who feel healthy and proud of their work and Fazer treats all employees in accordance with international accomplishments, and are treated with equality and respect. human rights, respects personal dignity and privacy, does To keep employees motivated and engaged in the current not accept discrimination, intimidation or harassment, and tough economic situation, it is essential that employees ensures that employees work in a safe environment. ‘People understand the Group’s strategy and how they can contribute matter’ is one of the five strategic areas of Fazer’s corporate to it. Fazer has also identified that the level of occupational responsibility programme. In this area, the key topics include safety and well-being should be improved in order to realise safety, equality, employee well-being, development, leadership Fazer’s full potential as a company. and fair treatment. people matter 22 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 THE FAZER WAY OF WORKING EMPLOYEES BY GENDER High performance culture Fazer behaviours Men 42% Fazer’s high performance culture is built by competent and Fazer behaviours define what the Group expects from Women 58% motivated people who are proud of their achievements. leaders, managers and employees at all levels in order to The Group aims to enable employees to perform to their have a high performance culture in the company. The aim full potential. Likewise, strong leadership is one of the is to be a workplace where all employees understand their cornerstones of driving high performance and motivation own roles in executing the Group’s strategy, taking personal levels, and retaining employees. accountability for their own performance and contributing to Fazer has set a high performance culture action plan to business. Employees, therefore, should behave according to develop its leadership culture, to promote mutual trust, to the Group’s values and principles, support their colleagues focus on performance development, to define new ways of and both give and receive constructive feedback. working and to pay close attention to external developments. EMPLOYEES BY AGE, % 100 90 80 70 60 FAZER BEHAVIOURS 50 40 30 20 10 0 We ask, receive and give FI SE RU DK LV EE NO LT Total feedback Under 20 31–40 yrs 51–60 yrs We cooperate and share WE WE 21–30 yrs 41–50 yrs Over 60 We reach forward our knowledge ENGAGE DEVELOP We talk and listen to We develop ourselves and each other our ways of working NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER COUNTRY FAZER We show respect Finland 6,146 VALUES Sweden 3,209 Russia 3,103 We take initiative, find Denmark 922 solutions and keep our Latvia 312 promises Estonia 150 WE Norway 629 We take responsibility PERFORM Lithuania 238 We deliver results people matter 23 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Supporting diversity and inclusion Fazer is committed to supporting diversity, equal opportunity and fair treatment for all. The Group recognises that employee diversity is also a success factor and a source STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: of expertise, new perspectives, and innovative ideas for Developing skills in Fazer Bakery School business, product and service development. In 2014, Fazer signed the Finnish Corporate Responsibility Network (FIBS) I applied to the Fazer Bakery School because it was Diversity Charter and began working on a diversity plan in something totally new.The combination of theory and 2015. Fazer will be further implementing local diversity plans practice looked promising. I wanted to learn more in its various country units in 2016. about the steps involved in baking bread, and I was looking forward to seeing innovations. Performance development I didn’t imagine that the level would be so high – Promoting a high performance culture in Fazer, it is from lectures and teachers to team members and trips. important that every employee know their personal It showed me a more detailed view of baking bread and goals and can receive and give feedback. The Individual helped me gain more self-confidence. Now I can solve Performance Management Process (IPMP) is for setting clear problems related to production more efficiently and explain to the operators what’s happening to our bread goals, reviewing performance and behaviour, and making and what can impact its quality. I feel I also developed individual development plans. Fazer behaviours are part of as a team member and team leader. I am now able to IPMP. Employees engage in regular personal development help the technical department in choosing the right discussions where they evaluate their own performance equipment and machinery.The Fazer Bakery School is a and receive feedback from their managers. Personnel in dream for those who want to become better in baking, every Fazer production site and restaurant also have regular as it benefits not only the individual, but the entire development discussions. company.The more our specialists know, the more In addition to development dialogues, Fazer uses various efficiently they will work and the better the quality of other methods to support employees' personal and our products will be. occupational development. Employees bear the primary I’m starting as a Production Manager in the Kaunas responsibility for their own development, professional growth bakery from 4 January 2016, and the time I spent at the and knowledge-sharing, but managers are accountable Fazer Bakery School has had a very significant impact on my career. I work in the production department for confirming that there is relevant and business-critical solving problems, trying to improve processes and knowledge in their teams and providing development training people, so I get to apply the knowledge and opportunities for employees. On-the-job learning is the skills gained every day. main contributor to continuous development, and other development opportunities include mentoring, coaching, Tadas Aleknavicius open feedback and training sessions. Production Process Engineer, Lithuania Fazer Bakery Baltic people matter 24 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational Safety Policy and Management System Fazer’s goal is to prevent work-related incidents and illnesses and to create a safe and healthy working environment for its employees at all sites and facilities. Fazer has set an Occupational Safety Policy that defines the company's commitments and how they are enforced. Fazer’s safety record, however, has room for improvement. This is why it has been chosen as one of the key focus areas in all of the Group’s production units. Occupational safety is part of the normal management system and Fazer has defined actions and responsibilities in a number of areas, including leadership and accountability, management of health and safety risks, health and safety requirements for employees, crisis and emergency management, incident reporting and investigation, and management review and reporting. Fazer's management regularly reviews and evaluates the level of health and safety management and executes industrial safety inspections. Monthly safety reporting is shared with all Fazer employees and safety is also included in the company’s rewarding systems. The number of safety FREQUENCY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS (LTAF) Frequency of occupational accidents Number of accidents per one million working hours Number of accidents per one 20 discussions was million working hours 2015 2014 18 15.5 15.3 Fazer Confectionery 20.8 28.5 16 15.0 15,111 Fazer Bakery 6.3 8.4 14 12.5 12 Fazer Food Services 18.1 18.6 10 Total in Group 12.5 14.5 8 6 xxx 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 people matter 25 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Continuous improvements in occupational safety CASE: record and expertise Safety week at Fazer's bakeries in Finland Minimising the lost time accidents at the workplace has been a key indicator at Fazer. In 2015, the lost time accident frequency rate decreased by 13.8 per cent compared to 2014. In 2015, Fazer arranged a safety week for all its bakeries in Finland.The aim was to raise awareness of safety observations, remind employees of safety rules, principles and personal protective equipment, and to develop Fazer's Several concrete actions were taken in 2015 to improve safety culture. Supervisors and safety personnel also received basic safety training. 1,500 employees participated in the occupational safety. Fazer increased safety observations and safety week, and Fazer received good feedback and 200 ideas on how to develop its safety culture further. Managers safety dialogues, with a focus on taking corrective action to were provided with support materials to continue discussion and implement further policies.The safety week initiative mitigate future risks. The company also strengthened QEHS will be repeated in autumn 2016 and Fazer plans to make this an annual event going forward. support and expertise at sites across the company, with crucial appointments including that of a new QEHS Director at Fazer Group and two work safety coordinators at Fazer Bakery Sweden. Safety dialogues became part of one-on-one personal development discussions and are now also held whenever an employee returns from holidays. Safety training and raising awareness Fazer aims to prevent accidents by ensuring that all employees have been trained to work in a safe way. Safety trainings for supervisors and safety personnel were key focus areas in 2015 and safety aspects were included in the induction training process of every new employee. During manager reviews, the topics discussed include security and protection equipment, fire protection, security, production targets, and meeting routines, among others. In 2015, the induction process and materials were further improved. Work-safety-related communication materials were provided and shared across the company. Several safety campaigns were also organised in 2015 to promote safety at work. people matter 26 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING AND SATISFACTION Employee well-being The People Power index indicating the overall satisfaction THE WAY FORWARD Fazer’s well-being at work strategy is intended to impact and engagement level at Fazer had improved in almost all • Continue to build a high performance culture: the entire Group’s competitiveness, financial performance the company’s business areas. Commitment-level issues a culture of positivity, cooperation, personal and reputation. Activities to promote well-being at work are clearly on a higher level than in previous surveys. Job accountability, feedback and trust within Fazer that are planned and executed well are likely to lead to motivational issues also score well, with the exception of • Embrace Fazer Behaviours in everyday work improved productivity. The well-being framework covers the stress level, which is higher than within organisations in • Continue to work towards zero accidents following areas: leadership, work fluency, safety, competence, Europe in general. • Well-being strategy update meaningfulness, health, fellowship and employeeship, and workLeadership-related issues have clearly improved as well • Revision of a sick-leave KPI target for 2016 life cycle management. The strategy sets clear responsibilities in each of Fazer’s business areas and the leadership index • Focus on the development areas highlighted by the for employees, leaders and senior management. exceeds the European benchmark. Managerial work is, employee survey results Fazer also established the minimum actions all business overall, on a very good level and has clearly improved since • Develop ways of working by publishing guidelines for units must complete to implement the well-being strategy. the previous survey. Performance-level issues follow the flexible work and new collaboration tools These actions were incorporated into their local action plans overall positive trend in Fazer, and the performance index has • Continue to work with diversity through local in December 2015. improved in all business areas. Fazer's operating culture has discussions also improved, although the level of bureaucracy reportedly Personnel survey remains high. People Power employee surveys are conducted regularly at Fazer to track employee engagement and their views on various aspects of the organisation. These are one of CASE: the primary tools in developing the company’s operations Work life cycle programme and corporate culture. Answering the survey provides an opportunity to influence both the Group’s internal One example of Fazer’s well-being actions is the cooperation as well as one’s own work. The metric ranges new work life cycle programme, established in from 0-100 with a rating from poor (C) to excellent (AAA). Finland in 2015. Fazer understands that different The survey measures employees' views on commitment, life circumstances require different solutions. For leadership and performance culture. Managers review the instance, a new employee may need more support, results together with teams and make development plans, a person with young children may require more flexibility or personnel approaching retirement may which are followed up regularly. have their own special needs. For this reason, Fazer In response to the 2014 results, in 2015 special attention has consolidated various HR activities under the work was put, for example, on managerial work and upon feedback life cycle programme, which sets out Fazer’s approach and induction programmes for newcomers. Rewarding good for recruitment, induction, professional development, work and encouraging the appreciation of colleagues’ work compensation and benefits, work-life balance, part-time also helped to develop motivation. In 2015, the survey score opportunities, age programme and pensions, taking into improved, reaching 73.4 (2014: 71.1), while the response rate account the employee’s situation throughout. was exceptionally high at 84.4 per cent. people matter 27 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Fair value chain ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 • Increased share of responsible cocoa to 72 per cent Fazer operates responsibly and creates • Purchased the first lots of cocoa through the Fairtrade Cocoa Programme fair business opportunities across the • Used 100 per cent RSPO segregated palm oil for value chain. biscuit products • 67 per cent of fish used in Sweden MSC certified and 63 per cent of fish used in Finland deemed green Goals: according to the WWF fish guide • Produced 100 per cent of rye bread domestically • Constantly improve the level of responsibility and using Finnish rye strengthen cooperation in the value chain • Supplied 64 per cent domestic produce in Fazer 's • Improve traceability in the value chain and secure restaurants in Finland, 59 per cent in Denmark and 43 per cent in Sweden food quality and safety • Included corporate responsibility considerations in • Control and mitigate responsibility risks related to product life cycle management tool the raw material base; set targets for raw material • Fazer Confectionery passed Sedex ethical audit categories, control them and take corrective • 16 of Fazer’s production sites certified according to the FSSC 22000 actions Fazer’s responsibility may add to the complexity of business operations in the extends beyond own operations future. Fazer’s responsibility does not end at its own facilities. Food safety and quality is another important topic in The Group aims to ensure that raw materials are safe and Fazer’s supply chain management. Fazer Group is committed responsibly sourced, wherever they come from. to providing consumers with sustainable products and Negative impacts are often larger in the value chain services they can trust. than in Fazer’s own operations. Fazer is aware of the In 2015, Fazer focused on the company’s value chain as a environmental and human rights risks related to raw whole. The Group worked to raise responsibility in sourcing materials and seeks to identify strategies and activities essential raw materials such as cocoa, palm oil, fish and grain, to minimise negative impacts and create positive ones, and evaluated their origins. Fazer has processes in place to where possible. Climate change also has an effect on raw manage issues with direct suppliers as well as those further material availability and quality, and Fazer realises that it up the supply chain. Fair value chain 28 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS, MONITORING AND COOPERATION Fazer Group is committed to responsible business and expects its suppliers to follow the same principles. The Group’s suppliers and partners play significant roles in driving Fazer’s corporate responsibility agenda. Fazer chooses suppliers carefully, assesses them against the Group’s supplier requirements which include social and environmental criteria, and constantly works to improve its processes. Fazer’s ethical principles and supplier requirements have been included in frame agreements since 2008. To CASE: enforce them, the Group has set up processes for supplier Supporting domestic rye production in risk assessment and compliance audits. It assesses all direct Finland and packaging material suppliers before approving new cooperations. In Finland, Fazer has worked hard on behalf of domestic It is important to consider sustainability as early rye, and is now able to deliver on its customer promise. as the supplier selection stage, and thus social and Rye is often perceived as a strong symbol of Finnish environmental considerations have been included in culture. In 2011, Fazer Bakery Finland, Fazer Mill & annual sourcing category plans. In 2015, Fazer also included Mixes and Boreal Kasvinjalostus Oy founded the Pro Rye association. Shared concerns about the availability corporate responsibility aspects into its product life cycle and the future of domestic rye was the impetus for management tool. the cooperation.The association's aim is to improve the conditions for the cultivation of rye and increase the popularity of rye among both the farmers and the RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS consumers. In autumn 2014, Fazer signed a six-fold amount of Consumers are increasingly concerned about the contracts for rye with Finnish farmers and autumn rye sustainability of food production and where ingredients and was sown in a record number of acreage. In 2015, the raw materials come from. Fazer acknowledges the challenges cultivation acreage of domestic rye was increased by posed by environmental and social issues in supply chains 60 per cent. Fazer is the only Finnish nationwide bakery and recognises the importance of traceability and sustainable whose entire rye bread portfolio is baked in Finland origins both from the perspective of food safety and of and during 2015, the level 100 per cent of domestic rye was reached for this portfolio. Around 26 million Fazer’s supply chain’s responsibility. kilogrammes of rye bread was baked in Lahti and Oulu For many years, the Group has worked to make its value bakeries in 2015. chain transparent and raise its responsibility in sourcing essential raw materials like cocoa, palm oil, fish and grain. Fair value chain 29 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Cocoa RESPONSIBLE COCOA STATUS Responsible cocoa is a key focus area in Fazer’s confectionery business. The Group aims to make this raw Cocoa purchased according to material as traceable as possible, support cocoa farmers Fazer's cocoa programme 72% and their training, create a real impact in the cocoa-growing Certified 49% communities, and secure the availability of quality cocoa in Direct sustainability the long term. By 2017, all of Fazer’s cocoa will be traceable programmes 23% and will fulfil the criteria of responsible production. In 2015, the share of responsible cocoa was increased to 72 per Conventional 28% cent, exceeding the 70 per cent target set for the year. Fazer Group’s criteria for responsible cocoa sourcing are based on traceability and on the World Cocoa Foundation’s principles for people, profit and planet. The criteria are met when the farmers’ livelihoods are profitable for them, people STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: are doing well and cultivation methods are environmentally Supporting cocoa farmers in Nigeria sustainable. Fazer does not compromise where the quality of its cocoa is concerned. In 2014, Fazer partnered with Source Trust in order Fazer aims to support not only certified cocoa production to directly reach the farmers in their supply chain and but also farmers outside the certification systems as achieve Fazer’s cocoa vision.The programme in Nigeria aims to enhance the lives of cocoa farmers in the Fazer they comprise the vast majority, around 80 per cent, of supply chain by investing in their capacity to produce farmers. Fazer sources cocoa and supports cocoa-farming quality cocoa and in the infrastructure of the local communities through direct sustainability programmes in farming community. Nigeria and Ecuador. The project was started in Ecuador By the end of the year 2015, more than 3,000 in 2015 and supports 1,100 farmers in sustainable cocoa farmers have been given an opportunity to enhance production. The programme in Nigeria now includes more their knowledge of good agricultural, environmental than 4,500 farmers. and social practices. Personal protective equipment has Fazer sources certified cocoa through three different been made available to groups of farmers to ensure schemes: UTZ, Rainforest Alliance and the Fairtrade Cocoa the safe application and handling of crop protection Programme. The Group began buying cocoa through the products. In September 2015, we also began to establish Fairtrade Cocoa Programme in 2015. community-based seedling nurseries to deliver highFazer participates in industry-wide efforts to improve quality hybrid-planting material. cocoa sourcing through the development of the CEN/ISO standard for sustainable and traceable cocoa. The Group has Jason Green Head of Sustainability, Source Trust also been a member of the World Cocoa Foundation for over a decade. Fair value chain 30 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Palm oil RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL STATUS FAZER'S PALM OIL USE BY COUNTRY With the rapid expansion of the palm oil industry, the environmental and social challenges associated with it RSPO certified palm oil (incl. all Fazer Bakery Baltics 0.2% have become more evident. Fazer supports responsible RSPO supply chain options) 100% Fazer Food Services 1.2% and transparent sourcing of palm oil by following the Segregated 11% requirements of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Fazer Bakery Sweden 2.0% Mass Balance 7% (RSPO), a global, multi-stakeholder initiative on sustainable Fazer Bakery Finland 6.0% palm oil. As a member of the RSPO, Fazer is committed to Book & Claim / GreenPalm Fazer Confectionery 25.8% improving sustainability. certificates 82% RSPO offers four supply chain options. In all the RSPO Fazer Bakery Russia 64.7% supply chain systems, RSPO certified plantations have been found by independent auditors to operate within the guidelines of RSPO. For the ‘Book & Claim’ option a voluntary premium is paid to support RSPO certified plantations for every tonne of palm oil used. In the ‘Mass Balance’ option, the volumes of certified palm oil are monitored throughout the supply chain, while in the ‘Segregated’ option, palm oil is physically separated from non-certified palm oil throughout the supply chain. All of the palm oil used by Fazer was covered by the ‘Book & Claim’ system in 2012 and 2013 and since then, Fazer has been continually increasing the share of ‘Segregated’ and ‘Mass Balance’ palm oil. In 2014, Fazer published a commitment to responsible palm oil, which will direct the Group’s sourcing until 2020. In 2015, Fazer reached its target to purchase 100 per cent RSPO-segregated palm oil for biscuit products. The target is to reach 100 per cent ‘Segregated’ or ‘Mass Balance’ certified palm oil in all countries of operation by 2020. Fazer Group wants to use palm oil in a sustainable manner, protecting biodiversity and considering its impact on climate. Due to the complexity of the supply chain and the wide range of palm oil products sourced, Fazer needs to rely on good cooperation with suppliers. One important criterion in selecting palm oil suppliers is their capability to supply sustainable palm oil. Fair value chain 31 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Fish Fish comprises approximately 10 per cent of the raw materials used in Fazer Food Services. As such, Fazer seeks to promote responsible fish sourcing and has set specific targets for the sourcing of fish in each of its operating countries. The Group’s restaurants in Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark follow WWF recommendations regarding sustainable use of seafood. No fish or shellfish marked on WWF’s red list are used in any of the restaurants. In Finland, the aim was to increase the amount of greenlisted fish and domestic fish. In 2015, 63 per cent of the fish Fazer used in Finland was deemed green by WWF. In Sweden, 67 per cent of all Fazer’s fish is MSC-labelled. In Denmark, significant efforts have been made to understand the fish market and how to prevent fish from being caught unsustainably, for instance, through trawling. Fazer Food Services Denmark has developed specific guidelines for this reason. FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY Fazer Group’s raw material sourcing is governed by food Standard and the Lidköping bakery in Sweden has been legislation and Fazer’s own safety standards. Food safety certified according to the IFS Food Standard. THE WAY FORWARD must be considered throughout the value chain, from Fazer’s restaurants in Finland are certified to the ISO 9001 • Devise truly sustainable solutions to supply chain challenges suppliers to customers. quality management system standard. In order to monitor • Continue work with traceability In order to ensure that food safety is systematically food safety, Fazer Food Services takes a sample of every controlled and any risks identified, Fazer has set up product and batch. The samples are kept for two weeks • Develop Quality, Environment, Health and Safety strategy to identify best ways to reach excellence in food safety and quality management systems with clear in case the need arises to prove the hygienic quality of the QEHS responsibilities and measurable targets. Fazer has made product. In case of deviations, Fazer acts quickly and is open • Get 85 per cent of cocoa to fulfil the criteria of responsible a comprehensive plan to certify all Fazer’s sites according and honest in its communications. production by 2016 and 100 per cent by 2017 to the FSSC 22000 global food safety standard. In 2015, Fazer Mill & Mixes’ production process is audited annually • Take further steps according to Fazer's Commitment all Fazer bakeries in Sweden and Russia, all confectionery by an internationally recognised third party, the American to Responsible Palm Oil factories in Finland and the bakeries in Vantaa, Lahti and Institute of Baking (AIB). The aim of the auditing programme Lappeenranta were certified according to the FSSC 22000 is to ensure the constant development of Fazer Mill & Mixes’ global food safety standard. The crisp factory in Finland production process. In 2015, Fazer Mill & Mixes continued to has been certified according to the BRC Food Safety achieve excellent results. Fair value chain 32 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Part of the environment Fazer relies on the resources nature ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 provides, and uses them responsibly. • Reduced energy consumption by 3 per cent per produced tonne* • Increased renewable electricity use to 80 per cent * Goals: • 93 per cent of the total amount of waste was recycled or recycled as energy* • Reduce climate impact and increase energy • Specified corporate responsibility focus areas for Fazer efficiency Food Services: reduce food waste, increase the share of • Prevent waste and loss of raw materials vegetables, occupational safety • Waste reduction targets were set for Fazer Food • Manage and use water resources responsibly Services, Fazer Cafés and the Gateau bakery shop chain • Developed a Grain Vision for the responsible cultivation • Support sustainable farming and prevent loss of of grain biodiversity • Started the development of a deforestation policy and identified the main raw materials causing deforestation Fazer strives for sustainable use of resources • Won the Sustainability Award at the Pro Carton ECMA Global food production accounts for more than 30 per cent 2015 for the Fazer Alku porridge packaging of global greenhouse gas emissions, 70 per cent of fresh • Began cooperation with the pro-Baltic Sea carbonated water consumption, and 80 per cent of deforestation. It is the spring water company Dropp largest single cause of species and biodiversity loss, and also a cause of eutrophication and water pollution. One third of all food produced for human consumption in the world is lost or * Scope: Fazer's bakeries and confectionery factories, Fazer Mill & Mixes wasted annually. Fazer depends on the long-term availability of raw materials and recognises that its operations have an impact on the environment. The company works actively to minimise Fazer to improving resource efficiency, reducing energy and the environmental impacts of its operations throughout the water consumption, mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, value chain and among customers and consumers. reducing waste, using raw materials efficiently and preventing Environmental responsibility is Fazer’s duty as a corporate pollution and loss of biodiversity. Specific goals and activities citizen, but it is also viewed as a reputation factor, risk have been defined in Fazer’s corporate responsibility management activity and a source of possible cost reductions. programme for energy, waste, water use, sustainable farming, The Group has set an Environmental Policy that commits and raising environmental awareness. part of the environment 33 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 REDUCING EMISSIONS AND ENERGY USE Domestic raw materials in Developing Fazer’s offering Fazer's restaurants: The global food industry is a key contributor to greenhouse Finland Denmark Sweden gas emissions, and how food is produced matters. Fazer wants to make a difference by offering products and services with a lower climate impact, making it easier for consumers 64% 56% 44% to act responsibly. Fazer Food Services aims to increase the share of vegetables in its offering, improve the traceability of raw Share of materials, use seasonal ingredients and reduce the amount of food waste. On average, the environmental impact of plantrenewable based food is smaller than that of meat and dairy products. electricity 80% By favouring seasonal ingredients, it is possible to reduce the climate impact of the food used in Fazer’s restaurants. In 2015, the share of domestic produce in Fazer's restaurants was 64 per cent in Finland, 56 per cent in Denmark and 44 per cent in Sweden. The share of vegetables used in Fazer's restaurants was 39 per cent. Energy use The use of energy is one of the most significant direct environmental impacts of Fazer’s production sites and restaurants. Fazer has set an energy strategy to manage energy consumption in its production sites. The Group’s target is to cut energy consumption by 20 per cent per produced tonne by 2020, and increase the proportion of renewable electricity ENERGY CONSUMPTION/PRODUCED QUANTITY MWh/tonne to 70 per cent by 2017. The target covers the operations of 1.0 Fazer's bakeries and confectionery factories and Fazer Mill & 0.9 1.00 0.98 0.93 0.93 0.90 Mixes. Fazer has limited control over the restaurants’ energy 0.8 0.7 consumption, as restaurants typically have their own energy 0.6 plans and existing equipment supplied by the client. 0.5 0.4 In 2015, Fazer's total energy use decreased by 3 per 0.3 cent compared to 2014. The share of renewable electricity 0.2 0.1 increased to 80 per cent, exceeding the target set in the 0.0 energy strategy. The share of renewable electricity in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fazer’s bakeries in Sweden increased to 100 per cent of the electricity consumption. part of the environment 34 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 PREVENTING WASTE AND RAW MATERIAL LOSS To strengthen the work in the area of waste reduction, Fazer worked to develop a Group-level waste plan. Preventing waste in Fazer’s restaurants, bakeries Fazer also looked at how to reduce food waste further and confectionery factories down the value chain. For example, second-class vegetables Preventing food waste is a key focus area for Fazer Food have been procured to reduce food loss created by vegetables Services, and several actions have been taken to achieve this. that do not fulfil aesthetic requirements. A lot of effort has been made to find uniform ways to monitor and measure waste in restaurants across all markets. In March Awards and stakeholder cooperation 2015, over 600 of Fazer’s restaurants successfully participated Fazer is involved in national and European stakeholder networks in the first internal Nordic food waste campaign. A second to reduce food waste. Fazer also sponsors the RSA Student campaign took place in mid-May and a third one in September. Design Awards, which challenges emerging designers around The objective of these campaigns is to raise awareness about the world to tackle pressing social, environmental and economic food waste in all 1,200 restaurants, to call attention to the issues – such as food waste – through design thinking. The need to start planning for food waste reduction on the winners and their entries will be presented in June 2016. restaurant level, and to share best practices. In 2015, Fazer Fazer’s popular Fazer Alku porridges received international also implemented a food waste measurement model for Fazer acclaim in September. The packaging of these new mill Food Services and adopted two waste reduction targets: products was selected as the winner of the sustainability category at the Pro Carton ECMA Awards. The Fazer Alku • Reduce food waste (storage and display) in restaurants by packaging does away with the inner plastic bag and has a high 5g per portion by 2017. cartonboard ratio, which is good for recycling. • Through campaigning and portioning development, reduce guest plate waste in restaurants by 5g per portion by 2017, using 2015 as the baseline. Waste reduction targets were also adopted in Fazer Cafés and TOTAL AMOUNT OF WASTE/PRODUCED QUANTITY WASTE TREATMENT the Gateau bakery shop chain in Sweden. Fazer Cafés decided tonnes/tonne to increase focus on reducing food waste by setting a target to 0.12 0.11 Recycled 60% develop a process for donating unsold food to charity during 2016 0.10 Recycled as energy 33% 0.08 and reducing organic waste. The Gateau bakery shop chain in 0.08 0.07 0.07 Sweden adopted a target to reduce display waste by 40 per cent 0.06 Landfill waste 7% 0.06 until 2020. 0.04 In Fazer’s bakery and confectionery businesses, the total xxx 0.02 amount of waste per produced tonne increased during 2015. 0.00 93 per cent of the total amount of waste was recycled or 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The environmental indicators cover the operations of Fazer´s recycled as energy. Fazer Bakery, Fazer Confectionery and bakeries and confectioner y factories and Fazer Mill & Mixes. Fazer Mill & Mixes are commited to reducing waste by 10 per cent per produced tonne till 2020 using 2014 as baseline. part of the environment 35 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 WATER USE, CONSERVATION AND WASTE employees. The Group’s commitment to the Baltic Sea and domestic produce in its offering, improved the WATER TREATMENT Action Group (BSAG) consists of four pledges, against which traceability of raw materials, used seasonal ingredients and Fazer made the following progress in 2015: reduced the amount of food waste. Reducing fresh water use 4. Implementation of Fazer’s energy strategy: Fazer’s aim Global water stress is fast becoming a major economic, political 1. Fazer’s Grain Vision: The focus for 2014 was to is to improve energy efficiency (20 per cent by 2020) and social issue, as well as a supply chain risk. Fazer needs to initiate a dialogue with farmers to define criteria for and increase the share of the renewable electricity it use water responsibly throughout its production processes and responsible grain sourcing and conduct surveys in order uses (70 per cent by 2017). In 2015 Fazer achieved its to consider its indirect impact on water use through the raw to determine current soil nutrient balance levels. In 2015, target of 70 per cent renewable electricity. materials sourced. Fazer worked towards developing common purchase Fazer measures water use in its bakeries and confectionery criteria in Finland and Sweden. Waste water treatment factories. The Group also uses a tool to analyse raw materials 2. Responsibility programme for Fazer Mill & Mixes: A In 2015, Fazer installed a local sewage system in its Murinskoe sourced from areas of water scarcity. In 2015, the usage of responsibility programme, which seeks to minimise bakery in St Petersburg. The new system has a 3-step water per produced tonne decreased by 3.7 per cent. the environmental impact of Fazer’s operations and approach to cleaning waste water before releasing it to the maximise the benefits for farmers and consumers, was central water system. The 70 m3 of sewage water cleaned Commitment to conserve the Baltic Sea created in 2014. daily is free of pollutants and minimises the bakery’s impact Fazer is a considerable player in the Baltic Sea region and 3. More responsible offering for Fazer Food Services: In on the environment. the Baltic Sea unites Fazer’s countries of operation and 2015, Fazer Food Services increased the share of organic part of the environment 36 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 SUSTAINABLE FARMING Responsible farming of grains This year, Fazer continued its three-year collaboration Fazer wants to purchase grain and grain products which have with WWF Finland to secure and preserve biodiversity. The been grown with consideration to the best practises from Group aims to better identify and affect the environmental the environmental point of view. Fazer's long-term vision is to impacts in its supply chain, and support sustainable choices minimise, for its part, the nutrient load of the water system with its products and services. Fazer also began developing caused by the production of arable crops in its home market no deforestation guidelines, which will be finalised in 2016. area. Fazer wants to increase and promote, in cooperation with the farmers, the utilisation of sustainable production methods. Fazer has been working to define the criteria of the Fazer Grain Vision for the responsible cultivation of grain. With the Grain Vision, Fazer aims to support sustainable farming practices, empower farmers and communities, and prevent loss of biodiversity. In 2015, Fazer formed a Grain Vision working group in Sweden and consulted with stakeholders to define the criteria for responsible cultivation. Criteria were developed also in Finland. These criteria will be finalised during 2016, and Fazer will test the practical implications of adopting them. Agreeing on common Grain Vision criteria has been challenging, as the market conditions are different in Finland and Sweden. Fazer aims to find a balance between setting realistic targets for farmers today, and developing farming into a more sustainable practice in the future. This is a continuous process, and Fazer is addressing the challenge by setting a phased approach to the Grain Vision. Biodiversity Biodiversity refers to the many millions of distinct biological species found on earth, the outcome of four billion years of evolution. It underpins the health of the planet and has a direct impact on all our lives, providing us with food security, clean water and air. Climate change, pollution, the changing use of land, eutrophication, acidification, deforestation, and overfishing all affect biodiversity. part of the environment 37 Group President’s Review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 RAISING AWARENESS Communicating the environmental corporate the campaign, staff members were encouraged to take responsibility programme additional measures to save energy, reduce scrap and clean Fazer's environmental impact extends beyond its own up their working environment. The objective was to improve operations. The Group relies upon its 15,000 employees, efficiency and workplace safety, as well as to promote as well as consumers, customers, suppliers and other energy-saving behaviours amongst employees. stakeholders to implement its environmental policy. This is Fazer Group also sponsors environmental education in why raising awareness of Fazer’s environmental objectives Finland’s Korkeasaari zoo. and activities is important. Stakeholders also expect Fazer to communicate transparently about its targets and progress towards them. In 2015, Fazer focused on communicating its updated THE WAY FORWARD Corporate Responsibility Programme, of which the • Update Fazer Energy Strategy in 2016 environmental area forms one part. Setting clear targets • Continue sustainable farming work with Grain Vision and action plans is an important step in raising awareness and hold dialogues with key stakeholders in 2016 of the actions required from both internal and external • Implement waste reduction targets set in 2015 stakeholders. • Develop a water plan to address water use and quality Employee engagement and sponsorship • Finalise Fazer's policy and process against This year, Fazer organised a sustainability week in three of deforestation in 2016 its offices and two production sites in the Baltics. During ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2015 2014 Amount of production (tonnes) 564,275 579,670 Energy consumption (MWh) 510,609 538,053 Energy consumption / produced quantity (MWh/tonne) 0.90 0.93 Usage of water (m³) 873,795 935,477 Usage of water / produced amount (m³/tonne) 1.55 1.61 Used raw materials (tonne) 518,153 541,778 Used raw materials / produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.92 0.93 Total amount of waste / produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.08 0.07 Total amount of waste (tonnes), of which 45,215 41,789 Recycled (%) 60 71 Recycled as energy (%) 33 20 Landfill waste (%) 7 10 The environmental indicators cover the operations of Fazer's bakeries and confectionery factories and Fazer Mill & Mixes. part of the environment 38 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 STANDARDS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AUDITS ISO ISO OHSAS FSSC SMETA 9001 14001 18001 22000 BRC IFS AIB 4-pilar Fazer Confectionery Vantaa X X X X Lappeenranta X X X X Karkkila X X X X Vantaa (biscuit) X X X Fazer Bakery Finland Vantaa X Lahti X Lahti (crisp) X X Lappeenranta X Oulu Fazer Bakery Sweden Eskilstuna X Lidköping X X X X Lund X Lövånger X Umeå X Fazer Bakery Russia ISO 9001 Quality Management System Standard Smolenskaya X X X X Environmental Management System Murinskoe X X X X ISO 14001 Standard Neva X X X X OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Zvezdny X X X X 18001 Management System Standard Fazer Bakery, Latvia FSSC 22000 Food Safety System Certification Ogre Fazer Bakery, Lithuania BRC Food Safety Standard Kaunas Food Standard (food safety and quality Fazer Mill & Mixes IFS of processes and products) Lahti X X Fazer Food Services AIB Food Safety Audit by AIB International Restaurants Finland X X SMETA Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit Restaurants Sweden X 39 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Fazer's corporate responsibility goals and achievements Goals Achievements in 2015 2016 and onwards Running business – Fazer brings prosperity to the company and to society. • Manage issues which affect Fazer's • Reputation Institute’s RepTrak score on an excellent or strong level in Finland, Sweden • Further increase transparency in terms of Fazer’s value chain, corporate responsibility reputation and Russia activities, challenges and future plans • Follow Fazer's ethical principles in all • Economic Value Added was 641 M€ • Aim for resource efficiency, cost savings and finding new opportunities via circular businesses • Return on equity was 4.9 per cent, a 39.2 per cent increase form 2014 economy thinking • Secure and increase brand value • Paid 42 M€ in taxes • Continue existing process of issue and risk management, securing brand value, integrating • Bring added value to stakeholders • Provided employment to nearly 15,000 people corporate responsibility into daily business and looking for new business opportunities • Secure profitable business and growth • Approved a new Human Rights Policy • Conduct a human rights impact assessment in 2016 to find out the company’s adverse impacts and to define appropriate mitigation actions For health and well-being – Fazer enables consumers to make choices based on knowledge and personal preferences, bringing balance and well-being • Develop responsible offering • Increased the share of vegetables to 39 per cent • Continue to introduce healthier options to Fazer’s offering • Transparently communicate with • Launched several new products focusing on health trends, e.g. Health Energy bread • Contribute to mitigation of societal challenges such as obesity, and salt and sugar consumption consumers about healthand well• Launched a new marketing policy that puts special emphasis on responsible marketing to • Publish nutrition guidelines in 2016 being-related topics minors • Focus on portion sizes and communicating the energy content of each portion • Participate in studies on food, health • Began “nudging” pilots to encourage restaurant guests to make green and healthy choices • Continue research and stakeholder collaboration in the sphere of health and well-being and sustainability • Joined the EAT initiative to better integrate food, health and sustainability within Fazer’s business by making use of scientific research and stakeholder dialogue • Commissioned and published a study on consumption of dark chocolate as part of a balanced lifestyle • Initiated an after-school activities project in collaboration with Valo People matter – Fazer observes fair play with everyone it works with. People make Fazer happen. • To have talented, motivated and • Fazer Behaviours were agreed based on outcomes from the High Performance Culture • Continue to build a high performance culture: a culture of positivity, pride, personal achealthy people, and lead them well workshops with personnel countability, feedback and trust within Fazer • Respect all employees and offer • Fazer Philosophy was defined, guiding employees and managers in all people topics • Embrace Fazer Behaviours in everyday work them an equal working community • The People Power, well-being, leadership and engagement index scores were all improved • Continue to work towards zero accidents through meaningful work, motivation from 2014 • Well-being strategy update and a safe working environment • Work on a diversity plan began • Revision of a sick-leave KPI target for 2016 • Develop a diversified working • The LTAF (lost time accident frequency) decreased 13.8 per cent from 2014 • Focus on the development areas highlighted by the employee survey results community as both a strength and a • Over 15,100 safety discussions with employees were held and the number of safety • Develop ways of working by publishing guidelines for flexible work and new success factor observations in Fazer’s production sites was 38.4 per cent increase from 2014 collaboration tools • Minimum well-being actions for business units were defined and included in local action plans 40 Group President’s review Group overview Fazer’s approach Running business For health and well-being People matter Fair value chain Part of the environment FAZER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2015 Goals Achievements in 2015 2016 and onwards Fair value chain – Fazer operates responsibly and creates fair business opportunities throughout its value chain. • Constantly improve the level of responsibility and • Increased share of responsible cocoa to 72 per cent • Devise truly sustainable solutions to supply chain strengthen cooperation in the value chain • Purchased the first lots of cocoa through the Fairtrade Cocoa Programme challenges • Improve traceability in the value chain and secure • Used 100 per cent RSPO segregated palm oil for biscuit products • Continue work with traceability food quality and safety • 67 per cent of fish used in Sweden MSC certified and 63 per cent of fish used in Finland deemed • Develop Quality, Environment, Health and Safety • Control and mitigate responsibility risks related green according to the WWF fish guide strategy to identify best ways to reach excellence to the raw material base; set targets for raw • Produced 100 per cent of fresh rye bread domestically using Finnish rye in QEHS material categories, control them and take • Supplied 64 per cent domestic produce in Fazer restaurants in Finland, 59 per cent in Denmark and • Get 85 per cent of cocoa to fulfil the criteria of corrective actions 43 per cent in Sweden responsible production by 2016 and 100 per cent by 2017 • Fazer Confectionery passed Sedex audit • Take further steps according to Fazer's • 16 Fazer’s production sites certified according to the FSSC 22000 Commitment to Responsible Palm Oil Part of the environment – Fazer relies on nature's resources and uses them responsibly. • Reduce climate impact and increase energy • Reduced energy consumption by 3 per cent per produced tonne * • Update Fazer Energy Strategy in 2016 efficiency • Increased renewable electricity use to 80 per cent * • Continue sustainable farming work with Grain • Prevent waste and loss of raw materials • Recycled or recycled as energy 93 per cent of the total amount of waste * Vision and hold dialogues with key stakeholders • Manage and use water resources responsibly • Specified corporate responsibility focus areas for Fazer Food Services: reduce food waste, reduce meat, in 2016 • Support sustainable farming and prevent loss of occupational safety • Implement waste reduction targets set in 2015 biodiversity • Waste reduction targets were set for Fazer Food Services, Fazer Cafés and Gateau bakery shop chain • Develop a water plan to address water use and • Developed Grain Vision for the responsible cultivation of grain quality • Started the development of a deforestation policy and identified the main raw materials related to • Publish Fazer's policy and process against deforestation deforestation in 2016 Scope: Fazer’s bakeries and confectionery factories and Fazer Mill&Mixes 41 Find us online fazergroup.com | fazer.com | fazer.fi | fazer.se | fazer.ru | fazer.ee | fazer.lt | fazer.lv | fazer.dk | fazer.no Facebook Snapchat Pinterest YouTube Twitter Instagram Linkedin
