United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Global relocation for a changing world Contents page About the United Nations About the United Nations Global Compact ............................................................................ 5 Global Compact 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact ............................................................................... 6 The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is a Chairman’s Statement ............................................................................................................ 7 call to companies everywhere to voluntarily The Commitment align their operations and strategies with About Team Relocations ......................................................................................................... 8 ten universally accepted principles in the • Make the UN Global Compact and its areas of human rights, labour, environment principles an integral part of business Team’s Core Values: Excalibur ................................................................................................ 9 and anti-corruption, and to take action in strategy, day-to-day operations, and support of UN goals, including the Millennium organisational culture; Human Rights .......................................................................................................................... 10 Development Goals. • Incorporate the UN Global Compact and its principles in the decisionLabour ...................................................................................................................................... 16 The UN Global Compact is a leadership making processes of the highest-level platform for the development, governance body (e.g., Board); Environment ............................................................................................................................ 20 implementation, and disclosure of • Take actions in support of UN goals responsible corporate policies and practices. and issues, including the Millennium Anti-Corruption ......................................................................................................................... 25 Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate Development Goals; responsibility initiative in the world, with over • Communicate annually with its Supplementary Reading and Compliance Team ................................................................... 28 10,000 signatories based in 140 countries. stakeholders on progress made to Team Relocations has been following these implement the principles, ideally Compliance Team .................................................................................................................... 30 principles since 2007 and, in 2013, formally integrated into the annual report or affirmed its commitment to, and integration similar public document (known as of, the principles. the Communication on Progress – COP); and • Advance the UN Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers, and the public at large. www.unglobalcompact.com 10 Principles of the UN A Statement from the Global Compact Chairman and Founder To All Stakeholders, For some 40 years, our growth and success has been based upon a Businesses should support and respect the protection of strongly held set of core business values. From the early days, as a internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that path-finding corporate moving company, to our present day position they are not complicit in human rights abuses. as one of Europe’s leading global mobility services providers, we have Human Rights empowered our people to deliver the highest professional and ethical services possible. Much has changed over four decades, but the six core values, upon which our business is based, have not: Excellence, Responsibility, Integrity, Security, Synergy Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and and Resourcefulness. They have developed, of course, to keep pace with the demands of 21st the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; century business and, more recently, we have uniquely brought all these elements together the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; under our Excalibur ‘core values’ programme. the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Excalibur unites our values into one clear integrated strategy by which we might drive the Labour pursuit of our goal to provide our clients with excellence in global relocation and move management services. The success of this mission is further supported by our commitment to, and support of, the United Nations Global Compact which we formally subscribed to in August 2013. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to I am delighted to submit Team Relocations’ third annual Communication on Progress, which environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote outlines the on-going effort and progress we have made during 2015 to embed the Global greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the Compact and its ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, environment and antidevelopment and diffusion of environmentally friendly corruption into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our organisation. It also Environment technologies. includes our objectives for 2016, as the Global Compact and its principles become further integrated into our business. Aligning our company with the principles and reporting against them on an annual basis enables us to ensure we remain focused on the issues most relevant to us as a global business, and to play our part in the crucially important transition to a sustainable future. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, As Chairman, I am pleased to confirm that Team Relocations will continue to support the United including extortion and bribery. Nations Global Compact in the coming year. Anti-Corruption Yogesh B. Mehta Chairman 6 7 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com About Team Relocations Our Core Values: Excalibur Team Relocations is a leading independent company specialising in the delivery of fully Excellence Resourcefulness Responsibility integrated global relocation services within the corporate market place, supporting in the region Quality Environment Health & Safety of 60,000 cases per annum. We deliver end-to-end services that span policy consultation, predeparture counselling, destination and moving services, assignment management, expense reporting, repatriation, and transition. Our partner network is central to our goal of delivering excellence in mobility solutions and supports our ability to maintain consistently high service standards from home to host location, even in the most remote and inhospitable regions. ISO 9001:2008 ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 Team remains privately owned and our portfolio of clients includes some of the industry’s largest contracts currently in operation within the marketplace. A substantial percentage of Quality FAIMplus Carbon Neutral Health & Safety our major corporate relationships have come about due to numerous contract extensions over Traning & Competence Recycling & Refuse Risk Assessment many decades, as these companies have recognised our unique ability to handle their most Customer Satisfaction UN Global Compact Client Policy Integration challenging mobility requirements, whilst remaining small enough as a company to really care about what we do. Integrity Security Synergy Our Mission Social Responsibility Information Security Supply Chain To provide our clients with excellence in globaL relocation management through: ISO 26000 ISO 27001:2013 OHSAS 18001:2007 Recruiting Creating Delivering Applying Partnering Being and developing relocation levels of vigorous cost with only the very excellent Diversity Risk Management AEO Certified talented people solutions which service which controls to the best corporate citizens meet the needs exceed client mobility process Community Data Protection Security Processes of each client expectations Transparency & Trust Business Continuity Monitoring Supply Flows Ethics & Compliance UN Global Compact CSR UN Global Compact 9 Team Relocations Document Title www.teamrelocations.com Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Human Rights HR As part of our HR and staff awareness Our Investors in People taskforce will be criteria, we have committed to achieve involved in taking the IiP Silver project Investors in People Silver accreditation for forward and reviews of progress will be Team recognises its responsibility under the Universal Declaration of Human the UK offices. While the European countries conducted during this year and early next Rights to promote and protect human rights throughout its business operations do not have this accreditation available year as to compliance and the progress of to them, we are committed as a Group to application. Principle 1 impart and set the same standards and values. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Group Compliance Team Principle 2 The requirement for greater client account We are in the process of putting in place a Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses compliance has necessitated greater master umbrella compliance programme sharing of the varied account compliance that covers the many different client account Assessment, Policy and Goals agreements. compliance requirements, thus removing the need to set up individual programmes. Team Relocations is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations, and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights Supply Chain abuses. This is reflected in our Integrity policy, which also expresses our commitment to uphold the Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business The team has been reviewed and, in-keeping Within the moving and relocation sectors and Human Rights. with requirements within our organisation, we have now appointed a team made up of is now a smaller more cohesive unit Team in the UK and Team in the Netherlands Although already enshrined within our core values declaration policy document, Excalibur, implementing the business criteria more to drive this forward for our Group, which Team has effected several changes throughout 2015/16 to further embody the two essential effectively. will provide better strategic and commercial human rights principles within the fabric of its everyday operational working. outcomes. 10 11 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Our People Team’s commitment is to an inclusive We place a high priority on employee environment where we attract, retain, train communications and make use of the and advance the most competent employees Staff Extranet to provide a wide range without regard to their race, colour, religion of company information and news, and or religious belief, sex, national origin, age, to promote knowledge sharing and best marital status, sexual orientation or disability. practice exchange. We continue to develop the Extranet as a source of information to all We are committed to diversity and inclusion employees. All company policies available on within the Group and have developed a Extranet. strategy which underpins Team’s values of mutual respect, responsibility and teamwork. This is best encapsulated in our Integrity policy. We believe it enables us to hire the best talent, build the most effective teams, deliver the highest level of client service and be effective contributors to our local communities. Team is a diverse company, with a valuable mix of nationalities, cultures and expertise; 22 languages are spoken in the UK offices alone. Team’s human and intellectual capital is one of our most valuable assets. It can be measured by our overall staff turnover rate, the investment in training and development and ultimately in our ability to innovate. As our organisation of over 500 employees operates across 13 countries, we value every one of our people on their merits as individuals and their ability to carry out their work to the highest standards. We therefore strive to ensure that everyone at Team Relocations has access to career development and training opportunities in line with their abilities and skills. This is monitored and measured in annual staff appraisals. 12 13 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Our Suppliers Team Relocations is committed to utilising In a significant step since our last annual Team also successfully achieved renewal of Availability suppliers who respect human rights through Communication on Progress, our SUREFAST our ISO 27001 certification for Information promoting safe and fair working conditions, Manager has begun the roll-out of a new Security Management Systems with A priority is managing our centralised server and ensuring respect for the four key rights Supplier Portal, initially targeting our largest certification running through to 2016. This farm in such a way that downtime of any and principles in the International Labour suppliers, which will enable us to capture international standard provides guidelines for component is reduced as much as possible Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental detailed and consistent information on organisational information security standards (see downtime report below on our devices Principles and Rights at Work: sustainability performance going forward. and management practices including the and servers). selection, implementation and management • Freedom of association and the effective Additionally, to further strengthen the supply of controls, taking into consideration our Our Communities recognition of the right to collective chain, our SUREFAST management team has security risk environment. bargaining introduced rigorous performance targets and Our community affairs strategy is to make a • Elimination of all forms of forced or standards for all our accredited SUREFAST The process of rolling out ISO 27001:2013 positive contribution to all the communities compulsory labour partners. across the entire Team Group will continue worldwide that we work with. • Effective abolition of child labour throughout 2016. • Elimination of discrimination in respect of Throughout 2016, we will continue to pursue Our commitment to global issues and employment and occupation. ISO 28001 and AEO accreditation across all Part of this process includes the collection supporting community needs through pro Team operational facilities, whilst maintaining of relevant data to evaluate performance bono is underpinned by our Integrity Policy. Supporting the ISO standard, Team’s process the improvement in supply chain performance year-on-year. With the help of a new intensive for supplier selection, management and, as shown by the data below. training programme, knowledge and We are seeking to consistently expand the most importantly, ongoing quality control awareness of Information Security will be reach, scale and engagement of our pro bono measurement, is effected under the Our Clients further improved amongst all our employees. and sustainability programmes and in 2016 SUREFAST programme which covers all Team we will be working with our colleagues at services and suppliers within the supply Our clients are at the very heart of our Throughout 2016, we will continue to pursue every office across the international Group to chain. business; we strive to achieve excellence in ISO 28001 and AEO accreditation across all further improve participation and the adoption everything we do for them as described in our Team operational facilities, whilst maintaining of proactive practices. All new strategic suppliers sign up to our Quality Policy. Consistent with this approach, the improvement in supply chain performance SUREFAST programme and complete a selfwe are taking steps to further develop our as shown by the data below. assessment questionnaire to enable us to expertise to support our clients’ respect for appraise their performance human rights through our advice on client In 2016, our focus will remain on three areas: matters (e.g. integrating policies), providing Supplier partners must comply with all Team client seminars about our core values and Confidentiality policies, processes and procedures at all any community projects we can carry out times, and all staff working on Team cases collaboratively with them. Continued training of staff both in class and must be trained to Team standards. online, whilst working with our clients to align During 2015 we provided further Business risk management programs. As part of a number of Key Performance and Human Rights Training for our staff Indicators, Team monitors feedback to help them to understand and respond Integrity from all sources and in order to maintain to the expectations of the United Nations accreditation, all suppliers must consistently Guiding Principles on Business and Human We are constantly working on further reflect outstanding or above average service Rights, which outline the responsibilities of integration of systems and fine-tuning of delivery. businesses in relation to upholding human process templates to reduce the risk of data rights such as privacy. integrity issues. 14 15 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Assessment, Policy and Goals Labour Through our Responsibility Policy, we are committed to creating a safe working our health and safety standards and policies. New training materials and processes have environment for all employees, providing been developed and a strong awareness training and supervision when necessary. programme regarding hazardous situations Team aims to create a working environment that allows the full potential of has been established. This has resulted in employees to be realised Team Relocations recognises and accepts more detailed registrations in the Group its moral and legal obligations under all database, leading to a better analysis and Principle 3 applicable European regulations to ensure, understanding of root causes, thus furthering as far as is reasonably practicable, the and developing the continuous improvement Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right health, safety and welfare at work of all its cycle. to collective bargaining; employees, persons in training, directors, contractors and temporary workers, and Our dedicated compliance team has set Principle 4 the health and safety of visitors and other rigorous targets for 2016, including those for persons who attend or use its premises and the performance of our partner network under the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; who may be affected by its work (visitors). SUREFAST membership. Principle 5 Our activities throughout 2015 have been to consolidate Team’s approach to the wellbeing the effective abolition of child labour; and and safety of clients, staff and suppliers alike across our global operations, whilst Principle 6 also incorporating client-specific initiatives on HSSE as has been required on three the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation occasions. Our OHSAS 18001:2007 certificate, renewed by an accredited external party in 2013, runs through to 2017 while we also continue to roll out this internal standard across Team Relocations at Group level. We take pride in providing a safe environment for employees and visitors on our premises. By adopting this standard, we continue to demonstrate our commitment to our employees, their families and all interested parties that may be exposed to health and safety risks associated with the activities and operations of our organisation. In 2015, much attention and time has been invested in training both employees and suppliers in our supply chain with regards to 17 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes We actively promote a culture that is inclusive In July 2013, Team entered into a threeof all, where everyone has the opportunity to year major fundraising initiative in support We have invested in our blue collar workers Results of questionnaires have shown further their career and where pathways to of Project Saksham of Plan, the global by introducing intensive in-house training an improved level of understanding and career progression are transparent. Managing children’s charity. Saksham is a project where and skills development courses. To this end knowledge within our labour force, and a diversity and inclusion means valuing and youth from disadvantaged and marginalised we have taken on a Staff Development and higher level of job satisfaction. utilising the differences our people bring to rural and urban communities in India are Training Officer, and are encouraging our the business, and ensuring that no one is offered market demand driven ‘Job Oriented Physical Resources team to take advantage of disadvantaged. Vocational Training’. The project was targeted elements of QHSSE. at the underprivileged aged 18 to 29, in We recognise that one size does not fit all various resettlement colonies of Delhi and Staff Suggestion Box when it comes to diversity and inclusion, and poor districts in the Himalayas. actively welcome the thoughts and feedback In 2014 we introduced a Staff Suggestion Box We received three Suggestions through of all our people. Each of our regions operates Team’s commitment to the project process within the Team Extranet, available to the electronic staff Suggestion Box but within different demographics, culture, encompasses all 34 locations across the all staff and covering any and every aspect of none were related to any of the 10 Global sociopolitical and legislative frameworks, 13 countries in which they are based and employment with Team. Compact principles. so our approach centres around regional includes all staff in developing and executing diversity and inclusion action plans. Each significant fund raising initiatives. HR action plan is developed locally, focusing Throughout 2015, fund raising events on gender and at least one other underincluded a Christmas package donation and Team continues in its commitment to Team continues to enjoy a very diverse represented group in that particular a Christmas raffle. We were delighted to raise diversity, and to upholding the Global employee demographic. This includes a geography. over £1,000. Compact principles in its everyday workings. comprehensive range of ethnicities and backgrounds (22 different languages are spoken in our UK offices alone), sexual orientation and disability, and a strong split between genders (68%:32% women:men). Project Saksham In late 2013, we embarked on a 3 year Regular communications specifically commitment to a major fundraising initiative concerning the Plan Saksham labour in support of Plan, the global children’s initiative were distributed across the charity. Spearheaded by Team’s Group organisation and throughout social media Compliance Officer, the commitment to the platforms aimed at reporting on progress on project encompasses all 34 locations across the great work completed to date, whilst also the 13 countries in which we are based, and continuing to encourage even greater efforts includes all staff in developing and executing in this worthwhile endeavour. significant fundraising initiatives aimed at contributing €50k to the project annually. 18 19 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Assessment, Policy and Goals Environment Team Relocations strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. We undertake Each year we calculate our carbon footprint with the assistance of the Climate Neutral initiatives to reduce our own operational Group (CNG), providing a total C02 output. Our activities are designed to reduce our harmful impact on the environment and everyone environmental impact and we believe that This total is offset 100% by paying CNG, which working for Team our greatest contribution to a sustainable invests the revenues in projects that make environment is the advice and support we a measurable contribution to sustainable Principle 7 provide to our clients – both in managing their development. own environmental impacts and assessing Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and responding to climate-related risks and We also make an active contribution to opportunities. international climate policy discussions and Principle 8 the development of an investment in low2015 showed continued significant activity carbon technology and infrastructure. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and and positive results in our drive to improve our approach to, and use of, the environment. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 20 21 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Environmental Sustainability within our Our Environmental Footprint Key HR Company Goals 2016 Team continues in its commitment to the There has been a renewed drive to We have a global Environmental Policy that Energy environment, and to upholding the Global encourage all staff to recycle wherever applies to all of our offices and requires Compact principles in its everyday workings. possible, and we have introduced a every employee to take reasonable care of Further reduce energy consumption: dedicated member of staff to transport the environment. Our employees also receive Encourage staff to switch off lights, cardboard from our central London office training on our environmental approach as computers, photocopiers and other to the compactor at our site in NW10, thus part of their induction when joining the firm. electrical equipment at night preventing wasteful use of recycling bags. Additionally, all staff are encouraged to work We work to reduce our environmental Enable energy-saving features on all paperlessly. impact in four strategic focus areas: energy, computers and copiers procurement, travel and waste/resource use. Paradigm Project Procurement Our global sustainability initiative is governed by a committee of senior leaders from across We continued to support The Paradigm With our contribution, we are supporting the Appraise suppliers sustainability the Group that meets quarterly to discuss Project which delivers improved efficient people in Kenya where about 90% of rural performance and identify key areas for progress against the strategic focus areas. cooking stoves in Africa. This targeted households cook on open fires, the charcoal engagement and improvement In addition to each country representatives, regional environmental project in Africa not or wood for which produces toxic fumes the committee includes representatives from only assists in reducing the harmful effects of harmful to the environment. In the project, Travel the most relevant functions of our business emissions on the environment, but also work Improved Cooking Stoves (ICS) are produced for implementing change – Corporate towards protecting the environment (see page and sold through a participatory approach Further increase the use of IT Responsibility, Procurement, IT, Risk and 21). with local communities across Kenya. communications systems as an alternative Facilities Management. to travel Environment-friendly Initiatives In an effort to further drive our commitment to Waste the environment and energy conservation, we We produced significant improvements yearDuring 2015, we have continuted to operate set a new challenging range of goals for the on-year on emissions, waste disposal and under our multi-site ISO 14001:2004 Further reduce paper and card upcoming year at Group level. One of these recycling. certification for all Team global operations. consumption increase the level of commitments is to phase out all lease cars recycling taking place across the group that do not meet the latest CO2 standards, • Purchasing vehicles conforming to the Euro and roll out a paperless operation across 6 standard Team. • Promoting the use of public transport amongst our employees • Promoting a national bicycle plan for employees, where appropriate • Safe disposal of batteries and toners • Installation of catalytic converters 22 23 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Assessment, Policy and Goals Anti-Corruption Good corporate governance is at the core of our Integrity Policy and is best encapsulated We also have a Whistle-blowing Policy and associated procedures which may be used by our approach to transparency and for reporting breaches on a confidential or Integrity is what we do, what we say, and what we say we do trust. As a result of recent well publicised anonymous basis. corporate scandals, public opinion on the Principle 10 honesty of ‘business’ has taken a knock. These procedures include: Within Team, we have a clear framework for Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery a code of business ethics which we believe Training and communication – mandatory will demonstrate greater transparency and e-learning which must be completed by all of accountability, not only in our financial our people and forms part of our new-starter reporting, but in all areas of activity touched induction programme; – training delivered by our business. to members of the Board and Executive; – training incorporated into the company’s With legislation as the backdrop, Team management academy and other formal is committed to conducting itself in an training programmes; atmosphere that is open, fair and transparent with the aim of enhancing trust in all Incorporating consideration of bribery and its business activities. Unless there are corruption risk into our new client due compelling reasons to the contrary, Team diligence and on-going monitoring processes will provide clients, directors and staff, and procedures; external bodies and the general public, relevant information affecting them and the A clause in our standard terms of business actions of Team, speedily and in a manner with clients which sets out our anti-bribery consistent with our overall Corporate Social and corruption policy and our expectations of Responsibility statements as defined within our clients; our ethical values programme. Supplier due diligence processes operated As a global relocation company, we adhere by our central procurement team, and a to the highest regulatory and professional clause in all our supplier contracts setting standards in order to protect our business, out our anti-bribery and corruption policy and our reputation and our clients. expectation of our suppliers; and Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy is Procedures and controls which address: an integral part of Team’s risk management – working with Governments and public and compliance framework, which officials; – the giving and receiving of gifts incorporates policies, procedures, guidelines and hospitality; – the giving of political and and a Compliance Handbook covering a charitable donations; and – working with third wide range of issues, including anti-money parties. laundering, sanctions and ethics. 24 25 Team Relocations Document Title www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Supplementary Reading Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Supply Chain In 2014, we tightened controls to ensure that Team is pleased to report that it has not been our supply chain adheres to the UK’s antiinvolved in any legal cases, rulings or other bribery legislation. Now that this is in place, events related to bribery or corruption. we shall roll out a more expansive anti-bribery policy to which our suppliers will need to subscribe. This is more closely in line with many of our corporate accounts’ requests to see good labour and reward practices in some of the third world countries. Whistle Blowing Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has been Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not kept in place and promoted within the raised any issues by members of staff company, so as to allow any member of staff concerning anti-corruption during the to raise an issue or concern with respect to reporting period. corruption without fear of recrimination. Audit Our financial accounts are naturally audited Such financial reports are publicly available by a leading independent financial specialist and again we are pleased to report that they annually and audited reports submitted as show a clean bill of health with no signs of legally required. impropriety. 26 27 Team Relocations Document Title www.teamrelocations.com Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com Compliance Team Group Compliance Director Luc Oostendorp Group Compliance Officer Danny Damsma Paris Regional Compliance Officers Belgium: Catherine Guns Denmark: Steffen Scharff France: Alain Meriguet Germany: Heiko Thomas Luxembourg: Catherine Guns Netherlands: Leonie Kerkelaan Norway: Finn-Petter Haugen Sweden: Christina Federspiel Switzerland: Jean-Sylvain Nicoud Athens United Kingdom: David Boreham Bejing 29 Team Relocations Communication on Progress 2016 www.teamrelocations.com www.teamrelocations.com
