COPs DECEMBER 2016 LABORATOIRES M&L (French subsidiary of the L’OCCITANE Group) Correlation table with the Sustainable Development Report 2016 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES LABORATOIRES M&L ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS Reaffirmation of our ongoing support to the Global Compact principles in general → Report p.4 1. Support and respect the Code of ethics → Report p.13 protection of internationally SEDEX partnership → Report p.14 proclaimed human rights Philanthropic programs to support women’s leadership in Burkina Faso → Report p. 25 2. Make sure that they are not Code of ethics and responsible purchasing process → Report p. 13 complicit in human rights Partnership with SEDEX→ Report p.14 abuses LABOUR 3. Uphold the freedom of Dialogue with employees / Great Place to work→ Report p. 21 association and the effective Associations of employees (ex.Le Rucher du Cade) recognition of the right to collective bargaining Support to the ten principles of the Global Compact → Report p.4 4. The elimination of all forms of Code of ethics and responsible purchasing process → Report p. 13 forced and compulsory labour Fair & sustainable partnerships → report from p.15 to 18 5. The effective abolition of child Responsible purchasing process & suppliers involvement → report labour p.13 & 14 Promoting Gender equality with a gender equality agreement Direct & indirect recruitment of disabled people Sustainable partnership with “IMS-Entreprendre” 6. The elimination of Partnership with “Passeport Avenir” to help young people succeed discrimination in respect of academically and professionally employment and occupation → Report p.23 -Philanthropic Cocagne bees project → Report p.26 ENVIRONMENT Monitored products process → Report p.19 Awareness employees campaigns regarding eco behavior: eco-energy, 7. Support a precautionary recycling, carpooling… → Report p.8 & 9 approach to environmental Sustainable Communities program & preservation of biodiversity → challenges Report p.10 to 11 & 15 to 18 Greenhouse gases measurement → Report p.7 ISO 14001 certification → Report p.7 8. Undertake initiatives to Reduction of air transportation → Report from p.7 promote greater environmental Sustainable travel solutions → Report p.8 responsibility Renewable electricity in French stores → Report p.9 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Eco design approach: formulas, packaging & stores → Report from p.8 environmentally friendly to 9. technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Work against corruption in all its Support and raise awareness among suppliers → Report p.14 forms, including extortion and Training in responsible purchasing → Report p.13 bribery Code of ethics → Report p.13
