RESPONSIBILITY Communication on progress 2015 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Contents 4 ... Global energy 5 ... Introduction 6 ... Strategy and stakeholders 8 ...Human rights 12 ... Labour 18 ... Environment 24 ... Anti-corruption 26 ... Future focus areas 3 Global energy An international project engineering company Our services and solutions include: dedicated to the global energy sector, Semco • Project management Maritime facilitates the design, fabrication, • Engineering service and maintenance of our customers’ • Procurement assets, providing comprehensive project • Construction and fabrication management across all phases of energy • Installation and commissioning projects. From turnkey engineering solu• Yard and workshop facilities tions to operation support and delivery of • Upgrades and refurbs components, systems and solutions – we • Maintenance, modification and make sure our customers and partners in the servicing energy sector experience safe, cost-efficient • Products, components and operations. technology • Operation support Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, our dedicated employees work offshore and Liable management onshore from our subsidiaries in Norway, UK, Steen Brødbæk, President & CEO UAE, Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, Central Jørgen Devantier Gade, President & CFO America and the USA. We believe in setting the bar high, challengThird-party certified according to: ing our people to deliver solutions of the ISO 9001 highest quality, anywhere in the world. ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 3834-2 ATEX PQAN Certificate Assessments: Achilles Global energy First Point Assessment 4 Introduction We continue to develop Semco Maritime We are all responsible for raising the bar and with a strategic approach to cost-effective setting our expectations a little higher, so we and sustainable models that differentiate us constantly monitor our actions and develop from our competitors, create value for our new initiatives to keep pace with our changcustomers and keep our focus on Corporate ing world. Responsibility (CR). We see a growing trend from our customers demanding focus on In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN developing a clear CR policy. Global Compact initiative. We are committed to aligning our operations and strategies with The markets in which we operate continuthe ten universally accepted principles in the ously demand high quality projects delivered areas of human rights, labor, the environat the right time, the right price and at the ment and anti-corruption. Our progress right cost. Our expanding global presence within these areas is reported and published means more stakeholders – and a greater annually. environmental impact – and we strive to meet each new challenge in an environmenSemco Maritime uses the UN Global tally, ethically and socially responsible way. Compact as a platform for our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities and as an incenOur vision is to be the energy sector’s first tive for suppliers to support the principles choice for safe solutions that consistently of CR. The UN Global Compact constitutes meet expectations. This is reflected in our a good common frame of reference and projects, solutions and manpower services core values, which form the basis of the for the global energy sector. We have forcooperation between Semco Maritime’s malised our corporate values; commitment, departments, as well as with suppliers and responsiveness, reliability and inspiration in other business partners around the globe. our Corporate Responsibility strategy, which focuses on four areas: the community, the Steen Brødbæk CEO environment, people and sustainability. Our Corporate Responsibility initiatives define Introduction how we should interact with our customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities and the environments in which we work. 5 Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Responsibility years. To succeed with this our employees Strategy Responsibility (CR) initiatives their competencies and motivation are encourage organisations to take responsibility key – and therefore one of our three strategic for their actions. These initiatives range from pillars is “workplace”. protecting the environment, ensuring good working conditions for employees and caring We want to be first choice for employees, for the local community. and to ensure this we will: • Further develop our competencies to the There are a number of factors that influence benefit of our employees and customers a company’s CR strategy. As production • Focus on ensuring an inspiring and networks expand around the globe and motivating working environment information moves faster and faster and • Always keep our safety promise; becomes more easily accessible, organisaNO COMPROMISE – we care. We are tions are becoming more transparent – and committed to creating a safe and healthy stakeholders are demanding an insight working environment. into how companies affect their social and environmental surroundings. Dedicated initiatives on employees and competence development have been Our CR strategy focuses on four areas: the formulated and will be planned and implecommunity, the environment, people and mented during the first years’ of the strategy sustainability. It is formalised in our business period. However, working with employees strategy and is in line with our motto, and ensuring a safe and motivating working “Dedicated people, exceeding expectations.” environment is not a project, it is an ongoing focus from all with is of highest importance. Semco Maritime believes that Corporate Responsibility is important for business now Our Business Management System and in the future. To make sure that our Our business management system aims to Strategy and stakeholders business is in line with the 10 UN Global ensure the following: compact principles, we have integrated a • that quality of products and services CR Policy (POL-SEMCO-0001) and a Global delivered by Semco Maritime and its Compact procedure (POL-SEMCO-0082). suppliers meet specified requirements. The objective of Semco Maritime is to deve• that working environment and safety at lop strategic and cost-effective sustainability Semco Maritime meet statutory require models that create differentiation to others ments and own policies and objectives. and value for customers – we will challenge • that Semco Maritime’s activities take care and develop what we do best in a socially of the environment. responsible way. • that employees see Semco Maritime as an attractive working place that provides Strategy looking towards 2020 the opportunity for development and In 2015 Semco Maritime formulated a new performance advancement. vision and a strategy towards 2020. The strategy is called “First Choice – Stronger core for value creation” and aims at consolidating and strengthening our position in the coming 6 First choice Stronger core for value creation STRATEGY and stakeholders 7 Human rights We support and respect the protection of Snake Awareness courses in Panama internationally recognised human rights. We It is estimated that in Panama the number observe the law and wish to incorporate valof snake bites per year amounts to 2000. ues and attitudes that support a responsible Panama ranks as the country with the highest dialogue with our stakeholders (customers, number of bites from poisonous snakes in owners, end-users, suppliers, employees, Central America. In Panama there is more national organisations, grass-root movements than 130 species of snakes, 23 of them are and local community). poisonous. To strengthen the company and improve Based on this, our Power division arranged our business strategy, we wish to develop a “Snake awareness courses” in Panama in responsible ethical profile. This will link our order to educate our people so that they vision with our values and attitudes and with know which snakes are venomous and our motto “Dedicated people.” We must what precautions to take. Furthermore, all share our success stories – big as well as are educated in all the relevant first aid small – so that we can motivate and learn measures. from one another. Code of conduct Our code of conduct (POL-SEMCO-0013) is a set of ethical guidelines that outlines responsibilities and best practices in relation to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption issues. All our employees, partners and suppliers are obliged to know, understand and comply with our code of conduct, as well as the values upon which it is based. Supplier evaluation Human rights At Semco Maritime we understand that our ability to operate our business in line with the corporate values and standards we set is directly impact by the products and service we purchase from our suppliers. We therefor work closely with our suppliers to ensure they understand our polices and principles and can meet our expectations and those of our customer. A key element of this is the procedure for supplier evaluation process, which not only forms the basis of our partnership with our major suppliers, but is a key element of our Corporate Procurement Strategy. We have also requested all suppliers agree and abide by Semco Maritime’s code of conduct. 8 RESPECT and responsibility 9 Human rights Semco Maritime has supported 22 Headspace charity and humanitarian projects in Eighteen months ago, ‘headspace Esbjerg’ 2015. Below we have listed a selection started a unique cooperation with a network of the projects: of local companies, Esbjerg Municipality and The Social Network, who had joined forces to Familier med kræftramte børn support establish a new initiative for young people in to families with children with cancer. Esbjerg. Hospital clowns spread joy among Since the beginning, local children and young children in hospitals. people in and around Esbjerg have made use of the initiative. They have found a place Stafet for Livet community awareness, where they feel welcome, where they feel information and fundraising for the fight that they are taken seriously and where they against cancer. are listened to. During the past eighteen months, more than 15,000 young people Røde Kors – the Danish Red Cross. have been in contact with ‘headspace’ on a The Danish RC is an auxiliary to the Danish national basis, and approx. 2000 have made government in the fields of humanitarian use of ‘headspace Esbjerg’. assistance, relief work and education, either alone or in co-operation with state bodies or This is one of the reasons why the Nordic other organisations. Centre for Welfare and Social Issues has appointed ‘headspace’ as best practice when it Team Rynkeby Team Rynkeby is a Nordic comes to the efforts of making young people charity cycling team, which raises money for take an education and get a job. ‘headspace’ children with cancer. is basically for young people of all ages, but the core target group is young people between 15 and 25 who have challenges of Human rights one kind or another 10 RESPECT and responsibility 11 Labour We respect the right to collective bargaining. promotion, leave of absence and job content We do not discriminate, or in any other way /tasks etc. We believe that difference and make decisions that are affected by emdiversity fosters development and change ployee affiliations with trade unions or other and it is important to use the resources of associations, nor do we interfere in which each individual optimally to develop the trade unions or other associations are formed business. This policy applies to all employees in the workplace. across the organisation. We do not use force, threats or disciplinary Social counsellor means to force people to work, or withhold On August 1, 2007 Semco Maritime created identification papers or wages from employthe position of a social counsellor based on ees to force them to work. To ensure uniform the staff’s wish for increased focus on human and professional handling of warnings/termivalues. The position covers working areas in nations, and that laws and collective agreethe company social inclusion, job satisfaction, ments are complied with we have a Disciplijob retention by disease and counselling and nary Procedure (P-SEMCO-0293). coaching the employees and their families. All employees have individual contracts, made and approved in accordance with internaWe have a procedure concerning sick leave tional and national legal requirements. We (P-SEMCO-0187). In 2015, the level of do not employ nor support the use of child sickness absence was 4.3%. This level is labour. too high and therefore we are focusing on reducing sickness absence. Ultimo 2015 we The purpose of our personnel policy is to initiated an analysis of absence and launched create an attractive workplace where each concrete actions, which include extended employee has the opportunity to develop written action plans for cases with long-term both personally and professionally. sick leave. These action plans will focus on promoting an accelerated and successful Equal opportunities return to the workplace. This work will Labour We support diversity and equal opportunicontinue in 2016. ties. According to our Inclusion policy (POL-SEMCO-OOO6) we do not expose any In 2015 we have also worked with welfare person to discrimination based on gender, groups in a few of our divisions. The aim race, colour, religion, political opinion, sexual is to increase job satisfaction. We believe orientation, national extraction, social origin, that well-being and performance are closely ethnic origin, age or handicap. No person is linked. In one of our division, an internal subject to discrimination in hiring, dismissal, workshop showed us, that we needed to transfer, promotion, wage setting, and setting look into “feedback”. The employees have of working conditions or competency devebeen trained in giving and receiving feedback lopment. All decisions regarding employment, and have practised this afterwards. This work promotion, dismissal, wages and other workwill also continue in 2016. ing conditions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Our equal opportunities policy Performance Culture ensures that both female and male employA strong company culture supporting critical ees at all levels and in all departments are business objectives is an important part of treated equally, and are guaranteed the same being a successful company. Semco Maritime opportunities and terms of employment decided to take a closer look at the with regard to education, salary, allowance, w 12 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 13 performance culture during 2015, and all Registration of competences and ongoing employees were invited to give their view on development of employees are vital parts of the culture at Semco Maritime. the overall Semco Maritime business strategy. It is in our common interest to map and keep Based on the culture analysis, our leadership track of individual employee competences, team committed themselves to focusing both previous and current.Registration of on target setting, execution, delegation of employee qualifications and competences is responsibility and improving collaboration not just for everyday managing purposes, but internally and externally. Our goal is to ensure serves also as a tool for the manager from clear goals for the company, departments a departmental strategic point of view. The AND individuals. Clear goals and expectations registration of competences enables Semco help to improve the working environment, inMaritime to make informed decisions based crease job satisfaction and enhance personal on facts and also gives the employees more development opportunities for the individuals influence on own careers and development. as the greatest assets of Semco Maritime. (P-SEMCO-0199) We have launched an integrated business and management development process with Reporting system helps ensuring safe the goal of improving our performance level working conditions and continuous within 18 to 24 months. improvements At Semco Maritime we want to ensure Competency assessment continuous improvements, especially regardEach employee and the company have a ing Health, Safety, Environment and Quality. mutual obligation to develop in order to In order to achieve this, we have throughout create results and add value to the company the past years increased our focus on reporand the individual. To strengthen competenting Non-Conformances, Health, Safety and cies within the company and to ensure Environment incidents and Improvement our strategic development, competence Proposals. This has resulted in 5762 registraassessment is implemented in Denmark and tions since 2013. In order to continue our Singapore and roll-out will proceed to the development, we have increased our focus remaining global entities. on implementing corrective actions and Labour improvement proposals. This will help us to Employee, education and training needs are improve our performance and deliver high identified in an annual appraisal, and a plan quality solutions to our customers. Semco of action is prepared for the coming year. Maritime strives to be a learning organizaThe company is following a group strategy tion and therefore we find the learnings in “First Choice” and it is important that employNon-Conformances Reports, Health, Safety ees connect their individual development and Environment incidents and Improvement plan to the strategy. We have initiated a comProposals of utmost importance. petency management and development project to identify the competencies required to Our global registration system helps us sharlive up to our current strategy. The system ing knowledge across departments, divisions focuses on adding functional competences and country boarders, and enables Semco and rating employee competence level vs. reMaritime to raise the bar and create value for quired level at the specific job in order to our customers. identify competence gaps and development Through our Health, Safety and Environment need. reporting we are capable of improving the involved areas, in order to ensure a safe and w 14 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 15 cost efficient workplace. When an incident is At our own facilities in Esbjerg we carry out registered, our HSE department will work place assessment to ensure that the evaluate the incident and take actions to work place and machinery is arranged and ensure the safety of our employees and maintained in a way which ensures that the improve the working conditions, fulfilling employees are not put to any risk when our motto: “No compromise – we care”. carrying out their work. Before starting any The no compromising attitude is highly jobs, a risk assessment is carried out by the relevant, since our employees often operate employees involved. in extreme working environments. When Non Conformances occur, they are reported The installation phase is planned very careto the manager responsible for the involved fully and controlled through work permits or business area. This provides the managers job packages. This in order to ensure that no with a unique overview of which type of Non activities are overruling each other and pose Conformances occur in his/her business area a special danger to the involved personnel. in order to carry out corrective and preventive Before starting up any work permit or job actions. Before the Non Conformance Report package a risk assessment comprising the is closed, our Quality department evaluates task is made by the employees to perform each case, to ensure the quality of the Non the work. The level of details of the assessConformance handling. At Semco Maritime ment is dependent on the specific job. Improvement Proposals are regarded as important as any other observations, since To protect the health and safety of our an Improvement Proposal can prevent people, our assets and our customers’ assets, Non Conformances or Health, Safety and as well as the communities we operate in, Environment incidents. we insist on adhering to globally approved health and safety standards. Semco Maritime Working conditions is certified according to OHSAS 18001. Our Semco Maritime is certified according to staff receives regular training in the latest OHSAS 18001 which means that Health and health and safety tools and procedures, and Safety policies and procedures are in place in we publish our health and safety perfororder to constantly strive to prevent incidents. mance in annual reports. Labour Our employees are our greatest assets. Our We constantly develop the processes and work often takes us to extreme working policies of our work. It is the responsibility of environments, both on and offshore and we the management to create a working environhandle heavy machinery, explosive materials ment that ensures that we can achieve our and high-voltage equipment on a daily basis. goals and that policies are observed. In order to prevent our people from getting hurt we make risk assessment in every phase Accidents can be prevented, so we continufrom design to installation/commissioning. ously inform, train and educate employees to ensure they know how to work safely. In the engineering phase it is technical safety Likewise, employees are obliged to “raise that is the key word and we review/assess the red flag” if the workplace does not meet the design to ensure that the future fabricasafety requirements, report all undesirable tion, installation, commissioning and later on incidents and suggest improvements. the dismantling can take place without any people getting hurt. Neither our own people w nor the future users (client). 16 The past years Semco Maritime has intensiSafety Awareness courses for Fabrication/ fied our work to strengthen our safety culture. Warehourse, Staff and Offshore employees A safe behaviour in a safe environment is of during 2016. the utmost importance. We need to ensure In addition to the Safety Awareness courses a safe workplace to protect the health and a new kind of safety tools has been implesafety of our people and our assets. This mented; Safety Walk where Managers and means a common focus on safe habits and Project Managers are to increase the safety behaviour, which is also an essential part of awareness among their employees through an organisation which is both observant and dialogue. Each Manager and Project Manager is constantly improving. has an objective of how many Safety Walks they are to perform every year to become In order to focus even more on safety behava natural part of the daily work. It is very ior a large scale project of Safety Awareness important to give words to both bad and courses has been implemented throughout good safety behavior. the whole organization. Safety Awareness is the key to a safe workplace and it is imporIn addition, all business units are working tant that all managers and employees have strategically with safety. This has led to the same understanding of what we mean numerous new initiatives that have resulted when we says “NO COMPROMISE – we in strategic plans for safety. One initiative is a care” and also have the same perception of standard safety manual for Semco Maritime how we take care of colleagues and partners international sites. This standard safety to obtain a safe workplace. The Safety manual will be used as a template for larger Awareness courses has been divided into projects on sites abroad so that all relevant Managers/Project Managers, Fabrication/ information is included. Warehouse employees, Staff and Offshore employees. These initiatives are expected to reduce work-related injuries in the future. Our aim for In 2015 we started with the courses for 2016 is to see Lost Time Accidents (LTA) fall 140 Managers and Project Managers from to zero. In the coming year, we will continue Denmark, Singapore and Norway. Also to focus on reducing the number of workstaff courses were carried out in Singapore related injuries through intensified focus on Labour and Norway. The plan is to carry out behaviour.  The table below illustrates the number of accidents during the past five years. ACCIDENTS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lost Time Accidents 16 10 7 6 4 17 Environment We respect the environment and comply accomplished a very large project of with applicable laws and regulations. energy savings at the Semco Maritime yard However, we place higher demands on ourin Esbjerg. The project consisted of many selves than stipulated by the law. Semco different focus areas; Maritime is certified according to ISO 14001, • Optimized working of the ventilation syswhich means that we engage in targeted and tem in the administration building which systematic efforts to continuously improve reduces both the amount of energy our environmental performance. We underconsumption and heat consumption. stand “a precautionary approach” as preventive. • Optimized working of 2 ventilation We will strengthen employee environmental systems in the canteen building also with awareness and responsibility through educaa big saving in energy and heat. tion and active participation in environmental work. Our activities must not in any way • Replacement of nozzles in the showers harm the surroundings and we must maintain in the changing rooms with some savings a positive track record of environmental acof energy and heat and big savings on tion and improvement. We aim to reduce our water consumption environmental impact by using resources in • Optimized working of the lighting in the the best way possible, reducing energy concanteen building where also moving sumption, and waste and discharge levels. sensors have been installed in order to We have policy and procedures in place to turn out the light when no one is in the back-up the above effort. building. A lot of energy will be saved on We aim to ensure the best possible energy this account. efficiency of all purchased energy-intensive • Optimizing the working of calorifere heatequipment. We will maintain an efficient ers, automation in the technical room waste separation system to ensure maximum and insultation of pipes. This will also waste recycling and the best possible separaresult in a decrease of the temperature Environment tion of the remaining waste, as well as strengof returned water to the district heating then the development and use of enviromencompany and thereby a decrease of the tally friendly technologies around the world. penalty. (in Denmark penalties are given Reduce energy consumption if the returned water is to hot because of inefficient use of the heated water). We continuously seek to reduce our energy consumption in order to reduce the produc• Replacement of the lighting in the worktion of CO2. During 2013 and 2014 we shops where a big amount of energy will launched various initiatives, but despite our be saved because of LED lighting. efforts the energy consumption was main• Optimized working of the outdoor lighttained nearly at the same level as in 2012. ing where the lights have been replaced However, this is despite a general increase in by LED lights. activities in 2013. In 2014, the activity level unfortunately decreased but the energy conWe have very high expectations to the umption stayed on the same level. This was energy savings as a result of this large mainly due to the type of energy consumpproject. And since the project was completed tion which is not dependent on the number at the end of 2015 we will be able to see the of employees, – i.e. lights in open offices, etc. result during 2016. w This is why we in 2015 planned and 18 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 19 CO2 neutral website – climate-friendly surfing We have joined the CO2 neutral website initiative in order to neutralise the emissions originating from our website and our website users. Nordic swan marking Our stationery is manufactured from environmentally friendly materials. At present, all stationery and almost all envelopes carry the Nordic swan-label. FSC® Sustainability in the forest FSC stands for The Forest Stewardship Council and is an international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that the paper used for your printed material comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no more wood is cut than the forest can regenerate. FSC is also a guarantee that animals and plants are protected and that forest workers are guaranteed education, security and decent wages.  Environment The table below illustrates the energy consumption per employee for the last 5 years Energy consumption 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 kWh/employee 3,888 2,804 2,822 3,942 3,716 The target for 2016 is a reduction with 10 % per employee on the energy consumption. This target is a global target and not only for the Semco Maritime organisation in Denmark 20 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 21 Windpower During the last years, renewable energy, and functionality of each element and its integraespecially offshore wind, has attracted even tion into the overall design and our work more of our attention and has become an continues to break new ground. very important part of our future strategy with a dedicated focus. Semco Maritime has Semco Maritime has participated in the developed a strong position as one of the following offshore wind projects: market leaders in electrical infrastructure and safe communication solutions for offshore windfarms. Horns Rev We believe that the renewable energy market Burbo Banks will continue to grow, and we are marketing Semco Maritime as a viable choice for West of Duddon Sands developers of offshore wind farms. Walney I Originally a provider of services for the oil and gas industry, our business has increasingly Walney II turned toward renewable energy. A logic step, as many of our core competencies from Northwind many years in the oil and gas business are easily applied to offshore wind. Nordse Ost We design and engineer electrical Borkum Riffgrund I infrastructure systems for wind farms, including construction of the on and offshore Anholt substations. Rødsand B We are one of the leading operation and maintenance suppliers to wind farms in Gunfleet Sands Environment Denmark, the UK and Germany. Our safety and quality-conscious staff operate and/ Robin Rigg or maintain substation modules, offshore Lillgrund accommodation modules, wind turbine foundations and land-based substations. Our Princess Amalia (Q7) dedicated engineering department handles everything from specialised studies to the Nysted detailed design and specification of substations, accommodation modules, seafastening London Array and installation equipment. Our teams have also been involved in projects to upgrade DanTysk installation vessels, install wind farms, Tetra communication systems and test equipment Sandbank for wind turbine manufacturers. NordSee One With focus on bringing down the cost of energy, engineers and designers focus on the BlighBank 22 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 23 Anti-corruption As a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact • By having our Senior Vice-Presidents since 2007, Semco Maritime is committed annually (via for instance the intranet to the highest standards of integrity, honesty, and similar internal communication and fairness in all internal and external relachannels) make employees aware of tionships, in accordance with all applicable the policy/ procedures; laws and regulations, including, but not limi3) Risk assessment ted to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. • By evaluating as applicable the Semco Maritime employees shall not directly risks associated to our potential and or indirectly accept, solicit or offer bribes, current projects with regard to the kick-backs, facilitation payments or any other risks inherent with: unjustified advantages in order to improper(I) geography and (II) industry ly influence or to gain an unfair business sector (III) nature of transaction advantage from any governmental or private and (IV) scope and nature of the entity. necessary partnerships; We have built our anti-bribery and corruption • By when necessary devoting policy’s foundation “Prevent – Monitor – specific resources (Legalas comReact” on the basis of the 6 principles of the mercial) to identify potentially risk Bribery Act 2010 (UK) as follows: agreements related to: supply (from simple Purchase Order 1) Proportionate procedure: to full-blown EPC contract with • By designing and implementing Operation and Maintenance), (I) an “anti-bribery policy” and (II) purchasing, agents and consultants; actual, suitable and proportionate “anti-bribery procedures” to handle 4) Due diligence: risk-exposures in our markets; • By inserting an anti-bribery clause in • By synergizing the necessary internal Contract Review Guidelines Anti-corruption resources of our CEO, CFO, the across Semco Maritime’s 6 divisions; Legaland the HSEQ departments • By including a specific set of quesensuring the appropriate attention to tions on the anti-bribery and corrupour anti-bribery and corruption policy tion policy in our HSE&Q Departand procedures; ment’s new set of internal auditing • E.g. by capping gifts to €150 other rules; promotions and hospitality gestures 5) Communication: are regulated in each incident based • By bringing focus on the anti-bribery upon specific criteria; and corruption policy in introductory 2) Top-level commitment: courses for new employees; • By having our CEO and CFO “own • By making our Code of Conduct ing” the anti-bribery policy; readily available on our internet site, • By having an internal Culture & along with the updated version of Development program and our Communication on Progress Group General Counsel proactively (“COP”) report and Global Business sponsoring the policy, when necesManual including the anti-bribery sary; and corruption policy and proce24 dures; • By training, through our Contract Review Guidelines course, all Semco Maritime employees involved in contract negotiations will be aware of counterparts on bribery clauses; 6) Monitoring and review: • By having established either a Business Ethics Committee or another suitable legal internal body to annually review and adjudicate on instances related to our anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures; • By regularly modifying, updating and adding to the anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures during reviews and monitoring conducted by our HSE&Q Department. Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION honesty and fairness 25 Future focus areas Supplier evaluation Ethical guidelines We will continue to evaluate and further Continued focus on informing selected improve how we asses suppliers to Semco employees about our anti-bribery and corrupMaritime to maintain the majority of our tion policy. external spend with suppliers that meet Employee Satisfaction Survey our expectations in terms of CR, Health We will initiate global roll-out by including and Safety, Environment policy and Quality some of our international locations in the process. 2016 employee satisfaction survey. Competency assessment Supplier evaluation The work will continue outside Denmark We will continue to work closely with our focusing on adding functional competences suppliers to meet Semco Maritime and and rating employee competence level vs. our customers’ expectations in terms of required level at the specific job in order to corporate responsibility, Health & safety, identify competence gaps and development Environmental policy and Quality process. need. New Domicile Working conditions In 2015 we prepared the succesfull integraContinued focus on prevention of accidents, tion of all our business units in one domicile. concentrated on three issues: behaviour, As a consequence we expect to see safety and vigilance. Lost time accident significantly better results in the employee frequency (LTA) shall be 0. Increased focus satisfaction survey in Q3 2016. on HSE observations in order to strengthen our focus on preventive activities. CR reporting We will increase our focus on the CR Environmental consumption reporting and we recognize that we are Focus will be on waste disposal and recycled still in a learning process towards meeting waste and on energy savings through all reporting criteria. Our goal is to be able optimized production machinery. Future focus areas to determine where our greatest impact Technologies lie and to be able to measure results and Focus on developing climate and progress. environmen­tally friendly technologies. Our strategy “First Choice Stonger core for value creation” -gives the direction and guidelines that we should achieve: • To be our customers’ First Choice • To be the First Choice as a workplace for employees • To be the First Choice as a benchmark baseline on execution Vision: To be the energy sector’s first choice for safe solutions that consistently meet expectations Values: Commitment, Responsiveness, Reliability, Inspiration 26 LOOKING AHEAD to a brighter future 27 Head office: Semco Maritime A/S Esbjerg Brygge 30 DK-6700 Esbjerg V Denmark Tel.: +45 7916 6666 Fax.: +45 7515 6580 Mail: semco@semcomaritime.com Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com SEMCO MARITIME Dedicated people www.semcomaritime.com © 2016, SEMCO MARITIME A/S and the SEMCO MARITIME Group of Companies. April 2016
