BACHER WORK WEAR UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 JUNE STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Bacher Work Wear is once more excited to continue our support of the ten UN Global Compact principles and further emphasize our commitment to being a socially responsible company. As a company in growth Bacher Work Wear is happy to make our third COP and to continue our approach to becoming a more responsible business lead by ethical and sustainable standards. Through the last year since our last COP report, Bacher Work Wear has continued our support with compliance and securing that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is implemented as a core value in our company. In this 2016 report we are pleased to reaffirm our dedication and resolute support in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. Currently our efforts and exertion to integrate the ten principles into our business practice and culture is progressing so that strategies and operations regarding our procedures, practice and our ethical behaviour is aligned with our designs. We are proud of our accomplishments in regards of human rights and labour practice, to commit and promote environmental solutions and eliminate corruptive behaviour as far as our reach allows us to go. Personally I look forward to meeting new customers, partners and suppliers the forthcoming year but also the delightful joy working with our dedicated staff and employees who makes everyday a special experience and a privilege to work alongside. Every day they deliver a significant progress using their professional skills and talents, competences and personal attributes making it a major reason for the success of Bacher Work Wear. We would not exist without their dedication and perseverance in delivering targeted objectives and aims. I would take this opportunity to thank them for their hard work and dedication contributing for the internal culture of Bacher Work Wear. I sign this document to assure that all information is correct and accurate and to assure the United Nations that Bacher Work Wear will continue our commitment. WebMore A/S and Four Danes A/S (both owned by Bacher Work Wear) is also subject to this Communication on Progress. Yours Sincerely Peter Vallentin, CEO Bacher Work Wear A/S Vision HUMAN RIGHTS It is Bacher Work Wear’s policy to support the universal proclaimed Human Rights declarations. With this Communication on Progress we underline our commitment as a privately held company to conduct all of our business in a legal and ethical manner. We are driven by our values supporting due diligence and transparency and do not wish to engage in any form of human rights violations. We wish to abide certain standards in our continuously effort to support individual freedom and equal rights without any Human Rights abuse. Progress At Bacher Work Wear we focus on diversity and continuously promote a culture with respect for individual differences and with the respect of national law, including good practice with our suppliers. One of our key focal points is ongoing communication and engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct promote our requirements of suppliers and partners and invoke the right to act if any violations of Human Rights should come to our attention. Furthermore, we only engage with certain suppliers that has specific competences in regards to quality and design as it is a key element and what our customer’s demands. These suppliers have been through a screening process that makes us confident that they can deliver what we expect and in good faith. Results There has been no reported incidents during the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed human rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. Violations of Human Rights or abuse will never be accepted and appropriate measures will be enforced if any should be detected. We have reached our goal of getting all of our large suppliers to sign our Code of Conduct. Further our Code of Conduct is now publicly available on our brand new website, so there should be no misconceptions. Conducting human rights due diligence gives us the knowledge to foresee risks, unpleasant surprises and the opportunity for mitigating or prevent human rights from materializing in our supply chain. Vision LABOUR The main contributor to Bacher Work Wear’s success and growth is our strong and devoted employees. Every employee are responsible for promoting and encouraging a healthy and safe workplace and to find common ground on issues that may reflect improvements through the work representative. This is of cause an ongoing process. We believe that our working environment is incredibly important to guarantee our employees and customers satisfaction. In Bacher Work Wear we wish all of our employees to be able to have an occasion to reflect, talk and raise questions or concerns that can benefit our future working environment. Our locations and facilities in Denmark should be an inspired environment for the creative process in tailoring work wear or uniforms for formal purposes with a concern for details. Progress We fully respects the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining with no restriction for individuals to choose a union of their own choice. We believe these are fundamental rights which should be upheld. There is no forced or compulsory labour practice in our company. We demand all our suppliers to adhere to national legislation and labor laws. We continue to make visits to our biggest suppliers, and encourage management to continuously improve conditions for workers in addition to the law. SATISFACTION We encourage a culture where our employees are responsible for precision in tailoring clothing, generation SURVEY of innovative ideas and progress towards a better future. We promote a progress towards sustainable IMPROVEMENT solutions, and conservation of the environment and resources where it makes sense. Further we urge that (PERCENTAGE) new employees are received with an open and tolerant mind. WORKPLACE SATISFACTION WORKING CONDITIONS Results OTHER FACTORS Last year Bacher Work Wear conducted employee surveys in regards of employee satisfaction and for the 5 first time we are able to process the information and include it in this year’s Communication on Progress. 4 Since our first survey we are proud to announce that we have improved employee satisfaction in all monitored areas. Our ambitions is to continue to improve and our goal is an average of 2,5 percent 3 improvement until our next Communication on Progress. Our focus areas will especially be the matters that has had the least progress. See results in the box to the left. 2 1 0 ENVIRONMENT Vision Our ambition at Bacher Work Wear is to promote, support and incorporate sustainable solutions throughout our value chain and processes. Our environmental concern is derived from our desire to be an active part of the society in which we live and act – as individuals, as citizens, and as a business, both now and in the future. However we do acknowledge that we cannot provide solutions to major social and environmental challenges, but achieving smaller scalable impacts that allow us to reach goals and objectives. Progress As we continue to grow as a company our future customers will undoubtedly demand more sustainable products and services including retailers, webshops and stores. We will continue our concept of creating awareness and transparency in our assortment to ease the choice for our customers. By the growing demand of sustainable products and with the rapid movement in technology solutions Bacher Work Wear will continue our progress in creating a digital platform were we engage directly with our customers. By taking a step towards better online solutions our customers can benefit from our selection and solutions such as increased personal service and greater flexibility. This continuously transition converting our digital platform and promoting parts of our sustainable assortment help us to maintain our market position and create the potential to increase our revenue significantly among our sustainable selection of clothing. In accordance with the increasing international demand for sustainable products and production this strategy underline our efforts to become a more sustainable business with focus on reduced impact on the environment and the elimination of harmful substances from our products including our suppliers use of chemicals as mentioned in our Code of Conduct. Results It is our goal and ambition to integrate a more systematic approach and use supplementary measureable data that can address targeted objectives regarding our environmental impact i.e. using less energy or reducing our CO2 emission or eliminating harmful chemicals used in clothing. Our environmental policies are created through bottom-up processes that can make a change promoting our sustainability strategy and advocacy including daily-activities that can affect cost savings or submitting proposals for improvements through the chain of command. As of Juli 2016 we have decided to strengthen our team with a HSE responsible (Health, Safety & Environment). This will make it possible to compare our progress with present data setting new standards for future directions. A key element in Bacher Work Wear’s business model is finding solutions and implementing those steps in daily-activities from recycling to finding more sustainable transportation options. Our employees at Bacher Work Wear are part of this direction focusing on sustainability. They are our key resources in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and among our suppliers making it a team effort when implementing solutions that affects Bacher Work Wear’s business integrity and behaviour. CERTIFICATIONS Recycled materials As part of Bacher Work Wears environmental strategy GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) to reducing waste we promote the conservation of natural resources and this continue in daily activities among our Bacher Work Wear uses the label GOTS in various products. The Global Organic Textile Standard is a leading textile processing personnel. standard for organic fibers, including ecological and social criteria certification of the entire textile supply chain. It is through environmentally and socially responsible manufacturing that provides the products with a credible assurance to the end consumer. The general rule of thumb is that textiles products must contain a minimum of 70% organic fibers to become ÖEKO-TEX GOTS certified The ÖEKO-TEX label indicates the benefit of tested skin-friendly clothing and other textiles reducing harmful chemicals in textile manufacturing that can be dangerous to your health. The ÖEKO-TEX system identifies and eliminate potential sources for problematic substances at each processing stage guaranteeing that the criteria and production methods are based on Nordic Ecolabel scientifically proven parameters and revised in a continually process Some of Bacher Work Wear’s selection of products has the securing operational quality assurance. ÖEKO-TEX is a health care official Ecolabel of the Nordic countries established in 1989 by label. the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic Ecolabel is a voluntary Ecolabelling scheme guaranteeing that climate requirements and CO2 emissions including other harmful gasses are reduced. The scheme evaluates a product's impact on the environment throughout the whole life Organic Exchange cycle. The purpose of the Ecolabel is to contribute to sustainable consumBacher Work Wear is supporting the non-profit organizaption and production, and our vision is a sustainable society. By buying tion Organic Exchange within our selection of products. Nordic Eco-labelled products and services, you as a consumer can contriOur purpose to do so is rooted in the opportunity to bute to a more sustainable environment in the Nordic market who wishes to exchange and learn more about social and environmental benefits of make more climate-friendly choices. The Nordic Ecolabel symbolizes organic agriculture and the world’s supply and demand of organic Bacher’s work towards a sustainable consumerism and production, which cotton. The organization works to help increase consumer awareness are key factors in achieving a sustainable society. of organic cotton products exchanging best practices and innovative solutions for retailers to use. The Organic Exchange farm development program is connected to over 80 organic farming projects in India, China, North America, Turkey and countries in Africa and South America. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Bacher Work Wear has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery, extortion and corruption. It is part of our values and part of the principles of the UN Global Compact. We will continuously comply with all laws, rules and regulations that concerns anti-corruption and anti-bribery to guarantee that our business is in accordance with our operations and business affairs. Progress Our policy towards anti-corruption includes our supply chain as stated in our Code of Conduct with a clear encouragement to take proper action towards initiating improvements if suppliers is failing to meet our Code of Conduct and would be considered as non-compliance. In our company we require all of our employees to reflect upon due diligence with all of suppliers, clients, and other stakeholders with whom a business relationship is established. Our values and dedication to uphold a business integrity addressing an anti-corruption policy includes that we do not allow our employees to offering, promising or paying a bribe of any kind. Results No misconduct has come to our attention but if it should happen, we will take appropriate action and it will be investigated by proper authorities or through an internal process with the management staff. If any employees of Bacher Work Wear should be in doubt it is their duty to address and approach the CEO Peter Vallentin for further instructions and guidance.
