RMA Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress August 2016 UN Global Compact & RMA Group: Ideals United Nations Global Compact A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of: Human rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA supports the UN Global Compact 2009 2010 2011 2012Commit to UNGC Internal Review Strategy 2015 Kevin Whitcraft, RMA assesses the Internal RMA Group CEO, impact of the Establish key organizations officially commits Global Compact on metrics and define strategic and to the UN Global the organization guidelines implementation Compact in an and works with key according to the ideas to support official statement departments to Global Compact in RMA’s commitment to the Honorable address the order for RMA to to the Global Ban Ki-Moon concerning areas track progress Compact adhering to the 10 and how to meet principles. the goals. Practical Actions in Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption Principle: Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights RMA’s Commitment: Human Rights Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Human Rights Education is a basic human right. The wider dissemination of knowledge leads to greater equality and wide spread social development. Education • RMA has established a scholarship program for students with goals to improve their community. • Basic requirements: need based, academic performance, and social/business awareness. • Internship with RMA group/subsidiary for subsequent summer break. Supplier due diligence is a part of RMA’s commitment to finding fair labor and ethically sound partners. Ethical Sourcing As part of the due diligence, background checks of suppliers are done to ensure no forced labor or child labor was used in the manufacturing of products supplied to RMA. RMA performs background checks on all employees hired to ensure they are of outstanding character and do not Outstanding participate in actions deemed questionable to human rights. Character of Employees All employees are required to adhere to a code of ethics which encompasses protection of human rights. Human Rights Principles: Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour RMA’s Commitment: Labour Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Labour RMA employs over 4,000 worldwide from all cultures, background, and nationalities. We employ approximately 40 different nationalities from all continents. They represent a wide range of religious, cultural, political, ethnic and linguistic backgrounds. Due to some of our key geographical locations and the intensive Diversity manual nature of some of the work, male employees represent over 70% of the workforce currently. However, in some locations female employees represent 40-50% of the workforce , including professional and managerial roles. Fair treatment of employees is a fundamental concept and RMA recognises employees’ rights both under the laws of the countries in which we operate and through working with employee representative bodies and Fair Treatment trade unions. We actively work with such representatives, both proactively as means to establishing fair employment conditions and where issues and disputes require management and staff working together to find solutions. Most Labor issues overlap with human right concerns. Therefore, RMA commitments in Human Rights are stated with Human Rights Labor issues in mind. In consideration of forced and child labor, RMA will work on implementing in house supplier checks Labour and by all measurable methods practice fair labor employment. Labour Principles: Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment RMA’s Commitment: Environment Strategic goals towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Environment RMA is committed to adopting and pushing new environmentally friendly technology and processes. This includes researching and test phasing different approaches that improve the quality of the environment before implementation. •Oil Recycling: The customary removal of used engine oil in the Afghan army was simple. Dump it. RMA introduced an easy-toNew Technology manage solution that saved money and introduced the concept of reduced waste management. The oil was filtered and recycled several times, saving money and the environment. •CNG Vehicles: Alternative fuel sources has increasingly become most cost effective alternatives to petrol vehicles. RMA has partnered with some of the largest car manufacturers in the world to test and develop Compressed Natural Gas vehicles. RMA is involved in a range or charitable institution and programme, the most significant of which is In 2008, RM Asia and Ford launched the “2008 Conservation and Environmental Grants” program in Cambodia and Laos. The following examples demonstrate how we have employed the grants; 1) Provided an ambulance (Ford) to the Lao Association for the Poor, 2) A donation of US$ 6,000 to the Lao Association for the Poor to purchase rice following a drought in the South of Laos, 3) a US$ 10,000 donation to build a school in Prea Smach village in Cambodia, 4) RMA paid for the materials and the staff of RMA volunteered their time to renovate a children’s library in Cambodia, 5) Together with Ford, RMA provided and planted 2500 trees and plants in Kampong Speu Province and Siem Reap, Cambodia to help reduce soil erosion in the area and ‘green’ the environs of the town, Grants 6) Provided 600 helmets to the Cambodian dept. of Transport and Ministry of Public to help promote road safety. 7) Donated 25 0 helmets and US$ 3,000 to the Red Cross in Cambodia to support their road safety programme. 8) Donated over 25 tons of rice, thousands of soy sauce bottles and packets of noodles over the last 3 years as part of the Ford Adventure event. 9) donated boats and food to teams from under privileged backgrounds to allow them to take part in the Cambodian Water Festival. RMA is also a main sponsor of AIESEC Cambodia, a programme to build the human resource capability for Cambodia by empowering it’s youth the develop into youth business leaders. ISO 14001: 2004 Accreditation assures customers and neighbors of RMA’s commitment to minimize its processes in Certification product manufacturing that negatively affect the environment. RMA’s commitment will continuously improve the qualities of air, water and land. Environment Principles: Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Principles & Commitment: Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA has developed Anti-Corruption training programs , which have been rolled out to all our employees. Education is Education the best tool to show the micro and macro impacts of corruption on an individual and the surrounding communities All business transactions and agreements go through an internal audit process to check for irregularities. The Internal Audit scrutinization process introduces accountability and ownership of concessions and deals made. This is RMA’s effort in pushing for greater transparency. Management Executive Buy-In is critical to any goal an organization looks to implement. Directors at RMA will regularly communicate Buy In the challenges and hurdles of corruption to their teams. Anti-Corruption RMA Business Ethics Policy RMA Group of Companies view themselves as modern companies in tune with the demands of a market in which buyers are increasingly concerned about the impact their own actions might have in terms of the environment and human rights. As such, RMA Group has introduced its own Ethical Business Policy with the aim of satisfying these customer concerns. Through it, we hope to ensure that we source our materials and services from companies whose own practices are governed by similar principles. Our policy shall be applied to suppliers of materials, spare parts and vehicle options, as well as our service providers (freight forwarders, etc). The aim is to ensure that due care for the environment has been taken during the manufacturing processes and that the goods and services are produced and provided in a manner which ensures that employees and communities have not been exploited. Anti-Corruption RMA Business Ethics Policy RMA shall strive to act as outlined below: • To maintain the highest standard of integrity in all business relationships. • To reject any business practice that might reasonably be deemed improper. • To foster the highest standards of professional competence amongst those responsible for procurement and supply. • To enhance the proficiency and stature of those responsible for procurement and supply by acquiring and applying knowledge in the most appropriate way. • To optimise the use of resources for the benefit of the organisation as a whole. • To comply with both the letter and intent of the laws of the countries being dealt with; agreed contractual obligations; and professional practice. • Goods and services should be purchased that are produced and delivered under conditions that do not involve the abuse or exploitation of any persons. • Not to engage with suppliers that sell or manufacture anti-personnel mines or components utilised in the manufacture of antipersonnel mines. • Not to abuse position of authority for personal gain. • Declare any personal interest which may affect, or be seen by other to affect, impartiality or decision making. • Not to accept inducements or gifts other than items of low value. • To always declare the offer or acceptance of hospitality and never allow hospitality to influence a business decision. • To ensure that the information given is accurate. • To respect the confidentiality of information received and not to use it for personal gain. • To strive for genuine, fair and transparent competition. • To remain impartial in all business dealings and not to be influenced by those with vested interests. Anti-Corruption Activities in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues 2014 15: Anti-Corruption Training RMA rolled out a company wide e-training on the RMA Group Code of Conduct and Compliance e-Training (“e-Training”): • Code of Conduct • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) • Doing Business with the Federal Government (only related employees) The e-Training session has been mandatory for all employees since Quarter 1 2014. In addition, RMA Group continues to conduct situational training for our affiliates, dealerships, and all other client facing stakeholders within the Group since 2014. Anti-Corruption & SDG 16 2015-16: Mangrove planting Environment & SDGs 2, 6, 12-15 2015-16: Mangrove planting RMA employees planted over 700 mangrove seedlings in the province of Chonburi, Thailand and over 500 seedlings in Cambodia • Mangrove trees are being cleared quickly in Southeast Asia in order to have more space for shrimp aquaculture and resorts. • This is problematic for the local environment, as mangroves forests are home to a large variety of fish and mollusk species. These fisheries form an essential source of food for thousands of coastal communities around the world. • Mangroves also help prevent erosion with their root systems and maintain water quality and clarity, filtering pollutants and trapping sediments originating from land. https://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/southflorida/habitats/mangroves/importance-mangroves/ Environment & SDGs 2, 6, 12-15 2015-16: Sponsoring clean water and education Ford Motor Company and RMA Cambodia handed over 8 wells to communities in Kampot Province, which now receive potable water for their more than 100 households. Ford and RMA pledged a total of USD 20,000 this year for Ford’s Conservation and Environmental Grants program in Cambodia. So far Ford Cambodia and RMA Cambodia have built more than 70 water wells across the country. Human Rights and Labour & SDGs 4, 6, 17 2015-16: Visiting our neighbors A group of our employees visited a school in the Samut Songkran Province, Thailand. During the same day they also visited some disabled people living in the same Province. RMA supports both education, with grants for promising students, and the rights of the disabled, which should have more employment opportunities, in order to support the improvement of their quality of life. Human Rights and Labour & SDGs 1, 3, 8, 10 2015-16: Supporting education RMA employees visited the students of Nawarat Monastery, in the Shwepyithar District, north of Yangon. The Monastery operates a school with limited government funding and donations to provide education for approximately 320 RMA’s Express Food Group (Myanmar) Ltd. donated 33 study tables and chairs and brightened the children’s orphans and children day with balloons and ice cream. from low-income families. Human Rights and Labour & SDG 4 2015-16: Funding scholarship and cultural exchange The scholarship program provides a grant with the aim to help students develop their English skills as well as experience a different culture. The Whitcraft Family and RMA Group have sponsored one AFS exchange student per year A scholarship recipient gains the opportunity to attend high school in the USA. since 2012. Human Rights and Labour & SDG 4 2015-16: Donating blood The Thai Red Cross often needs a large amount of blood platelets and plasma, especially during festive seasons. RMA encouraged employees to participate in blood drives and will continue to encourage Our employees donate blood at the Thai Red Cross participation in the future. Society Human Rights & SDG 3 2015-16: Developing leaders This year, RMA rolled out two connected programs: succession planning and leadership development. Both of these programs focus on developing local nationals’ careers, providing training and support to help them move into more senior roles and take over team, departmental, divisional and, ultimately, country management roles. Human Rights, Labour & SDGs 4, 8, 10 2015-16: Cleaning our city: Almaty, Kazakhstan Other activities in Kazakhstan: • Helping war veterans • Providing demo cars for 8-month eco project • Remodeling 2 low-income families’ apartments • Participation in Discover Kazakhstan,” a project supporting the development of tourism in Kazakhstan • Employees became members / volunteers of the Red Cross / Red Crescent Environment & SDGs 1, 3, 11, 13, 15 2015-16: Other activities Turkey: Donating a copy Kenya: Sponsoring the First Lady’s Half Marathon to Cambodia: Improving safety machine for a school and support efforts to reduce mother and infant mortality for construction workers supplies and clothing to its students • Laos: Donating school supplies and sports equipment to a rural school in Bolikhamxay Province; a generator the Lao German Technical school; and a John Deere tractor to Humana People to People’s agricultural projects • Australia: Corporate Sponsorship for Ride for Cancer riders; Food donations from Employees for the homeless through Kilo of Kindness; Employee donations to Royal Flying Doctor Service; Sponsorship of employees participating in the Leukaemia Foundation’s World’s Greatest Shave; Donations for Osteopathy outreach program for drought-affected farmers Human Rights and Labour & SDGs 1-5, 7, 8, 10, 13, 15, 17 UNGC & RMA: Moving forward for 2016-17 • Continue to implement anti-corruption e-training and situational training throughout the organization. • Review supplier audit policies for procurement to take into consideration UNGC principles on child and fair labour recommendations. • Share case studies and success stories such as RMA Cambodia with other Group subsidiaries in order to increase awareness and generate action. • Continue to communicate and instill Global Compact values into corporate culture and among employees. UN – Global Impact Global Impact The Compact aligns business operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. RMA continues to support this compact and ensures that its own actions support and embrace the protections of internationally accepted human rights and reject rights abuses. RMA supports the elimination of discrimination in the workplace and the abolition of child labour. 29
