Sustainability Report 2014 2015 About the Report Contents Purpose of the report Dear Reader, 01 About this Report (pg.3) Thank you for your interest in our Company’s sustainability progress. With our first report in 2013, we started out on a journey towards a truly 1.1 Purpose of the Report sustainable future for: 1.2 Reporting Period our Company, 1.3 Applying the 'Global Reporting Initiative Guidance' and the 'UN Global Compact 10 Principles' our Stakeholders 02 Statement from CEO (pg.4-5) and Society as a whole. Two years later, committed to this ongoing journey, we are proud to share with you our latest efforts in measuring, understanding and communicating the performance 03 Our Company: Neptune Lines at a glance (pg.6-15) of our Company with regard to the three pillars of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. 3.1 Organizational Profile With this report, we aim to reflect our acknowledgement of impacts and risks 3.2 Governance Structure related to our business activities as well as our orientation towards outlining transparently the challenges that the Company faces and the steps it needs to take 3.3 Ethics and Integrity to address them. Understanding and prioritizing those challenges is an on-going process in which we review and analyze our external and internal business context. 04 Neptune Lines & Stakeholders: Setting the course together (pg.16-23) As part of this report, we will be also presenting the progress we have made so far in achieving our 2013 targets, as well as new ideas, goals and approaches which 4.1 Stakeholder Groups emerged during our quest in this biennial reporting period. 4.2 Stakeholder Engagement We value our sustainability report as a consistent means of sharing our year-to-year activities and performance in terms of sustainability, with our 05 Reporting Strategy: Following the optimal route (pg.24-39) Stakeholders as well as anyone interested in its content. 5.1 Materiality Assessment Methodology Last but not least, this whole process has proven to be a valuable ‘navigation’ instrument for our Company in charting our own viable Corporate Strategy. 06 Economic: The economic dimension of sustainability (pg.40-45) Reporting Period (G4-22, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 and G4-33) 6.1 Economic Performance 6.3 Contracts This is the second sustainability report of ‘Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing 6.2 Procurement Practices 6.4 Market Presence Enterprises S.A,’ and it covers the period of two fiscal years from January 1st 2014 to December 31st 2015. Data from our last report in 2013 are disclosed only for 07 Environmental Performance: Serve to Conserve (pg.46-57) comparison and consistency purposes, so as to enable traceability of our progress so far. We have decided to publish our reports from now on a biennial basis, because we have realized that the period of one year is not sufficient to provide 7.1 Emissions 7.4 Environmental Impacts significant and meaningful results or demonstrate progress. We will not seek 7.2 Effluents and Waste 7.5 Compliance external assurance for the present report. 7.3 Technology Innovation 7.6 Energy Preservation 08 Social: Doing the right thing (pg.58-77) Applying the 'Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidance' and 'UN Global Compact 10 Principles' (G4-32) This report is 'In Accordance' with the 'GRI G4 Guidelines Core option'. 8.1 Human Rights 8.3 Society ANNEX GRI is an international independent organization that promotes the use of 8.2 Labor Practices & Decent Work 8.4 Product Responsibility GRI Content Index (pg.82-84) sustainability reporting as a way for organizations to become more sustainable and contribute to a sustainable global economy. Its comprehensive reporting UN Global Compact framework is widely used around the world. 09 Main Sustainability Highlights (pg.78-79) Communication on Progress (COP) Table (pg.85) This report also fulfills our commitment as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to producing a UNGC Communication on Progress, a public disclosure outlining our progress in implementing the 10 principles of the 10 Progress on Targets set in our last report (pg.80-81) Neptune Lines Sustainability UNGC and in supporting broader UN development goals. Contact Desk (pg. 86) www.neptunelines.com 2 3 Statement from CEO ' We have developed a new ‘Sustainability’ mindset, Embracing more sustainability initiatives and developments which will guide us when evaluating our everyday business, setting new targets and assessing future challenges' The last two years have been pivotal of the Global Compact and its further vessels have been acquired in innovation with the aim of delivering in the history of Neptune Lines. principles into our business strategy, 2015. Since 2010, we have achieved outcomes that exceed our customer’s culture and daily operations. We also a 10,66% reduction of our CO2 business expectations, while at the In 2015, our company celebrated 40 commit to sharing this information emissions and we aim to further same time, being environmentally and years of successful operation. with our stakeholders using our reduce them by 0,5% on an annual socially responsible. It has also been the first year without primary channels of communication. basis till 2018. With our strong values and principles our company’s founder Nikos During this reporting period we And we are proud for being that have made this company Travlos, as 2014 was solemnly joined the ‘Maritime Anti-Corruption recognized for these efforts. In 2015, great for 40 years, Neptune Lines’ marked by his passing. Network’ and at the same time, our we achieve the Gold Recognition vision is to further strengthen its Nikos Travlos was a man of vision. sustainability team members received by EcoVadis on behalf of one of sustainability performance vis-a-vis He was committed to establishing a extensive GRI training. our major customers through our the environment, local communities, reputation for Neptune Lines as the evaluation in sustainability matters. the market and of course our greater We have focused more on the active leader of short-sea logistics, with asset, our employees. engagement of our stakeholders our We are also honored to receive the hard work and always providing 1st Agents Conference takes place ‘Agility-Innovation’ distinction by outstanding quality services. in Greece with the participation of Renault Nissan Alliance and we have He was also a man of value. Since 41 delegates from 16 countries, also also been voted as the ‘Dry Cargo the establishment of our company in providing a thorough insight during Company of the Year’ in Lloyds List 1975, we have been conducting our the preparation of our materiality Greek Shipping Awards 2015. business in a socially responsible assessment. ‘Materiality Survey’ At Neptune Lines, we have developed Melina Travlos and ethical manner. Good corporate is distributed to and filled in by a new ‘Sustainability’ direction, a President & Chief Executive Officer governance, business ethics, integrity, our stakeholders and the Executive new ‘Sustainability’ mindset, which respect and personal attention to Committee of our company. will guide us when evaluating customer are principles, which are In 2014, we established a dedicated our everyday business, setting deeply rooted in our company’s Human Resources Department new targets and assessing future values and in our philosophy. with the aim of investing in our challenges. It is true that we are I am proud to introduce our second human capital and improving the susceptible to developments in the Sustainability Report for the years performance of our company through shipping industry, as well in as the 2014 and 2015, reflecting the the performance of our people. automotive industry itself energy success story of our company and its prices, changes in international and We continue to support our cadet achievements in terms of sustainable national legislation, tonnage supply program embracing diversity and development. In this period, our and demand, port infrastructures, equal opportunities among Greek men commitment to sustainable growth market fluctuations and geopolitical and women. becomes more mature and a more developments, are only some of the visible strategic option. Neptune And we have maintained our active factors that are taken into account Lines becomes a formal signatory support to local communities in an when shaping our business and of the UN Global Compact and I effort to combat poverty and support business strategy. am pleased to confirm that we fully culture, education and athletics. Our commitment to With what Neptune Lines has support the Ten Principles in the All this, in parallel with a solid track achieved these last two years, sustainable growth becomes areas of Human Rights, Labour, record and the constant expansion we look forward to embracing Environment and Anti-Corruption. more mature and a more of our fleet. Two state-of-the-art more sustainability initiatives and In this report, we describe our actions eco-friendly new buildings have been developments. Our services and visible strategic option. to continually improve the integration added in our fleet in 2014 and two products are the focus of continual 4 5 Our Company Neptune Lines at a glance Organizational Profile Governance Structure Ethics and Integrity It is Neptune Lines’ mission to be the most trusted car carrier company in the areas we operate, always delivering flexible and tailor-made solutions to our client-partners by investing in our most valuable asset, our people. It is an integral part of our vision to be pioneering whether in our services and markets served, environmental standards, or supportive actions to the communities in which we operate. 6 7 ` Organizational Profile Transported Units ('000) Sailing Miles ('000) Port Calls Neptune Lines at a glance Since 2013 Since 2013 Since 2013 Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A. is a leading car carrier operator in the short sea transportation sector. Neptune Lines is controlled and ultimately owned by the Travlos family. The company operates regular liner services to more than 30 key ports in 17 countries in the Mediterranean basin, extending from the Atlantic ports of Vigo & Casablanca in the West, to the Black Sea in the +18% 983 +14% 1.107 +24% 2.538 East. (G4-3, G4-4, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8) 905 1.095 2.379 Neptune Lines has always been proud to combine its family-owned enterprise values -such as personal attention to customers and service flexibilitywith the efficiency and professional management of a thoroughly modern shipping company. Our service is backed by an unwavering commitment to conducting business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. 806 950 1.926 Our Trading Area. (G4-4, G4-6) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 (G4-9) In order to meet an ever-growing demand, Neptune Lines has been consistently investing in its Total Capitalization (G4-9) maritime fleet of vessels. Our expansion has included the Neptune Lines manages assets of over 400m € introduction of state-ofthe-art, sophisticated vessels while, at the same time, we continuously invest in our existing fleet, in order to enhance performance and achieve business continuity. Net Sales per annum (G4-9) Four new vessels were added in Neptune Fleet during this reporting 150m € period, increasing the overall carrying capacity by 36% and contributing in further reducing the environmental footprint of Neptune Over Scale of the Organization (G4-9) Fleet. (G4-13) 16 Carrying Capacity* (G4-13) Vessels Our Company has formed Fleet Age Categorization (owned vessels) direct contracts and established (thousand units onwed vessels) 7.9 Average Fleet Age long-standing relationships with 28 Port Agents all major car and commercial vehicle manufacturers,as well Since 2013 as with leading 3PL and 4PL companies. It, also, specializes in the safe handling of project cargo, correlated with Carrying Capacity +36% 41.206 12 Prior 2000 Trade Routes high and heavy units, agricultural and construction equipment. 7% 33.646 (G4-8) 26.086 3 The company operates through a Continents wide, dedicated agency network. 2000 2008, 20% After 2008, 388 Employees 73% 2013 2014 2015 (*Calculation is based on RT43) 8 9 Organizational Profile Supply Chain: Parties providing products and services (G4-12) Lub. rs Oi l B u nk e Chem si g A ge n n nin ca M a ts Su pp ls liers o l o gy I C l ub hn Other P & Te c Su ng & C Provi ders &Machine p pliers ni s sulting re ry ipyards assification Trai Sh l on C ocieties Sp S tio ns a ica Pr ov t Agent id ar g o P or m er s Com un C s id e r s Suppliers Shippin ro Surveyors v g P Compan ies All these Contractors, Sub-Contractors, Suppliers and Business Cooperators contribute to our quality service through: • Communications Providers: Networks, Internet, Communication Systems • Shipyards: Shipbuilding, Repairs & Drydocking • Spares & Machinery Suppliers: Spare parts & various machinery, periodic inspections • Shipping Companies: Chartered Vessels, Service Lines • Other Suppliers: Provisions, Stores, Lashing and cargo securing equipment • Classification Societies: Certification, Training • Training & Consulting Providers: Training & Consulting, Crew-training modules, Business Intelligence, Assurance. • Protection&Indemnity (P&I) Club: Insurance Protection Certification • Manning Agents: Crew Screening, Crew Training & Familiarization according to corporate standards • Cargo Surveyors: Cargo inspection • Bunkers -Lub Oil-Chemicals Suppliers: Bunkers, Lubricants, Chemicals & Paints • Port Agents: Coordinating and ensuring smooth delivery of service to Customers, Arranging for vessels' operations and needs (i.e. in supplies, crew movements etc.), they are the 'Ambassadors' of our policies, requirements and strategy to each • Technology Providers: Information Systems & Information Technologies, e-Services, on-going support, Know-how, port/country area of operation Marine-type equipment (i.e. ECDIS e.t.c) 10 11 Organizational Profile Governance Structure (G4-34) Commitment to external initiatives and Structure and composition memberships Neptune Lines has a four-tier Executive Officer, the Chief Operating sustainability policies and set the Neptune Lines has been steadily It is Neptune Lines policy and objective verify the continual improvement of the management structure consisting of the Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and appropriate sustainability strategies. increasing its presence on national, to ensure that all reasonably foreseeable established management system. Above Board of Directors, the Chief Executive the Commercial Director and functions It oversees compliance with policies international and industry-specific boards risks which are related to Safety, standards are fully implemented for all Officer, the Executive Committee and as the day-to-day management. Its set and monitors progress on the and organizations, as a company that Occupational Health, Environment shore-based and shipboard operations the Sustainability Committee, as shown members are participating in the sustainability projects. is responsible towards its stakeholders, and Property are properly identified, covering all fleet vessels. (G4-15) in the below Corporate Governance Sustainability Committee who is the community, its industry and the assessed and managed, so as to reduce Neptune Lines is an active member of: Framework. responsible for the decision-making on environment. the likelihood of occurrence, or to reduce economic, environmental and social the severity of the consequences, to an • Hellenic Chamber of Shipping (Board) In keeping with our commitment to The Board of Directors and the CEO, issues. acceptable level. Risk Assessment is social responsibility, we have adopted • Union of Greek Ship-owners (Board) lay down the general business, the intended to be a careful examination of a number of voluntary codes and other management principles as well as the The Sustainability Committee consists what, in the nature of operations, could • Malta International Shipping Council external initiatives that we consider strategy and the risk policies. of the members of the Executive cause harm to people, property and (Board) particularly relevant to our business. We Committe with the addition of the environment, so that decisions can be will continue to monitor the advancement • European Community Ship-Owners The Executive Committe ensures the Sustainability Officer, the Operations made as to whether enough precautions of sustainable development initiatives Association (Board) proper organization and supervises the Manager, the Technical Manager, have been taken or whether more should in society, to ensure we remain a performance of the Company and its the Crewing Manager and the Legal be done to prevent harm. (G4-14) • DNV Technical Committee responsible company wherever we do Management. It consists of the Chief Advisor. Its role is to agree on the business. Neptune Lines have adopted United • BIMCO (Membership) Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • HELMEPA principles since September 2015 and reports as per Global Reporting Initiative • The Association of European Vehicle (GRI G4) principles since August 2014. Logistics, ECG (Membership) (G4-16). Neptune Lines incorporates the 10 (ten) principles of UNGC in the established policies and procedures. Shore-based and Shipboard operations are conducted based on the implementation of those policies and relevant trainings are given to employees. Both external initiatives are voluntary for Neptune Lines. Furthermore, Neptune Lines adopts internationally accepted quality standards for conducting day to day operations. ISO 9001:2008 for the scope of Quality Service and ISO 14001: 2004 for the scope of Environmental Management are implemented since 2009. OHSAS 18001:2007 for the scope of Occupational Health and Safety Management was added in our voluntary certification scheme since 2014. External audits from independent organizations, are conducted at periodical intervals to 12 13 Our Code of Conduct outlines the high standards to which all of our employees are expected to Ethics and Integrity (G4-56) conduct themselves, and a Fair Business Practices Mission, Vision, Values policy that details standards we follow to conduct business in an ethical manner. Mission Values Fair Business Practices (G4-DMA) Code of Conduct Neptune Lines has a strong and well-established commitment to ethical We strive to conduct business with partners Neptune Lines Code of Conduct applies It is Neptune Lines’ mission to At the core of everything we do business conduct and compliance who share our commitment to high ethical to the Board of Directors, Senior maintain and further strengthen our there are eight values. They form the with applicable laws and regulations. standards and engage in fair, transparent Management members, all employees and reputation as the most trusted Car foundation of our company and help (G4-DMA) and free competition and appropriate suppliers working for, or are associated Carrier Company in the Mediterranean us to foster each and every customer business transactions. with Neptune Lines. Our Code of Conduct Our leadership strives continually and the Black Sea, always providing relationship. is applicable to all units within Neptune to demonstrate this commitment by flexible and tailor-made solutions to We choose our business partners on the Lines, and compliance is required by all leading through example. We openly our customers who steadily evolve into basis of their efforts to respect human suppliers. and repeatedly encourage our personnel strategic partners through long-term 1 | TRUST: Honoring relationships, old rights, comply with laws, protect the to raise ethics concerns and ask about and mutually credible relations, while and new. environment and address social issues, as Senior and middle management shall the best course of action. consistently investing in our most well as considerations such as quality and act as role models for the employees by 2 | FLEXIBILITY: Tailoring our valuable asset – our people. price. leading the way and adhering to the Code services according to our customers' of Conduct. needs. We do not engage in unfair price fixing, Vision collusion, dumping or any other actions Senior and middle management are 3 | CONFIDENCE: Providing peace of that hinder free competition. obliged to spread the knowledge and Our vision is to maintain our leading mind to our customers, year after year. integrate the content of Code of Conduct position in our target segment, while We do not provide or accept gifts or 4 | INTEGRITY: Conducting business in their department, ensuring that at the same time, to grow and expand entertainment that may cause suspicion according to a strict code of ethics. compliance is achieved. our services in new markets. We will regarding our fairness. accomplish our goal by applying our 5 | PIONEERING: Encouraging and Reporting We do not give or accept money or gifts in values and a strong code of ethics supporting innovative thinking in the course of our work with our business Senior and middle management shall to everything we do. For a family everything we do. partners. actively support employees who raise business, like Neptune Lines, values 6 | HUMAN CAPITAL: Investing questions or express concern regarding are the connective tissue—the source of We also keep meals and entertainment in—and inspiring—people. actions or issues that may be restricting our success, our commitment, and our with our business partners within socially or violating the application of the Code of longevity. 7 | EXCELLENCE: Delivering acceptable limits only. Conduct. excellence every day of the week, We respect all of our business partners In our transition to a larger corporate year-round. Any reported violation will be reviewed who share our aims, and work together structure, our values will continue to from the Sustainability Committee and 8 | RESPONSIBILITY: Caring for the with them toward sustained growth. guide our philosophy: integrity, respect decide on the course of actions to be community and the environment we and close customer relationships. We We maintain equitable relationships with taken. live and work in. will extend the power of our values to our business partners and do not apply No such incidents were reported during benefit our strategic partnerships and coercive pressure. the reporting period. our people, but also the communities We share our stance regarding fulfilment in which we operate, by keeping a (Further information for ethics and of social responsibility, including respect vigilant eye on the social, political and integrity can be found also in the 'Society' for human rights, compliance with laws economic factors that shape the world section of the present report). and protection of the environment, with we live in. our business partners and encourage them to take their own voluntary initiatives. We cooperate with our business partners in working to enhance the value of Neptune Lines. 14 15 Neptune Lines & Stakeholders Setting the course together Stakeholder Groups Stakeholder Engagement Neptune Lines believes that part of engagement of stakeholders in setting solving problems effectively with directions (“planning”) and shaping others is planning effectively through other kinds of decisions that matter for joint effort understanding problems, their lives. generating options for response, Neptune Lines will walk together evaluating those options meaningfully, with its Stakeholders to identify and choosing a roadmap for action. the material aspects and define the Over the past few decades, most collaboaration boundaries. fields of policy and practice have seen increased demands for less “top down” decision making and action, for a wider 16 Neptune Lines and Stakeholders Setting the course together Our Stakeholders' interests and expectations guide our way in our sustainability strategy, since the sustainable growth of our Company depends to a great extent on them. Stakeholder Groups (G4-24, G4-25) The process we implemented to identify all our Stakeholders has not changed since our first report in 20131. However, since this process ought not to remain static but keep pace with Company dynamics (e.g. changes in its external or internal environment, new impacts, business decisions, added competitive intelligence etc.), our sustainability reporting team -along with the Sustainability Committeefurther reviewed the stakeholder groups and identified back in 2013. After relevant discussion and brainstorming, the following modifications and additions were decided: 1) The group of 'Industry Organizations' was renamed 'International / Industry Organizations & Regulators' to reflect apart from maritime related organizations international bodies and regulators which, although are not dedicated to the shipping industry, however have -or may have in the futurea significant impact/influence on our Company, through their declarations and provisions. 2) 'Finance-Related' stakeholders were added to include financial institutions/banks, which play an important role to our financial and monetary related functions. 3) Specific stakeholders, which were initially included in the broader categories of 'Suppliers' were discerned to be regrouped under a more specific stakeholder group named 'Business Cooperators in the provision of service', due to their decisive participation in the provision, delivery and quality of our service. These stakeholders are: • 'Port Agents', 'Manning Agents', 'Cargo Surveyors' and 'Shipowning Companies (Chartered Vessels)'that were initially under 'Suppliers' group & • 'Stevedores' ,'Cargo Brokers' and 'Shipping Logistics Companies' which are new entries in our stakeholders list. Having implemented the above changes, our Stakeholder Groups with their respective sub-categories -as identified for 2014-2015are listed in 'Stakeholders Engagement Table' in the following pages of the present report. Also, compared to 2013, there are some new forms and occasions of engaging and communicating with Stakeholders, demonstrating our efforts towards improving this important sustainability requirement. Some of these engagement forms are: Stakeholder Engagement (G4-25) • Corporate 'Employee welfare initiatives' (to be further presented in the 'Employees' section) Stakeholder engagement, is a set of processes and occasions, through which Neptune Lines consults and connects with its key • Our 'Materiality Survey' addressed to our key Stakeholders stakeholders. The process of identifying our key stakeholders shall be analyzed in the section of 'Materiality Assessment'. • Participation in 'policy development meetings' • Participation in 'industry forums featuring sustainable shipping trends' Although there are numerous mechanisms in place -through which we communicate with our key stakeholders and express our • Participation in 'Customers' sustainability assessments' and 'benchmarking systems' mutual commitment there are not, yet, many engagement processes developed from our side specifically for the purpose of • 'Working with major Customers to develop services that promote sustainability' (i.e. low-carbon solutions) sustainability. That is, due to the fact that our three-year sustainability strategy is still at an initial stage and therefore relative processes are at a preparatory stage. However, in September 2015, a first organized attempt was made by our Company, in view of this biennial report, to engage key stakeholders and include their perspective when defining report content. This was effected through our 'materiality survey', which will also be presented in detail in the following section. Stakeholder engagement forms, occasions and communication channels are demonstrated in 'Stakeholders Engagement Table'. The table has not changed much since 2013; it has only been updated to include the new Stakeholder Groups, as well as, new specific Stakeholder-entries in the list of sub-categories of each group. These new entries are namely: • 'Freight Forwarders' and 'Shippers of Project Cargo' (in 'Customers' group) • 'Financial Institutions' (in 'Finance Related' group) • 'International Transport Workers' Federation' (in 'Trade Unions') • 'National Governments', the 'European Union', 'Employment Agencies-POEA (for seagoing personnel)' (in 'Government'' group) • The 'Malta International Shipping Council (MISC)', the 'P&I Club' (‘International/Industry Organizations & Regulators) • 'Port Terminals -Port facilities & Infrastructure providers’ (in 'Suppliers' group) • ''Stevedores' and 'Cargo Brokers' (in 'Business Cooperators in provision of Service') • 'Local Communities at Ports of operation' (in 'Society' group) 1 Ref.:Neptune Lines Sustainability Report 2013 pg.12-13 'Stakeholder engagement and interests' 18 19 Stakeholder Engagement Table (G4-24, G4-26) Stakeholder Engagement Table (G4-26) Our Stakeholders Who they are Communication channels and forms of engagement What they expect from us Further Engagement Opportunities (indicative) (Groups) (Sub-categories) Neptune Lines Sustainability Report/COP Employees Shorebased Personnel • Ongoing support & open communication between • Compliance with contract terms • Increase awareness and inclussiveness of NL employees in Management & Employees as well as with Seagoing & • Motivation and meaningful work Corporate Sustainability Strategy and strengthen internal Seagoing Personnel Shorebased Personnel • Career paths and development opportunities communication of Company's efforts • Code of Conduct • Ethical Behavior • Communicate results of employee surveys to personnel • Monthly internal meetings (onboard and ashore). • Good and safe working conditions • Expand HR best practices and employee-welfare programs • Familiarization training process (seminars, knowledge tests, • Recognition • Review and update Performance Management systems (eg. classroom courses) • Fair and competitive compensation performance appraisal criteria) • Training Opportunities • Fair evaluation (performance appraisal ctiteria) • Train seafarers and shorebased employees to embrace • Annual Management Review report (demonstrating -among • Equal treatment sustainability culture, acting as required at all times, to other KPIs progress with regards to Sustainability-related • Job security safeguard human life and rights, the environment and targets • Work-life balance corporate integrity • Team Building events • Care • Employee welfare initiatives • Clarity and efficiency of HR policies • Biennial employee satisfaction surveys (shorebased • Compliance with employee-welfare-related acts, personnel) legislation, quality standards & conventions (eg. OHSAS • Complaints procedure 18001, MLC 2006, ITF working standards etc.) • Post-service meetings with Seagoing Personnel (Officers) to discuss problems and areas of improvement • Company Circulars & Announcements (through emails) • Office Emergency Team availabilty on 24/7 • Materiality Survey Customers Global Automotive Companies • Cargo booking process & dedicated Customer Service • Fulfill and anticipate their needs • Invest further on transparency and maintaining Customers' (OEMs) Coordinators (CSCs) • High-quality service and flexibility trust through our sustainability reporting process and • Performance Review Meetings (PRMs)/sharing improvement. • Adherence to agreed upon terms and conditions (reserved efforts Freight Forwarders action plans and long term strategy (every 6 months & when space, prices, timelines etc.) • Create a specific communication strategy to get our necessary) • Ongoing support sustainability efforts across to our Customers and obtain Shippers of Project Cargo • Frequent conference calls and extraordinary meetings • Availability/Responsiveness their feedback (agricultural, energy, construction and • Participation in Customers' benchmarking systems • Accurate information • Further use of corporate website as a means to other equipment) • Attendance in LSP/industry exhibitions • Effective problem solving / Flexibility communicating sustainability actions / keeping it updated • Attendance in exhibitions/events /workshops organized by • Responsibility/Accountability with sustainability highlights and corporate achievements Logistic Service Providers (LSPs) Customers • Easy adaptation of Customer requirements • Participation in Customers' sustainability assessments. • Added-value/Innovative Solutions Individuals • Working with major Customers to develop services that • Transparency promote sustainability (for example through low carbon • Conducting business and delivering our service in a solutions) sustainable manner (ethical, safe, environmentally-friendly, • Materiality Survey respecting human rights) Finance Related Financial Institutions • Loan agreements and Credit analysis • Creditworthiness / Financial performance • Send them our sustainability report or inform them of its • Payroll accounts • Transparency and accurate information availability online • Contracts • Preference in their products/services • Periodical financial reports • Responsibility/Accountability • Progress meetings (occassional) • Consistency • Corporate presentations • Risk Control/Management • Day to day transactions • Robust management processes & long-term growth • Materiality Survey Trade Unions International Transport Workers' • Collective Bargaining Agreements (renewed on annual basis) • Commitment and adherence to the terms of the agreements • Not applicable Federation (ITF) • Keeping updated with latest rules and regulations coming in • Compliance with applicable rules & regulations force • Respect of labour and union rights (i.e. wages, working Seafarers' Associations • Occassional Meetings hours, training, health and safety, working conditions, employee benefits, remuneration, reparation e.t.c.) Government National Government • Notices/Instructions with latest rules and requirements • Compliance and consistency • Declare our sustainability efforts with emphasis on Flag Administration • Inspections & Auditing process • Due diligence our health & safety, environmental and anti-corruption Port Authorities/National Coastguard • Formal dialogues/correspondence • Transparency proceedings Employment Agencies (e.g.POEA) • Participation in EU policy development forums • Safe & environmentally-friendly operations European Union (EU) • Voluntary participation of our Vessels in exercises • Collaboration and timely action Marine Accident Investigation • Root-cause analysis / Action-plan submission • Quality standards implementation Organizations • Materiality Survey • Risk Management • Verification of process implementation and responsiveness • To generate economic growth 20 21 Stakeholder Engagement Table (G4-24, G4-26) Our Stakeholders Who they are Communication channels and forms of engagement What they expect from us Further Engagement Opportunities (indicative) (Groups) (Sub-categories) Neptune Lines Sustainability Report/COP International Classification Societies • Participation in committees and councils (annual and adhoc • Active participation collaboration • Enhance our active presence in existing and upcoming & Industry P&I Club meetings) • Keeping updated with new requirements coming into force opportunities for knowledge-sharing and further Organizations & Auditing / External Assurance Parties • Memberships and ensure compliance engagement in sustainability-related issues (i.e. in Regulators Union of Greek Shipowners (EEE) • Annual company and vessel audits • Ethical behaviour round-table discussions, internationally organized summits International Maritime Organization • Circulars and announcements • Transparency e.t.c.) (IMO) • High-level meetings / steering groups (extraordinary) • Responsibility and due diligence • Find the most suitable communication strategy to bring our Malta International Shipping Council • Seminars and workshops / lectures / summits • Reliability/Accountability sustainability efforts to their attention (MISC) • Lobbying and thematic meetings (i.e. regarding environmental • Support International Labor Organization issues, viable industry solutions / regulations / measures e.t.c) • Action (ILO) • Participation in industry forums featuring sustainable shipping • Quality Management according to standards The Association of European Vehicles trends • Sustainability culture Logistics (ECG) • Action Plans • Risk Management European Maritime Safety Agency • Surveys (EMSA) • Participation in projects European Community of Shipowners • Materiality Survey Association (ECSA) United Nations Suppliers Stores & Spares suppliers • Supplier performance evaluation • Fair and longterm cooperation • Determine what is the most suitable method of stakeholder Service providers • Agreements • Timely execution of financial responsibilities and engagement-to be implemented for the initial 'briefing' Communication providers • Ad-hoc service review meetings with major Suppliers (i.e. to adherence to our contractual obligations phase of engaging with our Suppliers in sustainability Shipyards discuss poor quality issues or health&safety-related concerns, • Honest projection of our Company's needs and timely matters. I.S/I.T Providers to follow-up on project deliverables e.t.c.) information on any significant changes affecting them • Explore sustainability aspects and criteria to be included in Training & Consulting providers • Exhibitions (i.e. The International Shipping Exhibition • Endorsement and positive word of mouth for their our Suppliers' selection and evaluation processes Travel Agents 'Posidonia') products/services • Formalize and communicate our strategy of sustainable Crew Insurance Agents • Participation in Workshops organized by Suppliers • Business opportunities purchasing to our Suppliers and obtain their Bunker Suppliers (extraordinary) • Know-how exchange feedback Chartering, S&P Brokers • Conference calls and day to day communication • Establish a supplier-engagement strategy Insurance Brokers • Close cooperation in projects (upon occurence and for a Port Service Providers certain time frame) Port Terminals • Consulting • On-site sales presentations • On-site visits • Materiality Survey Business Port Agents • Same as in 'Suppliers' Group • Same as in 'Suppliers' Group • Same as in 'Suppliers' Group Cooperators Manning Agents • Conference organized for all NL Port Agents (i.e. 1st NL • Organize more conferences for our business cooperators in provision of Shipping Logistics Companies Agents Conference) • Work on an initial attempt of puting together a few basic Service Shipowning Companies (Chartered guidelines for business cooperators to be further enriched • Materiality Survey Vessels) on a later stage Cargo Brokers Cargo Surveyors Stevedores Society Academic Institutions • Students' on-site visits and career opportunities • Social and economic development • Explore more opportunities to support (i.e. support events Local Communities at ports of • Press releases/interviews • Transparency and activities in the context of the UN Human Rights, operation • News published in corporate web-site and social media • Support youth skills development and employability, antiMedia • Media Response Plan • Ethical behavior and protection of human rights corruption e.t.c) Environmental Protection Institutions • Membership in Hellenic Marine Environment Protection • Accountability and responsibility • Inrease publicly available information on our sustainability NGOs Association (HELMEPA) • Availability of information activities and achievements • Donations and Charities • Employment opportunities • Participation and discussions/dialogue in sustainability forums • Contactability & opportunities to dialogue / organized by NGOs communication channels • Subscription to receive notifications of their actions/events • Adherence to public statements and commitments • Environmental measures 22 23 Reporting Strategy Reporting Strategy Following the Following the Optimal Optimal RouteRoute Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment MethodologyMethodology ..................................................... In navigation, there are quite a few possible routes to follow in order to reach your destination. However, not all of them are the optimal route. When carving a sustainability strategy, even though there are numerous possible issues to consider and report on, we focus on those that are crucial for us and our relation with others, in order to be effective. 24 Reporting Strategy Following the optimal route DEFINING MATERIAL ISSUES: THE PROCESS (G4-18) Materiality is the principle of defining the significant economic, social and environmental topics that matter most to our business and our Stakeholders. STEP 1IDENTIFICATION • Key projects and programs on progress For identifying which issues are truly material for our Company • Company 'self-assessment' tools, vessels’ reporting forms, and its Stakeholders, we needed to create an initial broad list of records and Key Performance Indicators possible subjects to select from; a list, comprehensive enough, Materiality Assessment Methodology so as not to omit anything which should merit inclusion-always • Assessment of the Company’s external environment, within the context of sustainability. Readily available input for business-sector assessments of critical points and conditions Material aspects are those that reflect the organization's significant economic, environmental and social impacts or substantively this list, was gathered from: (e.g. Industry benchmarks, market research results e.t.c.) influence the assessment and decisions of stakeholders. • The GRI G4 Guidelines: all aspects with their constituent • Review of sustainability-related articles providing insight For Neptune Lines, the materiality assessment process is used as a strategic business tool, with implications beyond sustainability topics and indicators mentioned in those guidelines were into global sustainability trends – as well as sector risks and reporting. Our sustainability reporting method is concentrated on those issues which are material enough, due to their impacts, to considered at this stage opportunities attract Company’s efforts. • The UN Global Compact 'Ten Principles' (which are linked • Best sustainability practices of our sector Since our last report, we have tried to further enhance our sustainability-reporting skills and re-consider our approaches and with some of GRI’s aspects) methodologies, in order to result in a more strategic report. • Legislative frameworks, conventions (e.g. by ILO, IMO etc.), • Our last sustainability report of 2013: all aspects that regulations and external commitments, license to operate In that context, in 2014, we decided to improve the materiality assessment process we had initially developed in 2013, with the were identified back then as materialwhich now had to be (global, within EU or regional) aim of producing a list of even more focused and operable (relevant and significant in our business sector) aspects -along with their re-assessed constituent topics/indicatorsto report on from now on. (G4-23) • Sustainability-related initiatives in which our Company However, apart from the generic GRI aspects that are applicable participates or intends to participate Towards that end, in 2014, we followed a structured assessment process based on the methodology and guidelines that are suggested and inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). These steps are namely: identification, prioritization, validation and to all sectors, it should be noted that there are no sector specific • Feedback received from assessment of our Company in terms review. Each of the four steps, addresses specific elements to consider when trying to define what is material and employs particular aspects and topics issued, yet, officially by the GRI for the of sustainability performance (assessment was initiated by principles for defining report content. shipping sector. So, in an attempt to come up with a more our Customers) focused result, we reviewed the officially GRI-entrenched ‘Sector Through the increased and active involvement of the Executive and Sustainability Committees during the materiality assessment Supplements' from other sectors which assemble some extra • Getting an idea of public perception through social media process, we managed to increase compared to 2013the inclusiveness of our key stakeholders and hence produce an even more aspects due to sector specifities. Some of these sector-aspects investigation/online research representative output of their actual needs. were of similar concern with our business (e.g. the aspect of We shall present our actions during each step in the following section – except from the last step of ‘review’ which will be ‘Emergency Preparedness’ which is included in the ‘Oil & Gas Stakeholders’ Inclusiveness (G4-26) implemented soon after the publication of this report. Industry’ GRI sector-supplement) and provided useful insight At this initial stage, ‘taking the pulse’ of stakeholders, helped during this stage. These other sectors’ aspects, being already Last but not least, our materiality assessment process includes only 'Neptune Lines'as the sole entity included in the financial us ensure that the aspects and topics gathered, will not concern context-verified by the GRI, did not have to be questioned in terms statements. (G4-17) only our Company, but will also correspond to their reasonable of sustainability context. expectations, interests or even concerns. In addition to the above, we considered it important to identify some more shipping-oriented subjects, more relevant to our Our main stakeholders and engagement occasions were analyzed business. We managed to come up with some new topics, deriving under ‘Neptune Lines and Stakeholders’section. In this section, from our own business operations and work experience. For we shall only refer to their involvement solely in the materiality these complementary, 'self-developed' sectorspecific topics and process and their contribution in identifying material issues. Setting a voyage plan... indicators, we posed a series of test-questions for each one of them, in order to ensure that they are within sustainability context During this first step of the process, our approach was to and are not merely performance or efficiency indications which brainstorm over information gathered at times from various simply happen to be of interest to our Company. occasions of engagement with some of our key stakeholders (i.e. customers, port agents), such as conferences and meetings; Fresh ideas and topic suggestions emerged, also, through the occasions which-even though were not initiated specifically for Plotting 'material' waypoints along the way below processes and sources: sustainability purposeshowever, do have certain sustainability value due to the topics addressed. • Brainstorming within the Sustainability Committtee A typical example of such engagement that provided significant • Internal feedback (e.g. discussions and interviews with initial input to our materiality assessment, is the 1st Port Agents’ department heads, consultation with employees, employee Conference of our Company held in autumn of 2015. opinion survey) Additional input regarding stakeholders' perspective, was • External feedback (e.g. comments from our customers, gathered: suppliers, readers of our last sustainability report, consultation of a) through Company personnel engagement with stakeholders, sustainability experts etc.) regular communication which leads to a better understanding • Training workshops, seminars and conferences (sustainability or of their concerns and expectations and how their decisions are & tracing through them the best route to follow for everyone’s benefit and welfare... shipping-related) influenced and b) through research and information gathering for those stakeholders that are not easily accessible. • Conferences, meetings and day to day dealings with stakeholders • Corporate material (e.g. business plans, management reviews, … is the essence of effective and strategic reporting. minutes from meetings and presentations) 26 27 Reporting Strategy Following the optimal route STEP 2PRIORITIZATION • Port Terminals (Suppliers) Neptune Lines 40 Year Anniversary • Bunkers & Lube Oil Suppliers (Suppliers) Moving on to the step of 'Prioritization', we had to prioritize all 1st Agents Conference (G4-27) • Stores Suppliers (Suppliers) topics gathered, taking into account two factors: • Communication/ I.T-I.S Providers (Suppliers) Held on October 23rd 2015, on the occasion of the 40-year anniversary of our Company, 'Neptune Lines 1st Agents Conference' 1) Significance1 of their economic, environmental or social • Insurance Brokers (Suppliers) brought together in Athens all our major Port Agents from all over the Mediterranean and Black Sea (40 delegates from 16 impacts to our Company, • Training and Consulting Providers (Suppliers) countries), to promote relationships and communication. • Shipyards (Suppliers) 2) Whether they have substantive influence on the assessments • Flag Administration (Government) Our Port Agents are our ‘front-office’ at each port of operation; they represent Neptune Lines at their location of operation, and decisions of our Stakeholders. • Neptune Lines seagoing personnel-represented by the ensuring smooth vessel operations, making all necessary arrangements for the seamless delivery of cargo to the final customer. Materiality deriving as a combination of these two factors is Crewing Manager (Employees) the threshold at which topics take priority over the rest and • Neptune Lines office personnel-represented by the HR The stakeholder engagement event was organized by Neptune Lines for the first time, in an effort to honor the longtime become sufficiently important to be reported. Manager (Employees) relationship we share with these major stakeholders, discuss issues of concern, emerging risks as well as opportunities to improve our services. In order to assess the priority level of each topic and determine The process we followed in order to decide to which specific if it is material, quantitative assessment was needed, to measure stakeholders we shall address the questionnaire, is analyzed Their valuable experience and day-to-day contact with port terminals, authorities, customers, provided real-time constructive the degree to which both of these conditions are fulfilled for each hereinafter; feedback, led by a fruitful discussion during a workshop session. topic. The higher each topic scores in 'significance' for the Company or Stakeholders’ Prioritization: All information accumulated helped us in in our aspirations to further develop our sustainability strategies and projects to 'influence' on assessment and decision of stakeholders, the more Selecting Key Stakeholders (G4-25) follow. material it becomes. For our survey, we had to select individual stakeholders, to Among other issues, below sustainability topics addressed: Materiality Survey (G4-26) create -to the best possible extenta representative sample For the assessment, our sustainability team designed an onlinethat would provide us with • The number of corruption practices and incidents amongst port authorities in some ports of our operation a questionnaire, addressed to our key Stakeholders, as well as, to stakeholders’ perspective: i.e. challenge we have to face our Executive Committee. Which topics from the broader • New market development possibilities and impacts to consider list seem to be of interest to them • Upcoming global shipping trends such as: the use of electronic cargo documents instead of conventional ones; it is In the questionnaire, each topic was presented under the general or concern them the most? Which a fact that we are heading towards electronic, paperless trade using electronic processes to facilitate procedures and aspect it belongs to (e.g. the topic 'turnover and retention are perceived to be important for exchange of information which will eventually make shipping trade more effective and sustainable. rates' under the aspect 'Employment') and was followed by their assessments and decisions? a brief disclosure of its sustainability context, to facilitate its comprehension and evaluation. The process we followed to Dependency At the end of the Conference, it was commonly agreed that everyone would leave with fresh thoughts and ideas, for The evaluation was based on three questions which were the same prioritize our stakeholders Those who are most harder work, towards an even better and more challenging future for Neptune Lines and Stakeholders. dependent on our for each topic; each of the three questions provided an assessment and define those who would Company, such as Responsibility customers reliant on our of the topic, through a rating scale. Each question was designed be top-listed as our 'key services or suppliers for Those linked to the which we are a large to reflect, though its own perspective and wording, the two Stakeholders', is the following: Company through legal, client. financial, operational materiality factors: 'significance to our Company' and 'influence regulations, contracts and/ or policies. on Stakeholders'. From the broader list of stakeholder groups with their With minor adjustments, the same questions addressed to our sub-categories (all those identified Executive Committee. in 2013 as well as the new entries) Representation Invitation to participate in the survey was sent, through an online -we assessed each group and Those who represent key institutions with whom the survey software, to delegates from selected stakeholder-groups. sub-category separately Company interacts such as trade union representatives, (e.g.: Group:Customers community leaders e.t.c Here below are the stakeholders that were selected for our Sub-Cat: Automotive Companies). survey: Influence The assessment was performed Those who have the ability according to five evaluation to influence-whether or not • Automotive Companies (Customers) the Company can reach its criteria (using a numeric score intended goals. This can • Logistics Service Providers (Customers) include those with informal scale) namely: influence or those with formal • Shipping Companies (Business Cooperators) decision-making power, Dependency, Responsibility, internally or externally. • Port Agents (Business Cooperators) Proximity Representation, Influence and • Manning Agents (Business Cooperators) Those who the Company Proximity (see Figure 1). depends on for daily • Cargo Surveyors (Business Cooperators) operations and those living close to its areas of • Classification Societies (Industry Organizations) operation. The stakeholders that stood • Unions of Shipowners (Industry Organizations) out from the rest due to higher • Auditing Parties (Industry Organizations) average score, were the key • Financial Institutions (Finance-Related) Stakeholders for our Company 1 Significant are the impacts that are considered important enough to and therefore, the ones to address Figure 1 require active management or engagement by the Company. our materiality questionnaire. 28 29 Identifying and prioritizing key impacts, review was based on the following Following the completion of the review, from the report, even though were not are included in the ‘10 Principles’ of the number, compared to the more specific risks and opportunities is an on-going elements: the final 'Materiality Matrix' was produced within the materiality area. Those are: UN Global Compact. topics of 2014/2015. However, even though process in which we review and analyze • Likelihood and severity of an based on the aforementioned criteria material topics for 2014/2015 are quite our external and internal business impact as well as on stakeholders' ratings; it Effluents and Waste Changes in the assessment results of numerous (41 topics), we believe that as context. • Likelihood of risks or opportunities was decided that the material topics for Controlled and strictly monitored during 2014/2015 compared to 2013 (G4-23) our sustainability strategy matures they will Internally, for our Company, the arising from an aspect and whether Neptune Lines and Stakeholders are the our day to day operations with significant eventually be further narrowed down to online-survey questionnaire was an aspect may become highly ones illustrated in 'Figure 2'; (the threshold impact to the environment. The outcome of the assessment was fewer, more substantive topics to focus on. not only addressed to the Executive relevant over time being at the average score of ‘2,00’ in both rather close to that of 2013, with a few Committee members, but also to • Criticality for the long-term ‘Neptune Lines’ and ‘Stakeholders' axes’). Child Labor & Forced or Compulsory differences. The main differences are: b) ‘Effluents and Waste’, ‘Child Labor’, our HR and Crewing Managers performance of the Company Labor ‘Forced or Compulsory Labor’ as well as respesenting our shorebased and • The opportunity for the Company However, apart from these, there were As a signatory to UNGC, Neptune Lines a) Material issues of 2013 were actually ‘Local Communities’ were identified as seagoing personnel respectively. HR to grow or gain advantage from the three aspects which could not be omitted will have to report for both topics since at an aspect-level, therefore more material in 2013, whilst, now did not score and Crewing Managers, were guided impact. generic with less focus and fewer in high enough. by the sustainability team to respond Materiality Matrix Other than these four topics, the rest of the to the survey without expressing their 3,0 material aspects of 2013 are all covered in personnal opinion or point of view on the materiality area of 2014/2015 matrix. the topics posed, but having in mind the employees’ interests, views and c) ‘Emissions’ and ‘Energy’ remain opinions. material for 2014/2015 – however, they were lower-scored by Stakeholders The answers provided by our compared to 2013. Executive Committee represented the 'significance to our Company', d) The topic ‘Audits, Inspections, Surveys’ whilst the HR and Crewing Managers’ is one of the three top-scored topics in answers were collected and analysed our 2014/2015 assessment, by both our together with the rest of stakeholders’ Company and Stakeholders, whilst in answers since ‘Employees’ are one of 2013, its relative aspect ('Compliance with the stakeholder groups. Environmental laws') was not one of the top-rated in the matrix. Once answers were gathered from all 2,5 internal and external stakeholders, Finally, it should be noted that the materiality they were turned to numeric values and assessment process which covers this biennial Important to Stakeholders > > further analyzed; the analysis provided reporting period started in 2014 and was two average scores for each topic: one completed in 2015. representing the Company’s viewpoint and one -that of our stakeholders. These two scores consisted the coordinates of each topic’s position in the materiality matrix. Perusing the matrix, results were rather close to what was expected. Results were reviewed and presented by the Sustainability Committee; the Figure 2 2,0 Important to Neptune Lines > > 2,5 3,0 30 31 TABLE OF MATERIAL ISSUES & THEIR BOUNDARIES (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) Defining Boundaries (G4-20, G4-21) As a last step of 'prioritization', we to be implemented, in order to mitigate Boundaries had to identify which entities within or avoid negative impacts. Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the or outside Neptune Lines, cause or are Aspect Organization Organization In the below table, we have listed all materiality assessment Outside Neptune Lines likely to cause the impact related to Who causes the impact material topics with their meaning, each topic and therefore undertake the their corresponding aspects, and their responsibility. In GRI terminology, Economic identified boundaries and limitations. this process is named “Defining Economic Vessel Flag Selection (***) Within Neptune Lines Boundaries”. The mark (***) signifies that the relative Performance topic or aspect is Company-specific In our report, ‘within the Company’ Flag selection is not just a crucial decision with regard to ship Neptune Lines Flag Administration and non-GRI or that its context applies refers to the impacts that occur or may operation, but also plays an important role in the economic growth. & Neptune Fleet somehow differently for our business occur directly from the activities and Flag state is highly relevant to sustainability, since it exercises Vessels than as stated in GRI-G4 Guidelines. operations of Neptune Lines. jurisdiction and control in administrative, technical and social We had no specific limitations regarding matters over vessels flying its flag, to ensure full compliance ‘Outside the Company’ refers to all the boundaries we identified (both with environmental, health & safety, social and liability-related those entities that are not part -and within and outside the company). regulations. Flag-related parameters taken into consideration therefore not within the direct controlwhen deciding to register a newly acquired vessel, may include: of Neptune Lines; such impacts, flag reputation and risk-level, taxation policy, stable economic occurring ‘outside’ Neptune Lines are environment, shipping tradition, human rights etc. those that occur or may occur from the activities and operations of entities Climate Change related with Neptune Lines. Being part of the transportation industry that contributes significantly Neptune Lines Government, This process of identifying boundaries, to this global threat, we ought to monitor our vessels' operations & Neptune Fleet Intern.&Industry helped to pinpoint those parts of our in the most environmentally effective way. Changes in the climate Vessels Organizations & Regulators, value chain, where there is a need system and weather patterns should not be ignored, as they may pose Customers, Shipping for change or particular attention and real physical risks to our Company. For Neptune Lines, regulatory Logistics Companies, measures need to be taken; Such change restrictions on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, are setting the Shipping Companies or attention, may include a different course towards 'one-way opportunities'; to integrate new, eco-friendly (Chartered Vessels), Bunker management approach or new processes technologies in our business model creating, as a result, new Suppliers, Shipyards, markets and changing trade patterns. Environmental Protection Institutions. STEP 3 VALIDATION progress made when comparing the two Market Market Research & Analysis (***) The material topics decided in the reports (GRI Comparability Principle). Presence previous step, had to undergo a final review, to ensure that our report would Based on above process, it was Market research and analysis helps identify new business Neptune Lines Customers, Port Agents provide a reasonable and balanced concluded that all identified material opportunities, as well as threats and opportunities of existing market & Neptune Fleet Local Governments, Local representation of our sustainability topics were deemed important segments. In the context of sustainability, this business process Vessels Communities, Financial performance for the reporting period to merit inclusion in the report acquires an additional functionality: that of tracing and considering Institutions, Port Authorities, of 2014/2015 (GRI Completeness –despite their wide range. (G4-23) all sustainability-related impacts of each 'business move', in existing Shipping Logistics Principle). However, their level of coverage or new markets. Market research and analysis of markets already Companies, Shipping and the extent of their analysis in the served by our Company, will also provide valuable insight into Companies (Chartered So, all topics were assessed, against: report, would differ – according to each their emerging/ever changing needs so as to better serve them and Vessels), Chartering, S&P a) Their range, to determine whether material topic’s reporting priority. contribute to their economic well-being. Brokers. they are sufficient to: Reporting priority of each topic, Procurrement Purchasing (***) Reflect the significant economic, was decided during the discussion Practices environmental and social impacts of of our sustainability team with the Constant review of our Company's purchasing needs on a need Neptune Lines Suppliers, Port Agents. Neptune Lines Sustainability Committee. to have basis, to avoid unnecessary expenses; ensuring, always, & Neptune Fleet Enable our Stakeholders to assess our After obtaining the Committee's final good quality of products purchased, with proven compliance with Vessels performance approval, the sustainability team started regulations/standards so as not to jeopardise our service quality gathering information to be reported for or pose a risk to anyone's health and safety; audit, at all times, the b) Time – meaning that information to fulfillment of purchasing requests / quotations as per agreed terms each material issue and assembling the be reported on these topics is complete and clauses. final report. for the specified period of this report (January 1st 2014 to December 31st Contracts Contracts (***) 2015) and there are no gaps. The review and evaluation of all contracts is taking into Neptune Lines All stakeholders with whom We also had to make sure that the consideration sustainability issues such as: environmental and social our Company has contractual topics identified as material in our impacts, human rights, labor rights etc. Compliance with signed relationship. 2013 report -as well as the targets set contract terms and Company policies is monitored throughout the back then are being considered and contract period. Breach of contract terms and provisions declared followed-up through our current report in our Company policies, may result in termination of business so as to provide a clear picture of the relationship, requests for corrective actions, significant monetary fines and claims, reimbursements as well as a tarnished reputation. 32 33 TABLE OF MATERIAL ISSUES & THEIR BOUNDARIES (G4-19) Boundaries Boundaries Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Aspect Organization Organization Aspect Organization Organization materiality assessment materiality assessment Who causes the impact Who causes the impact Environmental Social Energy Energy Preservation Human Rights Measures to reduce energy consumption and improve energy Neptune Lines Government, Customers, NonNon-Discrimination efficiency. & Neptune Fleet International & Industry Discrimination Vessels Organizations & Regulators, Fair and unprejudiced treatment of different categories of people. Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. Bunker Suppliers, Shipyards, Being a core-part of our code of conduct, non-discrimination governs Employees Port Service Providers, all our Company relationships with no exception. (Shore-based & Business Cooperators. Seagoing) Emissions Emissions Security Security Practices Efforts to reduce direct Green House Gas (GHG) emissions Neptune Lines Customers, Government, Practices from our vessels’ operations, as well as indirect GHG emissions & Neptune Fleet International & Industry The conduct of security personnel (individuals or companies Neptune Lines P&I Club, Flag resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling Vessels Organizations & Regulators, employed for the purpose of guarding property of the Company, Employees Administration, Port consumed at Company premises. Shipyards, Bunker Suppliers, crowd control, loss prevention and escorting persons and valuables) (Shore-based & Authorities,Auditing / Port Service Providers, towards third parties is significantly linked to their training in human Seagoing) External Assurance Parties, Shipping Logistics Providers, rights, particularly regarding the use of force. Training security Service Suppliers. Shipping Companies personnel can help prevent reputational and litigation risks that (Chartered Vessels) arise from inappropriate actions or approaches not condoned by the Company. Security personnel working for the Company, apart Effluents & Spills at Sea from human rights training, have also undergone relative screening Waste (psychometric tests etc.) to ensure that they will respect human rights Spills of chemicals, oils, fuels and waste can have severe negative Neptune Lines Not applicable in case of incidents. impact on the surrounding water environment as well as the regional & Neptune Fleet communities nearby. Precautionary measures and compliance Vessels Social procedures to avoid occurence, as well as carefully designed Labor Practices and Decent Work responsive measures to mitigate the impact of a possible real incident, need to be constantly assessed to ensure effectiveness at all Employment Recruitment Process (***) times. For Neptune Lines, recruitment process works as a 'gatekeeper', Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Employment allowing access to diverse, qualified and ethical personnel providing Employees Agencies, Flag Products and Technology Innovation -at the same timeaccess to employment for the unemployed, (Shore-based & Administration, ILO, Services through a decent working environment. To have this process really Seagoing) Manning Agents. Promptly investing in technology innovation apart from mitigating Neptune Lines Financial Institutions, contributing to the development of the Company and at the same environmental impacts to a great extentmay also influence in & Neptune Fleet Government International time promote its sustainability, it is carefully designed on a fair, an indirect, positive way other shipping companies to consider Vessels & Industry Organizations unprejudiced and meritocratic basis. following this leading practice. Integrating environmental & Regulators, Shipyards, Employee Turnover & Retention Rates considerations into Client Service design, may help identify new Service Providers, Port business opportunities and stimulate innovation in technology. Terminals, Port Service 'Employee turnover' refers to the number or percentage of workers Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Employment Providers, Local Communities who leave the Company voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or Employees Agencies, Flag death in service. 'Retention rate', expresses the Company’s ability to (Shore-based & Administration, ILO, Environmental Impacts retain shipboard personnel within the Company. Increased turnover Seagoing) Manning Agents. Assessing the environmental impacts from cargo transportation (i.e. Neptune Lines Customers, Shipyards, Bunker and low retention rates may signify problems, such as plummeting Levels of noise, effluents and waste, water use, materials used). & Neptune Fleet Suppliers, Port Terminals, employee morale and levels of uncertainty and dissatisfaction among Vessels Local Communities, Shipping employees. They may also signal lack of comprehension of the Logistics Companies, Company's performance expectations or even a fundamental change Shipping Companies in the structure of the Company's core operations. (Chartered Vessels), Employee Benefits Environmental Protection 'Employee benefits' is a form of investment for Neptune Lines. The Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Employment Institutions, NGO's quality of benefits for full-time staff is a key factor in retaining Employees Agencies, Flag Compliance Audits, Inspections, Surveys employees and attracting new ones. These include to the minimum: (Shore-based & Administration, ILO, life insurance, health care, disability/invalidity coverage and parental Seagoing) Manning Agents. Authorized third party audits, inspections and surveys are conducted Neptune Lines Flag Administration, Port leave. within Company and onboard vessels to verify compliance with the & Neptune Fleet Authorities, Classification established environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply Vessels Societies, P&I Club, Auditing apart from being alarming when it comes to vessel's condition may / External Assurance Parties. result in significant environmental damages, in vessel's detention, significant monetary fines, delays in our service and negative impact on the Company's environmental records and reputation. 34 35 TABLE OF MATERIAL ISSUES & THEIR BOUNDARIES (G4-19) Boundaries Boundaries Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Aspect Organization Organization Aspect Organization Organization materiality assessment materiality assessment Who causes the impact Who causes the impact Social Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Labor Practices and Decent Work Occupational Health & Safety Performance Training & Training and Education Health & Education Safety Training opportunities offered by the Company, contribute Neptune Lines Customers, Trade Unions, For Neptune Lines 'Occupational Health and Safety' always comes Neptune Lines Customers, Trade Unions, significantly in attracting new employees, maintaining the level of Employees Employment Agencies, first and is safeguarded through carefully-designed policies. Elevated Employees Flag Administration, performance according to Company standards and retaining existing (Shore-based & Manning Agents, Training 'Lost Time Injury Frequency' and 'Absentee' rates, are particularly (Shore-based & Employment Agencies, qualified employees. Seagoing) and Consulting Providers. alarming and may signal a number of worrying issues to assess and Seagoing) Port Authorities, Auditing / Employee Performance (***) consider seriously: low staff morale followed by low productivity, External Assurance Parties, Performance appraisal is a business process that facilitates the Neptune Lines Employment Agencies, personnel fatigue due to excessive work / inadequate rest, high risk IMO, ILO, Manning Agents, realization of our strategy. It is a process for managing and Employees Manning Agents, Service factor of assigned tasks, may even indicate negligence and ignorance Shipyards, Stores and Spares developing people that align their personal goals with those of NL so (Shore-based & Providers. from the employee's side, which should be also further examined Suppliers, Port Service that the value added to the business is optimized. Seagoing) with regard to its root cause. Suppliers, Port Terminals, Service Suppliers. Equal Equal Remuneration for Women & Men Fatigue (***) Remuneration Fatigue, caused by excessive work hours, may lead to occupational Neptune Lines Customers, Trade Unions, Enforcement of equal pay principal, for work of equal value. Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Flag injuries and even worst to a maritime casualty. Due to the nature Employees Flag Administration, Equality of remuneration between women and men is one of the Employees Administration, Employment of our trade, characterized by frequent port calls, the hours of rest (Shore-based & Employment Agencies, factors that result in retaining qualified employees in the workforce. (Shore-based & Agencies, Manning Agents, onboard, as well as, timely crew changes and flexible contracts, Seagoing) Port Authorities, Auditing / (G4-DMA) Seagoing) Society. compose a critical framework to be monitored closely and External Assurance Parties, Social proactively by our Company. At the same time, working hours of IMO, ILO, Manning Agents, shore personnel should be controlled effectively in order to avoid Port Terminals, Stevedores. Society excessive overtime and demonstrate in practice the respect of the AntiAnti-Corruption Training employees' right to leisure and a decent work-life balance. Corruption Emergency Preparedness (***) Enforcement of equal pay principal, for work of equal value. Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. A well-coordinated emergency response minimizes and sometimes Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Equality of remuneration between women and men is one of the Employees prevents injuries and fatalities, mitigating severe environmental, Employees Employment Agencies, factors that result in retaining qualified employees in the workforce (Shore-based & social and financial impacts. Relevant pre-joining training, onboard (Shore-based & Flag Administration, Port Seagoing) drills and exercises as well as emergency response training at office Seagoing) Authorities, IMO, Auditing Conflicts of Interest premises, are closely monitored to ensure effective emergency / External Assurance response at all times. Parties,Classification The term 'conflicts of interest' refers to the situation where an Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. Societies, P&I Club, Manning individual is confronted with choosing between the requirements of Employees Agents, Service Suppliers, his/her function and his/her own private interests. (Shore-based & Port Service Providers. Seagoing) Drug & Alcohol Control (***) Donations and Sponsorships Enforcing zero tolerance procedures for the possession and use of Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Ensure that charitable donations and sponsorships that are made to Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. alcohol and drugs so as to minimize the possibility of having an Employees Employment Agencies, other parties by our Company, are not used as a disguised form of Employees incident due to drug or alcohol abuse. (Shore-based & Flag Administration, Port bribery (Shore-based) Seagoing) Authorities, Auditing / External Assurance Parties, AntiAnti-Competitive Behavior Manning Agents, Service Competitive Suppliers, Port Service Behavior Providers. Fair competition law may on no account be violated. Any such Neptune Lines Customers, Business violation may result in substantial fines for Neptune Lines and in Cooperators, Port Terminals, Diversity Diversity & Equal Opportunity fines for its employees.(G4-DMA) Port Service Providers. & Equal Opportunity Compliance Overall compliance with Laws (i.e. Accounting Fraud, Respecting difference and diversity and offering equal opportunity Neptune Lines Trade Unions, Flag Workplace Discrimination & Corruption) to all employees and applicants within various diversity categories Employees Administration, Employment The Company's overall record of compliance with the range of Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. (such as: gender, age group, minority groups, nationality, religion (Shore-based & Agencies, Manning Agents, laws under which it operates. It reflects significant fines and etc.). Seagoing) Society. non-monetary sanctions under laws or regulations other than those that cover environmental issues or provision of service. 36 37 TABLE OF MATERIAL ISSUES & THEIR BOUNDARIES (G4-19) Boundaries Boundaries Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Specific Material Issues identified through our Within the Outside the Aspect Organization Organization Aspect Organization Organization materiality assessment materiality assessment Who causes the impact Who causes the impact Social Social Society Product Responsibility Public Policy Media Response (***) Service Fleet Programming (***) Public communication and availability on the occasion of a Neptune Lines Customers, Trade Unions, Quality (***) crisis apart from being essential to restore Company's reputation & Neptune Fleet Government, Classification, The Company shall optimize vessels' schedule to conform to contract Neptune Lines Customers, Business and ultimately, its continued successis also an act of responsibility Vessels P&I Club, Manning Agents, terms related with the on-time arrival of vessel at port, as well as, & Neptune Fleet Cooperators, Port Terminals, towards society, and those affected by the crisis in which the Training&Consulting, with the frequency of port calls agreed. Vessel rotation plans in Vessels Port Service Providers. Company is involved. Business Cooperators,Society. dedicated service lines shall be monitored closely and adjusted to meet customers' requirements. Social Cargo Bookings (***) Product Responsibility Having an effective cargo booking process and being responsive, Neptune Lines Customers, Port Agents, Product Marketing Communication attentive and always customer-centered, treating all customer & Neptune Fleet Shipping Logistics & Service inquiries in an equal and professional way -offering equal Vessels Companies, Cargo Brokers. Labelling opportunities to load their cargo. The combination of strategies, systems, methods and activities Neptune Lines Customers, Communication Cargo Quality (***) used by the Company to promote its reputation and services to Providers, Media. The Company shall maintain the highest possible transportation Neptune Lines Customers, Auditing / target-audiences (i.e. advertising, promotion events, public relations standards, as defined by customers’ needs and requirements. Failure Employees External Assurance Parties, and sponsorships). Efforts shall be made at all times, to ensure to maintain these standards, may result in loss of market-share and (Shorebased & Business Cooperators. compliance so as to communicate our brand name and services reputation. Seagoing) always in a responsible manner, that will reflect reality and will not be misleading. Customer Satisfaction In the context of sustainability, 'customer satisfaction' provides Neptune Lines Customers, Port Agents, Port insight into how the organization approaches its relationship with Terminals, Shipping Logistics this important stakeholder group. It indicates the degree to which the Companies, Shipping Company takes into consideration the needs and plausible requests Companies (chartered of its customers and tries to fulfill them in the best possible way vessels), Local Communities. protecting its customers' vocational interests. Boundaries Customer Customer Data Protection Within the Outside the Privacy Aspect Other issues to report on Organization Organization Protection of customer privacy and handling customers' requests Neptune Lines Customers, Port Agents, Who causes the impact and information with discretion and professionalism is critical in our Business Cooperators, Port business. Most of our customers have a competitive relationship and Terminals. Environmental require strict confidentiality rules. Business Business Continuity (***) Effluents & Waste Generation Continuity Waste Business continuity encompasses a set of activities which are Neptune Lines Customers, Finance Monitoring weight of waste generated on board our vessels. Data on Neptune Lines Not applicable. intended to ensure that the critical business functions of the Institutions, Government, waste-generation figures, over several years, indicates the level of & Neptune Fleet Company -will either continue to operate despite serious incidents Business Cooperators, IST progress the Company has made towards waste reduction efforts. Vessels. or disasters that might otherwise have interrupted themor will be Providers, Communication recovered to an operational state within a reasonably short period. Providers. Social Failure to do so, may result in a rather severe threat or disruption that Human Rights may lead to severe implications (i.e. bankruptcy). Compliance Compliance with Laws and regulations for the provision Child Labor Child Labor and use of services The abolition of child labor is a key principle and objective of major Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. Failure to comply with laws and regulations including international Neptune Lines Customers, Finance human rights declarations and legislation to which we shall conform. & Neptune Fleet declarations, conventions and treaties, and national, sub-national, & Neptune Fleet Institutions, Government, Vessels. regional and local regulations concerning the provision and Vessels Business Cooperators, Forced Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor use of service, may lead to monetary fines of significant value, Society. administrative or judicial sanctions and damaged reputation. The 'Forced or compulsory labor' is defined as 'all work or service which Neptune Lines All Stakeholders. strength of an organization's compliance record may also affect its is demanded from any person, under the menace of any penalty and & Neptune Fleet ability to expand operations or gain permits. (G4-DMA) for which the said person has not offered himself voluntarily. Vessels. 38 39 Economic The economic dimension of sustainability Economic Performance Procurement Practices Contracts Market Presence The economic dimension of sustainability corresponds to the impacts of our Company on the economic conditions of its Stakeholders as well as on economic systems at local, national and global levels. 40 41 Economic Sustainable development offers a framework to generate economic growth Flag-related parameters are in Slovenia and finally, Italian Entry Level Wages (G4-EC5) Sustainable development taken into ideration when ports (Vasto, Civitavecchia, Local Spending (G4EC-9) offers a framework to 35% Neptune Lines invests in deciding to register a newly Livorno), comprise our main generate economic growth, its employees and their acquired vessel which may hub ports within the limits of 30% achieve social justice, well-being. It identifies the include: flag reputation and our trading area. exercise environmental 25% local minimum wage and risk-level, taxation policy, stewardship and strengthen Contracts 20% compares it (in percentage stable economic environment, governance. terms) to the organization’s shipping tradition, human rights When reviewing and 15% entry level wage. etc. evaluating all contracts 10% we take into consideration Our workforce is divided Economic Performance Procurement Practices 5% sustainability issues such between the shore-based Climate Change (G4–EC2) Purchasing & Local Spending as: environmental and social 0% personnel located at Company (G4-EC9) impacts, human rights, labor premises and Shipboard Being part of the rights etc. Compliance with personnel serving onboard transportation industry that We constantly review our signed contract terms and our Fleet vessels. For shorecontributes significantly to purchasing needs on a need Local Spending 2014 (%) Local Spending 2015 (%) Company policies is monitored based personnel, the ratio is this global threat, we ought to have basis, to avoid could negatively impact our development that has further throughout the contract period. set at 1.6 of the applicable to monitor our vessels' unnecessary expenses Market Presence impacts of each 'business operations. (G4-DMA) enhanced the competitive Breach of contract terms and minimum wage scale set operations in the most ensuring, always, good quality move', in existing or new advantages of our services. provisions declared in our Market Research and Analysis by Greek regulations and at environmentally effective These include risks involving of products purchased, with markets. Market research (G4-DMA) Company policies, may result 1.3 for shipboard personnel way. Changes in the climate new or amended laws or proven compliance with Market research and analysis and analysis of markets in termination of business of the applicable collective system and weather patterns regulations that could elicit More detailed analysis regulations/standards, so as not helps identify new business already-served by our relationship, requests for bargaining agreement. (ITF should not be ignored, as higher carbon taxes, broaden on the actual metrics and to jeopardize our service quality opportunities, as well as Company, will also provide corrective actions, significant Wage scale 2014-15 and ILO they may pose real physical the geographic applicability of performance can be viewed at or pose a risk to anyone's threats and opportunities of valuable insight into their monetary fines and claims, requirements). and economic risks to our emissions trading schemes or the 'Technology Innovation' health and safety; We audit, existing market segments. In emerging/ever changing needs reimbursements as well as Company. On the other impose tougher energy-saving section in the 'Environmental at all times, the fulfillment of the context of sustainability, so as to better serve them and a tarnished reputation. No hand, regulatory restrictions standards on products. Another Performance' chapter of the purchasing requests/quotations this business process acquires contribute to their economic incidents have been reported or on greenhouse gas (GHG) example is physical risks, present report. as per agreed terms and clauses. an additional functionality: well-being.(G4-DMA) identified during the reporting emissions, are setting the such as the risk of rising sea (G4-DMA) that of tracing and considering Vessel Flag Selection period. course towards 'one-way levels and abnormal weather all sustainability-related Our Company is spending opportunities' for carriers in patterns caused by climate Flag selection is not just a proportionally on local our sector to integrate new, change. Neptune Lines realizes crucial decision with regard to suppliers at the significant Israel ; 1% Cyprus; 1% Local Spending 2015 eco-friendly technologies that flawed responses to such ship operation, but also plays an locations of operation. The Egypt ; 2% in their business model risks and changes could have important role in the economic trading area of our fleet vessels Algeria; 2% Tunis; 1% creating, as a result, new major social and financial growth. and the frequency of port Ukraine; 2% markets and changing trade implications.(G4-DMA) 27% of Neptune Lines fleet calls are setting the scene for Italy ; 3% patterns. On the other hand, efforts to vessels are under the national our significant locations of As a Company endeavoring address the issue of climate flag registry (Greek Flag) and operation. Port call expenses M alta ; 4% Greece ; 25% to contribute to a sustainable change present promising 73% are under European foreign (port dues, tug boats etc.), society as well as its business opportunities. With flag registry (Malta Flag). cargo handling expenses, waste Slovenia ; 4% own long-term viability, general awareness of climate disposal fees as well as bunker The degree to which each Flag Neptune Lines believes that change growing, energy expenses, are the driving costs addressing environmental efficiency will become an State executes effectively its for our fleet vessels. Turkish M orocco; 4% duties determines significantly issues, including climate increasingly important aspect of its vessels' conformity with ports (wider Istanbul area), Russia; 6% change, is crucial in customer needs. Our Company Spanish ports along the coast regards to the applicable achieving this goal. We also has recently acquired four of Mediterranean (Barcelona, international regulations; Flag recognize the importance new vessels incorporating the Sagunto, Valencia) as well as state is highly relevant to of such efforts from the latest environmentally-friendly in the northern part of Spain sustainability, since it exercises perspective of business technologies and implements (Vigo), the port of Piraeus in jurisdiction and control in continuity. The failure to take new environmental practices to Greece, the French ports in Romania; 8% appropriate steps to respond the existing fleet vessels so as to economic, administrative, the Mediterranean (Marseille, Turkey ; 18% technical and social matters to such issues involves reduce the energy consumption. Sete, Fos), the port of Koper over vessels flying its flag. various underlying risks that We see this as a positive France ; 8% 42 Spain ; 12% 43 “Whether excelling in what we already do or exploring more promising, remote and diverse markets, our strengths and values will always be our unwavering guide: Confidence, Flexibility & Trust Market Presence Neptune Lines continues to strengthen its presence in its areas of operation by providing innovative solutions to its customers, optimizing cargo flows and routes on a continuous basis-always in joint cooperation with its customers. Over the years,our Company has built a reputation of developing new markets without, however, abandoning its long-established ones or leaving a customer without a service. (G4-DMA) In 2015, Neptune Lines expanded its service capability offering roll trailer equipment within its network to assist with the transportation of static cargo. This development is part of its general expansion strategy that includes the rapid development of project and high and heavy cargo. (G4-13) For 2016 we will double the number of roll trailers available and target a 50 % revenue growth in that sector versus 2015. With the purchase of our 'Neptune Hellas' and 'Neptune Horizon' in 2015 -equipped with liftable decks and 120 tons capacity rampswe have ensured increased capacity to accommodate this rising demand. 44 45 “Earth provides enough to satisfy every Environmental Performance man's needs, but not every man's greed.” ― Mahatma Gandhi Serve to Conserve Emissions Effluents and Waste Technology Innovation Environmental Impacts Compliance Energy Preservation We are continuing to strengthen our number of key performance indicators commitment for the protection of the which are reviewed and “tuned” Environment by implementing the latest on a periodical basis to achieve the environmentally-friendly technologies environmental targets set. for our managed Vessels and ashore Our aim is to continue improving our infrastructure. environmental footprint, reducing it The latest four (4) additions to our through our day to day operations. Fleet vessels, reveal not only our , intension but also the outcome of our envrironmental & energy efforts. Neptune Lines monitors the enforcement of its Environmental and Energy Management System through a 46 47 Emissions 'Since 2010, we have achieved a 10,66% reduction of our CO2 Reduce to protect the generations to come... emissions and we aim to further reduce them by 0,5% on an Neptune Lines is firmly committed to playing its part in reducing CO2 emissions so as to protect the environment and act as a annual basis till 2018' depository for generations to come. Our commitment is demonstrated through the established Environmental & Energy Efficiency Policies -expressed through specific measureswhich are the driving forces for achieving the targets set. CO2 Emissions (G4-EN3, G4-EN15) Maritime shipping is the world's most carbon efficient form of transporting goods, far more efficient than road or air transport. Maritime transport, emits around 1000 million tonnes of CO2 annually and is responsible for about 2.5% of global greenhouse 2010 2013 2015 gas emissions (source: 3rd IMO GHG Study). Ships' energy consumption and subsequently CO2 emissions could be reduced by up to 75% by applying efficient operational measures and implementing not only existing but more advanced technologies (source: 2nd IMO GHG Study). Many of these measures are cost-effective and offer net benefits, since reduced fuel costs may support the pay back of any operational or investment costdepending on current fuel prices. New innovative technologies can further increase such benefits. (G4-DMA) 0.2992 (t/n.mile) 0.2790 (t/n.mile) 0.2673 (t/n.mile) Measures to reduce emissions (G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN19) Clean Design Vessels Speed Optimization Energy Saving Devices Re-blading and Propeller Trim Optimization & Ballast Foul Release & Advanced A/F Optimization Reduction coatings In 2014, Neptune Lines received two(2) In 2014 and 2015, our Company On two of the newly acquired vessels we new buildings from Hyundai Mipo continued with the speed optimization have installed PBCF’s to improve their In addition to the pilot vessel that was During this reporting period, trim Since 2013, we doubled the number Dockyard (HMD). These vessels are project. performance. re-bladed in 2013, one more vessel was optimization and ballast control was of vessels coated with silicon-based similar in capacity to existing four(4) re-bladed in December 2014, achieving applied in two of the newly acquired antifoulings. This is an operational measure for PBCF (Propeller Boss Cap Fins) System vessels built in Korea in 2009 and 2010, a reduction of 10% in its own fuel oil vessels -raising the size of the existing monitoring the results in the fuel is an energy-saving device attached Eight (8) vessels are coated so far but have been designed with a number consumption. fleet equipped with this system from consumption. to the propeller. It helps reduce fuel with silicon-based antifoulings, while of environmental features that make eight(8) vessels back in 2013 to consumption resulting in corresponding As an outcome of this measure, both three(3) are coated with advanced them unique. Their fuel efficiency was In 2014-2015, the owned fleet ran ten(10). reduction in CO2 emissions. Its vessels' efficiency is considerably efficiency antifoulings resulting in measured 20% better than the original more miles compared to 2013, due application results also in reduced improved. The software assists vessel’s crew to reduced fuel consumption. series vessels. to the increase in fleet size, with the vibration in the stern, hence achieving less minimize the ballast and optimize the acquisition of the new vessels (29.6% In 2015, Neptune Lines added two(2) underwater noise. trim upon departure from the port, increase). However, the total fuel more environmentally-friendly vessels resulting in reduced residence during consumption per nautical mile was As these vessels are equipped with fixed in the fleet. These vessels are also sailing. reduced by 4.2% (compared with 2013), pitch propellers, we expect the effect of similar in capacity to the existing ones demonstrating the positive outcome of the PBCF to improve their efficiency. For 2016, we have scheduled to include built in Korea, with the addition of this operational measure. the other two acquired vessels in the Environmental Protection (EP) design same program. notation. (G4-13) We will continue with the speed optimization project for 2016, aiming to further reduce the fuel consumption by 0.5%. CO2 Reduction Achievement (G4-EN19) CO2 Calculation Method 2010 2013 2015 Our calculations of CO2 emissions, were based on the relevant IMO legislation under resolution MEPC.1 / Circ. 684 issued on August 17th, 2009. Data were collected from our monthly and daily position reports received from the vessels for distance travelled and fuel consumed. Nautical miles data used in our analysis are obtained from the vessels and include pilotage miles, all deviations due to weather, drifting etc. 6.8% 10.66% Calculation type used: Mass (tons) of CO2 per nautical mile sailed (Fuel consumption X distance sailed X emission factor for Heavy Fuel Oil and Gas Oil used). Starting Point 48 49 Effluents and Waste (G4-EN23, G4-EN24) further processed (through 15 ppm) or 2014, but also to achieve the reduction Chemicals consumption was reduced discharged at dedicated shore facilities. target of 5% which was initially set at from 220 liters/vessel/month in 2013 No Waste at Sea Regarding oily water generation, it was 2013. to 191 liters/vessel/month in 2015, achieving the target set. The addition slightly reduced in 2015 compared to On the other hand, sludge incineration 2014. However, compared to 2013, , process was almost eliminated as from of the four environmentally-friendly vessels to our fleet, enabled us to reduce significant improvement is demonstrated 2013, achieving a 0.024 m3/month on the overall consumption ratio since the (6.2 % less generation of oily water), a fleet average by implementing zero Spills of chemicals, oils, fuels and Zero Tolerance Policy for Waste in our fleet. Those vessels being both, need for fuel treatment additives is no due more emphasis being placed to incineration policies and enforcing waste can have severe negative impacts Disposed at Sea existing vessels, had to be brought up to longer considered necessary. the implementation of the established disposal policies at shore facilities in on the surrounding water environment the standards implemented through our At the beginning of 2011, we decided to planned maintenance system -leading to order to minimize the impact on air Paper which may lead to contamination of Policies, resulting in increased waste minimize and eventually eliminate the limited leakages. pollution from the emissions of the land, as well as to the regional near-by disposal at shore facilities. Paper consumption was reduced by disposal of processed food at sea (being incineration. communities. Precautionary measures Our target for 2016 is to maintain the 3.8 % since 2013, despite the fact the only waste allowed to be disposed at Furthermore, during the reporting and compliance procedures to avoid same levels of oily water generation. Our aim is to further eliminate the that documentation formalities at sea under certain conditions as per our period we continued to implement a occurrence, as well as carefully incineration process for 2016. ports have been increased. On the established environmental policy and measure -proven succesful in 2013-, Sludge designed responsive measures to other hand, at office premises, we are regulations in force). requesting from our suppliers to apply Paints and Chemicals mitigate the impacts of a possible real Sludge generation for 2015 was reduced enforcing centrally controlled printing improved packaging of the supplied incident, need to be constantly assessed Since 2014, we are implementing a zero for the second year in a row (compared Even though the same maintenance policies which allow us to reduce paper materials, so as to decrease the disposed to ensure effectiveness at all times. tolerance policy for the waste disposal to 2014 and 2013) achieving the target policy is being followed since consumption (double-sided printing, packaging volumes for 2016. Our target (G4-DMA) at sea. The total amount of processed set back in 2013 for the improvement 2013 i.e. paints supply is based on secure printing etc.). We aim to further for 2016 is to achieve a 5% reduction in food discharged at sea for 2015 is the of sludge generation. We aim to achieve actual maintenance needs and not on a reduce the consumption by 5% for plastics disposal. minimum amount 0.016 m3 / vessel a further reduction 2% in sludge periodical basisthe paint consumption 2016. / month with the aim to be further Oily Water generation for 2016. increased considerably during 2014 and Spills reduced to ZERO for 2016. , In comparison with 2013 there is Incineration 2015 due to special surveys performed for more than half of the fleet vessels. No spills of chemicals, oils, fuels or Plastics a significant improvement in the We did not manage to achieve our target Additional maintenance teams were other waste occurred for the reporting collection process of all drains onboard, Even though for 2014, we further for 2014 for the reduction in our garbage placed onboard the vessels for certain period of 2014 and 2015. (G4-EN24) since the environmental character reduced the generation of plastics incineration process, since the delivery periods in order to maintain the highest of six(6) of our vessels do not allow onboard our vessels i.e. discharging of our two new vessels and their maintenance standards set through our any drains (all engine room drains 6.4% less plastics ashore than 2013 positioning from the delivery shipyard maintenance policies. For 2016, we plus air condition condensed water, (taking always into consideration to our current trading area created an expect and aim at a 5% reduction in CO2 room drains etc.) to be directed that plastics disposal at sea it strictly increased need for incinerating the paint consumption due to significant overboard; instead, all drains are prohibited), in 2015 the generation of garbage due to long sailing periods. maintenance works carried out over the collected in an oily water tank and are plastics significantly increased due to However, during 2015 we managed not past 2 years. the addition of our two new vessels only to bridge the gap created during Progress made since 2013 48% 6.4% less 2.2% less generation of generation of 13.8% sludge reduction of waste plastics disposed at sea, reduction in 3.8% reaching almost zero 6.2% chemicals reduction in paper disposal less generation of oily water consumption consumption 50 51 Technology Innovation Innovative technology leads to new sustainable business opportunities Promptly investing in technology Two environmental new buildings innovation apart from mitigating environmental impacts to a great extentIn 2014, our Company received two new vessels from HMD shipyard in may also influence in an indirect, S.Korea. Both Pure Car Truck Carriers (PCTCs) of 3,800 car units each, these positive way other shipping companies ships are enhanced with advanced environmental technologies, resulting in to consider following this leading improved energy efficiency and reduced environmental footprint. Their basic practice. At the same time, integrating energy saving and environmental features are described herebelow: environmental considerations into Client Service design, may help Hull lines Optimization identify new business opportunities and This project was a continuation of our previous new building project. The stimulate innovation in technology. general dimensions of the vessels are the same, while the design draft is modified to the more realistic scantling draft of 8.7 m (from 7.8 m). Using the statistics of average operating drafts of the operating vessels of about 8.2-8.5 m and the fact that the previous vessels had less resistance with trim by the bow up to 1 m, the new hulls were optimized using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) analysis for the higher draft and for less trim by the bow. The new hulls are fuller forward and leaner, aft -compared to the old generation. As a result of M/V Neptune Galene, PROMAS System the CFD calculation the effective power of the new hull is about 5% better than the old hull form at the drafts 8.2-8.5 m (majority time spent at these drafts) and the resistance is minimized at trim 0.5 m by the bow which is an achievable Telemetry target. At the draft of 7.8 m the effective power of the new hull form is no On the two new ships we have installed a telemetry system from MARORKA to monitor in real time 24 parameters of the ship from different than the old hull form. ship performance to energy consumption. Through ACONIS AMS (HHI HIDS) we have installed real time monitoring of the Alarm and Monitoring displays onboard the vessel. All these can be monitored remotely from our office or from any other remote location. Electronic Engines Led Lighting An electronic engine is used on this project 7S50ME-C8.2. The SFOC (specific In 2015 we have installed on two of our vessels 50 Led tubes to replace some of the Fluorescent tubes. We are confident that fuel oil consumption) of the engine at 75% load is improved from 170 g/kwh to performance and durability will be the expected ones so we will be prepated for large scale implementation. 166 g/kwh or 2.3% improvement in fuel consumption. An electronic engine also permits balanced operation of all the cylinders of the main engine. KWHr meters Derated Engine , If we cannot measure we cannot control. Based on this principle we have installed Kwhr meters on eight(8) vessels (Korean built) and we are monitoring the auxiliary power usage on a monthly basis. This will assist us to measure the effects of any improvements We used a seven cylinder engine but derated this by 20% to the power of a that will be made to the auxiliary power usage systems onboard. 6-cylinder engine as the speed requirements are reduced. This reduced the maximum power of the engine but results in an efficiency improvement in the Shaft Power Meters fuel consumption. The derated engine SFOC at NCR load (90%) is improved We have also installed shaft power meters to eight(8) of our vessels. With these meters we are able to control more accurately the from 166 g/kwh for the 6-cylinder engine of same power to 161.7 g/kwh or performance of the M/E, hull and propeller cleanliness. 2.6% improvement in fuel consumption. Variable Speed Drives (VSD) on sea water pumps and E/R fans On the eight(8) Korean built vessels we have installed Variable Speed Drives (VSD) on the sea water pumps and E/R fans. The Energy Saving Device – PROMAS results are quite successful as can be seen in the reduction of auxiliary fuel consumption for the same vessels. Average consumption Model tests were performed with three combinations of energy saving devices was reduced from 3.21 m ton/day to 2.73 m ton/day. and these were compared with the conventional CPP propeller. From these tests the best performing solution from Rolls – Royce was selected (PROMAS). The Coriolis Flowmeters reduction in effective horsepower from this energy saving device was measured On eight(8) vessels we have installed Coriolis flowmeters for accurate measurement of the fuel oil consumption for M/E and at 4.7% as compared to the conventional CPP propeller. At the higher speeds the auxiliaries. On the two new buildings we have also installed Coriolis flowmeters for accurate measurements during bunkering. improvement was measured more than 5%. 52 53 Environmental Impacts (G4-EN27) Compliance Identify your impacts and manage them Audits, Inspections, Surveys An environmental impact is the change We try to identify all environmental aspects and their corresponding impacts in Authorized third party audits, We are monitoring the number of seriously affected from the detention that takes place from the occurrence order to assess their significance and take relative measures. inspections and surveys are conducted flawless inspections performed onboard of one of our older vessels at the port of any given aspect. The relationship within Company and onboard our vessels, which include inspections of Alexandria, Egypt on September Environmental impacts are having direct, indirect, accidental, potential and actual between the two is causal: an impact vessels to verify compliance with the performed from Port State Control and 09th, 2014 where the PSC Officer effect on the environment. (G4-DMA) is the pollution that would result if an established environmental laws and Flag State (Greek and Malta Flag). raised two detainable deficiencies, environmental aspect was not properly The following table and graph illustrates some of the environmental impacts and regulations. Failure to comply may one for insufficient pressure on the The number of flawless PSC and Flag managed or controlled. aspects related to vessel’s operations. result in significant environmental emergency fire pump and a second inspections (i.e. number of inspections damages, vessel's detention, one for an inoperative emergency air The measures we take to mitigate below impacts were analyzed in the previous with zero deficiencies) was reduced significant monetary fines, delays in compressor. Both deficiencies were environmental sections. by 22.7% since 2013, meaning that our service and negative impact on the immediately rectified and preventive during the reporting period fewer PSC Company's environmental records and actions were taken to the satisfaction Ship Activity Sub System Impacts and Flag inspections were performed reputation. (G4-DMA) of the Classification Society and local without deficiencies. Domestic Galley and provisions garbage (food waste, beverages, packages Littering of beaches. Water Port State Control. Corrective measures Routine and from provisions, papers). pollution. Marine Life Effect. A rather increased number of were circulated for training purposes to Catering Sanitary functions producing sewage. inspections has been observed since the rest of our fleet vessels and internal Grey Waters (drains from hospitals, galley, lavatory). 2013, resulting to a 19,4% increase of procedures were revised to avoid the total number of inspections from repetition of similar deficiencies. In the Maintenance Machinery maintenance means produce oily water, consumption Acid Rain,Global Warming, 2014 to 2015. following year, no detention occurred. of materials, chemicals, paints and spare parts, use of packaging Air & Water Pollution, (G4-EN29) materials. Marine Life Effect. The total number of deficiencies per inspection, even though increased We aim to maintain the same targets Operation Vessels operations imply fuel oil consumption, air emissions, CO2, NOx, SOx emissions, from 0.88 deficiencies per inspection for 2016 as with the reporting period of ballast exchange, water consumption, bilge and sludge Ballast water invasive (in 2013) to 1.16 (in 2015), it is still 2013 (less than 1.5 def per inspection generation, lube oil consumption, bunkering operations, cargo species, Bilge & Sludge, within the target set of less than 1.5 and zero detention record for the fleet). operations. Toxic sub. deficiencies per inspection, therefore maintaining a our high performance record during external inspections. However, our overall good performance in the PSC inspections for 2014, was Flawless Inspections (PSC, Flag) Deficiencies per Inspection (PSC, Flag) 72.2% 1.22 1.16 68.8% 0.88 55.8% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 54 55 NEPTUNE LINES & POSEIDON MED Project POSEIDON MED is coordinated by QENERGY Europe and is the first European cross-border project which aims to introduce LNG as the main fuel for the shipping industry and the development of an adequate network infrastructure supplying LNG and Energy Preservation Natural Gas. The project aims to design an integrated chain of ports for using LNG as fuel for ships, including the development of a network for the transmission and distribution of LNG, and the creation of a well-organized and sustainable market. Today’s wastage, is tomorrow’s shortage... Neptune Lines is a participating company in Poseidon Med I and part II– LNG EU sponsored project. We are providing design information and operational data for one of our vessels, which will be a candidate for conversion to LNG. The first phase of the project has been completed with the preliminary design and risk assessment -performed with the participation of Lloyds Register. The second phase will start as from February 2016 and will include detailed design drawings and cost related studies for the retrofitting of LNG, as well as for the design and cost of the land-based port infrastructure. Although shipping is by far the most Certified Environmental Management and we implement energy-related still a non-renewable energy source, for the heating, cooling and other Energy Consumption fuel-efficient mode of transport, we System (ISO 14001:2004) campaigns and other personnel it is less harmful than oil, causing operational needs of our shore-based (Shorebased Operations kWh/month) believe that additional steps need to incentive training programs. less damage to the environment. In facilities. Neptune Lines implements a certified be taken to improve energy efficiency fact emissions of carbon dioxide are Environmental Management System Energy Consumption (G4-EN3, G4-EN6) Previously implemented energy 37.477 of shipboard and shore-based related 45% less than other conventional (ISO 14001:2004) supported with saving practices -mainly through operations. Energy efficiency when several environmental programs with Energy for both shipboard and shore fuels and 30% less than oil. Natural the path of Information Technology 35.517 achieved to a considerable degreewill based operations is coming exclusively gas burns cleaner without leaving the objective to continually increase (hibernate policies, personnel 33.733 minimize our environmental impact by from non-renewable sources. The any smell, ash or smoke and it is energy efficiency and minimize training, centrally controlled reducing pollutive emissions in the air, types of energy used are electricity, cheaper than electricity. In 2014, energy waste. A set of specific, printing systems) continued for eventually supporting the preservation natural gas and fuel oil. While the natural gas installation was measurable, achievable, realistic and 2014 and 2015. Even though, the of our natural resources; (G4-DMA) energy consumption for shipboard completed and used exclusively to time sensitive targets is established energy consumption increased operations is coming solely from fuel cover heating requirements of our and maintained, which relates to a after 2013, this can be attributed to oil, shore-based operations are using shore based facilities during the combination of design optimization, the steadily increasing size of our electricity and natural gas purchased whole of 2015. in-service performance monitoring and shore-based operations followed from external sources. 2013 2014 2015 best-practice operational management Calculation of shore-based energy by the employment of additional processes. Energy consumption is calculated consumption is based on the shore personnel to cover the increasing separately for shipboard and consumption of electricity and demands of our operations. SEEMP shore-based operations. Shipboard natural gas which is also used We maintain a Ship Specific Energy energy consumption calculation, is Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) based on the fuel oil consumption and for every managed vessel. Such plan already reported in the 'Emissions' provides standard procedures and best section of the present report. practices on energy management under Energy saving policies are implemented the various modes of vessel operations. at shore based facilities. In 2013, we Energy Efficiency Awareness decided to change the main source of energy used for the heating of We promote energy efficiency shore-based facilities from fuel oil to awareness through training to the natural gas. Even though natural gas is shore-based and seagoing personnel 56 57 “To deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity.” Social Nelson Mandela. Doing the right thing Human Rights Labor Practices and Decent Work Society Product Responsibility Human life and human rights must be at seawe demonstrate the same at the heart of everything we do. commitment and we fully support our well-established corporate At Neptune Lines, we embrace value that human capital is our most this belief and safeguard it through important asset. established policies and procedures to which we are all commited. Neptune Lines is a signatory to the 'UN Global Compact', supporting For our Company, 'business success' and respecting the protection of can only be true if it is the outcome internationally-set human rights and of responsible service and not to the making sure that is not complicit in detriment of human rights, human life human rights abuses. (G4-DMA) and the society as a whole. With regard to our own people whether they are working ashore or 58 59 Human Rights Neptune Lines will not tolerate the use of child, forced or Respecting ... compulsory labor in any of its operations. Our human rights policies and Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Non-Discimination (G4-HR3) valuables) towards third parties, apart from human rights training, standards, seafarers' qualification procedures reflect our commitment, Labor (G4-DMA, G4-HR5, G4-HR6) is highly linked to their training in has undergone relative screening Neptune Lines supports the fair and standards, employment contracts, not only to respect but also to promote, human rights, particularly in relation (psychometric tests etc.) to ensure that Neptune lines will not tolerate unprejudiced treatment of different placement services, working and human rights in our business activities with the use of force. Training of they will respect human rights in case the exploitation of children, their categories of people. rest hours, crew welfare issues, and stakeholder relationships. We do security personnel is helping to of incidents. engagement in unacceptably hazardous food and catering, health, safety not tolerate behavior that is in breach Being a core-part of our Code of prevent reputational and litigation work, and the physical punishment, Maritime Labor Convention and accident prevention, complaint with the law or our corporate policies. Conduct, non-discrimination governs risks that arise from inappropriate abuse, or involuntary servitude of any (MLC 2006) (G4-HR3, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, procedures, remuneration and (G4-DMA) all our relationships with no exception. actions or approaches not condoned by worker in any of its operations. For G4-HR7) onboard medical care. the Company. Neptune Lines, a 'child' is anyone who Neptune Lines had no incidents of Neptune Lines complies fully with The onboard Labor Management is less than 18 years of age. discrimination during the reporting Our Company employees three(3) the requirements of the 'Maritime System is certified from an period. security guards at its premises, all We expect our suppliers and contractors Labor Convention (MLC 2006)' for appointed recognized organization, of whom passed relevant training with whom we do business to uphold Security Practices (G4-DMA, G4-HR7) all seafarers employed onboard its at periodical intervals, to verify on human rights policies regarding the same standards. managed vessels. The conduct of security personnel (i.e the use of force. Security personnel There are no incidents of child labor or individuals or companies employed directly employed to Neptune Lines A Labor Management System is forced-compulsory labor identified so for the purpose of guarding property are included in the induction program implemented onboard its fleet vessels, far in our supplier/business cooperators of the Company, crowd control, loss applicable for all personnel. Security covering issues such as minimum age network. prevention and escorting persons and personnel working for the Company, of employment, medical certification 60 61 Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment Employee Turnover Rate (G4-LA1) Shore-based Employee Turnover & Retention Rates 6.5 % 'Employee Turnover Rate' equals 2015: to the number of employees who have left the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, Our Workforce (G410, G4-11) retirement, or death in service, divided by the average total Since 2013 Neptune Lines' total workforce increased by 25% as from 2013 till the end of number of employees. The 8.7 % 2015, so as to cover the increasing service quality demands. At the same time, number of employees leaving and 2014: +25% the Company identified the risks of “rapid growth” and managed to balance the total number of employees, employees’ satisfaction with well-developed personnel incentive plans.(G4-13) are measured over one calendar year.; The indicator refers only to full time employees. 2013 2014 2015 Total Number of Employees : 291 340 388 Employee Turnover by Age group and Gender (G4-LA1) Permanent Contract Employees (Shore-based): 48 61 62 Fixed Term Contract Employees (Shipboard): 243 279 326 All employees are on a full time contract and covered with collective age group 2014 2015 age group 2014 2015 bargaining agreements. No regional offices exist. No significant variation in 30 0 0 30 0 0 employment due to seasonality or other reason is applicable. 30 50 2 2 30 50 2 2 50 + 1 0 50 + 0 0 Increased turnover and low retention rates may signify problems, such as plummeting employee morale and levels of uncertainty and dissatisfaction among employees. They may also signal lack of comprehension of the Company's performance expectations or even a fundamental change in the structure of the Company's core operations. These indicators are seriously considered since they may New Hires by Age group and Gender (G4-LA1) eventually demonstrate that the Company is losing high-performing employees whose performance, skills and qualifications are valuable resources. (G4-DMA) age group 2014 2015 age group 2014 2015 Shore-based and Shipboard Workforce by Gender (G4-10) 30 1 1 30 1 1 30 50 7 2 30 50 3 1 Shore-based Employees 2014 2015 Shipboard Employees 2014 2015 50 + 0 0 50 + 0 0 Total Number of Employees : 61 62 Total Number of Employees : 279 326 Total number of male employees: 37 38 Total number of male employees: 272 319 Total rate of male employees: 60% 61% Total rate of male employees: 97% 98% Workforce by Employee Category and Gender Total number of female employees: 24 24 Total number of female employees: 7 7 Senior Management Managers Employees Total rate of female employees: 40% 39% Total rate of female employees: 3% 2% Women 2014: 1 (25%) Women 2014: 4 (36%) Women 2014: 16 (37%) Women 2015: 1 (25%) Women 2015: 4 (36%) Women 2015: 16 (36%) 2013 Men 2014: 3 (75%) Men 2014: 7 (63%) Men 2014: 27 (63%) Men 2015: 3 (75%) Men 2015: 7 (63%) Men 2015: 28 (64%) 62 63 Labor Practices & Decent Work Retention Rates (G4-LA1) Shipboard Employment For Neptune Lines, the recruitment process works as a 'gatekeeper', allowing access to diverse, qualified and ethical personnel providing, at the same Recruitment time, access to employment for the unemployed through a decent working environment. To have this process really contributing to the development of 'Retention Rate', expresses the ability to retain shipboard personnel within the Company, since all seafarers are on a fixed-term the Company and at the same time promoting its sustainability, it is carefully contract instead of a full time employment. We monitor our crew retention rates based on rank and region. Ukrainian and Greek designed on a fair, unprejudiced and meritocratic basis. (G4-DMA) crew are occupying most of our onboard positions achieving a retention rate close to 90%. Maintaining relationships with employees based on cooperation, co-creation and fairness, is fundamental when it comes to their motivation and incentive; for Neptune Lines this is a major factor behind its attractiveness as an employer. Officers 2013 2014 2015 These relationships are decisive in guaranteeing the long-term competitiveness of our Company. (G4-DMA) Greek 80% 85% 88% We continue to support our tailor-made 'Recruiting and Selection' process, assessing all the relevant candidate attributes such as education, working Ukrainian 91% 90% 92% experience, motivation aspects, competencies and personality characteristics. We run tailor-made 'assessment centers' of multiple steps, incorporating assessment tools such as competency-based (individual and group) business simulations, Filipino 82% 80% 83% custom-made tests, personality questionnaires and personal interviews. Understanding the importance of communicating with its employees, our Ratings Company is continuing its efforts to further improve the working environment by conducting its second 'Employee Engagement Survey (EES)'; Neptune Lines Ukrainian 91% 86% 90% recognizes that organizations with higher employee engagement and enablement (employee effectiveness), have stronger business results. Filipino 80% 84% 85% EES measures job satisfaction, motivation, and attitudes, giving our people the opportunity to provide feedback for our Company. Our goal is to take into account everyone’s suggestions regarding possible improvements, as well as to enhance commitment and productivity. Equal Remuneration for Women & Men (G4-LA13) New Hires by Age group and Gender (G4-LA1) We give to our employees fair pay in line with the standard wages typical to our employment market and guarantee equal pay for work performed by men and women without discrimination. We enforce the equal pay principal, for work of equal value. Equality of remuneration between women and men is one of the age group 2014 2015 age group 2014 2015 factors that result in retaining qualified employees in the workforce. We assess 30 23 31 30 0 0 the effectiveness of our pay and benefits elements by conducting various surveys 30 50 49 76 30 50 2 1 and measures. 50 + 4 15 50 + 0 0 Diversity and Equal Opportunity We respect difference and diversity and we offer equal opportunity to all employees and applicants within various diversity categories (such as gender, age group, minority groups, nationality, religion etc.). Employee Benefits (G4-LA2) Maintaining relationships The quality of benefits for full-time staff constitutes a key factor in retaining employees and attracting new ones. These include to the minimum: life with employees based on insurance, health care, disability/invalidity coverage and parental leave. cooperation, co-creation Neptune Lines' shore-based personnel is covered with full-time employment and fairness, is fundamental contracts; while our seagoing personnel is covered with fixed-term contracts following international shipping practices. when it comes to their All Neptune Lines personnel are covered under valid collective bargaining motivation and incentive; agreements. for Neptune Lines this Full-time employees are receiving Life, Health Insurance & Extra employment is a major factor behind injury benefits. its attractiveness as an Neptune Lines' employees, possess the right to be involved in trade unions and professional associations, without any limitations. employer. 64 65 Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful. (Albert Schweitzer) Employee Incentives Making those who contribute to our success happy... Running together in the Athens Marathon November 8th 2015 was the starting point of an organized effort of our Company to bring together its employees in a voluntary participation for a good cause. Neptune Lines would 'run' in the Athens Authentic Marathon 'for Sympleysis'a non-profit, non-governmental organization (presented in the 'Society' section hereinafter). Thirty-five people from all Company levels embraced this challenge and participated in this corporate initiative, demonstrating enthusiasm, not only during the Marathon, but also in the relevant training courses organized by the Company, taking place once a week during the preparatory period. Our target is to keep running the following years and continue this good practice ! Engaging with each other When it comes to managing human capital, we believe that everybody is capable of doing their best every day; the result does not have to be anything major; it can be as simple as doing your job responsibly, timely, through good cooperation and team-work. Doing so, all challenges are faced effectively and there is progress both at a personnal and corporate level. In order to do one's best, however, one has to feel good, motivated, content. Investing in this fundamental principle, on January 31st 2015 at the 'Wine Museum' situated in the suburbs of Athens, our Company organized an engagement event inviting all employees and management to gather together for a whole day and unveil the real secret of success through meaningful and inspiring team-building games, all based on our eight corporate values: Trust, Flexibility, Confidence, Integrity, Pioneering, Human Capital, Excellence, Responsibility. This joyous event brought out the best in everyone and all employees seemed to leave happy at the end of the day with the feeling that they tried to be the very best that they can be! 66 67 Labor Practices & Decent Work Occupational Health and Safety Safety rules, are your best tools Neptune Lines Health and Safety For Neptune Lines “Occupational OHSAS 18001:2007 Certification. hours and dividing the result with the even worse, to a maritime casualty. Due injuries and fatalities, mitigating severe Management System places the safe Health and Safety” always comes total exposure hours (total scheduled to the nature of our trade, characterized environmental, social and financial Neptune Lines Occupational Health and operation of Vessels in a first priority first and is safeguarded through working hours). by frequent port calls, hours of rest impacts. Relevant pre joining training, Safety Management system, certified as and sets a proactive approach towards carefully-designed policies. Elevated onboard as well as timely crew changes onboard drills and exercises as well as per OHSAS 18001:2007 standard for the Absentee Rate (AR) is calculated safety. On an organizational level, a 'Lost Time Injury Frequency' and and flexible contracts, compose a emergency response training at office ashore and onboard management of its based on the total absentee days divided proactive occupational health and safety 'Absentee' rates, are particularly critical framework which is monitored premises, are closely monitored to Car Carriers. by the total workdays (total no of approach is directly associated with alarming and may signal a number of closely and proactively by our ensure effective emergency response at employees X total number of working more positive organizational attitudes worrying issues to assess and consider Health & Safety Performance (G4-LA6) Company. At the same time, working all times. days) during the reporting period. and safety environment perceptions. seriously: low staff morale followed hours of shore personnel are controlled Lost Time Injury Frequency rate Annual tabletop exercises are conducted On an individual employee level, by low productivity, personnel fatigue Shipboard absentee rate is calculated effectively in order to avoid excessive (LTIF) is an expression on the frequency at Company premises with the active more positive safety perceptions and due to excessive work / inadequate from the time/date the illness occurred overtime and demonstrate in practice of crew injuries onboard the vessel. It participation of responsible parties (i.e. organizational attitudes are associated rest, high risk factor of assigned and found unfit for duty and ends at the the respect of the employees' right to measures the number of injury incidents Office Emergency Team, Vessel and with better health and wellbeing. tasks; even in the cases where they time of recovery if not signed off or leisure and a decent work-life balance. which resulted in more than 1 day loss Classification Society) in an effort to (G4-DMA) may indicate negligence or ignorance when the reliever boarded the vessel. We are always aiming to zero fatigue of work. In comparison with 2013, the simulate real emergency conditions from the employee's side, they should incidents. frequency of the injuries increased, Fatigue and respond effectively. Action plans be further examined with regard to resulting in 2.49 LTIF incidents for 2015. Emergency Preparedness are issued on completion of the annual its root cause. Risk assessment, rest Fatigue caused by excessive work hours Shall be noted that all crew injuries were exercises and corrective actions are hours and medical records, incident/ may lead to occupational injuries and A well-coordinated emergency of minor importance which are also duly taken to improve the efficiency of the near miss reporting, drills frequency as response minimizes and prevents analyzed in order to correctly address the emergency response. 659 well as findings from relevant audits/ root cause and take preventive actions. inspections (internal and third party) Drug and Alcohol Control No fatal incidents occured during the are some 'safeguards' to health & reporting period. Neptune Lines is enforcing zero random onboard 99.5 % safety performance. (G4-DMA) tolerance policies and procedures for LTIF is calculated by multiplying the the possession and use of alcohol and Lost Time Injury incidents X 1,000,000 drug & alcohol drugs so as to minimize the possibility drug & alcohol of having an incident due to drug or tests, so far alcohol abuse. External collection negative results suppliers are contracted to conduct random tests onboard the Vessels at different locations of our operating areas. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (G4-LA6) (No of work related injuries resulted in more than 1 day Absentee Rate (Shore-based) Absentee Rate (Shipboard) loss of work) (G4-LA6) (G4-LA6) 3.19 0.0067 0.00007 2.49 0.0048 0.00005 1.87 0.0040 0.00004 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 68 69 Shore-based Training Shipboard Training Labor Practices & Decent Work in figures (G4-LA9) in figures (G4-LA9) Training & Education Training increases the efficiency and effectiveness of both employees and organization Neptune Lines believes that investing in human capital through training, Training & Education (G4-LA9) Shore-based training hours increased Employee Performance Performance Appraisal is a business Average Training Hours Average Training Sessions is a key element in organizational by 69% since 2013, focusing mainly on process that facilitates the realization of development. Training opportunities ongoing training programs through out the our strategy. It is a process for managing per Employee per Employee offered by the Company, contribute year and on job training sessions expanding and developing people that align their significantly in attracting new the existing job knowledge and leading to personal goals with those of Neptune employees, maintaining the level of improved employee performance. Our aim Lines so that the value added to the 26.86 8.51 performance according to Company standards and retaining existing for 2016 is to maintain the training hours at the same levels as 2015. business is optimized. The appraisal process provides an environment in 8.17 hours 5.51 sessions qualified employees.It further Major Shore-based Training sessions: which our employees can excel and it hours sessions increases the efficiency and the encourages them to make optimum use effectiveness of both employees and 1. Sales Behavior & Customer Service of their developing capabilities for the the organization. Coordination achievement of the company’s business Training is important to enhance the 2. Global Reporting Initiative Training strategies and objectives. 2013 2015 2014 2015 capabilities of employees. (G4-DMA) The performance appraisal process takes 3. Ship Energy Efficiency Practices place on an annual basis, where the 4. Ongoing inhouse foreign language lessons performance of individuals is assessed against objectives set at the beginning of Average Training Hours Average Training Sessions the performance year and in relation with 5. Conference participation the competencies required for the role. per Employment Category per Employment Category Shipboard training is a Computerized Employees are rated based on a number Based Training (including Maritime of core and job role specific competencies training films) implemented onboard all 2013 2015 2014 2015 on a 1-5 scale (5 = excellent level, 4 = fleet vessels since August 2014, covering a above requested acceptable level, 3 = Senior wide range of advanced training for various requested acceptable level, 2 = below Shipboard Operations and Management requested acceptable level, but trainable, Management 8.1 12.0 Officers 6.25 8.54 Systems. Passed training sessions increased 1 = much lower than requested level and by 35% since 2014 having an average of difficult to train, 0 = very low level and 8.5 training sessions per seafarer. not trainable). Managers 8.1 19.0 Ratings 5.05 8.49 Major Shipboard Training Sessions This competency framework applies to 1. Ship Damage Stability different employment category levels; 2. International Collision Regulations each level is measured against consistent Employees 8.1 32.0 and clear criteria related to the knowledge 3. Fuel Oil Systems and technical skills required for the specific job role and the accomplishment 4. Fire Fighting Practices of the specific job role. 5. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Shore-based training is measured in Average Training Hours Average Training Sessions training hours calculating the average training hours per employee, gender and per Gender per Gender employment category (senior management, managers and employees). Shipboard training is measured based on the passed training sessions, calculating 2013: 8.1 2013:8.1 the average number of training sessions per shipboard crew, gender and employment 2014: 5.4 2014:8.1 2015: 22.8 2015: 33.3 2015: 8.4 2015:10.4 category (officers and ratings). 70 71 Society A society regulated by a public sense of justice is inherently stable 'Neptune Lines Code of Conduct' Code of Conduct MACN performs bi-annual meetings defines our commitment to high ethical with the participation of all members. Our Code of Conduct applies to all standards. It is based on our values and Two-day meetings are an important hierarchy levels at Neptune Lines. clarifies the principles and expectations aspect of developing the group's We expect and encourage our major for how we work. cohesiveness and moving the group stakeholders to act in a way that is forward on key decision points; at consistent with our Code and we take the same time they constitue a key appropriate actions where we believe (engagement) opportunity for active they have not met our expectations or depending on the nature or location to the situation where an individual is pending or completed against Neptune sharing of best practice. (G4-15) their contractual obligations. of their role or in response to specific confronted with choosing between the Lines, during the reporting period. We provide our employees with training We participate in best practice-sharing incidents. requirements of his/her function and Public Policy Media Response and communication on how to apply webinars and report corruption incidents his/her own private interests. (*GRI Every new employee at Neptune the Code’s principles. Managers are faced during our vessels' day-to-day Glossary terminology) Public communication and availability Lines receives relevant familiarization responsible for helping their teams operations, through a web sharing on the occasion of a crisis, apart from training regarding the established Neptune Lines understands that understand how the Code guides the MACN platform which may eventually being essential to restore Company's anti-corruption policies. Neptune avoiding such conflicts may not way we work and are expected to lead to a collective action programreputation and ultimately, its continued Lines personnel receives a always be possible. The required have conversations with their teams depending on the severity and repetition success, is also an act of responsibility refreshment course on the established action for an employee who does not throughout the year. status of the incidents reported. towards society, and those affected policies, every two years, or upon any or cannot avoid a conflict of interest by the crisis in which the Company is alteration or revision effected to the is to disclose it. Employees must involved. Anti-Corruption already implemented anti-corruption disclose any such incidentso their policies. superior. Disclosures are taking place Handling the media during and after Our Code of Conduct explicitly prohibits as soon as the employee identifies that emergency situations might be proved engaging in bribery and corruption in Our Company is currently exploring there might be a conflict of interest to be a difficult exercise, especially any form. We have a responsibility to possibilities for further investing and, whenever possible, before the when no procedures are in place or our employees and to the countries and on anti-corruption training for its employee engages in the conduct in no training was given to the involved communities in which we do business to governance body members (decisionquestion. personnel. Recognizing that risk, be ethical and lawful in all our dealings. makers), shorebased and seagoing we have selected one reputable and (G4-DMA) Anti-Corruption Training employees as well as those business Anti-Competitive Behavior (G4-DMA, specialized Media Response handler (G4-SO4, G4-SO5) partners who may have a higher G4-SO7) We participate in the Maritime to develop a Media Response Plan risk of facing or raising incidents of Anti-Corruption Network (MACN). Signing an anti-corruption policy is Neptune Lines implements a Fair and train all Neptune Lines employees corruption. The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network a critical bonding act, however it is Business Practices policy which has and Senior Staff onboard our vessels. (MACN) is a global business network not sufficient to promise alertness and Due to legal issues and constraints, we been communicated to all employees During the reporting period, a Media working towards its vision of a maritime increase willingness to comply; training do not report in detail the corrective and constitutes an integral part of our Response Plan was prepared and Senior industry free of corruption that enables always helps towards that direction since actions taken in response to incidents New Employee Induction Program. Management training was effected with fair trade to the benefit of society at large. it may go deep into an issue; and -even of corruption presented so far. real-case scenarios of past incidents Fair-competition law may on no MACN is comprised of vessel-owning though it may not solve the problemit However, if we become aware of any known to the shipping industry. account be violated. Any such and managing companies within the can increase awareness and therefore risks related to corruption, we take violation may result in substantial Overall Compliance with Laws main sectors of the maritime industry as the possibility of 'saying no' to such appropriate action. fines for our Company as well as its (i.e. Accounting Fraud, Workplace well as other companies of the industry practices. Conflicts of Interest (G4-DMA-b) employees. In particular, price-fixing discrimination & Corruption) (G4-SO8) including cargo owners and maritime We provide training to those employees among competitors (verbal, written or service providers. Employees may face various conflicts No fines or non-monetary sanctions for whom we believe it is most relevant in any other form), market allocation of interest which are identified and under laws or regulations were enforced and any other practices which may managed from Neptune Lines in order so far. inhibit free competition, are strictly to avoid the occurrence of corruption Neptune Lines declares that all our charitable donations and sponsorships are irrelevant with our main business operations and prohibited. There are no legal actions incidents and other wrongful acts. are never provided in a cash deposit form, so as to ensure that they are not considered or used as a disguised form of bribery. The term 'conflicts of interest' refers (G4-DMA-b) 72 73 Society Education and Culture Donations and Sponsorships as marine fuel and LNG bunkering hub Moving on to our efforts in the pillar In 2014 and 2015, we did not cease in the Adriatic and Eastern Mediterranean of education, we have maintained our to support society. This time, our Sea. The presentations were followed by relation with ‘Friends of the Child’ initiatives and projects were channeled a lively Q&A session about the different nursery, ensuring the continuation of the through a structured corporate program aspects of Maritime Transportation. special education teacher, which was focusing on four main pillars: poverty, integrated in the educational program of Last but not least, treasuring the rich infrastructure, culture & education and the nursery in 2013 with Neptune Lines’ culture of our country, in 2015, we athletics. funding. In 2015, we decided to further commenced our support to Benaki Supporting local communities within strengthen our support through covering Museum. our network is an important way for the totality of the feeding needs of the At the same period, we became supporters us to give back to society, thereby children, which are hosted at the nursery. of the ‘Greek Shipping Miracle’, the first perpetuating our social responsibility. Apart from pre-school education, our online maritime museum and we sponsored Company had the chance to 'be of the organization of a seminar in Shipping use' in third-level education students Law in co-operation with the Greek Legal 11.170 as well, particularly those coming Publishing House. from maritime academic institutions. Being part of the shipping industry, our Healthy mind in healthy body families Company tries at any given opportunity to support maritime students in their An advocate of the saying ‘healthy mind in healthy body’ credited to Greek supported quest for practical knowledge, through student visits onboard its fleet vessels philosopher Thales, Neptune Lines supports athletics. More specifically, or ashore, at company premises. During the company sponsors the Greek Gold onboard visits, some of our experienced Olympic medalist and multiple World and crew members accompany the students European Champion, in their preparation Fighting Poverty on a physical tour to various vessel towards the Olympic Games, which will compartments of interest, after taking all Neptune Lines supports initiatives take place in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. The mandatory safety precautions. During of substantial range and importance Greek sailing team, under the initiative these educational tours, the students are aiming at the alleviation of the adverse Hellenic Wind competes under NACRA 17 familiarized with vessel functions and financial conditions that affect a large category. operations, they ask questions and benefit number of social groups in Greece. from real-life maritime experience of In 2015, we commenced our relationship More specifically, our support to the our seafarers. Respectively, at our office with a promising 16-years old Greek pole successful Solidarity and Welfare premises, we have hosted students and vaulter who won the Bronze medal in program, established in 2012 under professors from State Universities and, IAAF World Youth Championships 2015 the auspices of the Union of Greek Maritime Colleges, in the framework in Cali Columbia. Ship-owners, continued in 2014 and of their educational trip to our country. 2015. Under this program, in 2014 The students were welcomed by our Infrastructure Projects alone, Neptune Lines assisted in Commercial Director and Technical In 2014, we assisted in the restoration of catering for the nurturing needs of Manager who presented the activities of the Galliano General Lyceum of Keramia 11.170 families all around Greece. the company, its history, its routes and in Kefalonia by replacing all the old ‘Solidarity and Welfare program’ services as well as the characteristics doors and windows of the building with mainly focuses on issues of feeding and challenges of short sea shipping. new ones of the newest technology and and health, as well as on infrastructure Current projects were described in in accordance with the highest safety projects of care centers of vulnerable detail, as for example the initiative for standards. This infrastructure project was social groups as well as the support of greening of the fleet and Neptune Lines’ in response to the big earthquake, which marine education through infrastructure participation in the EU innovative project had hit the island in January 2014. projects. for testing LNG (liquefied natural gas) Supporting NGOs Last but not least, in 2014 we commenced our relation with Sympleysis, a non-profit, non-governmental organization. Sympleysis is dedicated to the support and improvement of quality of life of the inhabitants of the remote islands of the Aegean, through infrastructure projects, school equipment, medical examination and cultural events. Apart of the active voluntary participation of our company’s employees to Sympleysis missions at the islands, Neptune Lines also sponsored a big infrastructure project. The company funded the installation of a desalination unit in Gavdos, a small island south of Crete suffering from serious problems of water supply and shortage of fresh clean water. This desalination unit will cover the needs of the inhabitants for fresh drinking water as well as land cultivation. 74 75 Product Responsibility Our target is not just to maintain the said conform and even go beyond our contractual 0.1 % damage ratio, but to create and implement obligations. Service Responsibly procedures that will lower it even more. Compliance with Laws and Regulations Marketing Communication (G4-PR7) coverning the provision and use of services All these years of our service, it has been hard work and commitment that Relevant software tool assists our commercial and operational teams to delivery-as promised from our endhand in hand with excellent quality, are highly External communication is a major factor (G4-PR9) damage ratio have paved our Company's way to what in Neptune Lines commercial strategy. There were no administrative or judicial follow this process. critical for our commercial relationship. it is today; a leading company in the sanctions levied against the Company Marketing communication is the short sea shipping industry in terms Regular review meetings ensure adherence In this respect, we emphasize on the strict for failures to comply with the laws and combination of strategies, systems, of customer satisfaction, flexibility, and realization of possible improvement application of quality standards required regulations concerning the provision and use methods and activities used by the efficiency and responsibility. The very potential. by each of our customers, as well as the of Company services. Company to promote its reputation same 'indicators' of our 'compass' hard continuous training and high retention rate At Neptune Lines we believe that and services to target audiences (i.e. Customer Data Protection (G4-PR8) work and commitmentshall continue of our experienced crew members that will consistent top performance ensures advertising, promotion events, public to guide us in our service for the years lead to proper /damageless handling of the Protection of customer privacy and handling long-term partnerships built on trust and relations and sponsorships). Marketing to come. vehicles. customers' requests and information with confidence. communication is subject to many rules discretion and professionalism is critical in Our Company has appointed independent and regulations. Efforts are made to Cargo Bookings our business. Most of our customers have a certified surveyors on all ports of operation. ensure compliance so as to communicate competitive relationship and require strict Product and Service Labelling Our customer service is characterized by They inspect all the vehicles prior to loading our brand name and services always in a confidentiality rules. (G4-DMA) constant direct communication with our onboard our vessels and classify the defects responsible manner that will reflect reality Customer Satisfaction (G4-PR5) customers. Dedicated Customer Service noted based on each customer’s standards. and won't be misleading. (G4-DMA) Neptune has invested in the internal and The philosophy of our Company Coordinators closely coordinate bookings external data security to ensure Customer Identified damages are presented to the Towards that direction, our corporate is customer oriented, from top and sailings schedules with their respective Privacy. delivering party and relevant damage website is updated on a regular basis to management to every level. counter parts, monitor and communicate protocols are counter signed. The same transmit new and accurate information For the internal security, we implement changes and provide alternative solutions Customer Satisfaction is a main procedure applies during handing over about our business as well as our different methods to control system access if required. Feedback received on any driver of our business process and its the vehicles at each destination, as all community and social activities. such as limited and controllable access to business aspect is cascaded to the relevant application and therefore very closely vehicles are again inspected along with removable and recording devices, password departments for immediate action. Our employees, specialized in their monitored. (G4-DMA) receiving party. The inspection reports policy enforcement, user level access respective fields, are participating in Cargo Quality issued by the surveyors are reviewed by control on files and resources, ethernet port It is measured continuously among international workshops and working the cargo quality team at Neptune Lines management and wireless access control regular customers. Our dedicated An additional key factor in customers’ groups. headquarters. Root cause analysis is carried secure printing system/policies, limited or Customer Service Coordinators collect satisfaction is the achievement of very low out for the additional damages noted during Neptune Lines is a regular exhibitor and forbidden access to external emailing systems feedback from their assigned customers damage ratio on transported vehicles. the post-discharging inspection and action visitor at relevant industry exhibitions.In and limited or forbidden access to file sharing through regular meetings and daily Customers are requesting low damage plans are applied in order to minimize/ addition to our regular exhibition at the cloud services like Dropbox, icloud and contacts throughout the contract ratio, setting at the same time tight KPIs; eliminate the damages caused during the Logitrans Istanbul, we are also planning Google drive. execution process. Complaints are as their Logistics Service Provider, we maritime transportation. The aforementioned for 2016 to exhibit at the Break Bulk reported and handled systematically. For the External security, we are using the continuoulsy have to walk a fine line procedure leads to significant improvement Antwerp as well as Break Bulk Abu Customers' recommendations are taken latest technology in firewalls called Unified between swift, flexible service and of our Company's performance as the Dhabi. into consideration in the restructure Threat Management Systems, controlling flawless handling of the vehicles we carry. maritime damage ratio decreased by and development of existing and new Management is regularly attending access per IP address and per port, per In case of cargo damage, relevant process 50% since 2013 from 0.2% to 0.1%, i.e. services. Annual ECG conferences (The application, per user or department. Secure of restoration is initiated which creates 1 damaged vehicle over 1,000 vehicles Association of European Vehicle (encrypted) remote connections (VPN) are KPI’s are discussed and agreed upon considerable delay in delivering the transported, one of the lowest damage ratios Logistics) and actively participating in the enforced as well as Antivirus and Anti Spam and a respective monitoring process is vehicle to our customers and, as a result, in the industry. ECG working groups as well Automotive mail scans, intrusion detection and prevention. put into action. to their final consumers. Therefore, timely Logistic Conferences. No substantiated complaints were received There were zero incidents of regarding breaches of customer privacy during non-compliance with regulations and the reporting period. voluntary codes concerning marketing Business Continuity communication including advertising, promotion and sponsorship during the Business continuity encompasses a set of reporting period. activities which are intended to ensure that an organization's critical business functions Service Quality will either continue to operate despite serious Fleet Programming incidents or disasters that might otherwise have interrupted them, or will be recovered to Neptune Lines optimizes vessels' schedule an operational state within a reasonably short to conform to contractual terms related period. Failure to do so, may result in a rather with the on-time arrival of vessel at port process of the replication is completely severe threat or disruption that may lead to as well as with the frequency of port calls monitored by our systems. In case of an severe implications (i.e. bankruptcy). agreed. Vessel rotation plans in dedicated emergency, our data are available to be service lines are monitored closely and Neptune Lines maintains a disaster recovery accessed directly through the cloud. adjusted to meet customers' requirements. process based on cloud services. Our data Our backup procedure is based on a hybrid replication is online with a recovery point Short, Medium and Long Term solution that incorporates both backup to disk objective of 1 hour for all are servers and programming is taking place aiming to and Backup to tape. 15 minutes for our Domain controller. The 76 77 2014 -2015 Main Sustainability Highlights ECO Newbuildings February 6th and April 28th 2014 'Neptune Galene' and 'Neptune Thalassa' ,the first 'ECO' Vessels of our fleet, were delivered from Hyundai Mipo Dockyard. Materiality Survey released to Stakeholders September 2015 Our first Materiality Assessment survey was launched to key Stakeholders, in an effort to increase their awareness and inclussiveness in our sustainability strategy and improve our reporting. Joined UN Global Compact September 23rd 2015 We joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), through which we officially signed up to the initiative’s '10 Principles'. Acquisition of two 'Clean Notation' Vessels May 25-26th 2015 Our 'Green' fleet was further enhanced with the acquisition of two CLEAN Notation vessels: 'Neptune Hellas' and 'Neptune Horizon'. 'Suppliers CSR Assessment' Recognition June 2nd 2015 Our Company was assessed as a major supplier of 'Renault' in sustainability matters and scored high enough to receive the 'Gold' recognition. Agility/Innovation Award June 4th 2015 Renault -Nissan Alliance' awarded our Company with the ‘Agility/ Innovation’ award (Outbound Logistics) in its 2015 ALE Supplier Convention.This award was given in recognition of our Company's service flexibility, adaptability and support of the 'Monozukuri' concept of continuous process improvement. 1st Neptune Lines Agents Conference October 23rd 2015 Our first official 'Stakeholder Engagement' event. During this whole-day Conference, we had the opportunity to discuss various issues with our Port Agents, who comprise one of our major Stakeholders. Discussions held, provided significant input for our material topics. Dry Cargo Company of the Year 2015 December 4th 2015 An independent judging panel representing a broad cross-section of the Greek shipping community and industry experts selected our Company as Dry Cargo Company of the Year, in the award tradition established by Lloyd’s List to honour achievement and excellence in the Greek shipping community. 78 Progress on Targets set in our last report... Topic Targets for 2014-2015 Outcome Environmental New buildings delivery within 2014 New buildings were delivered on Performance February and April 2014 Sustainability Become signatory of UN Global Signed the 'UN Global Compact' on Compact September 23rd, 2014 Occupational Include all vessels under OHSAS All vessels were included in OHSAS Health and Safety certification certificate on April 07th, 2014 Maintain managers and employees Achieved. See p.63 workforce by gender at the same levels Employment for 2014 Increase women employment onboard Not achieved due to limited openings in vessels by 5% for 2014 shipboard positions Implement electronic training & Computer Based Training (CBT) was education program onboard fleet vessels implemented to all vessels on Sept.2014 Electronic Training Increase training hours by 5% for 2014 Achieved. Training hours per & Education shore-based employee increased from Program 8 to 26 while training sessions for shipboard personnel increased from 5.51 to 8.51. See p.71 Cargo Quality Maintain maritime damage ratio at less Achieved. Maritime damage ratio was than 0.2% of total transported cargo reduced to 0.1%. See p.76 Anti corruption & All office employees shall receive Familiarization training was provided to Anti competitive relevant training by the end of 2014 all employees. See p.72-73 behavior training program OHSAS awareness All office employees shall receive Familiarization training was provided to program relevant training by the end of 2014 all employees Reduce CO2 emissions by 0.5% Achieved. CO2 emissions were reduced by 3.86% from 2013 till 2015. See p.49 Reduce energy consumption by 2% Achieved for shipboard operations (3.86%) but not achieved for Minimize shore-based operations. See p.56-57 environmental impact Maintain zero waste disposal at sea Not achieved. See p.50 Maintain zero oil spills Achieved. Zero spills for 2014-2015. See p.51 Reduce chemicals consumption by 5% Achieved. Chemicals consumption was reduced by 13.8%. See p.51 Reduce paper consumption by 10% Not achieved. Reduced by 3.8%. See p.51 Maintain sulphur value at less than Achieved. Mean value 2.61 for 2014 2.7 m/m and 2.64 for 2015 Maintain LTIF at 1.9 incidents per Not achieved. See p.68 Minimize injuries million hours & illnesses Maintain zero fatalities Achieved. No fatal incidents occurred. See p.68 Combating poverty. Support local Achieved. 11.170 families were Establish new CSR families through charitable donations supported. See p.75 programs Support educational program for the Achieved. Continued in 2014 and 2015. Friends of the Child See p.75 80 81 ANNEX Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number Identified Omission (s) Reason for Explanation for External Reporting Level: In Accordance Core (G4-32) Indicators Omission (s) Omissions (s) Assurance Category: Economic General Standard Disclosures (GSD) Material Aspect: Economic Performance GSD Page Number External G4-DMA p.42 None No Assurance G4-EC2 p.42 None No Strategy and Analysis Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-1 p.4-5 No G4-DMA p.43-44 None No G4-EC5 p.43 None No Organization Profile G4-3 p.8 No Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-4 p.8 No G4-DMA p.42 None No G4-5 p.86 No G4-EC9 p.42-43 None No G4-6 p.8 No Category: Environmental G4-7 p.8 No Material Aspect: Energy G4-8 p.8 No G4-DMA p.56 None No G4-9 p.8-9 No G4-EN3 p.49, p.56-57 None No G4-10 p.62 No G4-EN6 p.48-49, None No p.56-57 G4-11 p.62 No G4-12 p.10-11 No Material Aspect: Emissions G4-13 p.9, p.44, p.48, p.62 No G4-DMA p.48 None No G4-14 p.12 No G4-EN15 p.48-49 None No G4-15 p.12, p.72 No G4-EN19 p.48-49 None No G4-16 p.12 No Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste Identified Materials Aspects and Boundaries G4-DMA p.50 None No G4-17 p.26 No G4-EN23 p.50-51 None No G4-18 p.27, p.29-30-31-32 No G4-EN24 p.50 None No G4-19 p.33-34-35-36-37-38-39 No Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-20 p.32-33-34-35-36-37-38-39 No G4-DMA p.54 None No G4-21 p.32-33-34-35-36-37-38-39 No G4-EN27 p.54 None No G4-22 p.3 No Material Aspect: Compliance G4-23 p.26, p.31-32 No G4-DMA p.55 None No Stakeholder Engagement G4-EN29 p.55 None No G4-24 p.18, p.20-21-22-23 No Category: Social G4-25 p.18-19, p.29 No Sub Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-26 p.20-21-22-23, p.27, p.29 No Material Aspect: Employment G4-27 p.28 No G4-DMA p.62, p.65 None No Report Profile G4-LA1 p.63-64 None No G4-28 p.3 No G4-LA2 p.65 None No G4-29 p.3 No Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-30 p.3 No G4-DMA p.68 None No G4-31 p.86 No G4-LA6 p.68-69 None No G4-32 p.3, p.82-83-84 No Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-33 p.3, p.82-83-84 No G4-DMA p.70 None No Governance G4-LA9 p.70-71 None No G4-34 p.13 No Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ethics and Integrity G4-DMA p.37 None No G4-56 p.14-15 No G4-LA13 p.65 None No 82 83 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Table Specific Standard Disclosures The Ten Principles of Global Compact DMA and Page Number Identified Omission (s) Reason for Explanation for External Assurance Sustainability Report Reference or Page Numbers & Indicators Omission (s) Omissions (s) Implementation Approach GRI disclosures/ Sub Category: Human Rights indicators Material Aspect: Non Discrimination Human Rights G4-DMA p.59-60 None No Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Human Rights p.60-61 (G4-HR3, protection of internationally proclaimed Labor Practices & Decent Work: G4-HR7) G4-HR3 p.60-61 None No human rights Employment p.65 (G4-LA2,G4Material Aspect: Child Labor LA13) G4-DMA p.59-60 None No Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are As per above As per above G4-HR5 p.60-61 None No not complicit in human rights abuses Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Labor G4-DMA p.59-60 None No Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Labor Practices & Decent Work: p.62 (G4-11) G4-HR6 p.60-61 None No association and the effective recognition of Employment the right to collective bargaining Material Aspect: Security Practices Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Human Rights: p.60-61 (G4-HR6) G4-DMA p.59-60 None No all forms of forced and compulsory labor Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR7 p.60-61 None No Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Human Rights: p.60-61 (G4-HR5) Sub Category: Society abolition of child labor Child Labor Material Aspect: Anti Corruption Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Human Rights: Non-Discrimination p.60-61 (G4-HR3) discrimination in respect of employment and Labor Practices & Decent Work: P.62 (G4-10) G4-DMA p.14-15, p.72 None No occupation Employment Equal Remuneration p.65 (G4-LA13) G4-SO4 p.72-73 None No for Women and Men Diversity and G4-SO5 p.72-73 None No Equal Opportunity Material Aspect: Anti Competitive Behavior Environment G4-DMA p.14-15, p.37, None No Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental Performance: p.12 (G4-14) p.73 approach to environmental challenges Energy Emissions Effluents&Waste P.42 (G4–EC2) G4-SO7 p.73 None No Products & Services Compliance p.48-51 & p.54-57 (G4-EN3, G4-EN6, Material Aspect: Compliance G4-EN15, G4-EN19, G4-DMA p.14-15, p.72 None No G4-EN23, G4-EN24, G4-SO8 p.73 None No G4-EN27, G4-EN29) Sub Category: Product Responsibility Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to As per above As per above plus promote greater environmental responsibility p.52-53(Technology Material Aspect: Product and Service Labelling Innovation) G4-DMA p.76 None No Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the As per above As per above plus G4-PR5 p.76 No survey results The information is No development and diffusion of p.52-53(Technology reported. subject to specific environmentally friendly technologies Innovation) confidentiality constraints Anti Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against Society: p.14-15 (G4-56) Material Aspect: Marketing Communications corruption in all its forms, including Anti Corruption Anti Competitive p.72-73 (G4-SO4, G4-DMA p.77 None No extortion and bribery Behavior Conflicts of InterestG4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-PR7 p.77 None No Compliance Code of Conduct G4-SO8) Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA p.77 None No G4-PR8 p.77 None No Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA p.38 None No G4-PR9 p.77 None No 84 85 Neptune Lines Sustainability Contact Desk (G4-31) Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A 5-9 Iassonos Street, GR 18537, Piraeus, Greece (G4-5) Department of Health Safety Quality & Environment (H.S.Q.E) Tel.: +30 210-4557700 Email: hsqe@neptunelines.com Web: www.neptunelines.com 86
