FAME Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Address No.20, Mingyi Mahar Min Gaung Road, Zone (3), Hlaing Tharyar City of Industry, Yangon, Myanmar. Ph : 95-1-685 609, 682 199, 685 083, 95-9-731 422 16 Fax : 95-1-680 122, www.famepharma.com, FAME Pharmaceuticals The period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) of FAME Pharmaceuticals is from February 2015 to February 2016. Contents Statement of Continued Support ............................................................................. 1 Message from Managing Director ............................................................................. 2 Certificates and Awards ......................................................................................... 3 Human Right Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals ............................................................................. 5 Implementation ..................................................................................................... 5 Outcomes ................................................................................................................. 10 Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals ............................................................................. 11 FAME Occupational Health and Safety Policy ..................................................... 12 Implementation ..................................................................................................... 13 Outcomes ................................................................................................................. 15 Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals ............................................................................. 16 FAME Environmental Policy ......................................................................................... 16 Implementation Saving energy consumption ......................................................................................... 17 Management system on Air Pollution ................................................................. 18 Energy Management System ......................................................................................... 19 Natural Resource Conservation ............................................................................. 21 Waste Management System ......................................................................................... 22 Water Management System ......................................................................................... 23 Biodiversity ................................................................................................................. 25 Organic Farming Project ......................................................................................... 25 Outcomes ................................................................................................................. 28 Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy FAME Policy Statements ......................................................................................... 29 Implementation ..................................................................................................... 29 Record Keeping & Monitoring and Review ................................................................. 32 Outcomes ................................................................................................................. 32 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Statement of Continued Support H.E. Ban Ki Moon Secretary – General United Nation New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. SecretaryGeneral, I am honored and please to confirm that FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd reaffirms its support of Ten principles of United Nation Global Compact in areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we represent our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business structure, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. FEB 2015-2016 1 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR FAME Pharmaceuticals has been two years for being member of United Nation Global Compact since 2014. I’m pleased to share that we are continuing our CSR activities for providing opportunities to our employees, communities, the environment of our planet and also our business. On the way to implement continually on our CSR activities, we support the UN Global compact and its Ten Principles based on four main areas; Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption and also encourage our stakeholders, business leaders, self-contractors for co-operation in CSR activities. We are proud to share these ideas and principles with the United Nation Global Compact and everyone affected with our daily operations in this annual 2015 Communication on Progress. On going forward, I hope and believe that our corporate social responsibility activities are going to be carried out by not only voluntary approach but also developing our responsible business practices with acceleration and delivering true value to our customers, employees, stakeholders and society. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,ltd. FEB 2015-2016 2 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ISO 9001:2008 OHSAS 18001:2007 ISO 14001:2004 Organic (Myanmar) U.S FDA Registration UN Global Compact GMP Organic (ACT, Thailand) USDA Certificate FEB 2015-2016 3 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS For CSR in 2010 (Finalist) ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS 2014 (2nd Runner UP) Most Admired ASEAN ASEAN Energy Award Enterprise Innovation (Winner) in 2013 National Winner 2014 (Myanmar) Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise Innovation President’s Excellent Performance Award in 2014 FEB 2015-2016 4 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Human Rights Principle (1) Principle (2) Business should support and respect the Business should make sure they are not protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human right abuses. human right. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our business support all employees for equality of opportunity. As we are following the Universal Declaration of human right, we perform continually on responsibility of care for employees, stakeholders, customers and community. There are several programs that protect and benefit the employees practicing in our factory. We are also providing Training programs, Entertainment and Education and as for health and safety, we are practicing Occupational Health and Safety Assessment system (OHSAS 18001:2007). Our objective is to create the happy and healthy workplace for employees and then they can do their duties to the best of quality. Implementation Employee training : When new employees start to join our work place, we have planned training programs for them which are rules and regulations for employees clarified by HR manager, Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2008) and Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Occupational Health and Safety Assurance System (OHSAS 18001:2007), New Employees’ Training Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004), Corporate Social Responsibility (ISO 26000) by respective representatives to get more confidence in work place and then take assessment after training. Training course for new employee is about 10 hours and then, they have to learn on job training by the respective manager in their own department. In each department, departmental training and tool box meeting are done monthly. Tool Box Meeting FEB 2015-2016 5 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We also invited ISO external trainers from Bureau Veritas (Thailand) to give ISO upgrade version training to our employees. Moreover, we have a technical advisor from Nippon Foundation (Japan) by one year contract for employees of Research and Development and Quality Control Department to learn such as Clinical Trial, GLP, GCP, etc. We also make a supporting program that when we Technical Training from External Suppliers buy a new machine from external suppliers, they give the technical and application trainings to our employees by their technical trainer to get more confidence and friendly with the machines. In 2015, there were (24) external trainings including Foreign (8) and Local (16) and regular internal trainings including weekly Educational trainings and monthly Departmental trainings. ISO External Training We use intranet mailing system and share network to communicate between departments in our compound. We also practice mail system for taking leave to HR department. By doing so, we can reduce time and paper usage for internal communication. Training of technical advisor from Nippon Foundation (Japan) External Training FEB 2015-2016 6 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Education and Entertainment: We have Saturday program in every week and HR department divide the employees into (4) groups , group A, B, C, D to make education and entertainment programs alternatively. For the purpose of this program is to give and share more knowledges and entertainment programs for mind relaxation. Weekly Education Program Weekly Entertainment Program Education Program from External Speaker Fire drills exercise had been organized (4) times per year regarding the way of employees’ evacuation in case of fire at the work place. All employees participated well. Fire Drill Exercises FEB 2015-2016 7 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For the Health and Safety of employees by OHSAS 18001:2007 system, new employees have been made medical checked-up for infectious diseases such as HIV, TB, HBV etc. We also provide a First Aid box and First Aider from each department has been trained. Every employee can consult with OHSAS doctor at FAME internal clinic when they are sick or in emergency case. And also they are subjected to general medical check-up each year. FAME Internal Clinic Medical Check-up by OHSAS Officer First Aid exercises FEB 2015-2016 8 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. CSR journals have been distributed since 2013 and publish (3) times per year. All employees are willing to participate in CSR journals. In CSR journals, they share their own feelings, poems, novels, motivation, environmental technologies and education knowledges. We distribute CSR journals to employees, stakeholders and business partners to know more about our company activities. FEB 2015-2016 9 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We create a pleasant and comfortable, working area, library with up to date pharmacopoeias, canteen, purified drinking water, uniform, transportation, rest room for our employees. Library Map Library Cafeteria Transportation for employees Measurement of Outcomes During this reporting period, there is no complaint concerned with human right from our employees and they enjoy in their work place with confidence from the trainings and education programs. They also satisfy our health care system. FEB 2015-2016 10 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals FAME Pharmaceuticals uphold freedom of association (SA 8000 team) and is positive work environment where employees are treated equally and take care of their well-being. Our main priority is making a discrimination free zone with no forced and compulsory labour. In addition, Top level management revises rules and regulations once per year and update everytime according to National Labour legislation. We prohibit child labour in our factory and self-contractors also. The goal of SA 8000 team is giving opportunity for collective bargaining of employees and solving their problems by co-operation with SA team members from each departments and SA Representative of FAME Pharmaceuticals to get more benefits in work place. FAME Pharmaceuticals is the business of Research, Development, Manufacturing and Distribution of the Alternative Herbal Medicinal Products for the healthy lifestyle and improving quality of life. As such, we have OHSAS policy on various risks associated with our work activities, including fire hazards, machinery hazards, electrical hazards, etc. FEB 2015-2016 11 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implements occupational health and safety management system which is appropriate to the nature and scale of the organization’s occupational health and safety risks. 2. FAME Pharmaceuticals will maintain a safe and healthy work environment by controlling potential hazards as much as we can and will document and maintain the implemented the Occupational Health and Safety management system according to the ISO (OHSAS 18001) international standard guidelines. 3. FAME Pharmaceuticals will comply with current applicable occupational health and safety legislation and where Myanmar legislation is inadequate, will comply with international standards and go beyond to the requirements. 4. FAME Pharmaceuticals will provide proper training, supervision, safe equipment and facilities and sufficient resources to meet our requirements. 5. FAME Pharmaceuticals will continually strive to improve on our work safety performance from time to time by controlling potential hazards so as to ensure safety and health for every parties involved. 6. FAME Pharmaceuticals OSH Policy is available to all interested parties. 7. FAME Pharmaceuticals reviews the OSH Policy periodically to ensure that it remain relevant and appropriate to our organization. FEB 2015-2016 12 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Implementation Social Accountability (SA 8000) team was organized with SA members since 2008, a member from each department and SA leader are elected by voting system once per year and has a SA representative of SA Executive Committee. Every SA member has opportunity to discuss at SA meeting which holds monthly. FAME volunteer task force (FVTF) activity by co-operation of employees has volunteering activity by donation of cash and in-kind to orphanage house, nursing home, flood-victims, etc. It has been 29th donation of FVTF activity in 2015 by doing continuously. SA 8000 Team All Employees are eligible to monthly salaries, overtime allowance for extra hours, travelling allowance, supporting transportation, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for employees and for yearly leave entitlement; causal leave, earned leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, fully paid extended medical leave and blood donors leave. FAME Pharmaceuticals give over basic salary to employees settled by National Labour Organization (Myanmar). FAME Pharmaceuticals practice labour policies and regulations settled by Local labour laws and ILO. There is no discrimination on a person’s race, colour, gender, religion which are not related to a person’s ability to perform his/her duty and exclude forced and compulsory labour. For Employees’ health and safety, we are implementing OHSAS 18001:2007 system. In FAME pharmaceuticals, we do not appoint any person who is under 18 years-old. Moreover, our business contractors do not hire under 18 years old person. Not only in our factory but also in our business contractors follow the abolitions of child labour. In addition, we do not allow any form of verbal, physical and mental harassments among employees in our factory. FEB 2015-2016 13 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We provide trip plans especially for serviced employees working at FAME Pharmaceuticals. Human resource department arranged 2 recreation trips in 2015; one was Chaungthar Beach and another was Mandalay, Pyin Oo Lwin, Innwa trip in April 2015 for relaxation in Myanmar New Year holidays. Recreation Trips for employees FEB 2015-2016 14 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. In every Happy New Year, we celebrate new year staff party in december. In that party, there were many programs like singing contest, lucky draw, traditional dance, providing foods, etc and outstanding employees are awarded for being without leaves. Awarding to outstanding employee Traditional dance Lucky Draw Program Singing Contest Measurement of outcomes FAME Pharmaceuticals take care the voices of employees and always can support any needs of all employees by having monthly SA team meeting. There is no complaint about HR rules and regulations and no violation to labour laws and ILO during this reporting period. FEB 2015-2016 15 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Environmental Principles Principle 7 : Businesss should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals As FAME Pharmaceuticals is manufacturing herbal medicines including organic herbals, we ensure to minimize adverse effect and give positive to our environment by implementing Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) starting from 2006 to nowadays. We also identifies environmental aspects and product life cycle. Now we have been upgraded to 2015 version of Environmental Management System. Environmental Policy 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implement Environmental Management System to improve its Environmental Management and ultimately, to reduce the environmental impacts of its operation, activities and products. 2. Environmental Management organizations will clearly define responsibilities and authorities. This shall be established to ensure conformance with legislation and regulation of the nations and with other related requirements to which the organization subscribes related to its environmental aspects. 3. The environmental impact caused by our production activities, products and services shall be precisely analyzed and assessed. The objectives, targets and measure for improving the environment shall be established, implemented and reviewed considering technical and economical possibility. 4. Activities for suppression of waste, energy saving and material conservation should be promoted. 5. All persons working for this Environmental management system should be given full understanding of this environmental policy through environmental education and internal information. All the persons concerned oneself should be interested in an environmental problem and be able to act. We are implementing continually our EMS policy by Internal Environmental Management Committee. FEB 2015-2016 16 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Saving the energy consumption Energy Sources : Electricity, Diesel, Water, Solar energy Our objective for EMS is to reduce energy intensity by 1% annually from 2015 baseline up to a cumulative reduction of 5% at 2020 and target is to identify baseline energy consumption for the year 2015, to increase energy savings from using renewable energy sources, to use solar energy in drying process. To perform that objective and target, Saving Energy Consumption as programs: we identify list of all energy consumed machines, facilities, process, activities and equipments and their energy consumption data and also make daily and monthly record of main meters, sub-meters and machines running hours and identify list of external and internal drivers that influence upon energy consumption. After accessing Environmental objective and target, we also evaluate results by setting Key Performance Indicators such as 1. Monthly supply and usage of tube well and RO water 2. Monthly production amount for each production unit 3. Monthly energy saving units from using of solar energy As operational control, we comply with standard operating procedures, switching off the power, lights, PCs and air conditioners if unnecessary. We also have purchasing criteria for emergency performance of new inputs, machines operation and maintenance record. As Monitoring and Measurement, we regress analysis of annualized energy consumption and productivity for actual and targeted energy performance. FEB 2015-2016 17 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Management System on Air Pollution Based on the data on fuel consumption, electricity consumption and respiration by employees working in the FAME Pharmaceuticals, FAME’s carbon dioxide emission data can be calculated. And the carbon dioxide is reduced by the photosynthesis of plants at FAME organic Pharming project and factory compound, FAME’s carbon dioxide reduction data can also be calculated. The chart below has shown the comparison of monthly carbon dioxide emission and reduction data of FAME Pharmaceuticals during the whole year of 2015. It is clear that FAME can reduce the carbon dioxide emission effectively more than our expectation. Data on Carbon dioxide Emission and Reduction (2015) FEB 2015-2016 18 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Energy Management System As our priority objective is not only to obtain high quality products but also to become the classic factory in Myanmar. We use the energy with the most efficient way to prevent environmental damage and to reduce the energy usage systematically. Energy management system is a part of Environmental Management System to make innovations for energy conservation and energy management. We also have Energy management committee since 2002. Implementation and outcomes As the world encountered fossil fuel depletion, global warming and climate change due to increased carbon dioxide emission to the atmosphere. By those incidences, FAME got awareness on the vital role of energy especially on “Energy Efficiency and conservation”. To reduce those environmental impacts and prolong use of fossil fuel. FAME started seeking for application of alternative renewable energy such as solar energy. We created the solar thermal drying rooms with the following main objectives. 1. To reduce electrical power consumption on lighting by creating and enhancing the natural light. 2. To provide energy saving practice among the community. 3. To reduce the failure of electrical appliances (i.e. Lamp, fixtures etc) 4. To reduce production cost by saving money. FEB 2015-2016 19 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Solar thermal drying rooms are specific unit improvement of FAME and it dramatically eliminated the Efficient Energy Indicator (EEI) to be Zero for that process. It saved energy by 131928 kWh per year. It also reduced carbon dioxide by 42.76 tons per year. The specific unit improvement achieved 34% of Drying Herbal by Solar Energy the total energy conservation measures of FAME. The specific unique improvement was on drying process and it was implemented by utilizing Solar Thermal Energy in drying process instead of electrical power. Solar thermal drying rooms consist of 1. Natural sun drying room I and II 2. Natural air drying room The factory and building are designed using natural solar light especially at the library, lobby and production area. By doing so, FAME can significantly reduce the charges cost for electricity. Library Area using Solar Light FEB 2015-2016 20 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Natural Resource Conservation Our objective for Natural Resource Conservation is to get 2% reduction in A4 Paper Annual Purchase and targets is to implement internal and external mailing system. To perform that objective and target, as programs: we use Intranet and Internet email system, e-form in communicating and in reporting by the limited supply of maximum 20 packets of A4 paper per month for the whole factory. After accessing Natural Resource Conservation objective and target, we evaluate results by record of A4 paper purchase. As operational control, we use double-sided copying, reusing one sided papers, use of e-form and email. As Monitoring and Measurement, we review monthly A4 purchase, and its cost. FEB 2015-2016 21 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Waste Management Our objective for waste control is to get 80% recycling rate of non-hazardous solid waste by December 2015 and our target is to segregate type of wastes by color coding of waste bins and to reduce product impact. To meet with our objective and target, our factory has Waste bins classification Orange General Waste Black Domestic, Herbal rejects Blue E-waste, Hazardous waste Green Recycle paper, plastic Recycle bin for wasted plastic bottles of our products from our customers (e.g clinic waste disposal) In upcoming year, we have also plans to upgrade our Waste Management System by contacting with International Waste Management Service company. For Operational control, we evaluate results by setting key performance indicator such as resale departmental checklist and record and procedure for waste disposal. We have also notice signboard to explain recycling process of wasted plastic bottles, Suggestion box for customer feedback. As Monitoring and Measurement, we do Site inspection, monthly review of resale and waste disposal records and customer survey result monthly review of recycle record. Different Waste Bins based on Waste Disposals FEB 2015-2016 22 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Waste Water Management Our objective for waste water management is to have no community complaint regarding the factory’s waste water disposal into common drainage e.g bad smell drainage blockage, to have no toxic chemical effect of our waste water disposal on environmental common drainage and to practice the reuse of air-con outlet water for watering plants in our compound. Our target is to have fully compliance of waste water quality standards as stated in Myanmar Environmental Conservation law (law no. 09/2012) and other reference standards. To implement our objective and target, we maintain waste water treatment procedures as follows; daily cleaning of internal and external drainage, Monthly cleaning of waste water treatment tank, quarterly changing of treatment filters, quarterly checking of inlet and outlet waste water chemical test. We also stored air-con outlet water in storage tank for watering the plants. After accessing waste water management objective and target, we evaluate results by setting key performance indicators such as waste water chemical test results, reduction data of water usage for plants. Waste Water Treatment Tank FEB 2015-2016 23 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Waste Water Management As for Site inspection, we check for re-usage of watering plants and community complaint report. As Operational control, we daily maintain and site inspect to waste water treatment tank and pumping system and quarterly checking of inlet and outlet waste water chemical test to comply with current water quality standard and issue environmental awareness articles in Quarterly CSR Journals. For Monitoring and Measurement, we do management review analysis record for waste water treatment system by optimization, monitoring the reduction & recycle of water for effective watering system, Waste water chemical test results, Customer / Community feedback report. FEB 2015-2016 24 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Biodiversity Crops rotation to build soil fertility reduces erosion of agro-biodiversity, creating a healthier gene pool the basis for future adaptation. The provision of structures providing food and shelter, and the lack of pesticide use, attract new or re-colonizing species to the organic area, including wild flora and fauna and organisms beneficial to the organic system such as pollinators and pest predators. Biodiversity, in terms of a wide range of plants, insects and animals, is key to organic farming. FAME Organic Farming Project It is established since 2003 at Pyin-Oo-Lwin township in Mandalay city (Myanmar). Organic agriculture is a production system that sustains the health of soils, ecosystem and people. Organic farm relies on ecological processes, like green manure, natural compost, biological pest control and biodiversity rather than the use of chemical inputs with adverse effects. As our factory is herbal medicines manufacturing factory, we intended to deliver organic herbals to our customers and to reduce air pollution and maintain for oxygen and carbon dioxide balance. FEB 2015-2016 25 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For environmental protection, We have the following management and controls. Soil management is the most important part to set up an organic farm as the plants need nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium as micronutrients. Cow manure has been used as natural fertilizer. Earthworm natural fertilizer is specially made and used for certain plants. Weed control is important measure in organic farm by hand-weeding, mulching and solarisation. Crop rotation has been done in our organic farm to enhance the soil quality by planting the nitrogen fixing plants like alfalfa, the root of which can fix nitrogen from the atmosphere through symbiosis with bacteria rhizobia. Planting companion plants is major role in organic farming to protect the main plants from the insect attack. We have been using garlic, marigold, Chrysanthemum and Artemisia as companion plants. We use bee-keeping practice as a biological pest control and also use neem, garlic, ginger and chilli as organic insecticides. Bee Garden FEB 2015-2016 26 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We also protect rare species in Myanmar (e.g Cissus spp) and also cultivate other foreign species in organic farm. Gingko biloba Cissus spp Glycyrrhiza uralensis Herbal Plants at FAME Organic Farm We differentiate dos and don’ts in FAME organic farm. Dos – Crop rotation, Green manure, Natural compost, Natural pest control, full records Don’ts – Synthetic fertilizers, Synthetic pesticides, Plant growth regulators, Livestock feed additives, GMO (Genetically modified) FEB 2015-2016 27 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We achieved the Organic Certificates for our Organic Farming Project Organic Certified by MOAG (Myanmar Organic Agriculture Group) in 2010 Organic Certified by USDA (United States Department of Organic Certified by Agriculture) and ACO Thailand ACT (IFOAM) (Australian Certified Organic) Accredited in 2010 in 2014 Yadanapon Award for Agricultural Research in 2015 Outcomes As we are always trying to improve our Environmental management system, now we can also update ISO version (ISO 14001:2015) in 2015. By management on energy consumption, we had achieved ASEAN Energy Awards since 2013 (Solar Thermal Drying Rooms of FAME Pharmaceuticals) and continuously we can save much energy consumption. We can save water usage and it makes ensure that there is no toxic chemical substances which impact negative effect on environment by checking for waste disposal water. By use of intranet and internet mailing system, we can reduce paper usage helping for prevention of deforestation. FAME Organic Farming can reduce carbon dioxide, protect endangered species and maintain eco-system. It has benefit for providing herbal plants for FAME herbal medicines and also special organic honey from bee garden. FEB 2015-2016 28 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Principle Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy Statement FAME Pharmaceuticals has a well-established reputation in conducting all of our business in honest and ethical manners. We also take zero tolerance approach to corruption and bribery by any of our employees, third-party representatives. Furthermore, we are committed to conducting our business in all applicable laws, rules and regulations and the highest ethical standard. Implementation We conduct training for all new employees and provide relevant training on how to implement and adhere to anti-corruption policy for all existing employees. Annually we ask all employees to formally accept conformance to this policy. Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption must be communicated to all those who are working with us including suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter. In case of gifts and hospitality, Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals do not made with the intention of influencing a third party to obtain any business advantage, or to reward the provision or retention of business, or explicit or implicit exchange for benefits. It is given openly, not secretly according to applicable national laws and conformity with Local custom. Employees not offered to, or accepted from, government officials or representatives, or politicians or political parties. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals who received appropriate gifts contribute what they received to charitable donations for vulnerable community. FEB 2015-2016 29 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. All employees follow principles in interactions with the Government (1) FAME Pharmaceuticals will proactively seek dialogue and co-operation with the Government of Republic of the Union of Myanmar provided such engagement is necessary, appropriate and mutually beneficial to both parties. (2) FAME Pharmaceuticals will build its dialogue with Government Officials on its active involvement in and close link to civil society including Non-governmental organizations. (3) FAME Pharmaceuticals is committed to honesty and integrity when in its interactions with Government Officials, by adopting a transparent and responsible behavior, respecting all applicable local laws. (4) In their interactions with Government Officials, employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals are expected to take all reasonable steps to ensure the truth and accuracy of all statements made or information provided by them. (5) Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals shall always identify themselves openly and correctly when representing and their specific function. (6) Employees shall not misrepresent their status or the nature of their inquiries to Government Officials nor shall they create any false impression in relation thereto. Facilitation Payments and Kickbacks Either employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals or person acting on behalf of FAME Pharmaceuticals may not make or accept any kind of facilitation payments and kickbacks. “Facilitation payment” is defined as payment made to a government officials to facilitate approval of some type of business transaction or activity. “Kickbacks” is defined as “Payments made to commercial organizations in return for a business advantage, such as a payment made to secure the award of a contract”. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals avoid any activity that might lead to a facilitation Payment or Kickback will be made. FEB 2015-2016 30 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Donations FAME Pharmaceuticals do not make any donation or contribution whether in cash or kind to any political parties or candidates. As part of FAME Pharmaceuticals Corporate Social Responsibilities, we are committed to support in the development of our community therefore we accept to make charitable support and donations for the development of local people, whether of in-kind services, knowledge, time, or direct financial contribuDonation to Flooding Victim at Bago City tions. However, every employees of FAME do careful to ensure that charitable contributions are not used as a scheme to conceal bribery. We only make charitable donations that are legal and ethical under local laws and practices. We, FAME Pharmaceuticals publicly disclose information of the charitable donations every time we make. Donation to Flooding Victims at Darka Village near Pathein Township FEB 2015-2016 31 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Record-Keeping All documentations related to anti-corruption policy are kept in Document Control Centre. Monitoring and measurement are done on Yearly basis. We keep financial records and have appropriate internal controls in place which will evidence the business reason for making payments to third parties. Responsible persons are ensure that books, records and overall financial reporting are also transparent. They accurately reflect each and all underlying transactions. We declare and keep a written record of all hospitality or gifts accepted or offered which will be subject to managerial review which is usually held twice a year. We also ensure all expenses claims relating to hospitality, gifts or expenses incurred to third parties are submitted in accordance with our expenses policy and specifically record the reason for the expenditure. All accounts, invoices, memoranda and other documents and records relating to dealings with third parties, such as clients, suppliers and business contracts, should be prepared and maintained with strict accuracy and completeness. No accounts must be kept “of-book” to facilitate or conceal improper payments. Monitoring and Review Top level management which includes Board of Directors are responsible for monitoring and measurement on the sustainable effectiveness of FAME’s anti-corruption policy and review the implementation of this policy, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. All employees are responsible for the success of this policy and should ensure they use it to disclose any suspected danger or wrongdoing. Employees are invited to comment on this policy and suggest ways in which it might be improved. Comments, suggestions and queries should be addressed to the Board of Directors. This policy does not form part of any employee’s contract of employment and it may be amended at any time. Outcomes Periodic review of results was carried out by Top level management and no disciplinary was taken action on any of our employees during 2015 period. FEB 2015-2016 32
