United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015-2016 In 2015, the Chambers Federation joined the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. For further information on the Chambers Federations sustainability principles and practices please visit http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ or https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/64881 to view our participation with the UN Global Compact. Global Compact Principles Human Rights The Chambers Federation works in collaboration with several development agencies, primarily the UN, and NGOs that focus, in Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the part, on both the protection of human rights but also to ensure the protection of internationally proclaimed human Company is not directly or indirectly involved in human rights rights. violations in any way. Due to the Company’s investments into Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in former conflict zones, this is one of the most important due human rights abuses. diligence standards the Company focuses on. This requires constant internal monitoring and audit of our partners and suppliers. Labor Standards Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association Through a combination of detailed contractual obligations to and the effective recognition of the right to consistent site monitoring, the Company does everything possible collective bargaining to ensure any groups, typically cooperatives, that the Company invests into/works with are compliant with both local and Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms international forced labor, child labor, discrimination and collective of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of bargaining laws. This is further monitored by yearly audits to ensure child labor. the Company’s efforts are effective. The Company further invests into rural communities to provide women and youth empowerment Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of opportunities to further the Company’s investment focus on social discrimination in respect of employment and impact. occupation. Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach The Chambers Federation incorporates environmental protection to environmental responsibility. into its supplier contracts, monitors environmental impact of its investments and actively invests in new technologies to reduce the Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote ‘footprint’ of its projects. The Company finds many opportunities, greater environmental responsibility. specifically in the ASM community, to substantially reduce, even Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and eliminate the usage of Mercury(Hg), Cyanide(NaCN) and Nitric diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Acid(HNO3). Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its The Chambers Federation is a US company, subject to FCPA forms, including extortion and bribery. regulations. All of the Company’s accounts are restricted in use to limit the possibilities of corruption and all accounts are audited in countries where corruption is widely prevalent. Measurement of Outcomes For the 2015-2016 reporting period, the Chambers Federation has invested into a woman owned Kenyan social enterprise, Recycle Tribe, training women to be carpenters, how to recycle wood from the shipping and construction industries to make furniture and other household items. To date, this enterprise has, within a very short period of time, impacted over 70 people. Additionally, the Company has renewed its investment into the woman owned construction company, Empowerment Lighthouse Ltd, impacting over 200 women every year and operating in 3 African countries. The Company’s most significant investments, made between 2013 to 2016, into projects in the former conflict zones of eastern Congo, are expected to commence before year’s end, 2016. The impact from these investments are expected to reach nearly 1.5 million people, removing thousands from abject poverty by increasing ASM incomes by 80%, improving health and safety standards in ASM communities, collecting over $1.8 million in additional taxes and nearly $2 million in profit reinvestment into the local communities. CHAMBERS FINANCIAL GROUP A US Corporation Sept 7th, 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, REAF FIRMATION To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the Chambers Federation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To view more detailed information on the impact of the Chambers Federations investments and initiatives please visit: http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ Thank you Matthew Chambers President, Chambers Federation Chambers Financial Group, subsidiary, a US Federal Contractor chambersfederation@gmail.com / matthew@chambersfederation.com www.chambersfederation.com
