COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 TABLE OF CONTENT 1/ Statement from the CEO 2/ The ten principles of the UN Global Compact 4/ HRA Pharma at a Glance RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS / 6 6/ • Promoting UN Global Compact among our business partners and suppliers • Improving business processes • Promoting transparent interactions 7/ • Preventing corruption in business • Compliant conduct COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT / 9 9/ • Developing talents • Developing managers 10 / • Sharing knowledge and experience • Working conditions follow-up SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT / 12 12 / • Fostering a culture of engagement 13 / • Minimize our environmental impact STATEMENT FROM THE CEO We are actively engaged in promoting actions to encourage a socially responsible business behavior, which is for us a substantial source of growth and performance ” HRA Pharma is a dynamic and fast-growing company, rich in accomplishments with a proven track record of success in introducing innovative medicines that make a difference for people’s health. The products that we develop and distribute, in an ever increasing number of countries, enable women to control their reproductive life as their wish and rare diseases patients to benefit from effective therapeutic options and services. As a highly committed pharmaceutical company, we believe we have a particular responsibility to our stakeholders and to society at large. To meet these expectations, we strive for sustainable business development with the objective to do our business responsibly while pursuing our vision to reinvent healthcare for women and rare diseases patients. Beyond the strict compliance with current legislation, we are actively engaged in promoting actions to encourage a socially responsible business behavior, which is for us a substantial source of growth and performance. HRA Pharma was honored to join the United Nations Global Compact in 2011. In this fourth report, we describe our activities and progresses made in 2016 and we provide an overview of actions for the years to come. We hope you will enjoy this report, and get a sustainable look at HRA Pharma. François Vuillet CEO of HRA Pharma COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 1 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative for companies that are committed to sustainable business practices. It seeks to align corporate strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. As of Dec. 8, 2016, 9 146 companies from 168 countries have joined Global Compact (source: www.unglobal compact.com). HRA Pharma signed up to the Global Compact in 2011 and has adopted it 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit Businesses should support a precautionary in human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater LABOUR environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom Encourage the development and of association and the effective recognition diffusion of environmentally friendly of the right to collective bargaining technologies PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against PRINCIPLE 6 corruption in all its forms, including The elimination of discrimination in extortion and bribery respect of employment and occupation 2 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 WE REINVENT HEALTHCARE FOR WOMEN & RARE DISEASES PATIENTS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 3 HRA PHARMA AT A GLANCE We are a fast-growing specialty pharmaceutical company focusing on identifying unmet medical needs in niche therapeutic areas and developing novel pharmaceutical products to treat them. We specialize in the therapeutic fields of women’s health and endocrinology, which both involve the human hormonal system, and are particularly experienced in emergency contraception, uterine fibroids, rare endocrine disorders such as Cushing’s syndrome and advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma. We, together with our strategic partners, have discovered, developed, registered, and launched a number of innovative products. In addition to our marketed portfolio, we also have a 90 sales representatives targeting pharmacies, gynecopipeline of a number of new pharmaceutical products in logists, hospitals and endocrinologists and 180 employees women’s health and endocrinology, which are currently (as of Dec 2016). In addition to direct sales, we also have in various clinical and pre-clinical stages of development. longstanding licensing and distribution partnerships for Since our founding, we have been strongly focused on certain of our products with reputed pharmaceutical research and development, committing 15% to 20% of companies. Overall, our products are sold in over 80 counrevenues to our R&D activities. tries worldwide. We have built an effective business model, which includes We have grown our revenues by 25% between 2014 and a scalable supply chain with outsourced manufacturing and 2015 to reach €89 million for the year ended December an efficient commercial organization. Our headquarters 31, 2015 and believe we have strong fundamentals to are located in Paris, France and we have 7 operational support our growth in the future. subsidiaries covering 11 European countries, with over 180 EMPLOYEES OVER 17 DIFFERENT (Dec 2016) 60 % OF FEMALE NATIONALITIES EXECUTIVES ON THE EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM €89M (Dec 2016) 75 WOMEN % 2015 REVENUES DIRECT PRESENCE IN EMPLOYEES 11 EUROPEAN COUNTRIES GLOBAL REACH IN OVER EUROPEAN LEADER 80 COUNTRIES IN EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTION 4 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 A promising development throughout the world Building on its solid presence in Europe, HRA Pharma is committed to developing its activities worldwide. We have a direct presence in 11 European countries and distribute our products in over 80 countries worldwide. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We believe responsible business is at the core of our corporate identity. It is embedded in who we are as a company, what we do and why we do it. In 2017, our supply chain will be integrated to the ERP system in real time. As our Supply Chain Department interact with numerous suppliers and • PROMOTING UN GLOBAL partners in order to obtain the raw materials and COMPACT AMONG OUR BUSINESS resources needed to bring finished products to market, ERP will play a vital role in combating inefficiency, PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS reducing waste and meeting the needs of changing HRA Pharma is a global company that markets its business circumstances. products in over 80 countries worldwide. Doing business globally entails many challenges, particularly in • PROMOTING TRANSPARENT international settings when concepts of appropriate business conduct can vary widely depending counINTERACTIONS tries and cultures. We believe that collaboration with medical commuWe continually encourage our business partners and nity is instrumental to identify patients’ needs, devesuppliers to commit to the essential principles stemlop innovative medicines and enhance the quality of ming from the Global Compact. Following its engahealth education. gement with the UN Global Compact, HRA PharTo foster a better understanding of how these colma systematically introduces a clause to all newly laborations work and under the EFPIA Code on negotiated and/or renewed contracts informing the transfers of value disclosure, we have committed to partner companies about our engagement with the disclose the transfers of value made to healthcare UN Global Compact. professionals (HCP) and healthcare organizations Since the beginning of our engagement in 2011, 185 (HCO). contracts with the “UN Global Compact” clause This self-regulatory approach, has been implehave been signed. mented by EFPIA’s member associations in a manner consistent with all applicable national regulations • IMPROVING BUSINESS PROCESSES and legislations beside local codes of conducts for all European countries. This year we started to implement ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system with the objective to From June 30, 2016, information about transfers of improve our operational efficiency, secure and auvalue made by HRA Pharma to HCPs and HCOs is tomate our business processes. Sales forecasting is available on a specifically dedicated webpage of our now captured and updated at one point with no ducorporate website http://www.hra-pharma.com/inplication of effort nor errors risks. dex.php/en/our_commitments/transparency. 6 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • A PROMISING DEVELOPMENT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD • • PREVENTING CORRUPTION IN BUSINESS Corruption is a global ethical problem and legal issue of corporate and public life, having many forms and taking place in both developed and developing countries. HRA Pharma is committed to conduct its business with integrity and transparency and does not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption. In 2017, anti-corruption training sessions will take place at headquarters and subsidiaries for all HRA Pharma employees. • COMPLIANT CONDUCT Responsible and compliant conduct is integral to our corporate policies and forms the basis for the longterm success of our company. We have a robust Corporate Compliance Department whose objective is to ensure that our company is managed in line with national and international legislations, regulations and standards. We assess the accuracy of our procedures and policies through both internal reporting and external audits. To help us to improve our performance and business practices, we encourage our employees, to report any incidents of non-compliance via an electronic, internal, specifically-dedicated tool called “myMISHAP”. Once recorded, incidents are examined, necessary measures are initiated and their implementation is monitored. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 7 Committed to resolve neglected needs in women’s health & endocrinology We dream of developing the best products in terms of quality, efficacy and safety, daring to constantly push traditional boundaries and explore therapeutic areas often over-looked by other laboratories. 8 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 COOPERATION & ENGAGEMENT We strive to create open and diverse work environment that promotes the professional development of our members, • DEVELOPING MANAGERS facilitates and encourages the Developing managers who inspire trust is vital to our exchange of expertise among success. A key driver of this is authentic and transthem. parent communication and feedback, which creates greater engagement team members. In order to build a successful team and maintain HRA Pharma’s reputation as a great place to work, our managers are supported by a number of tools and trainings to • DEVELOPING TALENTS help them taking timely and correct decisions that reflect our corporate values when executing their A skilled and knowledgeable team is a key factor in mission. the long-term success of our company. We offer a whole range of development opportunities covering Every 6 months in average, a Corporate Master Class all aspects of HRA Pharma’s business. Training brings together all HRA’s managers with the objecsolutions range from e-learning to group workshops tive to give them the skills they need to inspire our or face-to-face meetings. In 2015, the average training employees and create a working environment where per employee was of 28.76 hours per year. people can thrive, address various managerial issues such as team work, conflict resolution, role clarity, The international nature of our business is a major aim setting, strategy development, action planning. attraction for our employees. With 7 European subsidiaries and products distributed in over 80 counA Management Behavoiur Guide was developed and tries worldwide, we offer our employees a wide launched in 2015. It helps us to ensure there is a range of career development opportunities. common and aligned framework for leadership development across the company. The training we offer is designed to help our employees develop their careers and achieve their business goals. Our training programmes are constantly being revised and enhanced based on our evolving business needs, and are delivered by a 2015 mixture of internal and external training providers, 2014 as well as through a wide variety of e-courses. Year 2013 l Average hours of training Average training hours (in h/year/employee) 24.60 31.38 28.76 per year per employee (Data for HRA Pharma HQs + HRA Pharma France) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 9 • COMMITTED TO RESOLVE NEGLECTED NEEDS IN WOMEN’S HEALTH & ENDOCRINOLOGY • • SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE We encourage all our departments and individual staff members to share their experience and insights with others. Our corporate “Life in a day of…” is an initiative that allows a department to promote awareness about its activities and share business experiences with external to the department employees. Another initiative called “Lunch & Learn” allows each employee to share its technical knowledge and transmit it to others. Both of these initiatives have met with success, they help employees gain knowledge about the overall pharmaceutical field and provide team members with the competencies they need to contribute to the success of the business as well as develop their own careers. • WORKING CONDITIONS FOLLOW-UP Follow-up on measures taken since 2013 at HRA Pharma (data correspond to Paris HQs and HRA Pharma France). lP ercent of employees benefiting from programs designed to enhance quality of life at work: Dec 2013 Sept 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 One day per week telecommuting system 14% 21% 19% 16% Part time hours Data NA 15% 11% 9% Child-care initiative 15% 16% 12% 10 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 Creating a sustainable future We are committed to develop business strategies and activities that meet the needs of our stakeholders today while protecting, sustaining and enhancing the human and natural resources that will be needed in the future. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT We are committed to develop business strategies and activities that meet the needs of our stakeholders today while protecting, sustaining and enhancing the human and natural resources that will be needed in the future. • FOSTERING A CULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT The HRA Pharma Company’s Foundation This year, we invited our employees to become active members of our HRA Pharma company’s Foundation. A large group of over 10 volunteers has joined the Foundation as project leaders with the objective to help the Foundation move forward in its mission to “foster young girls’ and women’s access to education, reproductive health and the arts across the world”. The Foundation provides support for charity or community projects. A call for projects, send out to Supporting projects throughout the world, the HRA external individuals, organizations or associations as Pharma Company’s Foundation seeks to extend the well as HRA Pharma’s employees, allows the Founcompany’s mission to improve reproductive health dation’s board members to select projects. The seand support women’s empowerment following three lection is made after a rigorous assessment, focused main axes. in particular on the social impact and alignment with the Foundation’s mission. • Education We focus on providing educational opportunities to girls and women worldwide. Since its inception in 2012, 44 projects have been • Reproductive health Through our initiatives, we founded and 16 have been active in 2016. If you have aim to expand women’s access to safe, effective and any questions about our Foundation please send us modern methods of contraception and reproductive an email at contact@hra-foundation.com. health services. • The arts We recognize that art and culture play a vital role in promoting social development 12 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • CREATING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE • Annual Women’s Week Each year HRA Pharma organizes an internal women’s week which objective is to raise awareness on challenges an struggles faced by girls and women worldwide. In 2016 a private screening of a Belgian documentary, released in 2015, “L’homme qui repare les femmes : la colère d’Hippocrate” (The man who mends women – the Wrath of Hippocrates) has been organized. Directed by Thierry Michel and Colette Braeckman, this documentary looks at the war during the last two decades in eastern Congo, since the invasion of the Rwandan Hutu refugees in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2004, following the genocide. It follows surgeon Denis Mukwege’s efforts to repair the physical and psychological injuries of the victims of sexual violence by armed forces and militia groups in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. • MINIMIZE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We recognize the importance of protecting the environment and are always looking for ways to fully Energy Audit integrate environmental-friendly practices as part of our day-to-day activities. Additionally in 2016, HRA Pharma has carried an energy audit at the headquarters with the objective The Company has established four main axes to to determine where energy is being used, how it is make coordinated efforts aiming to minimize our being used, and then to identify potential energy-saenvironmental impact and help develop an environving opportunities. This energy audit provided us mentally responsible working environment: with information on the operation of the building, • Disposing of waste in an environmentally the level of demand for energy used by services or responsible manner sites, energy consumed and associated operating • Reusing and recycling where practicable costs. The audit highlighted a series of energy ef• Developing environmentally responsible working ficiency measures that will be implemented in the solutions months to come in order to continue to reduce our • Promoting sustainability within the organization environmental impact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 • 13 • CREATING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE • Recycling HRA Pharma believes that recycling and recycling education are critical to sustainability. The company has implemented waste recycling initiatives that include: • Sorting plastic and paper for recycling. • Using recycled paper • Printing double-sided by default • Recycling printer cartridges. •C ommunicating electronically to reduce paper consumption. This year a solution has been implemented to collect and recycle plastic and paper coffee cups. lE  nvironmental key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (as of Dec 1) RECYCLING Paper A4 & A3 format bought (in kg) 1 351 1 435 1 342 2 475 2 300 Paper recycled (in kg) 2 022 2 075 2 630 1 950 3 329 CO2 CO2 equivalent (in kg) 1 112 1 141 1 447 1 073 1 831 kWh equivalent 8 088 8 300 10 520 7 800 13 316 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (energy audit) kWh/m2/year 352 (Energy Efficiency Rating E) GREENHOUSE GAZ EMISSION (energy audit) kg eq CO2/m2/year 18 (Energy Efficiency Rating C) 14 • COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HRA PHARMA 2016 HRA-COM-1216-INT • Photo Credits: Henri Vuillet • Design & creation: scriptoria-crea 15, rue Béranger – 75003 Paris – FRANCE Tel.: +33 (0)1 40 33 11 30 – Fax: +33 (0)1 40 33 12 31 www.hra-pharma.com
