COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: May 2015 To: May 2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive May 11th 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Myanma Awba Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Thadoe Hein Chief Executive Officer 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include:  During this year we refocused our efforts on Health Safety and Environment hiring a new team  The new team is focusing on strentghening the working environment in the factories reducing harm  We have also implemented safe environment regulations led by our involvement witht the IFC Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include:  We have started to develop a performance managment system to increase the objectivness of our assessment  We are also audited to make sure that we comply with all relevant country standards Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include:  As a discussed above, we have strentgehed our HS&E team to make sure that our factory is better compliant with all environment issues  We have developed a consistent way of testing for environment issues and have run the necessary drills Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include:  We continuously discuss corruption and the way to avoid it in our managment meetings  We always raise our ethics in our discussion with partners, and have anti corruption clauses in our engagment with IFC and others 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  Out top management is very diverse, of 6 different countries ranging from age 36 to 54 we have about 20% women across our work force.  Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism have reduced to around 25%  Percentage of recycled materials
