Sustainability Report 2016 Statement of support by our CEO Since the latest report on our sustainability Helping start-up businesses is a way for Plougprogress in 2015, we have implemented a new mann Vingtoft to excel in the field of sustainability. corporate strategy. Moreover, it is a way of showing that we take our social responsibility seriously and act on it. We strongly believe that what we do is important to society and that we can make a difference. Going forward, our CSR will form an active part of the Plougmann Vingtoft brand with focus on As a company, we also believe that we have an promoting projects, cooperation and supporting obligation to contribute to and to make a positive universities conducting research within green and impact on society. Therefore, as a natural element renewable energy, whilst also being linked closely of our corporate strategy, we are devoted to keep to our human resource strategy on the job focusing on and developing our corporate social satisfaction of our employees. responsibility (CSR) activities. Plougmann Vingtoft is determined to make a Taken all together, Plougmann Vingtoft’s identity difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation will be reflected internally and externally as active and creativity. participation in and improvement of the environment we operate in. With our vision, we wish to inflict on our surrounddings as well as nurture our own need to know the At Plougmann Vingtoft, we look forward to deeper meaning of our function in society, and reporting on our progress on the social responacknowledge our field of work as part of sibility by living our vision, and we hope that you something greater. will enjoy reading this year’s sustainability report. By strengthening the knowledge, we help the community, the companies and the people to take advantage of the huge potential which is unfolded in and around the global IPR system. By strengthening innovation and creativity, we show that development and success is built on good ideas and the ability to think outside the box. According to our vision, we wish to contribute to society by helping a number of start-up businesses each year. You can read more about this at our homepage. Annette Siewert Lindgreen CEO Page 2/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Our employees Professional development in focus This past year, we have focused our training on Plougmann Vingtoft is one of Scandinavia’s preparing our attorneys and specialists for the leading consulting firms when it comes to strategic important changes on the European scene of IPR, consulting, managing, protecting and commercialiwhich is i.a. affected by the EU patent package zing of intellectual property rights (IPR). comprising the Unitary Patent and the Unified As a knowledge-based consultancy our employPatent Court (UPC) as well as the coming new EU ees are our greatest asset. We invest in having a trademark legislation. position on the market as trusted advisors to our As soon as the new changes become effective, clients in areas that are vital to their business. they will cause both challenges and opportunities Hereby, our employees set new standards for that IPR owners need to consider, and it is a top what clients can expect from the cooperation with priority for Plougmann Vingtoft to be able to an IPR consultancy. provide the best counselling to our clients and associates on this topic at all times. We have a strong focus on the further development of our employees. All of our IPR specialists Our IPR coordinators also participate in additional receive external as well as internal training training and education, and many of them are tailored to their individual function and level. In QIPA Qualified Intellectual Property Adminithis way, all attorneys are introduced to processes strators and QTMA Qualified Trade Mark that secure a consistent high level of quality in Administrators. each single task. Furthermore, a number of our IPR attorneys also We always have focus on having the highest work as lecturers at educational institutions such qualified and skilled people among our employees as the University of Copenhagen and the and consequently, we keep on investing in Technical University of Denmark. providing our employees with relevant education. Page 3/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Offering students and interns relevant job Diversity is our strength experience Being an internationally oriented company, we We continuously bring student assistants into our believe in employee diversity, which means that company as a part of our social responsibility, we set our team of experts independent of since it is a great way of preparing young people age/seniority, ethnicity, nationality and gender. for their work life after graduation. This year we have decided to recruit even more As an example, we employ both Japanese and young people on a part-time basis as student US patent attorneys, and our staff holds many assistants and interns. nationalities and different cultural backgrounds, which enables us to understand and communicate Offering students part-time employments is a way even better with our stakeholders and of ensuring that our students also have time to communities all over the world. study while working for us. The male/female ratio of our company is close to As for interns, we enter an agreement with their being 44/56 which also contributes to providing educational institution and offer students an gender diversity in our company internship, where they can practice their new skills, after they have completed their education/Recently, at our online platforms we have courses. launched video portraits of some employees sharing their stories about working for Plougmann Networking to create awareness about a Vingtoft: http://www.pv.eu/about/job-career/ career as an IPR attorney The education of IPR attorneys is solely provided by IPR firms, and it is of great importance that companies take on the responsibility of investing in educating new IPR attorneys. At Plougmann Vingtoft, we take this very seriously. This year we have five IPR attorney trainees receiving IPR attorney training. We also invest time in networking with students at universities, and provide lectures about career opportunities within the field of IPR. Page 4/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Job satisfaction Every second year we conduct a thorough workplace assessment survey on the physical and psychological work environment of our employees. The overall results of the latest survey labelled 2015 were positive, and the conclusion was that the working environment provides an atmosphere of trust between management and employees. More than 8 out of 10 employees report on experiencing an overall satisfaction with their job. However, the survey also revealed certain issues, which are to be attended among our staff to enhance the job satisfaction curve. Facts and figures We have 80 employees (equal to 59 FTEs), A number of focus areas were given special 35 male and 45 female attention: increasing appreciation from managers to employees, working on individual motivation The average age at Plougmann Vingtoft is 43 factors and reducing the noise level in the office to enhance the level of concentration. 49% of our employees have been at the company more than 6 years Moreover, to meet our employees’ expressed 19 of our 37 IP attorneys are qualified European need for new challenges, we constantly look for Patent Attorneys new ways to develop their skills. Most recently we established a new business area “87% of our employees and invited our employees to participate and participating in the 2015 broaden their competences and thereby increase their job satisfaction. survey are very satisfied with their job and their workplace As always, we are striving to learn from the results of the survey and will continue to work on all at Plougmann Vingtoft” aspects of the well-being of our employees in Workplace Assessment 2015 order to be an attractive workplace. Page 5/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Ethical standards We highly value an open and transparent communication with our stakeholders and clients, and irrespective of the size of a client, we always organize a process tailored to the needs, budget and the goals of the specific client. Our business terms cement that our relationship with our clients are built on a healthy foundation of mutual trust and balancing of expectations. As a consequence of this, we have included a list of ethical standards in our business terms. The section describes that our main priority is to look after the interests of our clients and to safeguard their rights and our independency as professional advisors. We do so by operating within an ethical framework that is subject to codes of conduct of trade-related international organizations like ADIPA (Association of Danish Intellectual Property Attorneys), EPI (European Patent Institute), ECTA (European Communities Trade Mark Association), FICPI (International Federation of Intellectual Property Attorneys) and NPF (Norwegian Association of IP Attorneys). ”To retain our independency as advisors, our employment policy incorporates prohibition against insider trading and restrictions against financial engagements with clients or suppliers. Likewise, our attorneys are restricted from being involved within the field of intellectual property rights outside their capacity as employees of Plougmann Vingtoft.” Business terms: http://www.pv.eu/about/business-terms/ Page 6/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Focus on innovation and clean technology Working with clean technology Through many channels, including online articles, case stories and blogs, we communicate the The world of Intellectual Property revolves around stories behind the different inventions. innovation and inventions. Many of the inventions we work with are smart solutions which contribute Through our magazine BRIGHT NOW, we have to making small or large changes in the environtold stories about using algae as a ”green” form of ment and society. aircraft fuel, the development of a special type of The clean technology sector is one of our primary fish feed for sustainable fish farming, using ozone industries and an important strategic focus. Clean for efficient water purification, and a solution for technology relates to products and services that environmental garbage sorting and recycling. improve operational performance, productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, energy Additionally, we share stories of the societal consumption, waste or pollution. impact of inventions and the strategic importance of IPR for example as means for creating financial Creators of clean technology need patent protectsecurity and covering risk management. tion for their inventions and investments, as it secures their business and stimulates further innovation for the common benefit of our society. Communication on sustainable inventions Within our team of IPR attorneys we have a highly competent and innovative cleantech team that helps promote technological development, which can improve environmental conditions. Besides working with the technological aspects of cleantech, our experts are also keen on communicating the results and impacts of various inventions within this sector. Page 7/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Networks and sponsorships Learning by helping others As one of the only IPR firm in Denmark, Plougmann Vingtoft offers in-house services relating to technology transfer services and commercialization of inventions. This is offered through our specific brand: www.tto.eu. We focus these services on helping companies and assisting universities in commercializing their inventions. Also, we help to improve the overall performance of their technology transfer units through implementation of innovation management processes. We have previously supported creative Plougmann Vingtoft enjoys the cooperation with entrepreneurs such as the people and projects entrepreneurs and students, and the university behind the trademarks DROPBUCKET® and sector is one of our most innovative and inspiring SITPACK®. client bases. We did this because we found that both initiatives Firstly, we help our clients obtain protection of were innovative and true to our focus on their specific invention. Secondly, there are sustainability. Read the exciting story behind occasions where we choose to partly sponsor SITPACK® here: such inventions of upcoming businesses, because http://www.pv.eu/clients/startups/monomonowe find it important to aid the good ideas and promote innovation that helps society as a whole. kickstarter-success-through-tailored-trademarkconsulting/ This is a way for us to make a difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation and creativity. Page 8/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 Anti-corruption Denmark – still the world’s least corrupt country Fortunately, administrative corruption, business corruption and other forms of corruption are very rare in Scandinavia. In May 2015, Denmark received a score of 92 on the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) in a global study performed by the World Justice Project (WJP; no data for 2016 has been published by August 2016). Thus, Denmark is the least corrupt country in the world for the third year in a row. See full country profile for Denmark on the WJP’s website: http://data.worldjusticeproject.org/#/groups/DNK Our Commitment Plougmann Vingtoft is committed to non-acceptance of all forms of bribery directly or indirectly, and we make an effort to ensure that all of our employees are aware of this policy. As highlighted in the section dealing with our ethical standard, Plougmann Vingtoft complies with the guidelines of Danish legislation regarding the ban of insider trading of stocks. Furthermore, we apply strict governance of e.g. financial approval procedures, and we keep our IT/IS and data security policies at a very high level to ensure the best possible protection of our clients’ data and information at all times. Page 9/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016 What we believe at Plougmann Vingtoft It is our vision to make a difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation and creativity. In accomplishing this, we help people and companies to take advantage of the huge potential, which is unfolded in and around the global IPR system, and we show that development and success is built on good ideas and the ability to think outside the box. This ideal is reflected in our daily work and lived through our company’s four core values: commitment, credibility, creativity and competence. Plougmann Vingtoft www.pv.eu Munich Copenhagen Landshuter Allee 8-10 Rued Langgaards Vej 8 D-80637 München 2300 Copenhagen S Germany Denmark Oslo Aarhus P.O.Box 1003 Sentrum Madrid Åboulevarden 23 NO-0104 Oslo Calle María de Molina, 54. Planta 5 8000 Aarhus C Norway 28006 Madrid Denmark Spain Page 10/10 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2016
