ES COP 2014. UN Global Compact We make Hotels a better place Entertainment Solutions ES © Entertainment Solutions 2016 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION HUMAN RIGHTS We are personally committed to observing human rights. ES was born in Zaragoza (Spain) in 2006, and since then our team has grown in a sustainable way, according to business needs and to human rights criteria. As a business conduct guideline for all our team, we are personally committed to observing human rights, and to implementing the proper working-condition requirements. ES also uses a strict criteria for the careful selection of its suppliers, our partnership programme and customer business development, in order to maintain a qualified value chain that observes these basic rights and principles. LABOUR ES fosters a gender diversity in the different departments. ES as a part of a responsible human resource policy, endeavours to maintain an excellent personal and professional balance among our employees. ES fosters a gender diversity in the different departments of the company, and you can find strongly committed professional women in different areas of this high-tech company. The number of employees has grown 36% since 2009; and ES shows figures from 10% women in 2009 to 24% women in 2014, they work in different areas with the same level of responsibility as their male colleagues, depending on their interests (Management, R&D, Business Development and Sales...) © Entertainment Solutions 2016 ENVIRONMENT ES helps the hospitality sector to develop the finest guest service in the world: “We make hotels a better place” ES growth has also been environmentally responsible, according to the different metrics we defined in terms of energy and water consumption. ES is now helping to define a 2020 society where people could access the different energy, water or other available services thanks to intelligent management and the Internet popularisation. Environmental protection FY2009 FY2014 ES Growth 36% ES Energy Consumption 13.773,00 KWh 35.405 KWh ES Energy Consumption per m2 offices 53,00 KWh/m2 43 KWh/m2 CO2 emissions per m2 offices (due to electrical energy) 21 T/m2 16 T/m2 Radioactive particles per m2 offices (due to electrical energy) 0,026 mg/m2 ES Water Consumption 18 m3 89 m3 ES Water Consumption per m2 offices 0,163m3/m2 0,108 m3/m2 ANTI-CORRUPTION ES does not accept corruption as a way of conducting business As a matter of fact, no legal issues have been reported in our small enterprise since 2006, working in the most important hotel chains in 40 countries, with the highest standards of legal responsibility. ES also tries to deliver to our customers the best tools to prevent fraud or miss-use in the ever increasing information technologies of the 21st Century. © Entertainment Solutions 2016 CHIEFS OF STAFF AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT Our company was born in 2006 as an IT initiative, and has grown since then in a sustainable way. Chiefs of staff meet at least once a year to review the current status and set up overall objectives in the short and long term, defining and supporting the company initiatives. ES Board of Directors meets regularly on a monthly basis to review targets and achievements, and discuss daily issues and market approach. ROBUST HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES ES is committed to comply with all applicable laws and to respect internationally recognised human rights, wherever the company operates. We fully support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the Guiding Principles on Human Rights. Any issues arising, would then be taken to the management board. Contracts with customers and with suppliers, start a proactive analysis of the behaviour of the new business relationship in terms of the respect to human rights. ROBUST LABOUR MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES ES follows the international labour standards, and uses an external company to monitor the employees laboral risks. In the case of women, ES policy has attracted an increasing number of high qualified professionals. ES management review on monthly basis the achievements and feedback from their teams. ES uses team building activities, and to communicate in advance the fiscal year results in an open session. © Entertainment Solutions 2016 ENTERTAINMENT SOLUTIONS is by definition an environmentally friendly company, a “paper-less” company that was born in the IT environment of the first years of the 21st century. The interactive platform has saved the unnecessary use of tons of paper across 40 countries. ROBUST ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES ES is a trend setter in Interactive Platform development. Our In-house Management System helps our team to work in a paper-less mode, and allows an excellent dialogue and tracking of the different process within the company. Our team is fully aware of this competitive advantage, and has been explaining and training our customers in this new approach. The management board is responsible for this activity, and studies the potential savings for our customers in terms of internal costs and environmental impact. ES feels very comfortable with the overall results achieved in the area of environmental administration, not only internally but also with our customers, and with suppliers’ integration. We want to further promote this initiative, expanding our vision in the hospitality sector. ES is a company with a zero-tolerance of corruption. Both internally and in the marketplace, ES shows a very high standard of respect to law, as D&B shows in it’s report. ES’ management board is accountable for anti-corruption, so if a legal issue arose concerning this topic, our management board would be directly involved in solving it. ES management board proactively monitors possible legal issues. Although no incident has been detected so far, external legal support is prepared in case of any eventuality. © Entertainment Solutions 2016 TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES ES is now helping to prepare a 2020 society in which different services could be available thanks to intelligent management and to the popularisation of the Internet. Furthermore, we are working towards the 2050 scenario to define a world with 9.000 million people that would guarantee the same opportunities for all the citizens in a diverse natural environment. In terms of UN Global Compact, ES fully subscribes the Ten Principles, asking proactively in the sector forums for a more in depth commitment, not only in terms of information but also in health, energy, water and food management. We are promoting the concept of hospitality in the 21st century as the evolution from the 15th century: in the next fifty years, world cities will grow as much again as they have done in the previous 500 years. From the advances made, the hospitality sector could contribute to achieve a better quality of city, such as the Smart City concept. ES supports those members of the Board, that actively spread knowledge through different sector forums. We also support energy scarcity objectives and information management. This is fully aligned with the UN goals about human rights responsibilities. ES tracks UN requests, looking for a positive scenario where our interactive platform could help in a direct initiative. Energy is the back bone of our civilisation, and information technologies are key to the right access to this resource. Social health and environmental care, also depend on this availability. This is what ES makes easily available in the hospitality sector: ES opens a window for communication and collaboration. ES supports a vision of hotels and hospitals as an oasis in the worst scenarios, helping the cities themselves to recover from an issue, and leading the change into the Urban Millennium. © Entertainment Solutions 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP ES supports the principles of UN GP from all areas of the company. Our speaking opportunities in forums are led by one of the ES founders, our customer presentations and training reflect the CEO commitment and leadership on this topic, deployed to the rest of the team and the product evolution itself. ES nearly supports 40.000 interactive service points in 40 countries. This is an exercise of responsibility, sustainability and performance. Sustainability is one of the responsibilities Please let us know your requirements, of the Innovation & Strategy Director, who is also responsible for UN GP follow up and info@entertainment-solutions.com COP reporting, previous to CEO signature. ES identifies engagement with its customers, suppliers and employees as being key to this UN GP development. CONFLICT AREAS Deyanira 55 Of. 114 Madrid 28022, España. Parque Empresarial Miraflores, Nave 3 Zaragoza 50720, España. Vía España, Edificio Braña Of. 1 Ciudad de Panamá, Panamá. FFZA ES Middle East, Est. No. 71846, P.O. Box 1133 ES is committed to its way of doing business with a non collaboration policy towards +34 911 867 001 +34 976 366 216 +507 6963 6468 Fujairah, UAE. corruption, human rights violations or conflicting attitudes in politics. ES also understands +971 (0) 505 384 350 the importance of UN tenders, and periodically studies the possibility of starting projects in case of collaboration is technically feasible. www.entertainment-solutions.com
