INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Editorial Policy In addition to financial information, ORIX Integrated Report 2016 contains other important information on subjects such as ESG (environment, society and governance). This report is intended to help our diverse stakeholders including shareholders and investors to understand ORIX’s sustainable growth from a multifaceted perspective. We hope this report provides valuable insight into ORIX’s fundamental belief in contributing to the economy and society through its business activities as well as its strategies for continuing to create value over the medium and long term. Corporate Philosophy Management Policy ORIX is constantly anticipating market 1. O  RIX strives to meet the diverse needs of its customers and to deepen trust by constantly needs and working to contribute to society providing superior services. by developing leading financial services 2. O  RIX aims to strengthen its base of operations and achieve sustained growth by integrating on a global scale and striving to offer its resources to promote synergies amongst different units. innovative products that create new value 3. O  RIX makes efforts to develop a corporate culture that shares a sense of fulfillment and for customers. pride by developing personnel resources through corporate programs and promoting professional development. 4. O  RIX aims to attain stable mediumand long-term growth in shareholder value by implementing these initiatives. Contents ORIX by the Numbers A Message from the CEO 02 ORIX Value Creation Organic ● Five Concepts of Value Creation Astute ● Global Expansion 06 ● Five Concepts Synergistic ・Astute ・Focused ・Organic ・Diverse Diverse ・Synergistic Focused ● Our Five Concepts – Senior Chairman Management Strategies Explained ● ORIX’s Business Portfolio ● ORIX from a Balance Sheet Perspective 22 ● CEO Inoue on Strategy ● A Message from the CFO Corporate Governance ● Management Team ● Corporate Governance at ORIX 34 ● Comments from the Outside Directors Risk Management Creating Value through Our Businesses ● Corporate Financial Services ● Maintenance Leasing 50 ● Real Estate ● Investment and Operation ● Retail ● Overseas Business Sustainability Financial Section 68 About ORIX Action Guidelines EC21 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Creativity At ORIX, we have defined “EC21” Develop the flexibility and foresight which clarifies “ORIX’s Corporate ORIX became a participant in the United Nations to constantly take actions Vision” as “an Excellent Company in Global Compact in July that are creative and innovative. the 21st Century.” 2014. We support the ten principles in the four fields Integration of human rights, labor, Enhance ORIX Group strength the environment and antiby actively exchanging knowledge, https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ corruption, and we are ideas, and experiences. promoting initiatives in company/philosophy/ec21/ each of these fields. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 1 ORIX by the Numbers Net Income ¥ 260.2 billion We had another record year in FY2016.3 with solid year-on-year growth of 11%. Following seven consecutive years of profit growth, we are now aiming at ¥300 billion by FY2018.3 as our mid-term target. Segment Assets ¥ 9 trillion Without overstretching our asset size, we have been focusing on improving profitability and strengthening financial soundness. Furthermore, we adjust our asset mix flexibly for different times and environments. For instance, Real Estate segment assets, which accounted for 22% of total segment assets in 2007, have been downsized to 8% of total segment assets in 2016. History Global Network Number of Employees 52 years Since we introduced “leasing” to 37 countries and regions We first set foot abroad in Hong 33,333 The company has growth from a Japan in 1964, we have been proKong in 1971, and since then we 13-person venture into one of Japan’s viding a wide variety of innovative have built a genuine global network largest non-keiretsu affiliated multinational solutions highly valued by the that is based on local partners, corporations, which is home to a large market. In return, we have been local management, local clients, and diverse organization of dedicated rewarded with more than 50 years and local staff. professionals. of continuous profitability and a longstanding reputation. 2 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Solar Power Generation Business Approximately 900 MW of capacity secured Renewable energy is an important non-finance business that we have been shifting toward. We are currently one of the largest solar power generators in Japan. As of the end of FY2016.3, we have secured a total capacity of approximately 900MW in solar power projects, and we expect these projects to be completed and to start operation in succession. Aircraft under Management Auto Leasing Business Approximately No. 3 in the world With approximately 1.54 million vehicles under management 130 (including about 50 self-owned aircraft) We have been in the aircraft leasing business for almost 40 in our auto-leasing operations, which span 20 countries and years. Our competitive strengths stem from our expertise regions including Japan, we are the world’s third-largest including market insight, access to the lessee airlines and auto-leasing company. investors, and strong aircraft management capability. Number of Shareholders Almost Doubled in one year Through various efforts towards retail investors in Japan to present ORIX as an ideal investment, the number of shareholders has grown from approximately 94,000 in FY2015.3 to approximately 179,000 in F Y2016.3. 0 Peers Top Management Approval Threshold ¥ 5 million (Equity Investment) None Our dynamic and seamlessly integrated business As a pillar of our robust risk management framework, any equity model is unique and unparalleled. To this day, we investment of more than ¥5 million must be thoroughly reviewed have not identified another company that resembles and approved by the CEO and other top management. ORIX. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 3 A Message from the CEO Rejecting complacency, we will constantly think of new ideas to take on the challenge of businesses with potential. 4 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX has a diverse portfolio of businesses worldsucceed. Market changes that exceeded our wide, and some people have trouble understandforecasts have in the past adversely impacted ing what ORIX does. ORIX has its own business some of our businesses. Yet rather than simply model. It transcends simplistic business labels give up, we commit to doing what we must to inand has no peers. Our standout feature is that crease value. We also deploy the knowledge and we can do whatever we set our minds to beexpertise we gain through this process in other cause we are not constrained by preconceived businesses. Turning failure to our advantage is an notions or limits. We act on what interests us and ORIX fundamental. change course if it does not work out. We are Since ORIX can do whatever it sets its mind a large company with the maneuverability of a to, its future is difficult to delineate. The fact is, small company. our businesses have changed every five years or ORIX is able to do whatever it sets its mind to so. I can say that we will remain an unconvenbecause we execute fundamentals effectively. tional company that takes on challenges. This will External observers may ask why ORIX is involved change our businesses, and I daresay ORIX will in operating aquariums and airports at all. The be completely different five years from now. answer is retrospective: We have moved outward I reject complacency. I want ORIX to constantfrom leasing into a broad array of related marly think of new ideas to take on the challenge of kets, and operating aquariums or airports is an businesses with potential. The ability to do what extension of our existing facilities operations in we set our minds to means that our growth poour real estate business. Yet ORIX understands tential is unlimited. Growth is a function of chalthat our ability to do what we set our mind to lenges, so we will become just another simplistic differs from actual execution. We decide to excompany if we lose sight of the ORIX Way. I want ecute only after we cautiously identify risks and ORIX to build its presence as a complex comproactively consider whether we can reduce pany with the goal of being an industry in and and manage them. Our competency in doing so of itself, and will lead the Group in taking on the is a function of the expertise we gain from our challenges that will drive its growth. diverse business portfolio. We do not have this competency because the Group has many skilled professionals. We have it because as a matter of course we collaborate to create new ideas and solutions that individuals are unable to create Makoto Inoue alone. Unfortunately, however, the businesses Director Representative Executive Officer we so carefully consider do not all necessarily President and Chief Executive Officer ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 5 ORIX Value Creation Five Concepts of Value Creation We have transcended the conventional boundaries of a leasing enterprise by building the unparalleled ORIX business model. We have generated sustained growth backed by our commitment to our Five Concepts. Our Five Concepts are fundamental to creating new value in the future. Credit Scr Organic Collaborate organically Leasing within our businesses Astute to deliver “Answers, Custom Fit.” Identify good risk with bold insights and astute management. Synergistic Expertise 1964 Consistently build on expertise to succeed at new challenges. Diverse Enhance our creativity with employee diversity. Focused Capture new growth opportunities through focus and due diligence. 6 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 A Diverse Business Portfolio We will continue to enhance our expertise in finance and tangible assets as we synergistically expand our businesses. Credit Screening and Finance Capability Asset Management Investment Banking Life Insurance Investment Banking Lending Loan Servicing Leasing Ships/Aircraft Environment/Energy Real Estate Automobiles Expertise in Handling Tangible Assets 1964 2016 Net Income We have achieved 51 years of sustained, profitable growth. Net income ¥ 300 billion Net income ¥ 260.2 billion FY2009.3: Global financial crisis FY2002.3: IT bubble implodes FY1998.3: Asian currency crisis FY1993.3: Japan’s bubble economy implodes 1964 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 2018 (Target) ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 7 ORIX Value Creation Global Expansion ORIX made its first foray overseas by entering Hong Kong in 1971, and since then has continued to expand its operations to other countries using business know-how accumulated in Japan. One key advantage of ORIX’s overseas business expansion is that it is based on partnership with leading local companies, localization of overseas subsidiaries’ management, and a focus on serving local customers. While the expansion of the overseas business was initially centered on the traditional financing lease business, similar to the business diversification ORIX has been pursuing in Japan, the overseas business has also become increasingly diversified. For instance, auto leasing, the aircraft related business, bond investment, equity investment, asset management, and environment and energy are all part of ORIX’s business outside of Japan. Four Advantages for Global Expansion Local Partners Local Management Localized management system with a long-term vision Build relationships with leading Approximately 80% of overseas companies before entry group companies are headed by Main Partners non-Japanese Note: Based on the 32 main consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates Al Hail Holding LLC (UAE) ● A  n established investment company in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi Local Clients ● Largest shareholder of our local affiliate in UAE Saudi Investment Bank (Saudi Arabia) We provide a broad spectrum of ● 9th largest commercial bank in Saudi Arabia services to not only Japanese companies but also local companies ● Largest shareholder of our local affiliate in Saudi Arabia Approximately 90% of assets Metrobank Group (Philippines) are those associated with local ● A n integrated financial group that consists of investment customers Note: Based on the consolidated data of 10 banking, securities brokerage, lease, insurance, real overseas subsidiaries engaged in the leasing and estate, consumer finance, and the second-largest loan business in Greater China, Asia, and Australia banking operation in the Philippines ● A shareholder of our local affiliate in the Philippines Local Staff DBS Bank Limited (Singapore) United Overseas Bank Limited (Singapore) Operations predominately handled B  oth are among the largest banks by local staff ● in Southeast Asia ● B  oth are shareholders of our local affiliate Of the 8,166 employees in the Overseas in Singapore Business segment, only 75 of them were dispatched from Japan (As of March 31, 2016) 8 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Global Network (As of March 31, 2016) ORIX’s global network spans 37 countries and regions. Business Locations Japan Ex-Japan 1,418 672 Business Network Expansion and Business Diversification ORIX’s global business expansion started from its financing lease business in Asia, followed by further broadening both its business network and the business areas it engages in. 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Global Network 7 Countries 12 Countries 18 Countries 26 Countries 37 Countries Overseas expansion mainly Further overseas expansion via Expansion of business operations through through leasing business in Asia diversification into aircraft-related and acquisition of Robeco and development equity investment businesses of the environment and energy business Starting in Hong Kong in 1971, ORIX entered Expansion of business network through entry into the Further strengthened the global network and markets overseas mainly in Asia, including Middle East region, including Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and broadened the business portfolio with acquisition Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, UAE. Diversification of business operations through of Europe/U.S. focused asset manager Robeco Thailand, and Australia. establishment of an aircraft leasing subsidiary in Groep N.V. Ireland and the start of equity investment in Asia. Using expertise cultivated in Japan to develop the environment and energy business outside Japan in countries such as the U.S. and India. 1972 1991 2013 Jointly established the first leasing company in Singapore Established ORIX Aviation Systems Limited, which Full-fledged entry into the asset management business with local financial institutions conducts aircraft leasing, in Ireland through acquisition of Robeco Groep N.V. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 9 ORIX Value Creation Five Concepts Organic Astute Astute Synergistic Diverse Focused ORIX is a leading producer of renewable energy in Japan, and has been highly successful in businesses including electric power retailing, energy-saving services and waste recycling. The keys have been bold strategies that capture important trends and individual project execution based on prudent risk assessment. Assess Risk and Build Businesses with The Capabilities of Our People Support Swiftness Project Execution ORIX does not belong to any long-established busiWe entered the environment and energy business ness group (“keiretsu”) and can boldly and swiftly exby investing in the wind power generation business in ecute strategies it believes in. At the same time, we 1995. We subsequently expanded into a broad range carefully assess risk from all angles for each and every of operations including waste recycling, energy-saving project, then execute when we are well prepared. Our services, electric power retailing, and renewable encorporate culture that combines swiftness and great ergy generation. We began to commercialize renewattention to detail is an ORIX strength. able energy when the Great East Japan Earthquake I am responsible for the environment and energy of March 2011 led us to predict that Japan’s energy business, which is involved in various markets inbusiness and electricity generation mix would change. cluding power generation, electric power retailing, We had already established the organization to accelenergy-saving services and waste recycling. We are a erate our renewable energy business when the feedleading producer of renewable energy in Japan with in tariff system was first introduced in July 2012. The approximately 900MW of solar generation capacity construction of a nationwide system for selling solar either in operation or under development. We are also power generation systems and the acquisition of the preparing to enter the geothermal and offshore wind land needed for mega-solar projects required bold power businesses. investment of resources, and ORIX was quicker than its competitors to successfully establish a profitable 10 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 business model. These moves were backed by the sources we have. Renewable energy is well positioned swift decision-making of ORIX’s senior management, to become an important market with a global scale due clear instructions disseminated to front-line sales who to the ever growing need for clean energy and reduction fully committed themselves to this new business, and of carbon emissions. In March 2016, we joined with our of course, the mobility and professionalism to carry partner in India, IL&FS, to participate in a wind power out these instructions by the front-line units. ORIX is business in India with about 1,000MW of capacity. We fully supporting the energy and environment business, will work with IL&FS in the future to pursue wind and deploying its corporate sales network in Japan, its skill solar power businesses in India, while also carefully asin structuring projects gained from real estate developsessing business potential in emerging countries in Asia ment, structured finance and equity investment, and its and in the United States, for horizontal development. expertise in documentation of the transactions. ORIX We will be astute in developing our environment and also actively recruited highly experienced professionals energy business overseas to resolve social challenges from outside when it lacked technical knowledge for through our businesses and contribute to sustainable the business. As a result, we were able to establish growth for ORIX. an organization to steadily execute new projects from Yuichi Nishigori origination and construction to handling technical and Director Corporate Executive Vice President contractual issues. The renewable energy business Head of Energy and Eco Services Business Headquarters requires strong long-term relationships with a diverse array of stakeholders. The capabilities of our people are also essential to meet the great expectations of these stakeholders. Over the past several years we have allocated many young employees, including new recruits, to this area as we concentrate on nurturing the people who will be expected to lead this business in the future. Astuteness Is Also Ingrained in Our Overseas Business Development A key feature of our business development is that we first acquire expertise in a business, then expand into adjacent markets and develop horizontally across regions. Next, we deepen our understanding and diversify our involvement in target markets. We use partnerships and M&A to acquire personnel, technical knowledge or other resources we may lack, and create synergy with existing reORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 11 Organic Organic Astute Synergistic Diverse Focused Organic collaboration among our diverse professionals creates the teamwork to boldly take on new challenges. A Brand New Challenge That Is a First in Japan and a First for the Private Sector A consortium anchored by ORIX and VINCI Airports of France established Kansai Airports to assume the operation of Kansai International Airport and Osaka International Airport from New Kansai International Airport Company. Kansai Airports became the operating company for both airports in April 2016. This concession business will operate both airports for 44 years, and is a first in Japan in terms of the operation period and total investment involved. This business is also a first for ORIX, which began turning its attention to concession initiatives overseas about two years ago and has since held ongoing study sessions in the Real Estate segment. This segment led initial studies when we committed to starting a concession project in Japan. However, the project required multifaceted studies, so senior management nominated members of a team of professionals from various operations including the principal investment business in Japan and overseas, real estate, treasury and the credit department. All told, the organization encompassed 50 to 60 people. Toyonori Takahashi General Manager Concession Business Development Department 12 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX Value Creation / Five Concepts After making it through the first round of bidding, as shareholders of Kansai Airports. We believe that in we promptly prepared for the second round by holdaddition to operating the airports successfully, together ing various discussions, conducting due diligence with these companies we can contribute to the growth and creating our proposal. We continued to draft the of the Kansai region and the rest of Japan. final contract once we were selected as the preferred Concessions are new to Japan and many issues negotiation right holder. Upon concluding the conmust be resolved to popularize them. However, bringtract, we had to submit nearly 3,000 applications for ing together the wisdom of the public and private secitems and permits required to assume the operation tors, whether from Japan or from abroad, should be of the airports, and obtaining all of them by the date able to resolve these issues. The wisdom of the private set to begin airport operations was a Herculean task. sector contributes to the development of national and The challenging schedule did not leave much time for local economies, and ultimately can make a substantial teambuilding. Project members received assignments contribution to society if it is able to help lighten their fiat the same time they found themselves participating nancial burden. ORIX will actively take on the challenge in meetings to discuss key themes, and had to work in of capturing business opportunities to nurture the conthe midst of a relentless blizzard of emails about specession business as one of its next growth drivers. cific tasks. However, we have a horizontal rather than a vertical corporate culture, so team members thought and acted on their own without waiting for instructions and therefore needed little time to collaborate organically. The team’s heavy day-to-day workload was cause for concern, but the project drew enormous momentum from the understanding among team members of its social significance and importance to ORIX’s new business development. Bringing together highly insightful people with wide-ranging expertise enables us to look at issues from different angles and broaden our perspectives. Many young employees were also involved in this project. I expect that the experience they gained will enable them to take on new challenges elsewhere in the future. Organic Collaboration, Both Internally and Externally, Creates New Value We do not need to keep the organic collaboration mindset to the Group alone. Many companies based in Kansai are supporting this airport concession business Hideo Ichida Corporate Executive Vice President Chief Commercial Officer (Non Aeronautical) Kansai Airports ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 13 Organic Synergistic Astute Synergistic Diverse Focused We have finance capabilities from leasing and expertise in dealing with physical assets. ORIX began expanding its business by taking on the challenge of using these two advantages in synergistic markets. We have used newly acquired expertise to steadily broaden our business portfolio. Acquiring Expertise and Identifying Customer consulting service. We have expanded beyond leasing Needs to Expand Our Auto-related Business into car rental and car sharing so that we can offer our Our auto-related business began with the auto leasing clients proposals for optimal fleet use. business in 1973. We then deployed the expertise we ORIX has acquired expertise in a wide range of acquired and identified customer needs to expand into auto-related businesses as a result of our business adjacent markets. Today, we are a comprehensive prodevelopment initiatives, and now serves a broad base vider of auto-related services that include car rental, ranging from small to large corporate clients. Earnings car sharing and fleet management services. have increased steadily, and we maintain a high ROA. Customers wanted to fund their vehicle needs when we entered the auto leasing business, so we focused Further Broadening Our Business Portfolio on finance leases for small corporate clients. We then as a Provider of Comprehensive Auto-related addressed evolving customer needs for streamlined Services fleet management and reduced costs by incorporating ORIX draws on the service menu it has assembled maintenance services in finance leases, and expanded for the entire automobile lifecycle from purchase, use our service lineup to include risk consulting and fuel and maintenance to operation and sale in order to cards. We also addressed diversifying customer comoffer customers consulting proposals for optimal serpliance, environmental and safety management needs vices. We leverage service capabilities not available related to fleet use by adding even more sophisticatat other companies to further expand our portfolio of ed services such as telematics, a fleet management businesses and take the following approaches to 14 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX Value Creation / Five Concepts High Mid-size clients Mid-Large clients ● BPO of fleet management Small clients Small clients ● Telematics service (e-Telematics) ● Optimization of vehicle usage Specialization of Service ● Risk consulting service (Lease/Car rental/Car sharing） ● Support on emission reports ● Web information service (e-ERG) ● Accident/breakdown support ● Fuel card (AMS card) ● ETC card Maintenance lease Car rental Car sharing Finance lease Low Rationalization of Compliance / Environmental management / Customers’ needs Funding Administration Costs Safety strengthen earnings. termining the characteristics of each market in Asia We consistently develop our client base ranging to establish a high-quality, highly profitable business from small to large corporate clients by providing highmodel while reinforcing the business platform based ly sophisticated services. At the same time, the lease on IT system enhancement and data analysis, as utilization rate is low among individuals in Japan, so well as strengthening of products and services. we serve this market by providing lease products with features such as new or used vehicles or customizable lease terms, and also by using both internet and faceto-face sales channels. Usage Moreover, we deploy our vehicle procurement capaVenturing into Lease Neighboring Areas Car rental bilities and the expertise in specialty vehicles we have Capture new growth opportunities through Car sharing diligence an persistence acquired from truck leasing and rental to plan and deMaintenance Vehicle velop vehicles equipped according to customer needs. purchase management Maintenance Optimal purchase We already offer mobile bank branch vehicles and proposal Fuel card (new cars) One-Stop ETC card mobile office vehicles to customers including financial Certified EMS used cars Auto Consulting institutions and construction companies, and we will Service plan and develop specialty vehicles that address various customer needs. Capture new growth Vehicle Capture new growth opportunities through In addition, we intend to use the expertise in Used vehicle sale opportunities through diligence an operation diligence an persistence / sale Purchase persistence Accident / fleet management we have acquired in Japan at of used vehicles breakdown support E-Telematics our subsidiaries in Asia to expand our international auto-related business. Just as in Japan, we are deORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 15 Organic Focused Astute Synergistic Diverse Focused Even projects that do not proceed as initially planned give us new expertise because we focus tenaciously on initiatives to maximize recovery. This leads to subsequent growth opportunities. Transforming Crises into Opportunities the cash we can collect. Everyone at ORIX from people on the front lines to seAs we handled each project diligently and tenanior management shares a focused awareness of risk. ciously, we gained expertise in debt collection and also We share it before we commit to projects, and also as the know-how needed to develop a broad range of real we monitor loans and investments after we commit. estate businesses that included real estate developReal estate market conditions deteriorated sigment and rental and real estate operation, and to esnificantly after Japan’s bubble economy imploded tablish new businesses. We transformed our non-perin FY1993.3 and during the global financial crisis of FY2009.3. Both situations resulted in non-performing loans, but we took our time and focused on resolving them. A key feature of debt collection at ORIX is that we carefully scrutinize properties individually and stay actively involved in adding value to them rather than simply accepting whatever we can get during collection. We leverage the Group’s knowledge and network to sell to owners that can make better use of the properties, and renovate and repurpose properties to increase rents. We also operate properties ourselves if Credo Shintokorozawa was the first condominium ORIX developed and sold (1993) we determine that doing so will allow us to maximize 16 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX Value Creation / Five Concepts Sumida Aquarium, which ORIX began operating in 2012 Moriya Logistics Center, developed in an ideal location for distribution (2016) forming loan crises into the new business opportunities We have been involved in the aquarium operation we gained from committing to the real estate business, business since we joined hands with Kanagawa Prethereby acquiring subsequent growth opportunities. fecture in a private finance initiative1 in 2004 to take over the operation of the Enoshima Aquarium. We initially A Stable Earnings Base from Real Estate participated in the management of the aquarium as a Business Diversification provider of financing, then built a network of experts in We have expertise throughout the broadly-based the breeding operations that are essential to aquarium real estate business value chain we have built, rangoperation while gradually acquiring expertise. Backed ing from real estate development and rental to asset by our focus on acquiring expertise, we began opermanagement and facilities operation. We are currently ating the Kyoto Aquarium and the Sumida Aquarium focusing on the facilities operation business, which is in 2012. less susceptible to real estate market conditions and We have developed about 40 logistics facilities allows us to leverage the expertise we have acquired, since we entered the logistics center business in 2002. and also on the logistics center business, which is a We initially entered the business as a building lessor, market that we pioneered. then we expanded into the build-to-suit2 business and multitenant3 investments when we had acquired logistics center investment expertise. We expect that new entrants will change the supply and demand balance in the logistics center business. However, we differentiate ourselves from our competitors with advantages such as using the Group’s network to collect land information and maintaining strong direct-sales relationships with 250 major logistics companies. Notes: 1. A private-initiative facility management method to highly leverage private funds and/or know-how in the operation of public facilities. 2. A type of logistics facility development in which the sole tenant is first identified before design and construction of the facility begins based on the The large-scale residential development Mark Springs, which tenant’s specific requirements, while maintaining the basic specifications of includes condominiums, detached houses and a nursing facility (2004) a standard logistics facility. 3. A type of logistics facility development approach designed with highly versatile specifications to secure multiple tenants in the same facility. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 17 Organic Diverse Astute Synergistic Diverse Focused People are our most important asset. While all ORIX employees demonstrate their competencies, collaboration among our diverse people magnifies their capabilities to support sustainable growth. Collaboration among Diverse Employees ple stimulate each other through interaction, and they Creates Team Synergies matrix their diverse expertise to create new expertise. They demonstrate their capabilities individually, and ORIX began with the leasing business and then adalso collaborate as a matter of course to create team vanced into adjacent markets, and has grown into a synergies. This strength supports ORIX’s sustainable company with a diversified portfolio of businesses. We growth. continue to evolve and grow. Our people support our growth, and are our most important asset. A wide array of professionals with expertise in various businessIdeal Personnel Attributes: es work for ORIX because of the diversification and Creativity, Challenge, Team Play expansion of our operations, and their nationalities, ORIX aims to contribute to society by identifying the gender, age and work histories are just as diverse. ongoing changes in the operating environment and ORIX operates in many different businesses that customer needs to deliver exceptional value. The ideal can stand by themselves because of their expertise, attributes of our people are therefore creativity, chalbut ORIX is not a conglomerate with a collection of lenge and team play. independent businesses. We are able to demonstrate “Creativity” refers to our ability to build new businessour capabilities even better because each business es ourselves with foresight and flexibility when people is organically connected vertically and horizontally, with multifaceted individuality share their expertise. Our which is a strength not found at other companies. We free and open corporate culture encourages our people have created new value as a result. Our diverse peoto freely and openly share and discuss opinions, which 18 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX Value Creation / Five Concepts generates a wealth of ideas that help us earn customer during which we have established a training program trust and develop new business opportunities. “Chaladdressing the skill sets required for each level and calenge” refers to our proactive attitude toward taking on reer development that supplements and supports onthe challenge of the new without fear of failure. We are the-job training. We also provide programs that allow not complacent; we want to take on challenges to beemployees to acquire the latest front-line knowledge come even better. We know that unsuccessful initiatives and information they need, and energetically support are not an end, but rather evolutionary experiences that employee self-development. Moreover, our multifacwe can deploy in taking on new challenges. “Team play” eted training lineup to cultivate ORIX’s next generation refers to employees with diverse values collaborating in of leaders includes programs that dispatch employees teams to mobilize their capabilities to demonstrate even overseas and programs that enable our people to learn greater strength. We value the experience, sensibilities from next-generation leaders from other industries. and knowledge of individuals while combining them The personnel policies we require will change in within teams to demonstrate strength that is greater tandem with changes in our operating environment than the sum of all employee capabilities. and businesses. We respect the diversity of our people because it supports sustainable growth, and will A Workplace that Respects and Takes proactively maintain an environment that capitalizes on Advantage of Diversity diversity and enhance our personnel system. In fusing diverse values and expertise to create new value, we are absolutely committed to creating a workplace that takes maximum advantage of the capabilities of employees, respects diverse work styles, and offers personal fulfillment. ORIX has introduced its Career Select System, which is a personnel system that accommodates the life stage and career of individual employees. It helps employees balance work with childbirth, child care or nursing care and supports flexible work styles that enable employees to excel long term. This system enables employees to request a change in their position or rank to a more limited role if they are having trouble fulfilling their responsibilities or performance obligations for reasons such as child or nursing care, but also return to their former position. Our business environment is changing dramatically, so we have various training systems that enable employees to fully demonstrate their capabilities. The training period is the first 10 years after an employee joins ORIX, Yasuaki Mikami Deputy Head of Group Human Resources and Corporate Administration Headquarters ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 19 ORIX Value Creation Our Five Concepts Yoshihiko Miyauchi Senior Chairman Our corporate culture and DNA strongly reflect the ORIX has grown dramatically in its 50-plus years mindset of managers and the historical milieu at various and today has a presence that influences society. The times. The management philosophy of Mr. Tsuneo Inui, creation of new value now means more than simply a founding member of ORIX, is deeply embedded in the expanding our businesses and growing. It involves conCompany. His two concepts of “Standing on Our Own tributing to society – or in other words, our stakeholders Two Feet” in reference to our independent approach – through our businesses to remain a presence that and “Creating New Value” in reference to taking on new stakeholders need. We need to strengthen our friendly challenges are the cornerstone of the ORIX Way and an relationship with our stakeholders that is built on trust to inextricable component of ORIX’s DNA. Mr. Inui passed do so. I consider stakeholders with which we have this the management baton to me, and I refined this DNA, in kind of relationship to be “ORIX Allies.” ORIX can grow turn passing the baton of management to CEO Makoto further as a company by valuing the DNA it has passed Inoue. Thus ORIX’s DNA has been passed down unbrodown since its founding and the five concepts it has deken from the Company’s inception. With this DNA, ORIX veloped over time while deepening its relationship with has been able to consistently expand its businesses ORIX Allies. and grow, and from this process emerged ORIX’s five concepts of value creation: Astute, Organic, Synergistic, Focused and Diverse. 20 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 At ORIX, certain things are naturally inherited, regardless of the passage of time or personnel changes. One of these unchangeable factors is our approach to “breakthroughs.” It is our innate approach to think through a problem to provide an answer that matches our clients’ needs. We share this approach with all customers, and it is manifested in our brand slogan, “Answers, Custom Fit.” We will provide unique ORIX value to our stakeholders by proactively dealing with social issues and needs based on our five concepts for value creation. Astute Diverse Organic Focused Synergistic ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 21 Management Strategies Explained ORIX’s Business Portfolio In 37 countries and regions, ORIX conducts a Table 1: Six Segments diverse array of businesses including leasing, ORIX currently manages its businesses in a portfolio divided into six loan, investment, life insurance, banking, asset segments. management, auto-related business, real estate, Segment Main Business and environment and energy. We manage this Corporate Financial Leasing, loan and fee business for small and business portfolio by dividing it into six segments Services medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) (Table 1). Auto-related, test and measurement instruments Maintenance Leasing and other equipment rental To better comprehend ORIX’s mid-term strategic Real estate development and rental, facilities directions, growth trajectories and business Real Estate operation, REIT asset management, real estate investment and advisory services evolution, in FY2016.3 we also began grouping the business portfolio into the three categories of Investment and Environment and energy business, private equity Operation investment, concessions, loan servicing “Finance,” “Operation” and “Investment” (Table 2). Retail Life insurance, banking, card loan business We believe that the combined picture of the Leasing and loan through overseas subsidiaries, three categories together with the six segments Overseas Business ship and aircraft-related operations, private equity investment, investment in bonds, asset management allows a deeper understanding of ORIX (Table 3). Table 3: Our Business Portfolio Matrix of Six Segments and Three Categories The following table presents ORIX’s business portfolio matrix of six segments and three categories. Finance Main Risk Credit risk Capital Requirement Low ▼ Environment / Japan Ex-Japan Infrastructure Leasing / Loan / Corporate Financial Services Fee business Maintenance Leasing Six Segments Real Estate Real estate facility operation Environment and energy / Investment and Operation Concession Banking / Retail Consumer finance Leasing / Overseas Business Loan 22 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Table 2: Three Categories From FY2016.3, we began grouping our business portfolio into three categories that take risk and capital requirements into account. Three Capital Main Risk Main Business Categories Requirement ● P rimarily business involving credit risk, including leasing, loan, housing loans and card loans in Japan and overseas Credit Finance risk Low ● I ncludes most of the Corporate Financial Services segment, banking and consumer finance businesses in the Retail segment, and the overseas corporate business in the Overseas Business segment. Operation ● E nvironment & Infrastructure: Real estate facilities operation, environment & energy, risk concessions and other businesses we assume operation for Operation Medium ● F inancial Services: Asset management business and life insurance business Business ● M aintenance Services: Auto-related businesses and the rental business risk ● O thers: New businesses that we will launch and grow ● F ixed Income: Investments in non-performing loans and bonds Market Investment risk High ● T angible Assets: Investment in real estate, aircraft, and ships ● E quity: Private equity investments in Japan and overseas Three Categories Operation Investment Operation risk and business risk Market risk Medium High ▼ ▼ Financial Maintenance Others Fixed Income Tangible Assets Equity Services Services Yayoi / New business development ORIX Auto / ORIX Rentec REIT / Real estate investment Real estate investment advisory Private equity investment / Loan servicing Daikyo Life insurance / HLIKK Robeco / Private equity Bond investment Aircraft / Ships Houlihan Lokey investment ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 23 Management Strategies Explained ORIX from a Balance Sheet Perspective (As of March 31, 2016) Assets • “Finance,” “Operation,” and “Investment” in the ratio of 2:2:1. • Continue to focus on “Operation” and “Investment” given the current low-interest-rate environment. Assets (Trillions of yen) Asset Composition Three Categories Segments Other Assets 2.0 Corporate Financial Services Maintenance Leasing Finance Investments Real Estate and finance Investment and Operation Existing businesses Retail New businesses Strategic investments Returns Segment Assets 9.0 Operation Pure financial investments ROA Overseas Business Investment ■ Total Assets (Billions of yen) ROA (%) Composition of Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Corporate Financial Services Maintenance Leasing Real Estate Investment and Operation 11,443.6 10,996.9 Retail Overseas Business 380.1 2.49 2.53 340.9 336.5 8,981.0 9,067.0 295.2 8,353.9 8,561.9 8,332.8 8,439.7 2.32 283.7 286.7 8,195.0 7,722.0 7,232.1 2.14 2.29 1.96 197.3 142.7 30.0 117.0 1.33 67.9 0.99 0.81 0.24 0.45 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Segment Assets (Billions of yen) Composition of Segment Assets Segment Asset ROA (%) Corporate Financial Services Maintenance Leasing Real Estate Investment and Operation Retail Overseas Business 9,170.2 8,972.4 6,190.3 7,170.0 7,656.3 6,982.7 7,267.8 6,378.6 6,266.9 6,123.9 6,382.7 2.87 2.83 2.75 2.86 2.92 2.27 1.79 1.35 1.04 0.28 0.55 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 24 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity • Diversify funding sources and lengthen funding structure. • Based on financial leverage that enables us to maintain our single A credit rating, we aim to achieve ROE of 11%-12%. Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity (Trillions of yen) Other Liabilities 1.1 Composition of Liabilities Policy Liabilities 1.7 By Funding Method Deposits 1.4 By Maturity Date Deposits Within one year Funding Financial Borrowings from 4.3 More than one year and financial institutions institutions Longand Short-Term Debt within three years Interest and bond investors More than three years Bonds and CP, etc. Funding Financial institutions Individuals and others Shareholders’ Equity 2.5 Returns Shareholders Foreign institutional investors ROE ■ Adjusted Longand Short-Term Debt ROE (%) (excluding deposits)* (Billions of yen) Adjusted Debt/Equity Ratio* (Times) 19.8 18.3 5,417.4 4,776.9 4,893.0 4,466.1 4,207.6 13.8 3,991.7 3,850.7 3,802.5 3,907.2 4,126.1 4,014.5 11.5 11.7 4.7 4.3 10.5 4.0 4.2 3.3 7.4 3.0 2.8 6.2 2.3 2.0 5.1 1.9 1.7 1.7 3.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Adjusted Share of Long-Term Debt* (%) ■ ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity (Billions of yen) Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (%) 92 93 2,310.4 91 88 88 89 2,152.2 86 1,919.3 84 1,643.6 1,287.2 1,306.6 1,380.7 75 75 1,186.4 1,258.9 1,157.3 21.0 947.0 19.5 21.2 18.8 70 16.6 16.7 15.3 13.1 14.5 14.0 13.9 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Adjusted longand short-term debt (excluding deposits), adjusted debt/equity ratio and adjusted share of long-term debt show the figures after adjustment that exclude the impact of certain liabilities and retained earnings attributable to the consolidation of the VIEs. For an explanation of the most directly comparable financial indicators calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Non-GAAP financial indicators, please refer to pages 80-81. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 25 Management Strategies Explained CEO Inoue on Strategy Overview of FY2016.3 Solid Start Toward Our Medium-Term Targets for FY2018.3 Net income for FY2016.3 increased 10.8% year-on-year to ¥260.2 billion. This was the second consecutive year of record net income, and the seventh consecutive year of net income growth. Return on equity (ROE) was 11.7%, higher than the previous fiscal year and above 11% for the second consecutive year. FY2016.3 was therefore a solid start toward our FY2018.3 target for net income of ¥300.0 billion. As for our other FY2018.3 targets, we have already achieved ROE between 11% and 12% and have maintained our single A credit rating. The first half of FY2016.3 was strong, with the Nikkei average recovering to the ¥20,000 range for the first time in 15 years. The second half, however, brought dizzying change to the economies of the world. Falling oil prices had a pronounced effect, while stock prices declined worldwide because of unsettling developments in China and the forecast for the global economic growth rate was downgraded. In Japan, rating agencies downgraded Japanese government bonds and the Bank of Japan implemented negative interest rates. Given this environment, we successfully implemented our medium-term strategy of expanding non-finance businesses by investing in growth, turning over assets through divestitures that were well-timed with market conditions, entering new businesses such as the concession business, and generating organic growth. FY2016.3 Review Expansion in Non-Finance Businesses Organic Growth ＋ Investment in Key Areas ● S ecured 890MW of solar power generation capacity, of which 410MW commenced operation as of the end of FY2016.3 Environment ● Invested in a large-scale wind power project in India with a total & Energy capacity of 1,000MW ● An investment fund we jointly established with Robeco/ADB closed its first investment Private Equity ● Acquired SMS, an auto-loan company in Indonesia Investment ● I ncreased investment in ACLEDA, a Cambodian commercial bank ● E stablished a new private equity investment company in the United States, which closed its first investment Network in ● D  ecided on private equity investments to acquire Cosmolife and Kyoto Asia Makoto Inoue Biken Concession ● O  btained rights to operate Kansai International Airport and Osaka Director Business International Airport Representative Executive Officer Auto  Vehicles under management increased from 1.17 million to 1.23 million units President and Chief Executive Officer Organic Life Number of new policies exceeded 500,000 for the Growth Insurance third consecutive year Yayoi  Acquired Misoca to further strengthen cloud-based business 26 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Business Portfolio in Three Categories Categories Finance Operation Investment Main Risk Credit risk Operation risk and business risk Market risk Capital Requirement Low Medium High ▼ ▼ ▼ EnvironMainteFinancial Fixed Tangible Japan Ex-Japan ment/Infranance Others Equity Services Income Assets structure Services Corporate Financial Leasing, Yayoi, Loan, New business Services Fee business development ORIX Auto, Maintenance Leasing ORIX Rentec REIT, Facilities Real estate Segments Real Estate RE investment operation advisory investment Investment and Environment Private equity Loan and energy, investment, Operation servicing Concession Daikyo Banking, Life Retail Consumer insurance, finance HLIKK Robeco, Leasing, Bond Aircraft, Private equity Overseas Business Houlihan Loan investment Ships investment Lokey Strategy through FY2018.3 Grow by Concentrating on Operation and Investment Our medium-term strategic direction through FY2018.3 Operation excluding non-recurring items increased by apremains unchanged. We will concentrate on expanding proximately ¥70 billion, while Operation assets increased by non-finance businesses by generating organic growth and approximately ¥1 trillion, both significantly outpacing growth investing in key areas. in Finance and Investment. The acquisition of Robeco in July From FY2016.3, in addition to our existing structure of six 2013 was the primary factor driving growth. Other key facsegments, we began explaining our business portfolio and futors included steady growth in the maintenance leasing, life ture strategy using the three categories of Finance, Operation insurance, and environment and energy businesses, and the and Investment. These categories represent the respective December 2014 acquisition of Yayoi. risk profiles and capital requirements of our businesses, and I Investment encompassed assets totaling ¥1.6 trillion as of would like to use them to explain how we intend to grow. March 31, 2016. Investments in fixed income involving investAdequate returns on loans and finance leases are difficult ment in bonds and non-performing loans totaled about ¥300 to obtain in the current low interest rate environment, and billion, investment in tangible real estate assets totaled about excessive interest rate competition is not in our interest. We ¥550 billion, investments in ships and aircraft totaled about therefore intend to grow by investing greater financial and ¥250 billion, and private equity investments in Japan and human capital in Operation and Investment, which already overseas totaled about ¥500 billion. Our Investment portfolio support earnings. is diversified by asset class and market to avoid significant Looking at the three categories, the share of pretax profconcentrations of risk. We have rebalanced our portfolio its and segment assets from Operation increased steadily since FY2013.3 by decreasing real estate investment and induring the three years through FY2016.3. Pretax profits from creasing aircraft and domestic private equity investment. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 27 Pretax Profits by Category Segment Assets by Category (Billions of yen) Finance Operation Investment (Trillions of yen) Finance Operation Investment 500 12 10 400 100 8 1.7 1.6 300 60 100 1.9 3.6 3.4 （Note 1） 6 1.8 （Note 1: 2.2） （Note 2 : 2.5） 200 200 190 40 （Note 2: 130） （Note 3: 150） 2.0 4 1.5 120 100 80 2 3.8 3.9 3.0 3.4 70 80 80 90 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 (Estimate) (Estimate) Note 1: Excludes valuation gains (approximately ¥58.4 billion) associated with consolidation of Daikyo Note 1: Excludes assets of HLIKK (approximately ¥1.4 trillion) Note 2: Excludes bargain purchase gains (approximately ¥36.1 billion) and ordinary proﬁt/loss Note 2: Excludes assets of HLIKK (approximately ¥1.0 trillion) contribution associated with HLIKK, and capital gains (approximately ¥15 billion) from the sale of Monex shares Note 3: Excludes capital gains/valuation gains (approximately ¥39.6 billion) associated with the IPO of Houlihan Lokey and ordinary proﬁt/loss contribution from HLIKK We expect Operation to continue making the largest conremain favorable because the facilities operation business is tribution to pretax profits and assets during the three years benefitting from growth in inbound demand. We are highly through FY2018.3. Our focus for growth in each of the three selective in making new investments as a matter of policy. categories will be as follows. However, we expect inbound needs to increase and will In Finance, we will move beyond traditional loans and screen and investigate new investments in Japanese inns leases in the Corporate Financial Services segment to reoriand hotels. ent our earnings structure from finance revenues to services ORIX Life Insurance has always had highly competitive income by continuing to enhance our electronic payment products. However, we expect price competition to intensify services and our lineup of fee-based services such as lowand are therefore developing direct sales channels that we cost money transfer services. As another measure that will will service using our own sales personnel, improving prodrequire somewhat more time before we see a full-scale uct proposal capabilities, and differentiating ORIX from other contribution to earnings, we will aggressively enter markets companies. in which we forecast growth as a result of deregulation and ORIX Auto and ORIX Rentec are both industry leaders that changes in the business environment, as exemplified by our are highly profitable and generate stable cash flow. We will recent entry into agricultural businesses. continue to aggressively add assets, broaden auto-related In the Operation category, our environment and energy services such as telematics services, and expand rental business is making steady progress in developing megaproducts such as AI equipment. We will also expand our ausolar projects and captive power capacity. Internationally, to-related business internationally, primarily in Asia, through we entered the wind power generation business in India in local subsidiaries that deploy the extensive expertise we March 2016, and intend to establish ORIX as a renewable have acquired in Japan. energy company in Asia, the United States and elsewhere. In the Investment category, we will add assets, particularly Inquiries about concession business projects have been by investing in tangible assets and making equity investincreasing because of our track record in acquiring concesments. We believe the market for tangible real estate assets sions at Kansai International Airport and Osaka International is near its peak, and intend to focus on developing our land Airport. The concession business is promising and we intend bank rather than significantly increasing new real estate to nurture it into a core operation. investment. Our focus in making aircraft investments will The outlook for the real estate business is expected to remain on the narrow-body type. 28 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Management Strategies Explained / CEO Inoue on Strategy Our equity investment operations will sell portfolio assets tion and Investment, and increase the share of stable earnbecause the price of private equity investments in Japan reings from Operation. We will also execute well-timed asset mains high. At the same time, we will avoid competition while sales. In addition, we will aggressively take on the challenge investing in the core areas of health care, IT, food, and lifeof new businesses and intend to identify businesses that will style-support services. Overseas, we will make investments be new pillars of growth for ORIX. At the same time, we will using the investment management company established by conduct our businesses prudently, giving full consideration to Mariner Investment Group in the United States. We intend the increasingly uncertain outlook inside and outside Japan, to uncover good investments in Asia, mainly through tie-ups instability in financial and capital markets, and rising political with powerful partners. and geopolitical tensions in some regions. The growth of OpWe view the two years through FY2018.3 as the time to eration will entail facing an increasing number of previously achieve our medium-term targets and firmly position ORIX for nonexistent risks, so we will heighten our emphasis on risk continued growth thereafter. We will concentrate on Operamanagement. Value Creation through FY2018.3 Finance • Transition to services income by enhancing lineup of fee-based services Environment/ • Focus on completing mega-solar projects and increasing captive power capacity Infrastructure • Strengthen market position as a major renewable energy player in markets including Asia and U.S Operation Financial Services • Expand direct distribution channels in the life insurance business Maintenance Services • Use competitive advantage to further develop value-added services and expand in Asia • Real estate and aircraft leasing businesses: focus on existing real estate development projects Tangible Assets and narrow-body aircraft investments Investment Equity Investment • Add investments in healthcare, IT, food and lifestyle-support businesses The ORIX Business Model The ORIX Way and Our Strengths We have built the ORIX business model over the 50 years agement, including me. ORIX therefore constantly identifies since the Company was established, and it will continue current realities at Group divisions and companies. ORIX also to evolve in step with our operating environment. But even looks within the Group with a focus on its sales network in as the ORIX business model evolves, the ORIX Way and Japan largely to collect information on deals and projects, our strengths will remain constant. I would like to share our again aggregating this data for senior management. Deperspectives on the ORIX Way and our strengths to deepen pending on the project, I bring together people from within understanding of how we will achieve our medium-term tarthe Group to make up a team. This way, senior management gets over the coming two years and subsequently generate gains project and market information, and becomes aware steady growth. of the people assigned to the project before it can offer wellTwo features of our organizational operations are strong informed instructions. Because senior management can see leadership by management and formation of cross-departthe big picture, they can make appropriate decisions and mental teams. These features enable agile business activities. give instructions quickly. Good deals can disappear in a day The Group aggregates all information for senior manor two, so we must always be on the lookout for information ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 29 so that we do not miss out. will sell them in five to seven years. Investments involve the Our decision-making bodies centralize authority and share risk of impairment if the profitability of the investment is less information. The Investment and Credit Committee approves than expected. We therefore make sure we are not paying deals. The Committee discusses and assumes authority for the wrong entry price when considering deals, and reject decisions for debt deals that exceed ¥600 million and equity deals without hesitation if price competition drives entry price deals that exceed ¥5 million. Although the deals decided above our limits. The fact is, unreasonable investments will by senior management are quite small, discussing these eventually go bad, and we do not want to waste shareholder projects enables a timely understanding of sales and market capital. conditions. The Group Executive Officer Committee acts as A good partnership with stakeholders is vital to the suca forum for sharing information. Senior management and cess of any investment. We take a hands-on approach for Executive Officers gather to share important matters such as virtually every investment we make in Japan. ORIX makes the progress of Group strategies. consensual investments after discussions with the manageThe ORIX Group has a team work mindset that is well ment of the investee to preclude problems after we invest. entrenched. People who have specialized knowledge work We value a relationship of mutual trust with our investees. in ORIX’s broad portfolio of businesses. Each division works ORIX takes the same approach with overseas investments, toward its objectives in its day-to-day operations, but each in many cases creating long-lasting relationships based on is also deeply aware that it is part of the ORIX Group. When mutual trust. We work with blue-chip local partners so that forming teams for certain projects as described above, we we can accommodate the various cultural considerations we bring together multifaceted real estate, business investment, encounter internationally. Well-managed deals with partners accounting, legal and treasury professionals who immediately and management we trust do not require us to send indibegin working together with a unified team mindset. Working viduals from Japan. About 8,200 employees are involved in together with ORIX’s national sales network generates subour Overseas Business segment, and only 75 of them are stantial strengths. We have become a leader in Japan’s solar Japanese employees stationed abroad. We believe the best power business because of the contribution of our salespeoapproach is to let trustworthy local management and perple in Japan, who understand the importance of promoting sonnel handle local business. Investment ultimately comes this business as a group. We emphasize fully exercising our down to people. We therefore devote time to speaking with strengths as a team through intradivisional collaboration that our partners and deepening mutual understanding to make links our respective knowledge and expertise. This gives our investments successful. ORIX a strength that none of its competitors can match and ORIX makes mostly pure financial and strategic investcontributes substantially to its growth. ments. In some cases, if we see synergy with our investee An organization cannot function with strong senior manwe change the strategy we decided upon initially to transagement alone. Moreover, talented people will not generate form a pure financial investment into a strategic investment. strengths as a group if they each move in their own separate The converse also happens. We need to review our investdirections. Organizational management becomes more comment strategy to accommodate changes in our operating plex as a company grows and its businesses become more environment. Our mindset is flexible and we review our diverse, but I expect ORIX to continue making the best use of strategies as needed. Moreover, we always consider our exit its strengths in leadership and team formation. strategy regardless of our investment strategy. We are ready ORIX makes various investments including pure financial to sell at any time, which helps make sure we do not miss investments and strategic investments. Our approach to inopportunities to sell when we review our strategy. This mindvesting is as follows. set applies to ORIX’s entire portfolio, not just its investments. We do not feel we should pay a premium for strategic We always consider the price we could get for each of our investments. We rigorously consider entry price. We make businesses, not just when actually deciding whether or not both pure financial and strategic investments after discussto sell. And we certainly do sell if the timing is right. That is in ing internal rate of return (IRR) with the assumption that we fact management’s job. 30 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Management Strategies Explained / CEO Inoue on Strategy Our People and Our Relationship with Society Individual Contributions Not Only to the Group, but Also to Society through Business Activities We have added employees as our businesses have this corporate culture provides them with ample flexibility grown, and the Group now employs more than 30 thousand to achieve what they wish, stimulating them and their colpeople. Hiring and nurturing people at the same speed at leagues to energetically exercise their capabilities. ORIX’s opwhich we are expanding has become an issue for us. When erations will also become more global. We will enhance the I was a young employee at ORIX, the Company was not as global facility of our people so that each employee feels part big as it is now, so I was often assigned to important roles of the global ORIX Group, well-motivated by their work, and with substantial responsibility. Quintessentially, on-the-job even more committed to contributing to the Group. training at the front lines of the business is the best way to ORIX prioritizes contributing to society through its businurture people, but ORIX’s current scale and diverse business activities. Our growth has enhanced public awareness ness portfolio present difficulties for individually relevant of ORIX and our presence in the community. Of note, we on-the-job training. We therefore want to further enhance have greater contact with individuals because of our recent our commitment to personnel training. ORIX has traditionexpansion in business-to-consumer operations. I want these ally hired many specialized professionals from outside the individuals and all other stakeholders to view their relationCompany. They generally hit the ground running and excel, ship with ORIX favorably. How can ORIX help society? What but sometimes they are initially confused by our corporate does society think and expect of ORIX? Is ORIX making itself culture that eschews routine work and requires people to a vital part of society? We will constantly keep these questhink and act independently. However, they soon realize that tions in mind as we go about our business. Shareholder Returns An Optimal Balance between Investments in Sustainable Growth and Stable Returns to Shareholders Dividends per share for FY2016.3 increased 27% year on preceding that request is whether the investee has a growth year to ¥45.75. The payout ratio increased to 23% from 20% strategy. Companies without a growth strategy and limited for the previous fiscal year. In addition, the interim dividend prospects for growth should think about returning capital for FY2017.3 will increase to ¥23.00 from ¥22.00 for the to shareholders. On the other hand, ORIX is trying to FY2016.3 interim dividend. Our focus on using our capital achieve its medium-term targets and subsequently maintain to invest in sustainable growth has not changed, but neither sustainable growth. We will maintain this commitment to our has our commitment to stable shareholder returns. medium-term targets and continue to grow this company I serve as an outside director for an ORIX investee, which with an optimal balance between investment and returns to makes me a shareholder asking that company to pay divshareholders. idends and repurchase its shares. However, the question ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 31 Management Strategies Explained A Message From the CFO Proper Capital Controls and Deeper Dialogue with Stakeholders Kazuo Kojima Director Representative Executive Officer Deputy President and Chief Financial Officer Building a Powerful Financial Base So That Ensuring Soundness and Increasing Corporate We Are Ready for Changes in the External Value with Proper Capital Controls Environment For financial soundness, we emphasize proper capital ORIX diversifies funding sources, lengthens durations, levcontrols with a medium-term objective of maintaining our els out maturity ladder and ensures proper liquidity to supcredit rating in the single A range. While we are aggressively port earnings growth and strengthen its finances. We need considering M&A for future growth, we will carefully assess to build an even stronger financial base in view of current the impact any large-scale transaction may have on our economic changes, particularly growing foreign exchange credit rating. An employed capital ratio in the 80 percent and interest rate market volatility and rising geopolitical risk. range is right for ORIX to ensure financial soundness and the ORIX’s business structure itself is changing dynamically, so flexibility to make new investments, and it was at that level we will use funding methods that fit with our business portas of March 31, 2016 (Graph 1). Graph 2 shows how we are folio. We will enhance funding aligned with our global operaproperly controlling capital throughout our business portfolio tions, expanding local bank funding and continuing to raise in ways such as reducing capital employed in the Real Esmoney from local capital markets. Our objective is to optitate segment and redeploying it for future growth. We have mize funding as a Group with approaches such as the effecalso taken new approaches to funding by obtaining a subtive use of project finance in business fields that are growing. ordinated term loan, or hybrid loan, totaling ¥94.0 billion in May 2016. Although a hybrid loan is recognized as a liability under accounting standards, certain credit rating agencies 32 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Employed Capital Ratio* (Graph 1) Capital Employed by Segment (Graph 2) Corporate Financial Services, Maintenance Leasing, Retail Investment and Operation Real Estate Robeco Overseas Business (excluding Robeco) (%) (%) 90 100 80 80 60 70 40 60 20 50 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 * ORIX calculation (Risk Capital/Shareholders’ Equity) will regard it as equity in their rating calculation because it is supporting our business to date. ORIX does not currently junior to all of the capital we employ except common stock. announce annual performance forecasts. Instead, we have Funding with a hybrid loan maintains financial soundness disclosed our medium-term management targets for the and better ensures our capacity to make new investments. three-year period to FY2018.3. Our rationale is that it is in the ORIX makes decisions about each investment and credit interest of our stakeholders to base our dialogue on mediumtransaction after confirming that its returns are commensuand long-term management vectors. rate with risk and exceed the cost of capital, and retains this In FY2016.3 we began complementing the existing mindset in monitoring the transactions after they are executdisclosure framework of our six business segments by ed. We will increase corporate value by remaining circumadditionally highlighting certain results in three business spect in monitoring capital employment, risks and returns categories, consisting of Finance, Operation and Investment. by segment and business units while identifying good risks This new framework of three categories is the result of among various new business opportunities. multiple discussions at meetings of Board of Directors, where opinions from our Outside Directors were also reflected. The three categories encompass risk and personnel management Deeper Dialogue with Mediumand Longas well as finance, and will prove useful in discussions of Term Horizons our business strategies going forward. We will continue to I have been communicating with Japanese and foreign enhance disclosure and deepen discussion to ensure even shareholders and investors on the important topic of better understanding of ORIX’s approach to value creation. sustainable growth since becoming the Group CFO in June 2015. My focus during these dialogues is helping shareholders and investors understand the fundamental strengths that enable ORIX to successfully create value over the medium and long term. I will continue to value this dialogue with shareholders and investors, who have been ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 33 Corporate Governance Management Team (As of July 1, 2016) Directors Makoto Inoue Kazuo Kojima Director Director Representative Executive Officer Representative Executive Officer President and Deputy President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Responsible for Corporate Planning Department Tamio Umaki Katsunobu Kamei Director Director Representative Executive Officer Group Executive Vice President Deputy President President, ORIX Auto Corporation Head of Group Human Resources and Chairman, ORIX Rentec Corporation Corporate Administration Headquarters Responsible for Secretarial Office and Group Internal Audit Department Yuichi Nishigori Kiyoshi Fushitani Director Director Corporate Executive Vice President Corporate Executive Vice President Head of Energy and Eco Services Head of Global Business and Business Headquarters Alternative Investment Headquarters, Outside Director, Ubiteq, INC. East Asia Business Headquarters, and Global Transportation Services Headquarters Hideaki Takahashi Non-Executive Director ● Nominating Committee ● Compensation Committee 34 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ● Nominating Committee ● Audit Committee ● Compensation Committee Outside Directors Eiko Tsujiyama Robert Feldman Outside Director since June 2010 Outside Director since June 2010 ● Audit Committee （Chairperson） ● Compensation Committee ● Compensation Committee （Chairperson） ● Nominating Committee ●  rofessor, Faculty of Commerce at P Waseda University ●  anaging Director and Chief M ● Corporate Auditor, Lawson, Inc. Economist, Morgan Stanley ● Audit & Supervisory Board Member, MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. NTT DOCOMO, Inc. ● Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shiseido Company, Limited Ms. Eiko Tsujiyama serves as a professor of Waseda University, Faculty of ComMr. Robert Feldman currently serves as Managing Director and Chief Economist merce and has served on government and institutional finance and accounting at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. and, as an economist, has a deep councils both in Japan and overseas. She has extensive knowledge as a professionunderstanding of the environment and events of business management both in al accountant. As Chairperson of the Audit Committee, she has actively expressed Japan and overseas. As Chairperson of the Compensation Committee, he has her opinions and made proposals, while leading discussions on the effectiveness of actively expressed his opinions and made proposals during deliberations on the the Company’s internal control system. Directors’ compensation system and compensation levels in order to enhance their role as mediumand long-term incentives. Takeshi Niinami Nobuaki Usui Outside Director since June 2010 Outside Director since June 2012 ● Nominating Committee ● Nominating Committee ● Compensation Committee （Chairperson） ● Audit Committee ●  President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of the Board, ● Corporate Auditor, Representative Director, Suntory KONAMI HOLDINGS CORPORATION Holdings Limited ● Corporate Auditor, MIROKU JYOHO ● Outside Director, Mitsubishi Motors SERVICE CO., LTD. Corporation Mr. Takeshi Niinami formerly served as Chief Executive Officer of Lawson, Inc. Mr. Nobuaki Usui served as the Administrative Vice Minister of the Ministry of Fiand currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Suntory Holdnance and the Governor and CEO of National Life Finance Corporation (currently, ings Limited. He has actively expressed his opinions and made proposals during Japan Finance Corporation). As Chairperson of the Nominating Committee, utilizing deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors, Nominating Committee and his wealth of knowledge and experience as a finance and tax expert, he has actively Compensation Committee, pointing out important matters regarding company expressed his opinions and made proposals, leading discussions and deliberations management using his managerial decision-making skills based on his wide-rangon members of the Board of Directors and executive officers suitable for the Coming experience and knowledge. pany’s business operations. Ryuji Yasuda Heizo Takenaka Outside Director since June 2013 Outside Director since June 2015 ● Nominating Committee ● Nominating Committee ● Audit Committee ● Audit Committee ● Compensation Committee ● P  rofessor, Faculty of Regional ● O  utside Director, Yakult Honsha Development Studies at Toyo Co., Ltd. University ● Outside Director, Benesse ● Chairman and Director, PASONA Holdings, Inc. Group Inc. ● Director, Academyhills ● Director, Center for Global Innovation Studies at Toyo University ● Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Mr. Ryuji Yasuda served as Director of McKinsey & Company and Chairman of Mr. Heizo Takenaka served as Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy, Minister A.T. Kearney, Asia and currently serves as an adjunct professor at the Graduate of State for Financial Services, Minister of State for Communications and Privatization of School of International Corporate Strategy, Hitotsubashi University. He has actively Postal Services and Minister for Internal Affairs, and currently serves as professor of Toyo expressed his opinions and made proposals during deliberations at meetings of the University, Faculty of Regional Development Studies. He has actively expressed his opinions Board of Directors, Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation and made proposals during deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors, NominatCommittee, pointing out important matters regarding company management, using ing Committee and Audit Committee, pointing out important matters regarding company his specialized knowledge on corporate strategy. management, using his deep understanding of the environment and events of business management and economics and financial policies both in Japan and overseas. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Govenance at ORIX Governance Highlights Proportion of Outside Directors Tenure of Outside Directors 1 year 17% Outside Director 3 years 6 years Director 46% 17% 46% 50% Non-Executive Director 4 years 8% 17% Directors by Gender Career Background of Outside Directors Female 8% Business manager 17% University Financial/ professor tax specialist 50% 17% Male Economist 92% 17% Evolution of Corporate Governance In order to present itself in an accurate and transparent fashion to investors, ORIX 1964 Adopted U.S. GAAP has been applying U.S. GAAP in its financial reporting since its founding in 1964. Six years after its founding, ORIX listed its shares on the second section of the Osaka Listed on the second section of the Osaka 1970 Securities Exchange Securities Exchange. Going public reflected the Company’s aspiration to be a responsible member of society with transparency and accountability in its governance. In 1 9 9 7, ORIX spearheaded the strengthening of corporate governance by estab1997 Established Advisory Board lishing an Advisory Board, a committee composed entirely of outside advisors who provide advice to management. In 1998, ORIX adopted the Corporate Executive Officer System, which separates the supervisory function (Board of Directors) and business execution (Executive Introduced Corporate Executive Officer Officers). In the same year, ORIX listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange 1998 System and listed on the New York Stock after considering the growing number of foreign shareholders and the benefit of Exchange strengthening corporate governance through the more stringent disclosure requirements of the SEC. ORIX welcomed its first outside director in 1999 and adopted the “Company with Adopted the “Company with Committees” Committees” board model* in 2003. All of the current Outside Directors meet the 2003 board model* independence criteria prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. * Adopted the new “Company with Nominating Committees, etc.” board model in line with the amendment of the Companies Act of Japan in 2015. This is how ORIX has been strengthening its management oversight since its founding. The current corporate governance framework requires a high level of discipline from the managers but we believe this is how corporate governance is supposed to be. 36 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 ORIX’s Vision of Corporate Governance Desirable Undesirable Viewpoints of supervision and ●Supervision of management pursuing enhancement of ● Supervision of legal compliance only operation at Board of Directors corporate value meetings ● Operation led by Outside Directors ● Operation led by Executive Officers ●Productive debate with a healthy degree of tension ● Unproductive discussion lacking a degree of tension ● Healthy risk appetite to facilitate innovation ● Lack of innovation due to excessive risk aversion Orientation of the way the Board of ● Risk  evaluation from an objective perspective ● Excessive risk appetite lacking an objective perspective Directors meetings are conducted ● Appointment  of management and determination of ● Appointment of management and determination of compensation from shareholders’ viewpoint compensation entirely from an internal perspective Result High ROE sustainable over the long term Low ROE over the long term Approach to Corporate Governance ● ORIX believes that a robust corporate governance system is essential for ensuring objective management and carrying out appropriate business activities in line with its core policies. We have therefore established a sound and transparent corporate governance system. ● Corporate governance is a system for management oversight. It involves setting management objectives for managers, performance analysis and evaluation, and supervision in order to ensure that management strives to attain outstanding results. The tension inherent in corporate governance encourages management to perform to the best of its ability and facilitates innovation in pursuit of corporate objectives. Such an approach is conducive to the achievement of consistently high ROE. ●  utside Directors have a crucial role to play in corporate governance. From various perspectives reflecting their diverse professional O backgrounds, Outside Directors are able to objectively evaluate management’s performance in ways that transcend the industry’s conventional wisdom and the company’s ingrained practices. Moreover, by virtue of their external perspectives, Outside Directors are in the position to objectively evaluate the risk of management not taking adequate levels of risk. Differences with Respect to the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards ORIX’s American Depositary Shares have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 1 9 9 8. As an NYSE-listed company, ORIX is required to comply with certain corporate governance standards under Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. However, as a foreign private issuer, ORIX is permitted to follow home country practice. Our corporate governance practices differ in certain respects from those that U.S. listed companies must adopt. A summary of these differences is as follows: ●  RIX is not required to meet the NYSE’s independence O ●  RIX is not required to have the majority of its Board of O requirements for individuals on its Board of Directors or its Directors comprised of Outside Directors nor is ORIX Nominating, Audit and Compensation committees. ORIX’s required to compose its committees exclusively of Nominating Committee has determined its own “Conditions Outside Directors. Of ORIX’s thirteen directors, six are for Director Independence.” Outside Directors. In addition, the Audit Committee consists solely of Outside Directors and five of the six members of the Nominating Committee and four of the five members of the Compensation Committee, respectively, are Outside Directors. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 37 Corporate Governance Framework (As of July 1, 2016) General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Executive Officers Reporting CEO and CFO Board of Directors Supervision Reporting Disclosure Investment and Credit Committee 6 Outside Directors 7 Internal Directors Committee Disclosure Monthly Strategy Meeting Control Instructions Group Executive Officer Committee 18 Executive Officers* Information Technology Nominating Committee: 4 Group Executives Management Committee 6 Members (5 Outside Directors) *excluding CEO and CFO Audit Committee: Reporting 4 Members (4 Outside Directors) Audit Internal Control-related Instructions/ Operations Committee Monitoring Compensation Committee: Requests Secretariat Compliance Department Credit Department Accounting Department IT Planning Department Other Internal Sales Support Departments Sales Headquarters Group Companies 5 Members (4 Outside Directors) Reporting Internal Audit Department Control-related Departments Instructions / Requests Independent Public Accountants Reporting/Supervision Financial Auditing Board of Directors The Board of Directors makes business decisions on items that, either as a matter of law or pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation, cannot be delegated to executive officers and important items as determined by the regulations of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is mainly responsible for regularly monitoring and deciding corporate planning proposals, which include basic policies on capital management, funding and personnel strategies and internal control policy. Aside from these items, the Board of Directors delegates business decision making to the representative executive officers for greater efficiency in decision making and execution. The Board of Directors also receives reports from executive officers and committees regarding the status of the execution of their duties. Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee ●  he Nominating Committee decides and produces proposals to appoint or dismiss directors, which are then submitted at the general T meeting of shareholders (appointment and dismissal of directors are subject to resolution at the general meeting of shareholders). The Nominating Committee also deliberates on the appointment or dismissal of executive officers, although this is not required under the Companies Act of Japan. The Nominating Committee has determined the “Conditions for Director Independence.”  he Audit Committee monitors the execution of the duties of the directors and executive officers and creates audit reports. The Audit ● T Committee decides the content of proposals to appoint, dismiss or refuse the reappointment of the Company’s independent Certified Public Accountants, which are submitted to the general meeting of shareholders. The Audit Committee Secretariat (three members) was established to assist the Audit Committee regarding the execution of its duties.  he Compensation Committee formulates the policy for determining compensation of each director and executive officer (“Policy for ● T Determining Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers”) and also decides the specific compensation for each individual director and executive officer. Board of Directors and Committee Meetings in FY2016.3 Number of Meetings Attendance Rate Board of Directors 8 97% Nominating Committee 3 89% Audit Committee 10 98% Compensation Committee 5 92% Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers The Compensation Committee believes that in order to accomplish ORIX’s business objectives, directors and executive officers should place importance on not only performance during the current fiscal year, but also on mediumand long-term results. The fundamental policy is to ensure that compensation is designed in a way that provides effective incentives to directors and executive officers. Based on this principle, the Committee then establishes specific policies for each director and executive officer in accordance with his/her respective role. 38 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance at ORIX Compensation Policy for Directors ●  he compensation consists of fixed compensation and share-based compensation.* T ●  ixed compensation is, in principle, a specified base amount that is adjusted with additional compensation, based on whether such F director also assumes the position of chairperson and committee member. ● Share-based compensation is calculated based on the number of points earned and accumulated by the individual while in office until retirement. It is eventually granted to the individual in the form of ORIX shares upon retirement. This compensation is intended to align mediumto long-term results of the Company with the individual’s performance. Compensation Policy for Executive Officers (including those who concurrently serve as Directors) ●  he compensation consists of fixed compensation, performance-linked compensation and share-based compensation.* T ●  ixed compensation is decided based on the standardized base amount for each position followed by an adjustment in accordance F with each position’s respective role and responsibility. ● Performance-linked compensation consists of two components of equal weighting. The first component is derived from the standardized base amount for each position that starts from 50% followed by adjustment within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of the consolidated net income target for the current fiscal year as a performance indicator. The second component is derived the same way as the first component, except with the subsequent adjustment within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of his/her division(s)’ performance target for the current fiscal year. Furthermore, in the case of Representative Executive Officers, his/her performance-linked compensation is entirely based on a standardized base amount that is adjusted within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of the consolidated net income target for the current fiscal year as a performance indicator. ●  Share-based compensation is calculated based on the number of points earned and accumulated by the individual while in office until retirement. It is eventually granted to the individual in the form of ORIX shares upon retirement. The points granted each year are derived from the standardized number of points for each position where 50% of which is adjusted within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of the consolidated net income target for the current fiscal year as a performance indicator, and the other 50% of which is adjusted within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of his/her division(s)’ performance target for the current fiscal year. Furthermore, in the case of Representative Executive Officers, his/her share-based compensation is entirely based on a standardized number of points that is adjusted within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment level of the consolidated net income target for the current fiscal year as a performance indicator. This compensation aims to align with mediumto long-term result of the company to the individual’s performance. * “Share-based compensation” is a program in which points are annually allocated to directors and executive officers based upon prescribed standards while in office, and the actual number of ORIX’ shares calculated based on the number of accumulated points is provided at the time of retirement. Points granted to the individual directors and/or executive officers are determined based on title and seniority in accordance with guidelines set by the Compensation Committee. Compensation of Directors, Executive Officers and Group Executives (FY2016.3) Fixed Compensation Performance-linked Compensation Share-based Compensation Total Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Amount Paid Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) Directors 9 106 — — 1 19 125 (Outside Directors) (7) (68) — — (1) (19) (87) Executive Officers and 31 830 31 386 7 707 1,924 Group Executives Total 40 936 31 386 8 726 2,049 Notes: 1. There was a total of 13 directors (including six Outside Directors), 20 executive officers (including those serving concurrently as directors) and three group executives as of March 31, 2016. Figures for the number of directors and executive officers who received compensation and the compensation amount include those of 12 persons who have resigned from their previous positions as either director or executive officer or group executive in FY2016.3. 2. At ORIX, no directors serving concurrently as executive officers received compensation as directors. Total compensation for six people serving concurrently as directors and executive officers is shown in the Executive Officers and Group Executives line. 3. Under ORIX’s share-based compensation system, directors and executive officers are granted a prescribed number of points during their tenure and receive shares of ORIX stock from a trust in accordance with their accumulated point totals when they retire. Share-based compensation indicated above is the total number of ORIX shares issued to directors and executive officers who retired during FY2016.3 multiplied by the market price of ¥1,588 per share at the time the trust acquired ORIX shares. 4. O RIX did not provide stock options in the form of stock acquisition rights in FY2016.3. 5. Figures shown are rounded down by discarding figures of less than 1 million yen. For more details, please refer to the following: ● Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ▶▶▶ http://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/20f/ ● “Conditions for Director Independence” determined by the Nominating Committee (Form 20-F)  ● Corporate Governance ▶▶▶ http://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/company/governance/ ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 39 Corporate Governance Comments from the Outside Directors Governance drives the Nominating Committee, and we are constantly being reminded of its importance during our discussions. Nobuaki Usui Chairperson of the Nominating Committe ORIX’s Unique and Unparalleled Business two years ago, and the Nominating Committee watchModel fully confirmed that management was making the transition smoothly and was functioning as intended. The I became an Outside Director four years ago. Initially, I Committee took special care to embed and enhance must say that being on ORIX’s Board of Directors was the new regime through its selection of director cana bit overwhelming because of its ability to perceptively didates. Examples of management turnover at several sense changes around the world, its prudent aggresother companies of late have attracted attention from siveness in taking risks, and the sense of urgency with the standpoint of governance and reaffirm the imporwhich it made decisions. I had worked as a governtance of the Nominating Committee’s responsibilities. ment official for many years, and I was amazed by the Now more than ever, we must proactively discuss the difference in dynamism between a Japanese company ideal attributes of the managers who will be a good fit and the government. After a while, I realized that the with ORIX’s approach to its future business developdifference has much to do with the unique corporate ment and who embody ORIX’s DNA. culture that ORIX developed under former CEO YoshiORIX has globalized in anticipation of market change hiko Miyauchi. Call it ORIX’s DNA. ORIX recently decidsince its inception, achieving remarkable growth while ed to take on the challenge of its concession business structuring corporate governance for both transparency in Japan. Outsiders may find ORIX’s business portfolio and effectiveness. The Board of Directors devotes a complex, but its corporate culture is the engine drivconsiderable amount of time to discussing strategies ing the Company as it deploys its expertise to expand for business growth, always including governance and outward into related markets. ORIX’s ability to diversify, the risks ORIX will take. Given our forecast for a chalglobalize and expand is a testament to its unique and lenging economic and operating environment, however, unparalleled business model. we need to enhance ORIX’s business operations, personnel system and organization and commit to improving global governance in targeting further growth and We Are Enhancing ORIX’s Business globalization. Good numbers are not the only paramOperations, Personnel System and eter. We must pay closer attention than ever to ORIX’s Organization, and Are Committed to contribution to society and how stakeholders perceive it. I have every confidence that ORIX will successfully Improving Global Governance achieve the goals it sets. I became the chairperson of the Nominating Committee last year. Makoto Inoue had just become CEO 40 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Risk never disappears. The key is to intelligently absorb and minimize risk. Eiko Tsujiyama Chairperson of the Audit Committee put great effort into the trial and error that has made its ORIX’s Singular Business Model corporate governance even more functional. ORIX operates with a singular business model in Japan Looking at the future of governance and manageand internationally. A contemporary leader, it provides ment, ORIX first should recognize that risk never disapdiverse services that started with leasing and now expears. The key is to be aware that risk is always prestend to businesses including finance, retail (banking ent in one form or another in order to determine how and life insurance), real estate, business investment, to minimize it and how best to resolve it. In addition, a and environment and energy. ORIX also conducts properly functioning internal reporting system is crucial. balanced operations among these fields by effectively Compliance is also one of the risks apparent in recent managing risks in each of its markets, and demonscandals at Japanese companies. But even when a strates its commitment to leadership by empowering company sets up an internal control system, it does women. not eliminate risk; it intelligently absorbs and minimizes potential risks. ORIX has front-line operations that are highly conscious of compliance and truly understand ORIX is Expected to Be a Singular the CEO’s message within a shared culture of practical compliance, but must never become complacent. Presence in Corporate Governance as Well Even viewed from a worldwide perspective, ORIX’s ORIX’s lively Board of Directors listens carefully business model is singular. I expect ORIX to roll out its to the opinions of Outside Directors, and responds business model globally to grow further and contribute quickly to remarks from members of the Audit Comto society, and to meld the best elements from Japan mittee, which I chair. The Audit Committee focuses on and overseas not only in its business activities, but the approach to risk and on never failing to see the also in implementing corporate governance. Doing so initial signs of latent risk, and is able to appropriately will require ORIX to remain a social leader and rely on and quickly follow up on its projects. One step ahead the willingness of its employees to take on these chalof contemporary developments, ORIX was a leader lenges. I would ask all ORIX employees to take pride in in bringing on outside directors and transitioning to a their globally singular business model as they embrace “Company with Committees” board model, and has challenges. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 41 We attract people to ORIX with appropriate compensation, with an understanding of the nature of Robert Feldman shareholder interests. This links Chairperson of the Compensation Committee the interests of the Company and its shareholders. Innovation, Courage and Discipline Drive es opinions energetically and rigorously in thoroughly Growth in a Diverse Business Portfolio discussing a variety of issues. The effectiveness of corporate governance is a function of how well manInnovation, courage and discipline are three key words agement incorporates the opinions of committees and that describe ORIX. It has a diverse business portfolio the Board of Directors, and ORIX functions very well in and studies how it can operate in peripheral markets to this regard. The basis for determining compensation create new value by entering them. This is innovation is a complex issue that the Compensation Committee that enables ORIX to build its business in tune with the approaches with a mosaic of academic opinions and times. Business involves two risks: not doing business practical opinions based on the extensive experience at a time when the probability of success is high, and of each Director. The key points here are the ability to doing business at a time when success is uncertain. effectively explain how compensation is in the interests ORIX deals with the latter by taking risks with due conof shareholders, and the ability to attract quality people sideration of earnings growth. This is courage. Moreto ORIX with appropriate compensation. This links the over, ORIX demonstrates discipline by setting rigorous interests of the Company and its shareholders. targets in its business plans, then rigorously evaluating One issue for corporate governance is rejuvenating outcomes to make the best use of them for subsethe Board of Directors, and that includes me. I would quent growth. Innovation, courage and discipline allow like more participation by younger people, even if they ORIX to grow by deftly linking diverse businesses. are less experienced, to energize management by introducing different perspectives and new knowledge. The Compensation Committee must figure out how to Different Perspectives and New nurture people who can contribute in the future and Knowledge Evolve the Business Model how to enhance the capabilities of people who are underperforming. ORIX operates globally, so increasing ORIX targets optimum corporate governance with international exchanges, effectively utilizing diverse cutting-edge initiatives. ORIX transitioned to a “Compeople, and hiring people with potential will enable pany with Committees” board model more than 10 ORIX to evolve its business model. Global governance years ago, and the substantial influence of committees has received much attention in recent years, and enis a key feature of ORIX’s corporate governance. I ergetic discussion and enhanced compliance will get chair the Compensation Committee, which exchangORIX to its next phase of globalization. 42 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Risk Management Group-Wide Risk Management System Risk Control ORIX allocates management resources by taking into account of Directors and the relevant executive officers. Those who Group-wide risk preference based on management strategies receive the reports evaluate the performance, profitability and and the strategy of individual business units. It monitors its risk of each business unit and the total portfolio, and take business both on an individual transaction and total portfolio measures deemed appropriate. basis, as well as by business unit. Business units and corpoThrough this process, we control the balance sheet while rate divisions confirm progress of strategies and cooperate to allocating more management resources to business units analyze and manage risk from various perspectives. having greater growth potential. The monitoring results are regularly reported to the Board Executive Officers The representative executive officers of ORIX make important Directors and the representative executive officers and are carbusiness administration decisions after deliberations by the Inried out in accordance with ORIX’s various regulations. Group vestment and Credit Committee in accordance with ORIX’s variexecutives are appointed by the Board of Directors from among ous regulations. the directors and executive officers of the Group companies. The duties of executive officers are decided by the Board of ■ Characteristics of the Executive Officer System ●  peration and oversight are separated through a “Company O ●  xecutive officers and group executives regularly report and E with Nominating Committees, etc.” board model. share information with CEO and CFO about progress of strate●  CEO and CFO are involved in all processes for evaluating indigies and plans of business units they are responsible for. vidual transactions and monitoring the progress of strategies ● Executive officers and group executives along with CEO and and plans of business units as well as the progress of strateCFO share information about strategies and plans of the Group gies and plans of the Group as a whole. as a whole. Organization of Executive Officers (As of July 1, 2016) Board of Directors Audit · Supervision Reporting Executive Officers Monitoring report Investment and Credit Committee Transaction application, Progress report (Makes decisions on credit transactions and investments) Corporate Divisions Monthly Strategy Meeting (Discusses strategies of individual departments) Corporate Planning Department Corporate Communications Department Group Executive Officer Committee (Shares management information of the Group) Accounting Headquarters Monitoring Business Divisions Treasury Headquarters Group Human Resources and Information Technology Management Committee Corporate Administration (Makes decisions on policies and strategies for IT) Headquarters IT Planning Office Risk Management Headquarters Disclosure Committee (Conducts timely and appropriate disclosure) Group Compliance Department Legal and External Relations Department Monitoring of operation process Group Internal Audit Department ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 43 Top Management Involvement in Main Functions of Executive Officers ●  he Investment and Credit Committee deliberates individual transacT tions. Even small transactions are discussed thoroughly among senior Investment management including CEO and CFO before final decisions are made. and Credit ● Monthly Strategy Meetings are held for the approximately twenty busiCommittee ness units grouped under the six business segments, including corporate divisions. CEO and CFO, in principle, have discussions with each divisional head to confirm plans, progress, and outlook, and then give instructions as necessary. ● At the Group Executive Officer Committee, attended by all executive CEO officers and group executives, CEO shares information about progress of the Group strategy and CFO shares information about numerical CFO aspects. Group Monthly Executive Strategy Officer Meeting Committee Individual Executive Bodies Important decision-making, monitoring and discussions regarding the execution of business and sharing of information are conducted by the following bodies. Investment and Credit Committee (“ICC”) Information Technology Management Committee (Three times a month in principle) (Once a month in principle) Attendees: Top management and executive officers involved in Attendees: Top management and the executive officer in charge of projects IT systems ● Meets primarily to deliberate and make decisions on credit transactions ●Meets to deliberate and decide important matters concerning fundaand investments that exceed certain specified investment or credit mental policies for IT operations and IT systems. amounts and important matters related to management of the Com●E nsures that IT decisions are consistent with its business strategies and pany and matters that have been entrusted to representative executive works to realize IT investments that contribute to business growth and officers by the Board of Directors. reduce risk. ● In consideration of their importance, the content of the matters and items decided by the ICC are reported to the Board of Directors as necessary. Disclosure Committee Monthly Strategy Meeting (As necessary) Attendees: CFO (Chairperson) and executive officers in charge of (Once a month in principle) Corporate Planning Department, Treasury Headquarters, Accounting Attendees: Top management and each divisional head Headquarters, Risk Management Headquarters, Legal and Exter● Meets to discuss matters such as the state of achievement of strategic nal Relations Department, Group Compliance Department, Group targets and changes in the business environment. Human Resources and Corporate Administration Headquarters, ● Matters of high importance discussed at the Monthly Strategy Meeting Group Internal Audit Department and Corporate Communications are deliberated and decided by the ICC and reported to the Board of Department Directors as necessary. ●Upon receiving warnings regarding important information from those in charge of individual departments, the Disclosure Committee meets to discuss whether any timely disclosure is required and takes steps to Group Executive Officer Committee provide appropriate disclosure of such information, if necessary. ●T he committee controls information disclosure and facilitates the appropriate and timely disclosure of information to stakeholders. (Once a month in principle) Attendees: Executive officers and group executives ● Meets to share important information related to the business administration of the ORIX Group. 44 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Risk Management Main Risk Management Main Risk Management ORIX recognizes that credit risk, business risk, market risk, liquidity risk (risk relating to funding), legal risk and other operational risk are the main risks we face, and we manage each of these risks according to its characteristics. ■ Credit Risk Management We define credit risk as uncertainty regarding future recovery We recognize certain assets that require extra monitoring, inof investments caused by fluctuations in the cash flow from debtcluding credit extended to debtors who have petitioned for bankors and investees. ruptcy or civil rehabilitation, or other insolvency proceedings, or To analyze credit risk, we evaluate the adequacy of collateral whose bank transactions have been suspended, bills have been and guarantees, the liquidation of debt and the concentration of dishonored, or debts have not been collected for three months or debtors and their business types. We conduct a comprehensive more. The relevant business units, in cooperation with the credit customer credit evaluation based on the customer’s financial department, take steps to secure collateral or other guarantees position, cash flow, underlying security interests, profitability and and to begin the collection process. The accumulated collection other factors of individual credit transactions. know-how from sending an initial reminder to actively seizing colMoreover, an analysis of our portfolio, as well as measures to lateral is consolidated in the credit department and is reflected in establish appropriate credit limits, allows us to control exposure our evaluation criteria for individual credit transactions and portto markets with potentially high risks. folio analysis. ■ Business Risk Management We define business risk as uncertainties related to new busitheir quality. ness areas, potential obsolescence of the products or services A principal risk relating to operating leases is fluctuation in the we offer or a decline in their quality, and variability in market pricresidual value of the leased properties. To control fluctuation in es for the types of products or services we offer. residual value, we monitor our inventories of leased properties, Against uncertainties related to new business areas, we market environments and the overall business environment. We monitor business plans and operations using scenario analygenerally limit our operating leases to leased properties with high ses and stress tests, and we also evaluate and verify the cost versatility that are comparatively easy to re-lease, and evaluate of withdrawal from a business. the sale of such properties depending on changes in market For products and services we offer, in addition to monitoring conditions. quality, we review the content of our lineup of products and serWe endeavor to reduce the risk related to fluctuation in market vices in response to changes in the business environment and prices for real estate by strengthening our cash flow. evolving customer needs and endeavor to maintain or improve ■ Market Risk Management We define market risk as the risk of changes in the fair value of foreign currency denominated assets and retained earnings of assets and liabilities caused by changes in market variables, such foreign subsidiaries using appropriate indicators such as the VaR as interest rates, exchange rates and stock prices. (value at risk) and adjusting hedge positions as needed based on We establish Group-wide ALM (Asset-Liability Management) changes in the market environment at any given time. policies, and we endeavor to comprehensively verify and underWe manage counterparty credit risk and other risks involved in stand market risks. hedging derivative transactions in accordance with internal rules. Interest rate risk is comprehensively evaluated factoring in the For assets that we manage in our banking business, our life expected impact of interest rate changes on periodic profit and insurance business and our overseas operations, we regularly loss and/or the balance sheet, the assets and liabilities positions, monitor monetary policies, macroeconomic indicators and secuand the funding environment. These analysis methods are modirities and financial market trends, and manage our asset portfofied, as required, depending on the situation. lios by analyzing individual security price movements and gains We generally manage exchange rate risk by using foreign and losses. Market volatility is managed according to guidelines currency-denominated loans, foreign exchange contracts and that include instruction to cut off loss and downsize certain pocurrency swaps to hedge exchange rate volatility in our business sition. Our credit department monitors our compliance with the transactions in foreign currencies and overseas investments. We guidelines. closely monitor and manage exchange rate risk of unhedged ■ Liquidity Risk Management (Risk Management Relating to Funding) We define liquidity risk as the risk that we will be unable to obration in the financial condition of ORIX or other reasons. tain the required funds or that we will be forced to secure funding at a significantly high interest rate due to market turmoil, deterioORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 45 To reduce liquidity risk, we diversify our funding methods and cial authorities. They are required to manage liquidity risk indesources and monitor liquidity on hand. To manage liquidity on pendently from other ORIX Group companies based on internal hand, we project future cash flows and analyze liquidity risk using regulations formulated according to the relevant regulations. hypothetical stress scenarios. We take necessary measures so ORIX Bank maintains the required liquidity levels by holding that business may continue undisturbed in the event of adverse highly liquid assets such as cash and government and corporate market changes. bonds and by setting an upper limit for capital market funding. In The effect on the business of each subsidiary is monitored by addition, it regularly monitors its liquidity position against these ascertaining liquidity risk in each subsidiary and in every country measures, conducts stress tests on cash flow under different in which ORIX operates. We take appropriate measures to manscenarios. age liquidity risk, such as intercompany loans extended to our ORIX Life Insurance conducts stress tests on insured events subsidiary. and ensures the necessary liquidity by holding highly liquid asORIX Bank Corporation (“ORIX Bank”) and ORIX Life Insursets such as cash and cash equivalents and securities above a ance Corporation (“ORIX Life Insurance”) provide products and certain ratio against the balance of a liability reserve and setting services to retail customers and are regulated by Japanese finanmaximum limits for holding held-to-maturity securities. ■ Legal Risk Management We define legal risk as the risk of legal liability or legal disadensure that proper legal procedures are followed in connection vantage arising due to noncompliance with applicable laws and/ with potential disputes and litigation, we require that the legal deor regulations in relation to the management of the business. partment, the compliance department and the credit department To avoid, prevent and mitigate transactional legal risk in be involved in the management of such disputes and litigation, Japan, in principle we require that the credit department, the including lawsuits that have been, or are expected to be, brought legal department and the compliance department be involved in against us and lawsuits that we bring, or expect to bring, against evaluating and/or executing transactions. In addition to establishthird parties. ing and maintaining internal rules designed to facilitate legal comThe administration department monitors the company’s use pliance, we take steps to further ensure compliance with future of intellectual property and takes necessary corrective measures revisions to laws. when potential infringement of third party intellectual property For business transactional agreements, we have established rights is detected. an approval process involving the legal department in accorOverseas, each Group company takes measures to avoid, dance with our prescribed internal rules. In addition, depending prevent and mitigate risks by utilizing in-house legal functions and, on the size and importance of a given transaction, we may utilize when necessary, by engaging outside lawyers and other advisers. the expertise of outside lawyers if it is deemed appropriate. To ■ Operational Risk Management We define operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from the risk management function through monitoring activities. inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or The compliance department supports the business and opfrom external events. erations functions by implementing and maintaining compliance Operational risk is inherent in our business and includes comprograms designed to identify and manage compliance risks in pliance risk and fiduciary risk. each jurisdiction where ORIX does business and to support a Compliance risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanction strong culture of compliance throughout the Group. or damage to our reputation resulting from a failure by ORIX to In FY2016.3, ORIX undertook to enhance compliance risk comply with applicable laws and regulations where it conducts its management in its global businesses and in connection with that business and ORIX’s internal policies, rules and procedures and effort updated its Principles of Conduct and introduced a Code may encompass legal risk when applicable laws and regulations of Conduct and Ethics to increase compliance awareness among are violated. its directors, executive officers and employees throughout the Fiduciary risk is the risk of loss resulting from a failure to propGroup. erly exercise discretion when acting on behalf of our customers The IT planning department and ORIX Computer Systems and clients. Corporation endeavor to reduce operational risk including risks of Each ORIX department conducts an annual compliance procyber-attacks and other information security threats through the gram to address material risks at the Group level. The internal maintenance and operational administration of internal systems. audit department conducts monitoring activities based on an anWe have established internal rules to manage risks associated nual internal audit plan that focuses on material risks. The departwith natural disasters, which are designed to protect management endeavors to prevent the occurrence of events that could ment resources and minimize losses, while giving priority to the negatively affect Group management and seeks to strengthen safety of our executives and employees. 46 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Risk Management Individual Business Risk Management Individual Business Risk Management ORIX engages in a broad spectrum of businesses in addition to financial service operations. We perform comprehensive and transparent monitoring and risk management according to the characteristics of each business segment. Corporate Financial Services Credit risk is the main risk of the Corporate Financial Serbusiness types and industries, including the potential impact vices segment. on customers while making decisions about future transacAfter individual transactions have been executed, the tions in that specific business type or industry. Corporate Financial Services segment regularly monitors For those assets requiring extra monitoring, particularly performance and collateral, as well as collection from in transactions secured by real estate, we take various customers whose balances exceed specified levels. The measures such as capitalizing on our network of real estatecredit department regularly evaluates customers with large related departments within the Group to sell properties or credit balances. introduce tenants. We analyze current conditions and outlook for specific Maintenance Leasing Business risk and credit risk are the main risks of the Maintor future forecasts and control costs at an appropriate level. tenance Leasing segment. In addition, to manage the risk that the quality of our serTo manage the risk of changes in market values of assets vices might fall short of customer expectations due to changes under operating leases, we continuously monitor market enviin the operating environment or diversification of client needs, ronments and fluctuation in the resale value of leased assets we conduct quantitative and qualitative monitoring on our and adjust residual value estimates of leased property in new service quality and continuously strive to improve our services transactions accordingly. in line with the operating environment. Cost fluctuation is the main risk that we manage when we We also conduct credit examinations of individual transacprovide various services to our customers. In response to tions to manage credit risk. this, we analyze initial cost planning and performance, moniReal Estate In the Real Estate segment, the main risk for real estate For development and rental business, we monitor develdevelopment, rental and operation is business risk. opment and operation schedules and NOI yield. We capitalize With respect to real estate investment, before making an on the Group’s network to improve occupancy rates and supinvestment decision we evaluate the actual cash flow perport sales. formance of the investee target against the initial plan and In our facility operation business, we monitor performance forecasts, and monitor investment strategies and schedules indicators such as occupancy rates and profitability. We after execution. When a material divergence from the initial conduct market analysis and take initiatives to improve the forecast is detected, we reevaluate our strategy. In addition, marketability of our facilities, such as through renovations. To when we invest in large scale or long term projects, we conimprove the quality of our services and facilities, we strive to sider diversifying risk by making joint investments with our take into consideration customers’ feedback and also implepartners. ment training programs for our employees. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 47 Investment and Operation Credit risk, market risk and business risk are the main risks time for exit nears, benchmarking investees’ corporate values of the Investment and Operation segment. to their peers. In the environment and energy business, for renewable The frequency of monitoring may increase depending on energy, energy conservation and resource and waste prothe business environment, and we simultaneously verify the cessing operations, we endeavor to minimize business risk adequacy of investment scenarios and take any necessary by deploying appropriate equipment and technology, forming action. Furthermore, for investments that have a significant alliances with expert operators and arranging our business impact on the profitability of ORIX, we work to strengthen structure to allow for changes in the business environment management through measures such as the secondment of and the business content. management personnel. When making investment decisions in the principal investIn the loan servicing business, we seek to reduce credit ment business, we conduct a credit evaluation, analyzing the and operational risks by conducting periodic internal auditing investee’s credit profile and assessing its cash flow, similar and monitoring and by implementing business operations to the usual credit examinations. In addition, we perform a based on work procedures in accordance with the applicable multifaceted evaluation on the characteristics of the business supervision and guidance from regulatory authorities. In addioperation and investment scheme, in which corporate departtion, ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services Corporation ments such as the accounting and legal departments are also has designated an outside lawyer as a company director to involved. be in charge of the company’s legal and compliance departAfter the initial investment, individual transactions are ment, and also ensure necessary organizational system is in monitored for any divergence from the initial projection. Furplace to handle legal and compliance related matters with any thermore, during the phase where we take steps to enhance stakeholders professionally and with an objective and broad the investees’ corporate values, we focus on credit risk and viewpoint. watch cash flow closely. We also monitor market risk as the Retail The main risk in the life insurance business is business risk of a comprehensive evaluation including not only the client’s and market risk, in particular, the risk associated with underability to repay but also the cash flows that can be derived writing insurance policies. from the property and its collateral value. Throughout this When underwriting insurance policies, while implementing process, we utilize the real estate market information, industry strict assessment standards based on documents such as know-how and network we have built for many years. statements of health condition and medical examination reDecision making for corporate loans is based on an inports, ORIX Life Insurance cultivates employees with expert vestigation of the client’s performance, business plan, the knowledge and hires sufficient staff, checks the status of purpose of the loan, the expected source of repayment and insurance solicitation and takes rigorous measures to prevent industry trends. We also reduce risks by avoiding overconthe underwriting of fraudulent contracts. In addition, ORIX Life centration in particular business types and products in our Insurance educates and instructs agency staff and agents to portfolio. enhance legal compliance regarding the privacy of personal The card loan business uses a proprietary scoring system information, as well as insurance sales practices, and regularly incorporating a credit screening model. We set interest rates checks whether these measures are carried out. and credit limits in line with each customer’s credit risk profile, Credit risk is the main risk of the housing loan business, after evaluating their creditworthiness based on an analysis of the corporate loan business and the card loan business. customer attributes or payment history, as well as other facRegarding each housing loan we extend for investment tors that might affect the ability of the borrower to repay. Also, properties mainly condominiums and apartments, we conwe undertake subsequent credit evaluations at regular interduct screenings through individual interviews, which consist vals to monitor changes in the customer’s financial condition. 48 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Risk Management / Individual Business Risk Management Overseas Business In the Overseas Business segment, credit risk is the main Regarding market risk, we monitor market values while risk of the leasing and loan businesses operated by local subreferring to credit risk information and manage risk by sidiaries, which are located mainly in Asia. pursuing early sales as appropriate to secure profits or Individual transactions in this segment are conducted in a minimize losses. manner similar to those in the domestic business segments. Operational risk is the main risk for the loan servicing busiThe credit department monitors the portfolio according to ness in the United States. We arrange loans and conduct country risk. Information regarding the portfolio of the respecservicing operations thereof under public financing schemes tive local subsidiaries, the business condition of major clients, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association and the the condition of those assets requiring extra monitoring and Federal Housing Administration. We conduct our operations the clients of particular concern is shared internally. based on the designated operating procedures set forth by Risk management in the principal investment business and these public financial institutions, and monitor and manage the auto-related business, which are mainly in Asia, is conservice quality through internal auditing. ducted in a similar manner to that in the domestic business Business risk and operational risk are the main risks for the segments. asset management business and the advisory business. In addition, in the ship and aircraft-related business, we Regarding business risk, in addition to monitoring to monitor market conditions and the overall business environmaintain and ensure satisfactory quality levels, we review the ment for business risk. We generally limit our operating leases content of our products and services to constantly maintain to ships and aircraft with high versatility that are comparativeand improve quality in response to changes in the business ly easy to re-lease and evaluate sales depending on changes environment and evolving customer needs. in market conditions. In the asset management business, we have established Credit risk and market risk are the main risks for the an internal compliance system to manage operational risk investment and finance business, including corporate loans and manage our operations to abide by the compliance stanand securities investment in the United States. dards established by the supervisory authority. Regarding Regarding credit risk, at the time when an investment or operational risk in the advisory business, we maintain and a loan is made, we assign an internal credit rating to each ensure quality and operational procedures that meet the transaction taking into consideration the credit status and operating standards set forth by authorities through an the collateral status and continuously monitor the credit stainternal quality control committee and other oversight so tus. For any investment and/or loan of which the rating has that high-quality advice and/or evaluation services can be reached or exceeded the caution level, our policy requires supplied to customers according to proper operating management to determine the necessity of a provision for procedures. doubtful receivables and probable loan losses or impairment. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 49 Creating Value through Our Businesses Corporate Financial Services Group sales are the core of our efforts to capture growth opportunities for ORIX. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Japan: Others: Loan, leasing and fee ・ Leasing ・ Yayoi ・ Loan ・ New business business ・ Fee business development Strengths & Advantages Opportunities Risks ・ Using our locally rooted network of ・ We have an increasing number of oppor・ Adding quality, highly profitable assets sales offices throughout Japan as a tunities to propose and provide products may be difficult because of continued strength, we have an outstanding record and services that address changing and low interest rates in Japan and lending of providing financial services including diversifying corporate needs in areas incompetition with other financial instituleasing and lending to small and medicluding M&A, business succession, cost tions. um-sized enterprises (SME). reduction, increased operating efficiency, ・ We may not be able to constantly de・ We serve as a core Group sales and response to environmental issues and velop new products and services that consulting platform that aggregates overseas market entry. address customer needs. Group customer data and information ・ Deregulation and changes in the busiabout products and services. ness environment are creating new ・ We increase business opportunities for growth markets including agriculture, the Group by internally sharing and cohealthcare and IT. ordinating information about customers, markets and needs we collect using our sales network. Successfully Delivering Value ‌ ・ Leveraging the Group’s network, we are a one-stop source of products and services that address customer needs and issues. ‌ ・ We are exploring new markets for ORIX by expanding the payment services business, promoting agricultural business initiatives and enhancing Yayoi’s cloud-based business. 50 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Growth Strategies ORIX’s Sales Platform for Proposing and Group companies and segments to access their know-how and expertise. We first look to the Group’s broad range of Providing Optimal Solutions products and services in making proposals. If they are unable The Corporate Financial Services segment has served as the to resolve customer needs and management issues, we coORIX Group’s core sales and marketing platform since the operate with other business units to study and develop new Group was established in 1964. We provide a broad array of solutions. This approach to proposing solutions to issues enproducts and services to our core SME customer base, inhances trust in ORIX as a business partner. cluding leasing of various equipment and machinery, and lendORIX has a unique business model for the process of creing. We are also licensed to sell life insurance products, and ating optimal solutions for customer issues that enables us we cross-sell the Group’s other services such as environment to provide answers that other companies cannot. Our busiand energy products and services and auto leasing. ness is not limited to financial services. We are committed Our sales representatives serve their customers as conto increasing the number of customers who approach us for sultants for the Group, identifying customer status and issues business consulting to deepen our customer relationships. As primarily through leasing and lending transactions. They also a result, we are capturing growth opportunities for the Group determine specific customer needs and management issues and contributing to its current drive to expand in non-finance and propose optimal solutions for them by collaborating with businesses. Examples of Products and Services Customer Needs and Management Issues ORIX Solutions Business restructuring, rehabilitation and succession Total support from strategy formulation to execution Lower fleet management costs Fleet management operations outsourcing Corporate insurance Various insurance products that address customer needs Lower electricity rates Affordable electric power supply services as a Power Producer and Supplier More efficient, lower cost money transfers Flat-fee remittance service Overseas market entry Overseas market entry support with ORIX’s global network Segment Profits and Assets Leases and loans decreased because we avoided adding assets and excessive interest rate competition in a low interest-rate environment. Nevertheless, services income from various services increased, and ROA rose. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 53.3 1,837.0 49.2 1,716.0 1,519.6 1,488.0 42.4 2.6 1,189.3 1,132.5 2.0 1.9 1,008.5 946.5 943.3 992.1 28.5 25.9 23.0 24.9 25.5 1,049.9 0.9 11.5 0.6 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.4 (10.4) (0.4) (17.9) (0.8) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 51 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth Responding to Various Customer Needs helps a broad range of customers reduce costs regardless of in Ways Such as Expanding Sales through their size or business because it requires neither special softPayment Services, Raising Operating ware nor fixed costs. We also have an alliance with Alipay.com Co., Ltd., a maEfficiency, and Reducing Costs jor electronic payment service provider in China, to provide Serving corporations and small business owners, Flico is the Alipay service throughout Japan to business-to-consumer a payment service ORIX provides nationwide that reduces (B-to-C) businesses such as retailers and restaurants. ORIX money transfer fees. Customers contract with ORIX to agwill use its nationwide network to acquire Alipay member gregate their money transfers to pay for purchases, operating stores, which will help them attract and increase sales to Chiexpenses and the like that arise in the course of day-to-day nese tourists visiting Japan. operations, and ORIX forwards payment to the payees. Flico Flico’s Structure Flico System Transfer request in Money transfer data customer’s name 1 created and approved (transfer request) Customer Payee accounts computer Notification Transfer Customers perform steps 3 of funding 4 instructions 1 and 2 completion 2 Funding Customer depositary account with ORIX (designated account) 5 Money transfer Contributing to Local Economies by Buildthroughout the food and agriculture value chain, from seeds ing Highly Competitive, High Value-Added and production to processing, shipping and sales with the goal of strengthening agriculture and revitalizing communities. Agricultural Businesses ORIX has created a dedicated agricultural division because ORIX established an agricultural corporation jointly with Honda we forecast that deregulation and changes in the business Engei Co., Ltd. in Nagano Prefecture that is producing leafy environment will make agriculture a growth market over the vegetables. ORIX will use its sales network to generate stable long term. We will aggressively capture business opportusales of these vegetables to retail and food service indusnities in healthcare, IT and robotics as well as agriculture to try customers. We will expand this business by aggregating develop them into ORIX’s new core businesses in the future. abandoned farmland to produce and distribute quality agricultural products, thus increasing local employment and promoting brand building for agricultural products. We also established a joint venture company with Fujitsu Limited, and Masuda Seed Co., Ltd. in Shizuoka Prefecture, launching a smart agriculture project aimed at agriculture-based regional revitalization. Smart agriculture uses information and communications technology such as sensors and big data to improve agricultural productivity and product quality. This business will create a new business model 52 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Maintenance Leasing We provide services with added value based on a high level of expertise in automobiles, test and measurement instruments and IT-related equipment. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Automobile leasing and rentals, car-sharing, and Maintenance Services ・ ORIX Auto test and measurement ・ ORIX Rentec instruments and IT-related equipment rentals and leasing Strengths & Advantages Opportunities Risks ・ Operating in a wide range of auto-related ・ Demand is increasing for automobile ・ The leasing and rental markets may businesses, we are now the industry leasing and other value-added services contract due to a slowdown in capital leader in terms of the number of vehiincluding fleet management and operainvestment among companies in Japan. cles under management. tional support given increasing corporate ・ Test and measurement instrument rental emphasis on cost cutting, risk manage・ We offer a wide variety of rental prodneeds may decrease if Japanese comment and compliance. ucts and services and timely delivery of panies continue to relocate their R&D the equipment customers need. ・ Test and measurement instruments and laboratories overseas. IT equipment needs are increasing be・ We take advantage of our independent cause of advanced technology R&D and position to handle the products that social infrastructure upgrades ahead of meet customer needs from a diverse the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralymarray of manufacturers. pics. Successfully Delivering Value ‌ The auto-related business continues to provide new products and services such as telematics that address social requirements and sophisticat・ ed technologies. ‌ In the rental business, we complement equipment rentals by providing solutions including measurement-related services, IT-related services, ・ and asset management and operation support services. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 53 Growth Strategies Demonstrating Our Proposal Capabilities product lineup and sales channels in serving individuals. Our rental business provides rental services that address Based on a Potent Lineup of Products and a range of needs in various markets including test and meaServices and a High Level of Expertise surement instruments, scientific and environmental analysis The strengths of our auto-related business are its broad array equipment and IT-related equipment. Our rental products and of products and services and its expertise. As a one-stop services encompass 33 thousand types and 1.62 million units provider of various auto-related services, we make proposals (as of March 31, 2016). We began by offering the first meathat combine auto leasing, car rental, and car sharing aligned suring instrument rental service in Japan. Today, we complewith a usage matrix that encompasses customer usage time, ment our rental operations with a menu that includes test and frequency and objectives. In addition to being the leader in measurement-related services, IT-related services, and asset this industry in Japan with approximately 1.2 million vehicles management and operation support services that we provide under management, we are also the leader in the number of by leveraging the technical skills we have developed through vehicles equipped with devices for telematics services, one our high-tech equipment rental services and our expertise in of our fleet management consulting services, that address managing and operating rental equipment. needs for compliance, environmental protection and safety Our precision measuring equipment-related rental business management. will expand the products and services it offers in areas that The lease utilization rate is relatively high among large corwe expect to benefit from the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic porations in the contemporary auto leasing market in Japan. Games in 2020, including social infrastructure and security However, the lease utilization rate is low among SMEs and reinforcement. We will also target other markets that we exindividuals, which account for a significant share of vehicles pect to grow such as defense, space, and intelligent automoowned. The potential for growth is therefore great in the SME biles. Our IT-related equipment rental business will continue and individual markets, and we intend to concentrate on to focus on the steadily growing service of tablet rentals for them. We will grow our businesses by primarily developing the corporate customers. We will also introduce new services market for value-added services such as fleet management in including contract-based modeling services using 3D printers serving SMEs and large corporations, and by enhancing our to identify customer needs and capture new demand. Segment Profits and Assets Segment revenues and segment profits increased due to solid performance by the autorelated and rental businesses. Services income generated by value-added services also increased. ROA remained high. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 44.2 731.3 42.9 682.0 673.1 653.1 4.1 4.1 41.1 40.4 3.9 4.0 39.0 612.6 37.1 33.3 34.9 549.3 662.9 4.1 3.9 3.7 3.1 622.0 3.6 467.1 490.9 28.0 24.7 463.0 21.7 2.6 2.4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 54 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth Telematics Services Address Compliance, addition, analysis of the various data contributes to the envithe Environment, and Safety Issues ronmental benefits of eco-friendly driving, reduced CO2 emisORIX Auto Corporation provides the e-Telema and e-Telema sions and reduction of surplus vehicles. Pro telematics services that give real-time insights into vehicle In November 2015, the Green Purchasing Network* recoperation. A special device with communication and GPS ognized the value of e-Telema and e-Telema Pro in realizing functions mounted in customer vehicles provides real-time eco-friendliness, safe driving and reduction in environmental information about driver behavior including speed and sudburden by awarding them its Grand Prize (Corporate Division). den acceleration or deceleration along with data such as fuel We will help to solve environmental issues with services economy and CO2 emissions. that help to reduce environmental burden and CO2 emissions Analysis of this operational data visualizes compliance, and foster environmental awareness. environmental and safety issues relevant to corporate fleet * The Green Purchasing Network is a network for businesses, administrative agencies, and private organizations that take the initiative in making green operations management to support optimum vehicle use, purchases. appropriate labor management, and accident prevention. In Framework for Telematics Services GPS satellite “Dangerous Driving Incident” alert delivered ORIX Auto Verification via e-mail of data usage outcomes Provision of Transmission of driving driving data using management a telecommunication line information Consulting Device mounted Visualization of System server Telematics website CO2 emissions in vehicle volume Developing Special Vehicles with Specifiexpertise in intangible operational support and fleet maintecations Tailored to Customer Needs nance to provide services aligned with the needs of financial ORIX Auto uses the knowledge it has gained from truck and institution customers. specialty vehicle leasing to develop mobile bank branch veWe developed the mobile office vehicle to meet customer hicles and mobile office vehicles that are equipped according demand for reduced working hours and increased operating to customer needs. efficiency. Our mobile office vehicles are modified work vans Japan’s financial institutions face the important issue of rethat enable companies to shorten the working hours of their orienting their branch networks in preparation for future largeon-site workers by eliminating the need to return to offices scale natural disasters, an aging population, and regional defrom remote construction sites to work. Mobile office vehicles population. ORIX Auto offers solutions by selling mobile bank are also likely to find use at construction sites where installing branch vehicles that allow financial institutions to provide a temporary office is difficult and in areas affected by disasfinancial services in locations where they do not have branchters. es. We leverage our knowledge of tangible vehicle assets and ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 55 Real Estate Our diverse businesses range from real estate development to the operation of aquariums. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Real estate development Environment & Infrastructure Tangible Assets and rental, facility operation, ・ Facility operation ・ Real estate investment REIT asset management, and Financial Services real estate investment and ・ REIT advisory services ・ Real estate investment and advisory services Strengths & Advantages Opportunities Risks ・ We have broadly based expertise in real ・ The real estate market continues to be ・ The prices of the assets we hold may estate businesses and proposal capaactive due to monetary easing by the decline if real estate market conditions bilities that fully leverage the Group’s Bank of Japan and the introduction of deteriorate significantly. network. negative interest rates. We are strength・ Securing personnel to operate facilities ening our portfolio by selling illiquid ・ We do business with investors from Jamay become difficult. The number of properties and investing in quality new pan and overseas, including asset mantourists visiting Japan may decrease as properties. agement services and joint investments a result of yen appreciation or a global in large-scale projects. ・ We forecast that occupancy and room economic slowdown. rates at hotels and Japanese inns will ・ We provide high-quality service in operbe firm with the increase in tourists visating various facilities including hotels, iting Japan and seniors traveling within Japanese inns, aquariums, nursing Japan. homes, senior residences, golf courses, multipurpose stadium and theater. Successfully Delivering Value ・We operate in a wide range of real estate businesses and have comprehensive real estate business strengths not found at other companies. ・Our facilities operation business creates added value by providing experiences unique to our facilities that keep customers coming back. 56 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Growth Strategies Comprehensive Real Estate Business Japan with assets of more than ¥550 billion. Together with the ¥390 billion managed by ORIX Real Estate Investment Strengths from Operating an Array of BusiAdvisors Corporation, our balance of assets under managenesses and Using the Group’s Network ment is close to ¥1 trillion. The Real Estate segment operates diverse businesses rangThe facilities operation business develops and manages ing from real estate development and rental to asset manproperties including hotels, Japanese inns, aquariums, nursagement and facilities operation. We also use the Group’s ing homes, senior residences, golf courses, multipurpose stasales network largely to collect information about properties, dium and theater. We aim to create facilities customers want identify investors, recruit tenants and introduce customers to revisit by improving services and creating value that only to the facilities we operate. These features give ORIX comORIX’s facilities have. Another strength is that the expertise prehensive real estate business strengths not found at other we have gained in the development and rental business and companies. the facilities operation business enables us to optimally mix The real estate development and rental business handles and match office buildings, residential buildings, commercial various types of real estate including office buildings, resifacilities, hotels, Japanese inns, nursing homes, senior residential buildings, commercial facilities and logistics centers. dences and aquariums in mixed-use developments in a way For new investment projects, we leverage the Group’s sales that meets market needs. Together with this strength, we will network to use methods such as negotiated land purchases make new investments to capture growth in the Japanese that allow us to avoid intense bidding competition as much as tourism industry. possible. In the logistics center business, we acquire information about land and customer needs to develop logistics centers. Another strength is that we are able to use various Group services to propose solutions, such as providing needed services at centers we operate and cost-reduction proposals. Our asset management businesses include the operation of ORIX JREIT Inc. and management and administration of real estate properties in which Japanese and foreign investors have invested. ORIX JREIT has grown into a leading REIT in Segment Profits and Assets Services income increased in the facilities operation business and we took advantage of market opportunities to sell real estate assets. Impairment losses also decreased. Segment profits increased substantially as a result, and ROA improved significantly. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) （億円） 99.9 1,000 1,923.6 1,855.6 3.6 3.3 1,698.4 1,607.8 1,561.4 800 71.3 2.7 1,390.5 3.1 59.2 1,133.2 600 1,102.8 962.4 42.0 42.9 1.9 835.4 400 739.6 1.1 18.0 200 0.3 5.6 3.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 57 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth Contributing to the Revitalization of Creating a New Norm for Nursing Care for Regional Economies through the Operation a Comfortable Life with Peace of Mind of Japanese Inns Japan is aging faster than any other country in the world. We ORIX entered the Japanese inn business in 2002, and now established ORIX Living with the objective of changing nursoperates eight hot spring resorts. Exemplifying customer ening care norms and creating a completely new standard for thusiasm for our facilities, the Beppu Suginoi Hotel received senior living and nursing care. an award for its outstanding facilities, backed by strong supToday, we operate 25 nursing homes and senior residencport through channels such as customer reviews at online es in the Tokyo metropolitan area and the Kansai region that hotel booking sites. combine living with nursing care and healthcare services. All Our rehabilitation business has conventionally supported feature facilities such as nursing care lifts and robotic nursing long-established Japanese inns in various locations with an equipment to ease the physical and emotional burden of resemphasis on protecting the jobs of local employees. Moreidents as well as the physical burden of caregivers and proover, the increased number of guests drawn by investment in vide a comfortable life with peace of mind. new facilities and improved service levels has also helped to GOOD TIME LIVING Nakamozu, a private nursing home vitalize local economies by increasing the number of tourists. that we opened in June 2015, features adjoining student In October 2015, we acquired Hotel Banso in Yunokacondominiums that bring together the lives of seniors and wa-onsen, Hakodate City, Hokkaido. We plan to renovate this students under one roof to create new lifestyles through venerable Japanese hot spring resort with a history of more multi-generational interaction. This fresh approach has earned than 60 years to further increase its appeal. We intend to widespread recognition in the form of a Facility of the Year attract many more guests to the hotel, including foreign tourAward in the Residential Aged Care category at the 4th Asia ists, and to continue operating facilities that make our guests Pacific Eldercare Innovation Awards 2016. happy. 58 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Investment and Operation We aggressively pursue opportunities in environment and energy businesses and principal investment in Japan and overseas. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Environment and energy, Environment & Infrastructure Fixed Income principal investment, and ・ Environment and energy ・ Loan servicing loan servicing (asset recov・ Concession Equity ・ Private equity ery) investment ・ Daikyo Strengths & Advantages Opportunities Risks ・ ‌As a comprehensive energy services ・‌The importance of renewable energy ・‌Regulations may become more stringent provider, we are scaling up the renewin the global market will increase over in the environment and energy business. able energy business and electric power the medium-to-long term. We expect to ・‌Sharp increases in prices for acquisition retailing business. expand from solar power into wind and may affect our efforts to find new viable geothermal power. ・ ‌Our solar power business is one of the M&A investments. largest in Japan with 890MW of output ・‌We are broadening our investment focus capacity secured. in this segment to include the concession business. ・ Our principal investment business emphasizes a hands-on approach, adding value to investees by developing customers using the Group’s network, supporting sales channel expansion, etc. We can also respond flexibly to changes in investment duration and subsequent capital injections. Successfully Delivering Value ・ We conduct wide-ranging operations in the two markets of energy and the environment. ・ As the first private airport operator in Japan, we have committed to the airport operation business, and have established a platform for the concession business. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 59 Growth Strategies Involvement in the Energy and Environnetwork both in Japan and abroad and its business expertise. ment and Principal Investment Businesses ORIX’s principal investment business differs from many other private equity funds because we invest our own capital, in Japan and Overseas to Drive Expansion and can therefore flexibly deal with changes in investment duin the Group’s Non-finance Businesses ration and increase investment if we feel it is justified. We also The Investment and Operation segment primarily encompasstake advantage of the Group’s network and expertise to ines the environment and energy business and the principal crease the value of investees. We emphasize a multifaceted, investment business. hands-on approach to increasing investee value that ranges Our environment and energy business includes renewable from integrated management, administration and operationenergy such as mega-solar, electric power retailing, eneral support for investees to dispatching professionals and gy-saving services, and storage battery system rental serworking with ORIX business units to develop customers and vices in the energy market, and waste processing, recycling expand sales channels. Moreover, our investment business and metal resources in the environment market. Overseas, overseas emphasizes co-investments with reliable business ORIX focuses on Asia in the power generation business and partners. We invest aggressively in Japan and overseas, rein providing energy-saving services. ceiving a steady stream of earnings from investees and conOur principal investment business strives to enhance the sistently generating capital gains by turning over our portfolio. corporate value of investees by making full use of the Group’s Investment Strategy of the Principal Investment Business Japan Ex-Japan ・Mainly pure financial investments, but consider strategic investments ・Mainly strategic investments. depending on the project. ・Investments will focus on the financial sector in emerging countries in ・Focus industries are healthcare, food, IT, information services, comAsia and the Middle East. Outside the financial sector, we will expand modity sales to corporations and lifestyle-support services. investments in Europe and Africa. ・Business succession projects and other deals that are too complex for investment funds to handle. ・In our concession business, we will aggressively submit bids for the growing number of projects in areas ranging from airports and roads to water supply and sewerage. Segment Profits and Assets Revenues and profits increased due to the steady expansion of the environment and energy business and gains on sales of our PE investments. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 95.8 766.2 660.0 704.2 69.3 552.2 55.8 57.2 558.7 557.7 11.9 517.2 509.6 471.9 42.4 447.1 444.3 33.7 34.9 16.0 5.6 13.2 6.6 8.1 3.0 1.5 1.9 (2.4) 4.7 4.5 (0.3) (74.6) (6.7) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 60 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth joined with an investee involved in infrastructure development Become a Global Comprehensive Energy and investment, INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL Services Provider SERVICES LIMITED, to invest in a wind energy platform with ORIX first entered into the environment and energy busia total capacity of 1,004 MW in India. This project will build ness in 1995 through its initial investment in a wind power a total of 26 wind power plants in seven states in southwest business. Since then, we have been expanding across this India where wind conditions are favorable. This business will market as a comprehensive energy services provider. A key mainly sell the power it generates to state power companies focus is the renewable energy business that is so important under a feed-in tariff scheme, as well as a portion to commerto society. We are providing a stable supply of electric power cial-scale utility customers. generated through means including solar, geothermal, wind ORIX will use the experience and expertise it has acquired and biomass power generation. in Japan to strengthen its energy business in Asia, the United We are deploying our experience in Japan to expand our States and elsewhere around the world. renewable energy business overseas. In March 2016, we ・Sales of ・Solar power Expand our renewable solar power generation generation ・Biomass energy business Energy ・Electric power ・Storage ・ESCO* power systems Market plant batteries wholesale/ ・Visualization operation retailing ・Overseas Expand electric of electricity investments use Become a power retailing Leasing 1990s 2000s 2010s Comprehensive Energy Services Provider Collect waste items for recycling/reuse ・Waste ・Wide-area ・Waste ・Metals Environment processing recycling processing resource Market intermediary system facilities business Offer one-stop services for operation appropriate waste processing * ESCO: Energy service company; provides comprehensive services that help factories and buildings save energy. Airport Operation Business Officially growth, efficiency and international competitiveness of the airports. Launched by the First Private Operator in Balancing the ingenuity and dynamism of a private comJapan pany with the social responsibilities of managing public infraORIX and VINCI Airports of France each took a 40% stake in structure, Kansai Airports will contribute to the ongoing develconcessionaire company Kansai Airports, which began operopment of the two airports it operates. ating Kansai International Airport and Osaka International AirJapan is emphasizing swift improvement of its fiscal port from April 2016. We committed to the airport operation soundness, and is likely to require private capital and ingebusiness as a result of Japan’s first privatization. ORIX plays nuity for its public infrastructure of roads, water supply and an important role in the management of the concessionaire sewerage as well as company, with main responsibility for the corporate planning, airports. ORIX is agfinance, human resources, compliance and non-airline margressively building its keting departments. VINCI Airports is a global airport operator concession business, that is handling day-to-day airport operations and is responsiwhich will contribute ble for the airline marketing, technology and safety promotion to the vitalization of departments. It is also responsible for enhancing the business regional economies. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 61 Retail We operate three distinctive retail financial businesses. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Japan Financial Services Life insurance, banking and ・ Banking ・ Life insurance card loan ・ Consumer finance ・ HLIKK Strengths & Advantages Opportunities Risks ・ Life insurance business: We have a ・ Demand for new insurance products is ・ Premium income may decline following a strong ability to develop products that expanding because of the growing need revision of the standard rate of interest. address changing customer needs. for medical insurance and other prod・ Competition in the individual card loan ucts brought on by Japan’s low birthrate ・ Banking business: An internet-based market has intensified because of low and aging society. bank without physical branches, we prointerest rates. vide products and services specializing ・ The card loan market continues to in markets in which we have competitive recover after bottoming out following strengths such as housing loans. contraction as a result of revisions to the Moneylending Business Act. ・ Card loan business: Leveraging the expertise and human resources of ORIX Credit, ORIX Bank handles the card loan business while ORIX Credit focuses on providing guarantee services for card loans made by other financial institutions. Successfully Delivering Value ‌ ・ ORIX Life Insurance is earning enthusiastic recognition from customers for providing services that address issues such as the greater role of women in society and advanced medical care. ‌ ・ ORIX Bank refines its unique services with a focus on specified markets for management that balances profitability, growth and soundness. 62 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Growth Strategies Leveraging Distinctive, Specialized oping first sector products that further strengthen our product Life Insurance, Banking and Card Loan capabilities. In addition to our existing agency, direct channel through mail order and bank assurance, we have established Businesses a direct sales channel for face-to-face customer follow-up as The Retail segment consists of the life insurance, banking a way to provide them with timely and appropriate informaand card loan businesses, providing distinctive retail financial tion to further increase customer satisfaction. We will target services in each of them. sustainable growth by improving our product development In the life insurance business, ORIX Life Insurance is workcapabilities and service quality. ing to enhance its product lineup with the concepts of making In the banking business, ORIX Bank is an internet-based products simple and easily understood, and providing reabank that handles transactions that do not require a physical sonable coverage at an affordable price. It had approximately presence. For instance, deposits, card loans, and money 3 million individual insurance policies in force as of March 31, trusts can all be offered by internet or telephone. It also has 2016, and has steadily expanded operations, with 10 consalespeople who meet with customers to provide optimal secutive years of double-digit growth since 2005. In addition, solutions for housing loans and corporate finance. Housing we complement our mainstay third sector products by develloan assets are our core revenue driver and have steadily increased. As of March 31, 2016, their balance was ¥1 trillion. Number of Policies in Force In the card loan business, companies work together to (Millions of policies) 2.94 capture market demand and expand business. ORIX Credit uses operational expertise gained in managing the ORIX VIP 2.54 Loan Card for approximately 30 years to benefit from market 2.13 demand and expand its business. ORIX Bank conducts the 1.78 card loan business, while ORIX Credit provides card loan 1.49 guarantee services for other financial institutions. 1.16 We will go beyond our current retail financial services to increase assets and generate steady earnings growth by providing products that truly satisfy customers. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Segment Profits and Assets Finance revenues from life insurance premiums and the banking business increased steadily. In FY2015.3, the segment recognized a non-recurring gain including the bargain purchase gain associated with the acquisition of Hartford Life Insurance K.K. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 3,700.6 3,462.8 120.6 1.6 2,167.0 2.6 1.4 1,994.1 1,742.9 1.1 1,583.2 1,658.2 1.5 49.9 51.8 1,342.9 1,416.0 1,453.3 1.4 43.2 35.6 31.7 1.1 1.0 25.7 29.2 1,372.8 21.8 19.4 0.8 0.7 7.6 0.3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 63 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth Providing Simple, Clear Insurance Products That Address Real Customer Needs ORIX Life Insurance has an extensive product lineup and is researching and developing new products in order to provide insurance that truly addresses customer needs. External insurance professionals have praised ORIX Life Insurance’s products because they are simple and clear, and because they offer substantial coverage with affordable premiums. In addition to selling our existing products, we will continue to develop and provide insurance products that address changing customer needs. Praise for Our Products Product Type Health Insurance Whole Life Insurance Cancer Insurance Product Name Beneficial Points Low premiums, substantial The customer can choose the Affordable premiums and coverage and an extensive premium payment period, and extensive coverage choice of options the rate of return on maturity is high A First in Japan: A Mail-Order Will Substitute Trust That Meets Inheritance Needs ORIX Bank has begun offering Simple Inheritance Trust, Japan’s first mail-order will substitute trust. Withdrawals upon inheritance from an account in the decedent’s name require the heirs to perform complicated procedures. With this product, procedures for contracts and other documents can be concluded by mail or telephone, without visiting a branch and without preparing a will. Moreover, inherited funds can be received through simple procedures that include mailing a request for payment in accordance with the contract. ORIX Bank will continue to utilize its competitive advantage as an internet-based bank without physical branches to provide unique financial products and services that meet a broad range of customer needs. 64 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Overseas Business We will use our expertise and know-how developed in Japan to accelerate globalization of the Group. Businesses Portfolio by Category Finance Operation Investment Leasing, loan, Ex-Japan Financial Services Fixed Income bond investment, ・ Leasing ・ Robeco ・ Bond investment asset management and ・ Loan ・ Houlihan Lokey Tangible Assets ・ Aircraft ship and aircraft-related ・ Ships operations Equity ・ Private equity investment Strengths & Features Opportunities Risks ・ We operate in a diverse array of busi・ In the aircraft-related business, demand ・ The global economy could slow down or nesses at 672 operational bases in 36 for aircraft is increasing because passtagnate. countries and regions excluding Japan and senger traffic is increasing worldwide. ・ Sharp increases in prices for acquisileverage our local knowledge and net・ In the asset management business, total tions may affect our efforts to find new works cultivated over more than 40 years. assets under management worldwide viable M&A investments. ・ Our ship and aircraft-related business is are forecast to increase to USD 100 trilexpanding by complementing operating lion. leases for ships and aircraft that ORIX owns with asset management services for third-party aircraft. ・ Robeco serves customers ranging from institutional investors to individuals in its global asset management business. Successfully Delivering Value ‌ ・ We build partnerships with prominent companies in the countries where we operate and pursue localization of our overseas operations centered on empowering local managers and serving local customers. ‌ ・ In the aircraft-related business, we provide a diverse array of services including operating leases for our own aircraft, asset management services, and arrangement of aircraft investment for investors. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 65 Growth Strategies Taking Advantage of Our Global Network overseas operations and expand earnings. to Operate in a Wide Range of Businesses Our ship and aircraft-related business provides operating leases for ships and aircraft that ORIX owns and asset manThe Overseas Business segment operates in a wide range of agement services for third-party aircraft. We have extensive businesses and has built a global network of 672 operational expertise in aircraft and the aircraft market. We first began bases in 36 countries and regions outside Japan since adhandling aircraft financing deals in 1978, then built on this exvancing into Hong Kong in 1971. perience to start offering operating leases using ORIX-owned In the Americas, in addition to our asset based business aircraft in 1991. Today, we provide broadly based asset mansuch as corporate loans and investment in securities, we are agement services to investors in Japan and overseas that also involved in equity investment and fee businesses such include inspection and monitoring of aircraft maintenance and as advisory and fund management. We provide products and aircraft sales. We also generate fee income by arranging airservices that demonstrate our sophisticated expertise in every craft investments for investors worldwide. market we serve. Our goal in the Americas is to grow further Our ship-related business leases ORIX-owned vessels to by building a portfolio with balanced investment in various domestic and overseas shipping companies. It also arranges industries. We will therefore strengthen equity investment by investments in ships for investors in Japan. actively identifying investment opportunities. Furthermore, in Robeco operates globally with business locations in March 2016 our U.S. asset management subsidiary Mariner Europe, the United States and Asia, offering various asset Investment Group LLC established and began operation of a management products including equity, fixed-income, alterprivate equity investment management company, IX Capital native investments and quants to a broad client base of both Partners PE, LLC. institutional and individual investors. This diversified asset In Asia, local subsidiaries that are familiar with the business management product lineup allows Robeco to sustain supecustoms and regulatory regime in their country primarily serve rior performance while minimizing downside risk. Robeco will local customers with financial services including machinery expand its business locations and network internationally and and equipment leasing, auto leasing, sales finance, loans and consider M&A with the aim of further growing its assets under rentals. We employ the expertise we have acquired in our management. broad range of businesses in Japan to further diversify our Segment Profits and Assets Segment profits increased year-on-year due to factors including increased revenues from investments in the Americas and growth in aircraft leasing assets, as well as the recognition of a gain on the divestiture of shares of Houlihan Lokey, Inc. in connection with its initial public offering. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 142.9 2,284.7 2,178.9 3.7 3.7 1,972.1 4.3 104.1 3.2 3.0 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.6 71.2 69.7 1,198.5 2.3 62.2 1,095.8 1,015.6 1,318.4 57.9 52.8 1,103.8 49.8 1,066.3 1,081.2 45.6 923.4 37.1 20.1 1.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 66 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Initiatives for Sustainable Growth Demonstrating Expertise in the Growing Subsidiaries in Asia Will Expand the Auto Aircraft Industry Leasing Business Global passenger traffic increased faster than global GDP in Our subsidiaries in Asia have grown primarily by providing fi2015, and load factor set a record high at more than 80%. nance leases to local customers. Now they are leveraging the Given steady growth in passenger traffic, growth and replaceexpertise that ORIX has developed in Japan to diversify their ment demand is forecast to total 38 thousand aircraft for the operations. Auto leasing will be a particular focus. The number 20-year period from 2014 to 2034, with the installed fleet of registered vehicles in Asia varies by country, but by 2020 about doubling from current levels. Operating leases accountthe total for Asia is forecast to increase by more than 100 miled for 40% to 45% of financing for new aircraft procured in lion vehicles. We are therefore implementing required initiatives 2016, and are forecast to increase. in the countries we serve to benefit from this growth. ORIX’s aircraft-related business currently has transactions ORIX Auto Infrastructure Services Limited in India began with more than 60 airlines across more than 30 countries. The by offering auto leases and has expanded its service menu leading Japanese airlines currently use approximately 200 airin the auto-related business to include car rentals, secured craft, and ORIX owns and/or manages a total of approximately loans for commercial vehicles, commercial vehicle leasing 130 aircraft, which are leased to airlines worldwide. Anticiand employee transportation services. Demand for employee pating market growth, we newly acquired 33 aircraft during transportation services has been increasing over the past FY2016.3. We will address growth in passenger and aircraft several years in cities with numerous IT companies that need demand by deploying the expertise we have developed in the to ensure their employees involved in operations such as IT aircraft-related business to continue providing value-added systems and call centers can get to and from work at any services. time of the day or night. Projected Aircraft Demand (by unit) We acquired auto loan company PT. Sinar Mitra Sepadan 43,560 Finance (SMS) in Indonesia in November 2015. A participant 21,960 in the auto leasing business in Indonesia, ORIX has expanded Growth into the auto loan market through this acquisition to diversi58% 21,600 38,050 fy the financial services it offers. SMS has 110 branches in 16,090 Replacement Indonesia and has mainly offered loans for used Japanese 42% minivans and trucks, where their market price can better 5,510 Retained fleet endure price reduction pressure than others. SMS will grow 2014 2034 further by integrating Japanese auto leasing expertise with its Source: Boeing Current Market Outlook 2015 marketing channels provided by ORIX. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 67 Sustainability Value Creation Begins with People Making Maximum Use of the Capabilities and Expertise of Our Employees People are ORIX’s most important asset. We hire diverse human resources regardless of nationality, age, gender or work history, integrating their diverse values and expertise within our concept of a Fusion of Intelligence to create new value and workplaces where employees can fully use their capabilities. Specifically, we create fulfilling workplaces by establishing a working environment that respects diverse work styles and embraces contemporary social conventions, and by reforming our human resource system. Moreover, we are enhancing training to offer opportunities for employees who embrace challenges and enable employees to excel internationally. Diverse Human Resources Workplaces That Offer Value Creating New Nationality Academic Value from Management That Makes the Most of Individuality Background Fusion of Age Gender Career Intelligence Work-Life Self-Fulfillment Balance Employee Composition Female Employees in Managerial Positions1 (As of March 31, 2016) ORIX (non-consolidated) 20.0% (323) ORIX Group2 16.2% (512) 10.2% (99) 7.4% (153) Employees 33,333 2006 2016 Female Employees Who Are Working Mothers 2, 3 Working mothers 33.0% Women who have taken child-rearing leave (1,214) Women who have used the short-time working system Number of Employees Proportion ● Overseas 8,116 24% 8.9% 12.3% 11.2% (326) (451) ●Female employees overseas (2,214) (7%) (314) 3.1% 2.3% ● Japan 25,167 76% (88) (65) ●Female employees in Japan (7,959) (24%) 2006 2016 1. The percentages in “Female employees in managerial positions” represent the ratio of female Female employees 10,173 31% managers to the total number of managers. 2. Applies to ORIX Corporation and domestic Group companies (a total of ten companies). 3. The percentages in the “Female employees who are working mothers” represent the ratio of female employees who are working mothers to total regular female employees. 68 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Social Contribution Activities—for a Better Society ORIX Miyauchi Foundation Support Activities in Areas That Are Not Reached by Our Business Activities ORIX established the ORIX Social Fund in 2006 (which became a public interest incorporated foundation in 2010) and has since engaged in various support activities in areas such as social welfare, support for children and youth, promotion of culture, arts and music. ORIX Buffaloes Participating in Community Activities through Sports The ORIX Buffaloes are involved in various local community activities. For example, the baseball team’s retired players visit mainly elementary schools to offer career lectures and tee-ball lessons based on their own professional baseball experiences. ORIX Foundation Employee-driven Charitable Activities ORIX USA Corporation established the ORIX Foundation, a nonprofit charitable organization, in 2009. Many employees there participate in the charity programs and events organized by the foundation. Environmental Activities—for a Better Global Environment SANGO ORIX A Project to Restore Okinawa’s Coral Reefs In 2008, ORIX Real Estate Corporation launched “SANGO ORIX,” a project to restore Okinawa’s coral reefs with the aim of protecting the coral reefs’ abundant capacity to sustain biodiversity and pass on these pristine oceans to future generations. The project involves planting coral offshore of Okinawa. Enosui eco Environmental Activities Offered by a Seaside Aquarium The Enoshima Aquarium provides a place to learn about animal habitats in an enjoyable way with exhibits illustrating the biodiversity and ecosystems of Sagami Bay. Furthermore, it conducts innovative “Enosui eco” environmental activities, including beach cleaning and the collection of bottle caps for the “Ecocap” Movement. Mangrove Reforestation Project Reforestation Initiative Motivated by Typhoon Damages Since 2012, after experiencing the damage caused by a typhoon, ORIX METRO Leasing and Finance Corporation has been planting mangrove trees along the Bay of San Miguel in the Philippines together with local officials and students living in the area. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 69 Financial Section Eleven-Year Summary ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31 2006 2007 2008 2009 Financial Position: Investment in Direct Financing Leases ¥1,437,491 ¥1,258,404 ¥1,098,128 ¥ 914,444 Installment Loans 2,926,036 3,490,326 3,766,310 3,304,101 Allowance for Doubtful Receivables on Direct （97,002） （89,508） （102,007） （158,544） Financing Leases and Probable Loan Losses Allowance/Investment in Direct Financing Leases 2.2 1.9 2.1 3.8 and Installment Loans (%) Investment in Operating Leases 720,096 862,049 1,019,956 1,226,624 Investment in Securities 682,798 875,581 1,121,784 926,140 Property under Facility Operations 91,856 152,106 197,295 189,560 Total Assets 7,232,094 8,194,991 8,981,012 8,353,852 Short-term Debt, Long-term Debt and Deposits 4,925,753 5,483,922 6,263,017 5,919,639 ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity 946,961 1,186,366 1,258,906 1,157,269 Revenues and Expenses: Total Revenues ¥ 899,679 ¥1,101,323 ¥1,101,364 ¥1,014,289 Total Expenses 692,774 824,758 926,837 961,003 Provision for Doubtful Receivables and Probable 16,227 13,807 33,223 77,015 Loan Losses Income before Income Taxes and Discontinued 241,691 310,478 235,075 11,195 Operations Income from Continuing Operations 147,579 186,510 141,496 15,054 Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation 165,459 195,323 168,454 20,674 Shareholders ROA (%) 2.49 2.53 1.96 0.24 ROE (%) 19.8 18.3 13.8 1.7 Per Share Data (Yen): Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders: Basic Earnings per Share ¥ 187.34 ¥ 216.40 ¥ 184.81 ¥ 23.25 Diluted Earnings per Share 178.04 208.84 180.57 22.07 ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity per Share 1,053.46 1,300.36 1,391.10 1,294.48 Cash Dividends 9.00 13.00 26.00 7.00 Operations: Direct Financing Leases: New Equipment Acquisitions ¥ 800,802 ¥ 636,723 ¥ 574,859 ¥ 364,734 Installment Loans: New Loans Added 1,834,192 2,226,282 2,331,331 1,055,014 Operating Leases: New Equipment Acquisitions 317,645 348,561 465,909 426,715 Investment in Securities: New Securities Added 235,932 331,055 688,148 374,614 Other Operating Transactions: New Assets Added 132,017 215,409 152,480 76,269 Number of Employees 15,067 16,662 18,702 18,920 Notes: 1. In fiscal 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries adopted FASB Accounting Standards Update 2009-16 (ASC 860 (“Transfers and Servicing”)) and FASB Accounting Standards Update 2009-17 (ASC 810 (“Consolidation”)). The effects of adopting these updates on the Company and its subsidiaries’ financial conditions at the initial adoption date were an increase of ¥1,147.4 billion in total assets, an increase of ¥1,169.0 billion in total liabilities and a decrease of ¥22.5 billion in retained earnings, net of tax, in the consolidated balance sheets. 2. Cash dividends represent the amount of dividend per share for the corresponding fiscal year. 70 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Millions of yen 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ¥ 756,481 ¥ 830,853 ¥ 900,886 ¥ 989,380 ¥1,094,073 ¥ 1,216,454 ¥ 1,190,136 2,464,251 2,983,164 2,769,898 2,691,171 2,315,555 2,478,054 2,592,233 （157,523） （154,150） （136,588） （104,264） （84,796） （72,326） （60,071） 4.9 4.0 3.7 2.8 2.5 2.0 1.6 1,213,223 1,270,295 1,309,998 1,395,533 1,379,741 1,296,220 1,349,199 1,104,158 1,175,381 1,147,390 1,093,668 1,214,452 2,846,257 2,344,792 186,396 207,480 194,576 218,697 295,863 278,100 327,016 7,722,017 8,561,910 8,332,830 8,439,710 9,066,961 11,443,628 10,996,906 5,263,104 6,075,076 5,828,967 5,560,847 5,367,412 5,705,110 5,689,002 1,287,179 1,306,582 1,380,736 1,643,596 1,919,346 2,152,198 2,310,431 ¥ 887,290 ¥ 938,258 ¥ 963,721 ¥1,052,477 ¥1,375,292 ¥ 2,174,283 ¥ 2,369,202 856,326 865,992 841,506 901,624 1,172,244 1,917,454 2,081,461 71,857 31,065 19,186 10,016 13,838 11,631 11,717 56,748 90,271 127,515 172,572 286,339 344,017 391,302 35,723 65,437 82,907 118,890 187,786 254,960 270,990 36,512 66,021 83,509 111,909 187,364 234,948 260,169 0.45 0.81 0.99 1.33 2.14 2.29 2.32 3.0 5.1 6.2 7.4 10.5 11.5 11.7 ¥ 35.83 ¥ 61.42 ¥ 77.68 ¥ 102.87 ¥ 147.75 ¥ 179.47 ¥ 198.73 30.58 51.83 65.03 87.37 143.20 179.21 198.52 1,197.55 1,215.44 1,284.15 1,345.63 1,465.77 1,644.60 1,764.34 7.50 8.00 9.00 13.00 23.00 36.00 45.75 ¥ 232,629 ¥ 351,116 ¥ 405,660 ¥ 455,433 ¥ 560,665 ¥ 595,351 ¥ 527,575 598,046 721,189 743,113 918,579 1,034,726 1,110,054 1,102,279 189,915 297,954 246,822 295,765 326,329 313,996 463,770 519,769 791,054 699,709 758,292 930,526 1,030,426 898,230 24,186 40,763 37,876 12,931 50,455 148,071 164,500 17,725 17,578 17,488 19,043 25,977 31,035 33,333 3. Balance sheet data and income statement data have been changed from beginning in the third consolidated fiscal period of fiscal 2015. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. 4. During fiscal 2015, we eliminated the accounting period gap that previously existed between DAIKYO and ORIX. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 71 Financial Section Consolidated Balance Sheets ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 (FY2014.3 is unaudited) Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥ 818,039 ¥ 827,518 ¥ 730,420 Restricted Cash 87,035 85,561 80,979 Investment in Direct Financing Leases 1,094,073 1,216,454 1,190,136 The amounts of ¥12,631 million as of March 31, 2014, ¥15,361 million as of March 31, 2015 and ¥20,673 Installment Loans million as of March 31, 2016 are measured at fair value 2,315,555 2,478,054 2,592,233 by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Allowance for Doubtful Receivables on Direct Financing Leases and （84,796） （72,326） （60,071） Probable Loan Losses Investment in Operating Leases 1,379,741 1,296,220 1,349,199 The amounts of ¥11,433 million as of March 31, 2014, ¥16,891 million as of March 31, 2015 and ¥27,367 Investment in Securities million as of March 31, 2016 are measured at fair value 1,214,452 2,846,257 2,344,792 by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Property under Facility Operations 295,863 278,100 327,016 Investment in Affiliates 297,325 378,087 530,667 Trade Notes, Accounts and Other Receivable 193,369 348,404 294,638 Inventories 106,031 165,540 139,950 Office Facilities 128,060 131,556 120,173 The amount of ¥36,038 million as of March 31, 2015 and ¥37,855 million as of March 31, 2016 are measured Other Assets at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB 1,222,214 1,464,203 1,356,774 ASC 825. Total Assets ¥9,066,961 ¥11,443,628 ¥10,996,906 Notes: 1. Balance sheet data and income statement data have been changed from beginning in the third consolidated fiscal period of fiscal 2015. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. 2. During fiscal 2015, we eliminated the accounting period gap that previously existed between DAIKYO and ORIX. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. 72 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 LIABILITIES Short-term Debt ¥ 308,331 ¥ 284,785 ¥ 349,624 Deposits 1,206,413 1,287,380 1,398,472 Trade Notes, Accounts and Other Payable 263,823 335,936 266,216 The amount of ¥1,254,483 million as of March 31, 2015 and ¥795,001 million Policy Liabilities and Policy Account as of March 31, 2016 are measured 454,436 2,073,650 1,668,636 Balances at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Income Taxes: Current 23,188 9,445 17,398 Deferred 288,683 336,069 341,360 Long-term Debt 3,852,668 4,132,945 3,940,906 Other Liabilities 519,877 598,446 534,008 Total Liabilities 6,917,419 9,058,656 8,516,620 Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 53,177 66,901 7,467 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities EQUITY Common Stock: 219,546 220,056 220,469 Authorized 2,590,000,000 shares Issued March 31, 2014 1,322,777,628 shares March 31, 2015 1,323,644,528 shares March 31, 2016 1,324,058,828 shares Additional Paid-in Capital 255,449 255,595 257,629 Retained Earnings 1,468,172 1,672,585 1,864,241 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss): Net unrealized gains on investment in securities 38,651 50,330 47,185 Defined benefit pension plans （6,230） （19,448） （23,884） Foreign currency translation adjustments （31,949） 431 （24,766） Net unrealized losses on derivative instruments （434） （940） （4,757） Sub-Total 38 30,373 （6,222） Treasury Stock, at Cost: （23,859） （26,411） （25,686） March 31, 2014 13,333,334 shares March 31, 2015 15,001,557 shares March 31, 2016 14,544,808 shares ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity 1,919,346 2,152,198 2,310,431 Noncontrolling Interests 177,019 165,873 162,388 Total Equity 2,096,365 2,318,071 2,472,819 Total Liabilities and Equity ¥9,066,961 ¥11,443,628 ¥10,996,906 3. The Company’s shares held through the Board Incentive Plan Trust (2,153,800 shares as of March 31, 2015 and 1,696,217 shares as of March 31, 2016) are included in the number of treasury stock shares as of March 31, 2015 and 2016. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 73 Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Income ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 Revenues: Finance revenues ¥ 191,700 ¥ 186,883 ¥ 200,889 Gains on investment securities and dividends 27,181 56,395 35,786 Operating leases 330,606 363,095 373,910 Life insurance premiums and related investment income 155,406 351,493 189,421 Sales of goods and real estate 179,884 450,869 834,010 Services income 490,515 765,548 735,186 Total revenues 1,375,292 2,174,283 2,369,202 Expenses: Interest expense 82,968 72,647 72,821 Costs of operating leases 216,568 238,157 245,069 Life insurance costs 108,343 271,948 121,282 Costs of goods and real estate sold 162,989 402,021 748,259 Services expense 260,278 425,676 445,387 Other (income) and expense, net （21,001） 23,674 （3,729） Selling, general and administrative expenses 316,851 427,816 422,692 Provision for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses 13,838 11,631 11,717 Write-downs of long-lived assets 23,421 34,887 13,448 Write-downs of securities 7,989 8,997 4,515 Total expenses 1,172,244 1,917,454 2,081,461 Operating Income 203,048 256,829 287,741 Equity in Net Income of Affiliates 18,368 30,531 45,694 Gains on Sales of Subsidiaries and Affiliates and Liquidation Losses, net 64,923 20,575 57,867 Bargain Purchase Gain ─ 36,082 ━ Income before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations 286,339 344,017 391,302 Provision for Income Taxes 98,553 89,057 120,312 Income from Continuing Operations 187,786 254,960 270,990 Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations, net 12,182 463 ━ Provision for income taxes （4,681） （166） ━ Discontinued operations, net of applicable tax effect 7,501 297 ━ Net Income 195,287 255,257 270,990 Net Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests 3,815 15,339 10,002 Net Income Attributable to the Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 4,108 4,970 819 Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders ¥ 187,364 ¥ 234,948 ¥ 260,169 Notes: 1. Pursuant to FASB ASC 205-20 (“Presentation of Financial Statements—Discontinued Operations”), the results of operations which meet the criteria for discontinued operations are reported as a separate component of income. 2. Balance sheet data and income statement data have been changed from beginning in the third consolidated fiscal period of fiscal 2015. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. 3. During fiscal 2015, we eliminated the accounting period gap that previously existed between DAIKYO and ORIX. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. Yen Amounts per Share of Common Stock for Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders: Basic: Income from continuing operations ¥ 142.00 ¥ 179.24 ¥ 198.73 Discontinued operations 5.75 0.23 ━ Net income attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders 147.75 179.47 198.73 Diluted: Income from continuing operations 137.63 178.99 198.52 Discontinued operations 5.57 0.22 ━ Net income attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders 143.20 179.21 198.52 Cash Dividends 23.00 36.00 45.75 Note: Cash Dividends represent the amount of dividend per share for the corresponding fiscal year. 74 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 Net Income ¥195,287 ¥255,257 ¥270,990 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on investment in securities 10,603 9,867 （3,121） Net change of defined benefit pension plans 3,570 （14,952） （4,123） Net change of foreign currency translation adjustments 36,928 37,155 （26,957） Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments 1,487 （561） （4,063） Total other comprehensive income (loss) 52,588 31,509 （38,264） Comprehensive Income 247,875 286,766 232,726 Comprehensive Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests 16,003 7,314 7,414 Comprehensive Income Attributable to the Redeemable 8,207 14,265 1,738 Noncontrolling Interests Comprehensive Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation ¥223,665 ¥265,187 ¥223,574 Shareholders ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 75 Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Millions of yen ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity Total ORIX CorpoCommon Additional Retained Accumulated Other ComTreasury ration ShareholdNoncontrolling Stock Paid-in Capital Earnings prehensive Income (Loss) Stock ers’ Equity Interests Total Equity Balance at March 31, 2013 ¥194,039 ¥229,600 ¥1,305,044 ¥（36,263） ¥（48,824）¥1,643,596 ¥43,977 ¥1,687,573 Contribution to subsidiaries ─ 89,233 89,233 Transaction with noncontrolling interests 239 239 2,055 2,294 Comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income 187,364 187,364 3,815 191,179 Other comprehensive income Net change of unrealized gains on investment in securities 9,677 9,677 926 10,603 Net change of defined benefit pension plans 3,357 3,357 213 3,570 Net change of foreign currency translation adjustments 21,810 21,810 11,019 32,829 Net change of unrealized gains on derivative instruments 1,457 1,457 30 1,487 Total other comprehensive income 36,301 12,188 48,489 Total comprehensive income 223,665 16,003 239,668 Cash dividends （15,878） （15,878） （2,099） （17,977） Conversion of convertible bond 25,066 24,878 49,944 ─ 49,944 Exercise of stock options 441 422 863 ─ 863 Acquisition of treasury stock （19） （19） ─ （19） Acquisition of Robeco （5,471） 24,880 19,409 27,850 47,259 Adjustment of redeemable noncontrolling （2,851） （2,851） ─ （2,851） interests to redemption value Other, net 310 （36） 104 378 ─ 378 Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥219,546 ¥255,449 ¥1,468,172 ¥38 ¥（23,859）¥1,919,346 ¥177,019 ¥2,096,365 Contribution to subsidiaries ─ 26,447 26,447 Transaction with noncontrolling interests （505） 96 （409） （40,735） （41,144） Comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income 234,948 234,948 15,339 250,287 Other comprehensive income (loss) Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on investment in securities 11,679 11,679 （1,812） 9,867 Net change of defined benefit pension plans （13,218） （13,218） （1,734） （14,952） Net change of foreign currency translation adjustments 32,284 32,284 （4,424） 27,860 Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments （506） （506） （55） （561） Total other comprehensive income (loss) 30,239 （8,025） 22,214 Total comprehensive income 265,187 7,314 272,501 Cash dividends （30,117） （30,117） （4,172） （34,289） Exercise of stock options 510 504 1,014 ─ 1,014 Acquisition of treasury stock （3,423） （3,423） ─ （3,423） Disposal of treasury stock （697） （174） 871 ─ ─ ─ Adjustment of redeemable noncontrolling （220） （220） ─ （220） interests to redemption value Other, net 844 （24） 820 ─ 820 Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥220,056 ¥255,595 ¥1,672,585 ¥30,373 ¥（26,411）¥2,152,198 ¥165,873 ¥2,318,071 Contribution to subsidiaries ━ 6,801 6,801 Transaction with noncontrolling interests 1,918 1,918 （10,519） （8,601） Comprehensive income, net of tax: Net income 260,169 260,169 10,002 270,171 Other comprehensive income (loss) Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on investment in securities （3,145） （3,145） 24 （3,121） Net change of defined benefit pension plans （4,436） （4,436） 313 （4,123） Net change of foreign currency translation adjustments （25,197） （25,197） （2,679） （27,876） Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments （3,817） （3,817） （246） （4,063） Total other comprehensive income (loss) （36,595） （2,588） （39,183） Total comprehensive income 223,574 7,414 230,988 Cash dividends （76,034） （76,034） （7,181） （83,215） Exercise of stock options 413 409 822 ━ 822 Acquisition of treasury stock （2） （2） ━ （2） Disposal of treasury stock （426） （53） 727 248 ━ 248 Adjustment of redeemable noncontrolling 7,557 7,557 ━ 7,557 interests to redemption value Other, net 133 17 150 ━ 150 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥220,469 ¥257,629 ¥1,864,241 ¥（6,222） ¥（25,686）¥2,310,431 ¥162,388 ¥2,472,819 Note: Changes in the redeemable noncontrolling interests are not included in the table. 76 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Net income ¥ 195,287 ¥ 255,257 ¥ 270,990 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 206,670 229,583 244,853 Provision for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses 13,838 11,631 11,717 Equity in net income of affiliates (excluding interest on loans) （18,159） （30,267） （44,333） Gains on sales of subsidiaries and affiliates and liquidation losses, net （64,923） （20,575） （57,867） Bargain purchase gain ─ （36,082） ━ Gains on sales of available-for-sale securities （14,149） （32,077） （32,126） Gains on sales of operating lease assets （23,692） （34,425） （38,340） Write-downs of long-lived assets 23,421 34,887 13,448 Write-downs of securities 7,989 8,997 4,515 Decrease (Increase) in restricted cash 22,366 （1,922） 9,009 Decrease in trading securities 21,300 441,554 461,298 Decrease (Increase) in inventories 25,581 （13,481） 20,935 Increase in trade notes, accounts and other receivable （17,572） （20,742） （8,224） Increase (Decrease) in trade notes, accounts and other payable 26,505 34,275 （41,004） Increase (Decrease) in policy liabilities and policy account balances 28,429 （506,043） （405,014） Deferred tax provision 52,344 41,338 42,528 Income taxes payable, net 18,695 （39,264） 47,065 Other, net （25,924） （65,033） 11,112 Net cash provided by operating activities 478,006 257,611 510,562 Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Purchases of lease equipment （859,568） （907,484） （991,154） Principal payments received under direct financing leases 459,003 488,522 515,053 Installment loans made to customers （1,035,564） （1,109,458） （1,101,807） Principal collected on installment loans 1,264,645 977,272 948,057 Proceeds from sales of operating lease assets 251,904 272,040 239,911 Investment in affiliates, net （45,084） （27,698） （70,569） Proceeds from sales of investment in affiliates 15,429 2,128 20,991 Purchases of available-for-sale securities （897,246） （982,415） （864,874） Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities 318,697 511,868 464,232 Proceeds from redemption of available-for-sale securities 473,126 398,280 381,099 Purchases of held-to-maturity securities （8,519） （20,522） （538） Purchases of other securities （24,761） （27,489） （32,818） Proceeds from sales of other securities 26,501 67,982 48,594 Purchases of property under facility operations （48,195） （81,311） （91,492） Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired （94,586） （73,240） （47,324） Sales of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed ─ 47,800 39,437 Other, net （11,096） （4,076） （9,327） Net cash used in investing activities （215,314） （467,801） （552,529） Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Net increase (decrease) in debt with maturities of three months or less （106,783） 3,819 （4,707） Proceeds from debt with maturities longer than three months 1,211,797 1,337,870 1,376,125 Repayment of debt with maturities longer than three months （1,501,403） （1,178,401） （1,470,325） Net increase in deposits due to customers 127,610 80,924 111,220 Cash dividends paid to ORIX Corporation shareholders （15,878） （30,117） （76,034） Contribution from noncontrolling interests 11,089 7,919 6,117 Cash dividends paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests （1,224） （3,030） （11,272） Net increase (decrease) in call money （5,000） 6,000 36,500 Other, net 2,088 （11,552） （15,625） Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities （277,704） 213,432 （48,001） Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 6,755 6,237 （7,130） Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents （8,257） 9,479 （97,098） Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 826,296 818,039 827,518 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year ¥ 818,039 ¥ 827,518 ¥ 730,420 Notes: 1. Cash flow statement data have been changed from beginning in the third consolidated fiscal period of fiscal 2015 because of changes in classification method of balance sheet and income statement. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. 2. During fiscal 2015, we eliminated the accounting period gap that previously existed between DAIKYO and ORIX. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified for this change. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 77 Financial Section Breakdown of Assets and Revenues by Segment Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2016 Segment Assets Millions of yen Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Total Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Segment Assets ¥1,049,867 ¥731,329 ¥739,592 ¥704,156 ¥3,462,772 ¥2,284,733 ¥8,972,449 Investment in Direct 431,603 245,257 21,541 21,133 1,198 351,010 1,071,742 Financing Leases Installment Loans 411,824 ─ 5,821 75,996 1,496,407 407,870 2,397,918 Investment in 28,695 481,031 375,050 24,378 52,359 375,401 1,336,914 Operating Leases Investment in 36,542 1,214 5,861 71,705 1,893,631 383,227 2,392,180 Securities Property under 11,294 718 177,510 130,568 ─ 23,762 343,852 Facility Operations Inventories 53 374 3,597 98,016 ─ 37,782 139,822 Advances for Investment 1,737 314 38,486 404 ─ 5,302 46,243 in Operating Leases Investment in 22,755 1,996 91,010 108,237 911 305,674 530,583 Affiliates Advances for Property 304 ─ 8,829 38,628 ─ 39 47,800 under Facility Operations Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 105,060 425 11,887 135,091 18,266 394,666 665,395 Acquired in Business Combinations Segment Revenues Millions of yen Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Total Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Segment Revenues ¥107,150 ¥271,662 ¥191,540 ¥1,028,355 ¥254,289 ¥526,008 ¥2,379,004 Finance revenues 34,215 12,067 6,720 12,625 55,318 75,004 195,949 Gain on investment 7,073 24 1,345 10,270 762 16,113 35,587 securities and dividends Operating leases 25,461 188,815 60,253 9,395 ─ 91,973 375,897 Life insurance premiums and ─ ─ ─ ─ 190,805 ─ 190,805 related investment income Sales of goods and 4,657 3,915 12,592 718,902 ─ 92,833 832,899 real estate Services income 35,744 66,841 110,630 277,163 7,404 250,085 747,867 Note: Figures in the table above may vary from figures reported in the consolidated statements of income and the consolidated balance sheets because items considered as corporate assets and revenues are not included. 78 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Main Components of Segment Assets Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Investment in Direct Corporate leasing and Leasing of energy saving Leasing and sales finance Auto leasing Real estate leasing ─ Financing Leases sales finance equipments of local subsidiaries Corporate loans in the Loans purchased under Housing loans, card loans, Installment Loans Corporate loans ─ Non-recourse loans US, auto loans and corloan servicing unit and corporate loans porate loans in Asia Leasing, rental, lease reORIX Life Insurance’s Auto leasing in local Investment in Lease renewal and real Rental properties owned newal of auto and precision Real estate rental operating assets (rental subsidiaries and aircraft Operating Leases estate leasing measuring equipments by Daikyo properties) leasing Corporate and government Investment in municipal Investment in listed shares, bonds, listed shares, the Investment in Investment in listed Investment in specified bonds and CMBS in the ─ PE funds and preferred assets under management Securities shares bonds shares of variable annuity and variUS, investment in funds in the US, Europe and Asia able life insurance contracts Operating facilities includEnvironment and energy Property under Solar power facilities (JV Mortgage servicing rights ─ ing hotels, Japanese inns, related facilities and ─ Facility Operations with Kyudenko) aquariums, golf courses, etc. equipments in the US Daikyo’s condominiums Investees’ (consolidated Inventories ─ ─ Condominiums and product inventories ─ subsidiaries) operating owned by PE investees assets Advances for Investment Rental properties under Vessels under construc─ ─ ─ ─ in Operating Leases development tion PE investment, investInvestment in joint leasing comInvestment in joint leasInvestment in Joint development of ment in power business pany in Asia, the ME, and Africa, ing company with region─ ─ Affiliates al banks rental properties abroad, investment in and PE investment in Asia, investconcession business ment in U.S. investment banks Environment and energy Advances for Property Operating facilities un─ ─ related facilities and equip─ ─ under Facility Operations der development ments under development Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Acquired Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from M&As in Business Combinations Main Components of Segment Revenues Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Leasing and sales finance Leasing and sales finance Revenues from real estate Gains on loan collection in Interest revenues from revenues and interest revrevenues and interes t leasing and interest revloan servicing and leasing Finance revenues Auto leasing revenues housing loans and card enues of local subsidiarrevenues from corporate enues on non-recourse revenues from energy loans ies, and interest revenues loans loans and specified bonds saving equipments from CMBS in the US Gains on sales of investGains on sales of investees Gain on investment Gains on sales of corGains on sales of listed ees and equity income/ and equity income from PE securities and ─ ─ porate and government shares dividends from investees funds, gains on sales of dividends and PE funds bond held by ORIX Bank municipal bonds in the US Auto and precision measuring Rental revenues from Lease renewal revenues Rental revenues from Auto leasing revenues equipment leasing, rental, and rental proper ties and Operating leases and revenues from real Daikyo’s rental proper─ of local subsidiaries and leasing renewal revenues and gains on sales of rental estate leasing ties aircraft leasing revenues gains on sales from used cars properties Life insurance Life insurance premiums premiums and related ─ ─ ─ ─ and related investment ─ investment income income Revenues from sales of Revenues from sales of Sales of goods Revenues from sales of Revenues from sales of Gains on sales of condogoods by investees and ─ goods by investees (suband real estate software in Yayoi used rental equipments miniums Daikyo’s gains on sales sidiaries) of condominiums Revenues from operating Income from Daikyo’s real Revenues from after-serRobeco’s asset managefacilities such as hotels, Japestate management services of Yayoi, insurance Guarantee fees on other ment fee revenues, and Revenues from vehicle anese inns, aquariums, golf vice and contract work, Services income agency commissions, financial institutions’ income from auto mainmaintenance services courses, etc., asset mansales revenues from solar solar power generation card loans tenance services of local agement fees and real estate power generation and related fees subsidiaries investment advisory fees electric power retailing ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 79 Financial Section Guide to Non-GAAP Financial Measurement ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31 2006 2007 2008 2009 Short-term Debt ¥1,336,414 ¥1,174,391 ¥1,330,147 ¥ 798,167 Long-term Debt a 3,236,055 3,863,057 4,462,187 4,453,845 Deduct: Payables under Securitized Leases, Loan Receivables and 106,333 260,529 374,920 358,969 Investment in Securities Adjusted Long-term Debt b 3,129,722 3,602,528 4,087,267 4,094,876 Shortand Long-term Debt c 4,572,469 5,037,448 5,792,334 5,252,012 (excluding deposits) Adjusted Longand Short-term Debt d 4,466,136 4,776,919 5,417,414 4,893,043 (excluding deposits) ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity e 946,961 1,186,366 1,258,906 1,157,269 Deduct: The Cumulative Effect on Retained Earnings of Applying the Accounting Standards for ─ ─ ─ ─ the Consolidation of VIEs under ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, effective April 1, 2010 Adjusted ORIX Corporation f 946,961 1,186,366 1,258,906 1,157,269 Shareholders’ Equity Debt/Equity Ratio (Times) c / e 4.8 4.2 4.6 4.5 Adjusted Debt/Equity Ratio (Times) d / f 4.7 4.0 4.3 4.2 Share of Long-term Debt (%) a / c 71 77 77 85 Adjusted Share of Long-term Debt (%) b / d 70 75 75 84 This Integrated Report contains certain financial Our management believes these Non-GAAP measures presented on a basis not in accordance financial measures provide investors with additional with U.S. GAAP (commonly referred to as Nonmeaningful comparisons between our financial GAAP financial measures), including long-term debt condition as of March 31, 2016, as compared with and ORIX Corporation shareholders’ equity, as well prior periods. Effective April 1, 2010, we adopted as other measures or ratios calculated based on ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, which changed these measures, presented on an adjusted basis. the circumstances under which we are required The adjustment excludes payables under securitized to consolidate certain VIEs. Our adoption of these leases, loan receivables and investment in securities accounting standards caused a significant increase and reverses the cumulative effect on retained in our consolidated assets and liabilities and a earnings of applying the accounting standards for decrease in our retained earnings without affecting the consolidation of VIEs, effective April 1, 2010. the net cash flow and economic effects of our investments in such consolidated VIEs. 80 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Millions of yen 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ¥ 573,565 ¥ 478,633 ¥ 457,973 ¥ 420,726 ¥ 308,331 ¥ 284,785 ¥ 349,624 3,836,270 4,531,268 4,267,480 4,061,534 3,852,668 4,132,945 3,940,906 202,224 1,018,190 874,705 679,766 253,827 291,635 276,054 3,634,046 3,513,078 3,392,775 3,381,768 3,598,841 3,841,310 3,664,852 4,409,835 5,009,901 4,725,453 4,482,260 4,160,999 4,417,730 4,290,530 4,207,611 3,991,711 3,850,748 3,802,494 3,907,172 4,126,095 4,014,476 1,287,179 1,306,582 1,380,736 1,643,596 1,919,346 2,152,198 2,310,431 ─ （21,947） （19,248） （16,593） （5,195） （3,060） （411） 1,287,179 1,328,529 1,399,984 1,660,189 1,924,541 2,155,258 2,310,842 3.4 3.8 3.4 2.7 2.2 2.1 1.9 3.3 3.0 2.8 2.3 2.0 1.9 1.7 87 90 90 91 93 94 92 86 88 88 89 92 93 91 Accordingly, our management believes that We provide these Non-GAAP financial measures providing certain financial measures that exclude as supplemental information to our consolidated liabilities and ORIX Corporation shareholders’ equity financial statements prepared in accordance with attributable to consolidated VIEs as a supplement U.S. GAAP, and they should not be considered to financial information calculated in accordance in isolation or as a substitute for the most directly with U.S. GAAP enhances the overall picture of our comparable U.S. GAAP measures. The tables set current financial position and enables investors to forth above provide reconciliations of these Nonevaluate our historical financial and business trends GAAP financial measures to the most directly without the large balance sheet fluctuation caused comparable financial measures presented in by our adoption of these accounting standards. accordance with U.S. GAAP as reflected in this Integrated Report for the periods provided. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 81 About ORIX Group Companies (As of March 31, 2016) Direct / Established Segment Principal Business Indirect (Acquired) Investment Corporate Financial Services ORIX Corporation Tokyo Sales Headquarters, Kinki Sales Headquarters, District Sales Leasing, Lending, Other Financial Services Headquarters, OQL Business and Sales Promotion Headquarters NS Lease Co., Ltd. Leasing, Lending, Other Financial Services (Jul. 2002) 100% ORIX Tokushima Corporation Leasing, Other Financial Services (Oct. 2005) 95% Tsukuba Lease Corporation Leasing (Jun. 2010) 95% Kyuko-Lease Inc. Leasing, Other Financial Services (Jan. 2012) 90% FREEILL CORPORATION Medical Equipment Rental (May 2013) 100% Development, Marketing, and Support of Business Management Software Yayoi Co., Ltd. (Dec. 2014) 99% and Related Services ORIX Yatsugatake Farm Co., Ltd. Production and Sales of Hydroponic Vegetables Apr. 2015 97% Maintenance Leasing ORIX Auto Corporation Automobile Leasing, Rental, Car Sharing and Sales of Used Automobiles Jun. 1973 100% ORIX Rentec Corporation Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments and IT-related Equipment Sep. 1976 100% ORIX Rentec (Korea) Corporation (South Korea) Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments and IT-related Equipment Apr. 2001 100% Beijing Oriental Jicheng Co., Ltd. (China) Rental and Sales of Precision Measuring Equipment (Feb. 2006) 34% Real Estate ORIX Corporation Real Estate Headquarters Real Estate Development and Rental ORIX Ichioka Kotsu Kigyo Corporation Driving School (Dec. 1986) 100% Interior Finish Work and Construction Management, Real Estate Rental ORIX Interior Corporation (Jan. 1987) 100% and Manufacturing and Sales of Interior Furnishings BlueWave Corporation Hotel and Training Facility Management Aug. 1991 100% ORIX Real Estate Corporation Real Estate Development and Rental, Facilities Operation Mar. 1999 100% ORIX Asset Management Corporation Asset Management of J-REIT Sep. 2000 100% ORIX Golf Management Corporation Golf Course Management (Nov. 2004) 100% ORIX Living Corporation Senior Housing Management Apr. 2005 98% ORIX Real Estate Investment Advisors Corporation Real Estate Investment and Advisory Services Sep. 2007 100% ORIX Aquarium Corporation Aquarium Operation Apr. 2011 100% ORIX Agriculture Corporation Production of Vegetables at Plant Factory and their Sales Feb. 2014 100% Investment and Operation ORIX Corporation Investment and Operation Headquarters Principal Investment ORIX Corporation Energy and Eco Services Business Headquarters Environment and Energy Business ORIX Capital Corporation Venture Capital Oct. 1983 100% Trading of Recycled Metals and other Resources, Collection and ORIX Eco Services Corporation Apr. 1998 100% Transportation of Industrial Waste, and Intermediate Waste Processing ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services Corporation Loan Servicing Apr. 1999 100% ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation Waste Recycling Sep. 2002 100% Agatsuma Bio Power Co., Ltd. Biomass Power Generation Jan. 2006 100% ORIX Loan Business Center Corporation Personal Loan Related Asset Management, Customer Relations May 2009 99% ORIX Electric Power Corporation Provision of Electricity to Condominiums May 2010 85% Development and Manufacturing of Electronic Equipment and In-Vehicle Ubiteq, INC. (Jul. 2010) 59% Devices, Development and Operation of Systems ONE Energy Corporation Trading and Rental of Storage Batteries, Energy Related Services Mar. 2013 70% Enovity, Inc. (USA) Building-related Energy Management Services (Sep. 2013) 80% Retail ORIX Credit Corporation Consumer Finance Services Jun. 1979 100% ORIX Life Insurance Corporation Life Insurance Apr. 1991 100% ORIX Bank Corporation Banking (Apr. 1998) 100% ORIX Insurance Consulting Corporation Insurance Agency Services Oct. 2012 100% ORIX Headquarter Functions (Not included in Segment Financial Information) ORIX Insurance Services Corporation Insurance Agency Services Sep. 1976 100% ORIX Computer Systems Corporation Software Engineering and Systems Management Mar. 1984 100% ORIX Baseball Club Co., Ltd. Professional Baseball Team Management (Oct. 1988) 100% ORIX Management Information Center Corporation Accounting and Administration Services Oct. 1999 100% ORIX Business Center Okinawa Corporation Business Center, Contact Center Nov. 1999 100% ORIX Business Support Corporation Business Support Services Apr. 2007 100% ORIX Wholesale Securities Corporation Sale of Financial Products Feb. 2010 100% 82 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Direct / Country Established Segment Principal Business Indirect (Region)*1 (Acquired) Investment Overseas Business ORIX Corporation Global Business and Alternative Japan Administration of Overseas Activities, Alternative Investment Investment Headquarters*2 ORIX Corporation Global Transportation Services Headquarters*2 Japan Ship-related Services, Aircraft-related Services ORIX Corporation East Asia Business Headquarters*2 Japan Administration of Overseas Activities ORIX Maritime Corporation*2 Japan Ship Charter and Ship Broker Service Nov. 1977 100% ORIX Aircraft Corporation*2 Japan Aircraft Leasing May 1986 100% ORIX USA Corporation USA Corporate Finance, Investment Banking Aug. 1981 100% RED Capital Group USA Loan Servicing (May 2010) 100% Mariner Investment Group LLC USA Fund Operation and Management (Dec. 2010) 69% ORIX Brazil Investments and Holdings Limited Brazil Equity Investment Aug. 2012 100% ORIX Asia Limited Hong Kong Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending, Banking Sep. 1971 100% ORIX Asia Capital Limited Hong Kong Equity Investment, Fund Operation and Management, Lending Jul. 1973 100% ORIX Taiwan Corporation Taiwan Leasing, Installment Loans, Insurance Agency Services (Feb. 1991) 100% ORIX Auto Leasing Taiwan Corporation Taiwan Automobile Leasing and Rentals Mar. 1998 100% ORIX Taiwan Asset Management Company Taiwan NPL Investment, Loan Servicing Nov. 2004 100% ORIX Capital Korea Corporation South Korea Automobile Leasing, Leasing, Lending Feb. 2004 100% ORIX Private Equity Korea Corporation South Korea Fund Operation and Management Mar. 2010 100% ORIX Rentec (Tianjin) Corporation China Rental, Leasing, Installment Loans Aug. 2004 100% ORIX China Corporation China Leasing, Rental Aug. 2005 97% CHINA RAILWAY LEASING CO., LTD. China Railway-related Leasing (Jan. 2006) 25% ORIX (China) Investment Co., Ltd. China Leasing, Equity Investment, Other Financial Services Dec. 2009 100% Pang Da ORIX Auto Leasing Co., Ltd. China Automobile Leasing May 2012 50% TenGer Financial Group Mongolia Banking, Leasing, Non-Life Insurance (Oct. 2013) 16% ORIX Leasing Singapore Limited Singapore Leasing, Installment Loans, Lending Sep. 1972 50% ORIX Investment and Management Private Limited Singapore Equity Investment, Lending May 1981 100% ETHOZ Group Ltd. Singapore Automobile Leasing and Rentals, Leasing Sep. 1981 45% Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments ORIX Rentec (Singapore) Pte. Limited Singapore Oct. 1995 100% and IT-related Equipment ORIX Leasing Malaysia Berhad Malaysia Leasing, Lending Sep. 1973 100% ORIX Credit Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Installment Loans Jan. 1981 100% ORIX Car Rentals Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Automobile Rentals Feb. 1989 35% Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments ORIX Rentec (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Nov. 1996 100% and IT-related Equipment ORIX Auto Leasing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Automobile Leasing Oct. 2000 100% ORIX Asset Management Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia NPL Investment Jan. 2008 100% PT. ORIX Indonesia Finance Indonesia Leasing, Automobile Leasing Apr. 1975 85% PT. Sinar Mitra Sepadan Finance Indonesia Used car loans for sole proprietors and individual customers (Nov. 2015) 85% ORIX METRO Leasing and Finance Corporation Philippines Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending Jun. 1977 39% ORIX Auto Leasing Philippines Corporation Philippines Automobile Leasing Sep. 1989 40% Global Business Power Corporation Philippines Electric Power Business (Jun. 2013) 22% Thai ORIX Leasing Co., Ltd. Thailand Leasing, Automobile Leasing and Rentals Jun. 1978 96% Fund Operation and Management, Real Estate Indochina Capital Corporation Vietnam (Nov. 2010) 25% Development, and Advisory, Investment Banking Lanka ORIX Leasing Company PLC Sri Lanka Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Installment Loans, Lending Mar. 1980 30% ORIX Leasing Pakistan Limited Pakistan Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jul. 1986 49% INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED India Infrastructure Investment, Investment Banking (Mar. 1993) 23% ORIX Auto Infrastructure Services Limited India Automobile Leasing and Rentals Mar. 1995 99% Oman ORIX Leasing Company SAOG Oman Leasing, Automobile Leasing Aug. 1994 18% ORIX Leasing Egypt SAE Egypt Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jun. 1997 34% Saudi ORIX Leasing Company Saudi Arabia Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jan. 2001 28% Al Hail ORIX Finance PSC UAE Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending Mar. 2002 38% SK Leasing JSC Kazakhstan Leasing (Jun. 2005) 40% The Mediterranean & Gulf Insurance & Reinsurance Company B.S.C. Bahrain Non-Life Insurance, Life Insurance, Reinsurance (Jun. 2013) 25% ORIX Australia Corporation Limited Australia Automobile Leasing and Truck Rentals Jul. 1986 100% ORIX New Zealand Limited New Zealand Leasing, Automobile Leasing Dec. 1988 100% Aircraft Leasing, Asset Management, Aircraft-related ORIX Aviation Systems Limited Ireland Mar. 1991 100% Technical Services ORIX Polska S.A. Poland Leasing, Automobile Leasing (Oct. 1995) 100% Robeco Groep N.V. Netherlands Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 90% Notes: 1. ORIX has offices in other locations not included in the list above. In total, ORIX’s business operation currently extends across 37 countries and regions worldwide. 2. ORIX Corporation’s Global Business and Alternative Investment Headquarters, Global Transportation Services Headquarters, East Asia Business Headquarters as well as ORIX Maritime Corporation and ORIX Aircraft Corporation, are based in Japan but are engaged in business activities primarily in Asia, Oceania and Europe. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 83 About ORIX Corporate Profile/ Stock Information/ Investor Memo Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2016) Company Name ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity ¥2,310,431 million Established April 17, 1964 Fiscal Year-End March 31 Head Office World Trade Center Bldg., 2-4-1 Consolidated Companies 793 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato-ku, Affiliates 132 Tokyo 105-6135, Japan Tel: +81-3-3435-3000 Number of Employees 33,333 Global Network 2,090 locations in 37 countries and regions worldwide Japan 1,418 locations Overseas 672 locations Stock Information (As of March 31, 2016) Number of Shares Number of Shareholders / Total Number of Shares Authorized 2,590,000,000 shares Composition of Shareholders (%) Total Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding 1,324,058,828 shares ■ Financial Institutions ■ Overseas Corporations ■ Individuals ■ Other* Number of Shareholders 178,573 50,944 94,244 178,573 1.7% 2.6% 1.6% 4.8% 5.4% 6.5% Major Shareholders Number of Percentage of Total Name Shares Held Shares in Issue 64.0% 59.4% 59.6% (Thousands) (%) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 118,667 8.96 (Trust Account) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 71,154 5.37 (Trust Account) 29.5% 32.6% 32.3% JP Morgan Chase Bank 380055 61,423 4.63 2014 2015 2016 * Other includes treasury stock. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 38,184 2.88 (Trust Account 9) Dividend per Share (Yen) The Chase Manhattan Bank 385036 35,055 2.64 45.75 State Street Bank and Trust Company 31,108 2.34 36 23.75 The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV 10 26,312 1.98 23 CITIBANK, N.A. -N.Y, AS DEPOSITARY BANK 25,049 1.89 13* FOR DEPOSITARY SHARE HOLDERS 9* 22 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505225 20,444 1.54 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 19,925 1.50 * Retrospectively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. 84 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Stock Price and Volume Stock Price (Yen) 2,000 1,500 1,000 Volume (thousand shares) 400,000 200,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 On April 1, 2013, ORIX split each share of its common stock, which were held by shareholders recorded on the register of shareholders as of March 31, 2013, into ten (10) shares. •Dividend per share, stock price and volume have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. Investor Memo (As of July 1, 2016) Transfer Agent for Common Shares Depositary and Registrar for American Depositary Receipts Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Citibank, N.A., Shareholder Services Transfer Agent Dept. P.O. Box 43077 Providence, RI Tel: 0120–232–711 (toll-free in Japan) 02940-3077 USA Stock Exchange Listings Tel: 1–877–248–4237 (toll-free in the US) Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section Fax: 1–201–324–3284 Securities Code: 8591 E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.com Ratio 1 ADR = 5 common shares New York Stock Exchange Trading Symbol: IX NYSE: IX Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules The Company believes that it will be considered a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the year to which these consolidated financial results relate and for the foreseeable future by reason of the composition of its assets and the nature of its income. A U.S. holder of the shares or ADSs of the Company is therefore subject to special rules generally intended to eliminate any benefits from the deferral of U.S. federal income tax that a holder could derive from investing in a foreign corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Investors should consult their tax advisors with respect to such rules, which are summarized under “UNITED STATES TA X ATION” in the Company’s Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Presentation of Financial Information The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, is referred to throughout this Integrated Report as “FY2016.3” and other fiscal years are referred to in a corresponding manner. Forward-Looking Statements This document may contain forward-looking statements about expected future events and financial results that involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those described under “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and under “Business Risk” of the securities report (yukashoken houkokusho) filed with the Director of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website (http://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en) its annual report on Form 20-F and other reports. ORIX Corporation Corporate Planning Department World Trade Center Bldg., 2–4–1 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato–ku, Tokyo 105–6135, Japan TEL: +81–3–3435–3121 FAX: +81–3–3435–3154 URL: http://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ For inquiries about this Integrated Report, please contact us at the address above. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 85
