Fostering Responsible Growth Prosperity for society, community and nation is the underlying principle for GAIL’s existence and is the driving force behind every action that we undertake. This goes in sync with our commitment towards our stakeholders. On the other hand, safety of our natural environment is a primary requisite for a healthy and happy society. GAIL sews them together with such finesse that prosperity and happiness are not seen as two sides of a coin but relished as different colours on a canvas. GAIL is committed to not just making a developed & prosperous world but a beautiful & happy one too, where every colour of life thrives. As the proverb says, “A stitch in time saves nine”, GAIL spends every moment caring passionately for the environment with Fostering Responsible Growth as a way of life. Contents About the Report About the Report 4 Fostering Responsible Growth 6 Message from Leadership 8 About GAIL 10 Accolades and Recognition 20 Corporate Governance & Risk Management 22 Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Strategy 32 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 38 Safety: In our every endeavor while we grow 52 Striding towards Excellence: The way we strive to grow 64 Transforming our business approach: Safeguarding our growth 82 Human Capital: at the core of our growth 90 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Harnessing opportunities for growth 98 Driving Innovation: Redefining our growth 104 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Our Stakeholders 112 Shareholder/ Investors 114 Employees 120 Community 124 Customers 128 Suppliers 132 Our Stakeholders Performance Snapshot 136 Independent Assurance Statement 144 Glossary 147 GRI Content Index 149 Linkages with API/IPIECA and UNGC Guidelines 157 Linkages with NVG-SEE Principles 158 Way Forward 159 Performance Snapshot 4 Fostering Responsible Growth About the Report ‘Fostering Responsible Growth’, GAIL’s Sustainability report for FY 2014-15G4-28, marks the completion of half a decade of annualG4-30 sustainability reporting practice. As GAIL enters its fifth year of sustainability reporting, it takes forward the promise made to its stakeholders last year through“Care, Share & Grow”. GAIL, India’s premier integrated gas company became the youngest Public Sector Enterprise to be accorded the Maharatna Status, highlighting the Government’s confidence in our organisation. We have to demonstrate that we are a worthy recipient of this honor through our sustained efforts towards responsible growth aiding in India’s energy security while safeguarding the environment and the welfare of the society. ur current sustainability  Oil and Gas industry guidance on report reflects how we voluntary sustainability reporting are determined, poised (2010) developed by IPIECA, and remain committed for growth, the global oil and gas industry that is responsible and sustainable. association for environmental and The report covers the Company’s social issues and the American sustainability performance for the Petroleum Institute (API). financial year 2014-15. GAIL’s Corporate Sustainability Reports are publicly  Principles and disclosure available on GAIL’s website (www. requirements under United gailonline.com). Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This year’s sustainability report, This report is a materiality centric “Fostering responsible growth” is even report and also contains dedicated more special as we make the transition sections for each of the stakeholders. from GRI G3.1 to GRI G4 guidelines. The These material issues have been report is in line with GRI G4 Guidelines identified after a thorough materiality ‘in-accordance’ option coreG4-32. The assessment and stakeholder GRI content index on pages 142-149 engagement exercise which was gives a detailed reference on the GRI conducted at 10 locations of GAIL performance indicators and standard amongst different stakeholder groups. disclosures. Along with GRI G4 it also Each material issue is mapped with adheres to the requirements of the the respective aspect and indicators following: as per the GRI-G4 guidelines. Further, each aspect is mapped to the relevant  Nine principles of National stakeholders that may affect or get Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) affected with the issue discussed. on Social, Environmental and Material issues which emerged from Economic responsibilities of this exercise have been responded to business, published by the in the relevant sections of the report. Ministry of Corporate Affairs, In addition, to cater and address the Government of India. concerns and initiatives with respect Sustainability Report 5 2014-15 to various stakeholder groups has been calculation methodologies have been  LPG pumping / receiving stations addressed in the relevant stakeholder made wherever used. at Abu Road, Cherlappali, G section of the report. Konduru, Jamnagar, Kandla, Certain information included in this Loni, Mansarampura, Nasirabad, This year we also revised our report refers to our future plans Samakhiali and Vizag; voluntary targets of Sustainability and intentions, in order to present a Aspirations 2020. The existing and holistic account of our sustainability  Regional pipeline offices at additional parameters along with their activities. This information relates to Agartala, Baroda, Mumbai, performance have been shared in the our strategy, operations, performance Puducherry and Rajahmundry; Sustainability Strategy section of this goals and targets, business plans, report. research & development and  GAIL Training Institute (GTI) at investments in the countries, sectors Jaipur and Noida; Data management or markets where we operate. By their sub-nature, such information involves  Corporate Office at New Delhi and Info Hub at Noida; approachG4-22, G4-23 a certain degree of uncertainty as the end result is dependent on future  Zonal Marketing Offices; Performance snapshot and trend is market conditions and geo-political presented for all relevant indicators developments, most of which are The E&P operations, Joint ventures, in the report. Report also elaborates beyond our control or cannot be subsidiaries, leased facilities, on new developments in the predicted by us. While we will strive to outsourced operations, and other reporting year, on-going initiatives achieve progress on these, we cannot entities are out of scope & boundary. and future plans of expansions in the ensure a desirable outcome in all cases. As per this reporting boundary, all sustainability domain of the company. aspects are reported for India region (unless otherwise mentioned). We have a dedicated data and Report scope and information management system for managing sustainability related data boundaryG4-13, G4-18, G4-23 AssuranceG4-32, G4-33 and information through in-house The report includes the following All sustainability reports of GAIL developed e-sustainability module and operations: have been assured by external third e-Business Responsibility Reporting party. Continuing the practice, this Module respectively. The data  Gas Processing Units (GPUs) at year’s Sustainability Report has been presented in the report is verified by Gandhar, Pata, Usar, Vaghodia and assured by DNVGL. This is a Type the concerned HoDs. Vijaipur; 2 Moderate level assured report Some assumptions, calculation  Petrochemical unit at Pata; based on AA1000AS (2008) standard. methodologies have been used for the Assurance process includes data estimation and quantification of data  Natural Gas compressor stations verification at different sites of GAIL that has been presented in the report. at Dibiyapur, Hazira, Jhabua, Khera, that will continue to help GAIL improve Disclosures on these assumptions and Vaghodia and Vijaipur; its processes and data management mechanisms. 6 Fostering Responsible Growth Fostering Responsible Growth rowth lies at the core of the theme of ‘Fostering Responsible we understand that there is a need to every business. The meaning Growth’ focuses on our aim to grow as shift gears. Successful organizations of this growth, in terms of an organization in challenging times adapt to a continually changing market, business has evolved over the years. while being responsible and committed whether these changes are economic, While progressing and performing on to our stakeholders. GAIL being a social or environmental. We are taking the top and bottom lines is essential Public sector company is guided concrete steps to maintain the trust for basic sustenance, it is the thread by the principles of accountability of our stakeholders. With decline of responsibility and value creation for and transparency, where ethical in domestic gas availability, GAIL is stakeholders that reflects growth in business conduct becomes even more focusing on ensuring energy security true sense for GAIL. imperative as our reach goes beyond for the Nation, through investments in our immediate stakeholders with LNG sourcing and infrastructure. With While our previous Sustainability expanding business operations. changes in the regulatory scenario, and reports highlighted our commitment implications on the business, we are and action-orientation to fulfill and GAIL is no more in a natural monopoly gearing up to address the emerging achieve our targets, our Sustainability situation as it started with in the challenges. As tread to new horizons, Report for FY 14-15 centred around 1980’s. The competition is fierce and we aspire to retain our leadership Sustainability Report 7 2014-15 position following an innovative society. Over the past few years, we With the fifth edition of our approach to do business while ensuring have been investing a part of our Sustainability Report, FY 14-15, highest standards of safety and profits towards addressing the social Fostering Responsible Growth operational excellence to build the needs of the communities providing us communicates that although the times trust of our stakeholders. with the social license to operate. are changing, our ethics and values are at the core of our growth. Learning The national priorities are seeing a The most important asset for a from the age old adage, when the gradual shift. Public sectors which business is its Human Capital. going gets tough, the tough get going; have governments as principal Understanding the growing it is with this unrelenting spirit, we stakeholders are naturally aligned to complexities in the business and aspire to grow. fulfill national sustainability targets regulatory scenario, we believe in and commitments. In this dynamic fostering a working culture that environment, we believe that while encourages learning and development addressing the challenges, it is while emphasizing on individual imperative to derive opportunities excellence that ultimately results in while creating a positive impact on growth of the organization. 8 Fostering Responsible Growth CMD’s MessageG4-1 am happy to present GAIL’s GAIL is taking several steps to ensure (CNG) and domestic households (PNG). fifth Sustainability Report for the supply of the cleanest fossil fuelAs of 2015, over 28 lakhs households FY 2014-15, titled ‘Fostering natural gas -across India through its and 22 lakhs vehicles are benefitting Responsible Growth’. Since its widespread pipeline infrastructure. from these clean and convenient fuels. inception, GAIL, has been guided by Out of the total 15,000 km of existing The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural the objective to be a good corporate gas pipeline network in India, GAIL Gas aims to expand the PNG network citizen with sustainability ingrained is operating approximately 11,000 across the country, raising the numbers in our Vision and Mission. This report km pipelines. In order to cater to the of households connected with PNG to marks our transition from GRI G3.1 to growing demand in the country and one crore within 5 years. G4 reporting framework with a focus to increase its geographic reach in on what matters and where it matters. the length and breadth of the country, We are also participating in the ‘Make government has plans for building in India’ initiative of the Government Energy plays a key role not only in another 15,000 km of pipeline network. and recently became member of the driving India’s economic growth but GAIL has already taken a leadership Mid-stream Working Group which shall also social progress. However, India role in the planning and development work to identify products and services is an energy importing country with a of bulk of these future pipelines in that can be developed domestically. majority of people not having access various phases in the coming years, to We have constituted a specialized to clean and modern sources of energy. help realize the vision of a national gas Indigenization Development Group This places greater responsibility grid in India. (INDEG) to promote indigenization. on GAIL to not only secure adequate For Digital India campaign, GAIL has and clean energy resources but also As an environment friendly measure, a social platform to connect with its to make them available at affordable highest priority in allocation of natural stakeholders through GAIL Social. prices to people and industries. gas has been given to the transport We have also rolled out e-Digitization system among others initiatives. GAIL is taking several steps to ensure the supply of the cleanest fossil fuel natural gas -across India through its widespread pipeline infrastructure. Out of the total 15,000 km of existing gas pipeline network in India, GAIL is operating approximately 11,000 km pipelines. Sustainability Report 9 2014-15 Further, for the first time, GAIL has been acknowledged among the CDP’s India Leaders 2014 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). We are the only Company in Utilities category GAIL Utkarsh project have qualified in the IIT entrance examination. among the top 22 India Leaders. Further, our CSR initiatives also work in the line of the National Skill Missionto create a large pool of skilled workforce to sustain the ambitious ‘Make in India’ initiative. Further, GAIL has been is progressing well to achieve these ranked 11th among the top 115 Indian targets. Companies on CSR and Sustainability To further inculcate the concept of by The Economic Times. operational excellence across our Further, for the first time, GAIL has operations, processes, systems and been acknowledged among the CDP’s procedures, we launched Project India Leaders 2014 Climate Disclosure ‘Sanchay’ (Profit Maximization). It Leadership Index (CDLI). We are the For India to emerge as an innovation aims at optimization of resources only Company in Utilities category hub, the next big idea has to be driven and improvement of operations and among the top 22 India Leaders. by the power of technology, where process performance to maximize Further, GAIL is a signatory to the there will be a need to learn new skills returns ensuring profitable growth. United Nations Global Compact and adapt to emerging technologies, There have been some unfortunate (UNGC). GAIL has an advantage in terms of having on-board a team of young accidents and fire incidents in the As we go forward, our objective professionals, lending it energy, Oil and Gas sector recently, including remains to derive opportunities for dynamism and professionalism to take in GAIL. This presents us with the growth that are responsible and create on the challenges of an ever evolving opportunity to introspect our approach positive value for all the stakeholders. business environment. and efforts towards maintaining We aim to fulfill national and global utmost standards of safety in our commitments and continue to work Besides wealth and value creation in operations and processes while towards ensuring availability of cleaner financial and economic terms, GAIL ensuring uninterrupted operations and affordable energy to support has always strived for providing of the pipelines. A series of actions the nation’s growth story and help to value beyond business by taking care have been taken to assess health and bridge the gap between National and of the environment and society. At integrity of gas and LPG pipelines and International Climate action. GAIL, a major facet of sustainable reinforce the culture of ‘Safety First’. development is assessing and We believe in growth that is managing our environmental footprint With ‘Hriday’ at core of our CSR sustainable and inclusive while and involving with the community philosophy, we have taken eight remaining deeply committed to with diligence and foresight. In 2012, different areas for the overall ensuring the trust of our stakeholders. we developed our ‘Sustainability development of the nation, namely In the end, I would like to thank our Aspirations 2020’, which are selfSwachh Bharat, Aarogya (Health), stakeholders for their valuable support driven targets focused towards the Unnati (Rural Development), Saksham and continued belief in GAIL. reduction of Green House Gas (GHG) (Care for elderly & differently abled emissions, water consumption and persons), Harit (Environment Project), specific energy intensity. In 2014, we Sashakt (Women empowerment), have further added targets in areas Ujjwal (Education), Kaushal (Skill of Specific energy reduction, Specific development). GAIL is supporting and fresh water reduction, Specific GHG constructing nearly 3500 toilets under Emission reduction and increase in “Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidyalaya” B. C. Tripathi, Waste Water Recycling which have program. This year, 50 out of the 100 Chairman & Managing Director, been disclosed in the Sustainability students who have been receiving GAIL (India) Limited Strategy section of this report. GAIL specialized academic coaching under About GAIL Operates 3/4th of the total NG Transmission P/L Operating more than 2/3rd CNG Stations through alliances Contributes to more than 2/3rd of the NG Sold Produces LPG for every 13th LPG Cylinders Produces 1/5th of the polyethylene Responsible for 1/4th of LPG Transmission GAIL aspires to emerge as integrated Hydrocarbon Major with significant upstream & downstream presence. 12 Fostering Responsible Growth About GAIL (continue) Exploration & Production (E&P)  A part of vertical integration  Participation in 15 blocks (operator-3 blocks)  Presence in Myanmar & USA Natural Gas  Over 11,000 Km of network, Expanding to 15,000 km  Capacity – 206 MMSCMD  Sophisticated Gas management System  Pursuing for expansion, Participation in RGPPL ( 5 MMTPA LNG Regasification Facility) Liquid Hydrocarbons  7 Gas Processing Plants producing LPG, Propane, Pentane, Naphtha etc.  LPG Transport Capacity 3.8 MMTPA (2038 Km) City Gas Distribution  Serving over 10 lakh vehicles & 10 lakh households through Subsidiary & Joint Ventures  GAIL Gas Limited, 100% subsidiary, has setup CGD Network in Dewas, Sonepat, Kota, Meerut & Taj Trapezium zone Petrochemicals  Domestic market share ~ 15%  Petrochemical Plant in Pata( UP) with capacity of 0.4 MMTPA (expanding to 0.81 MMTPA)  Participation in BCPL & OPAL Power & Renewables  118 MW Wind Power Plant and 5 MW Solar Power Plant  Participation in RGPPL( Capacity 1967 MW) Sustainability Report 13 2014-15 Our Presence, Subsidiaries and JVs Domestic Subsidiaries  GAIL Gas Ltd. – GAIL’s wholly owned subsidiary City Gas Distribution (CGD) JVs (100%), supplying to  Mahanagar Gas Limited MGL (35%), Dewas, Sonepat, Agra, Ferozabad, Vadodara &  Indraprastha Gas Limited IGL (22.50%), Panvel.  Bhagyanagar Gas Limited BGL (22.50%),  Brahmaputra Crackers & Polymers Ltd. (BCPL)  Green Gas Limited GGL (22.50%),  Central U.P. Gas Limited -CUGL (25%),  Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited MNGL (22.50%),  Aavantika Gas Limited AGL (22.50%), Overseas Subsidiaries  Tripura Natural Gas Company Limited -TNGL (29%)  GAIL (Global) Singapore Pte,  GAIL (Global) USA Inc.,  GAIL Global (USA) LNG LLC (100% subsidiary of GAIL (Global) USA Inc.) Joint Ventures  Petronet LNG Ltd. PLL,  ONGC Petro additions LimitedOPAL,  Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private limitedRGPPL, Associates  GAIL China Gas Global Energy Holding,  Gujarat State Energy Generation Ltd. (5.96%),  TAPI Pipeline Company limited  Fayum Gas (19%),  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (3%),  Natural Gas Company “NATGAS” (15%) 14 Fostering Responsible Growth About GAIL (continue) GAIL’s Pan India Presence Sustainability Report 15 2014-15 Global Presence  China Gas USA  Eagle ford CHINA  Dominion Cove  A1. A3 E&P  Sabine Pass EGYPT MYANMAR Blocks  Myanmar-China Gas Pipeline Equity in 2 Retail Gas SINGAPORE Companies GAIL Globlal (Singapore) Pte. Limited Presence in 5 countries and 3 continents Overseas Presence in US, Singapore, Myanmar, China, Egypt ( upto 09.01.2014) 16 Fostering Responsible Growth About GAIL (continue) Be the leading company in Natural Gas and Beyond, with Global Focus, Committed to Customer Care, Value Creation for all Stakeholders and Environmental Responsibility. To accelerate and optimize the effective and economic use of Natural Gas and its fractions for the benefit of the national economy. Sustainability Report 17 2014-15 Key Elements of GAIL’s Vision Ethics We are transparent, fair and consistent in dealing with all people. We insist on honesty, integrity and trustworthiness in all our activities. Customer We strive relentlessly to exceed the expectations of our customers, both internal and external. Our customers prefer us. People We believe our success is driven by the commitment and excellence of our people. We attract and retain result-oriented people who are proud their work and are satisfied with nothing less than the very best in everything they do. We encourage individual initiative by creating opportunities for our people to learn and grow. We respect the individual rights and dignity of all people. Shareholders We meet the objectives of our shareholders by providing them superior returns and value through their investments in us. Safety, Health and Environment We promote highest levels of safety in our operations, health of our employees and a clean environment. We strive for continuous development of the communities in which we operate. Technology We believe technology is the key to the future success of our organisation. We advocate use of ‘best-in-class’ technologies. 18 Fostering Responsible Growth About GAIL (continue) GAIL’s Supply Chain ManagementG4-12 Domestic Sourcing Compressor Plant LNG Regasification LNG Regasification Gas Processing Unit Other LPG Suppliers International Sourcing SUPPLIERS OPERATIONS Over 11000 KM 2038 KM 24 MMTPA Natural Gas Pipelines LPG Pipelines Natural Gas Pipelines Sustainability Report 19 2014-15 CGD CGD Power Fertilizer Petrochemical Plant Liquid Hydrocarbons HDPE / LLDPE to Customers to Customer LPG Transmission LPG Bottling OPERATIONS CONSUMERS 1700 KTA 1.3 MMTPA LPG/ Petrochemical LHC capacity Production Capacity: 810 KTA Total of 6 Plants Pata + BCPL + OPaL 20 Fostering Responsible Growth Accolades and Recognition Corporate  GAIL featured amongst “India’s 100 Best Companies to Work For 2014 Study” conducted by Great Place to Work Institute for the third consecutive year.  ‘Company of the Year’ in the Project Management category for its Dabhol – Bengaluru natural gas pipeline project at the Petroleum Federation of India (PetroFed) Oil & Gas Industry Awards 2013.  GAIL has been ranked 11th among the top 115 Indian Companies on CSR and Sustainability by The Economic Times. CMD, GAIL, Shri B. C. Tripathi receiving ‘Best Performing Company’ (Maharatna Category) at the India Today PSU Awards 2014 from Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.  GAIL adjursed ‘Best Performing  Sustainability Report for FY Company’ (Maharatna Category) at 2013-14, received the coveted ‘A+ the India Today PSU Awards 2014 Application Level’ statement by international organization Global  GAIL has been acknowledged Reporting Initiative (GRI). among the CDP’s India Leaders 2014 Climate Disclosure  GAIL received Sustainability Leadership Index (CDLI). We are Reporting Award during India the only Company in Utilities Corporate Governance & category among the top 22 India Sustainability Vision Summit & Leaders. Awards 2015 by Indian Chamber of Commerce.  GAIL has been awarded for the Best Overall Performance amongst the Upstream Sector Oil Companies for the Oil & Gas conservation activities / programmes during OGCF 2014. Sustainability Report 21 2014-15 Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak receiving ‘Company of the Year’ in the Project Management category for its Dabhol – Bengaluru natural gas pipeline project at PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry Awards 2013. 3rd from left Director (Projects), GAIL Health & Safety  Suraksha Puraskar (Third level Bronze trophy) for year 2014 from  Safety Innovation Award-2014 by the Institution of Engineers (India),  International Safety Award 2015 National Safety Council, Mumbai Delhi State Centre to Maharashtra by the British Safety Council, UK to to HVJ Compressor Station, region pipeline system. HVJ Compressor Station, Vijaipur. Vijaipur.  International Safety Award 2014  Golden Peacock Environment from the British Safety Council, UK Management Award 2014 by the to GAIL Pata and GAIL NCR. Institute of Directors, New Delhi to GAIL, Vijaipur.  Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar (Second Level Silver trophy)  Golden Peacock Occupational for year 2014 from the National Health & Safety Award 2014 by the Safety Council, Mumbai to GPU, Institute of Directors, New Delhi to Vijaipur. GAIL NCR. Corporate Governance & Risk Management Ratio of the Total Compensation Director (Projects) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF BOARD Corporate governance is of paramount importance to a Company. It dictates the shared philosophy, practices and culture of an organization and its employees. A corporation without a system of corporate governance is often regarded as a body without a soul or conscience. Effective and transparent corporate governance practices presents opportunities to manage risks and creates value for the organization and its stakeholders. 24 Fostering Responsible Growth Corporate Governance & Risk Management (continue) AILG4-42, G4-43 believes in an open and transparent governance system which is underpinned by our commitment to operate virtuously and fairly. GAIL is driven by its core values viz., ethical practices, concern for people at work, delight of customers and wealth creation for shareholders. It relentlessly strives to use bestin-class technology, focus on all aspects of the Natural Gas value chain including petrochemicals; promote highest levels of safety in its operations, maintain better health of its employees, a clean environment for sustainable development and meet the objectives of shareholders by providing them better returns. Good governance at GAIL is ensured through deployment of strategy and oversight by the Board of Directors, building a robust governance structure, laying and implementing transparent Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan policies, establishing systems & (Centre) during review meeting at GAIL Corporate Office. processes for internal control, strengthening risk management framework and ensuring compliance Governance structureG4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-39, G4-40, G4-44 with all the applicable laws, rules and regulations. GAIL, being a CPSE, appointment/nomination of all the Directors is being done by the President of India, through the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoP&NG). The Board of Directors consists of a combination of executive and non-executive Directors which provide strategic direction to GAIL. Further, various sub-committees of the Board have been constituted by the Board as required under statutory regulations & guidelines and also to facilitate the smooth & efficient flow of decision making process. GAIL’s Board has constituted inter-alia, Sustainable Development Committee of the Board to formulate and monitor sustainable development plan and its execution and to review HSE performance and emergency preparedness. Further, the Board of Directors has approved the Delegation of Powers for delegating the powers to CMD and Functional Directors. CMD has been empowered by the Articles of Association to delegate to executive below Board level. A Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior Management Personnel has been formulated to ensure ethical business conduct. Further, we have also developed and implemented systems and processes for proper operation of internal controls for the organization. GAIL complies with Clause 49 of the equity listing agreement with stock exchanges and the DPE guidelines on corporate governance that are applicable except relating to composition of Board of Directors as to the requirement of independent Directors and consequential impact on composition of Audit Committee and Nomination & Remuneration Committee. The Government of India is in process of selecting requisite number of Independent Directors. Sustainability Report 25 2014-15 GAIL management interacting with Mr. Michael Meehan, CEO, GRI . Remuneration & employees (excluding the highestpaid individual) is 4.04:1. The Median a notice in writing and the same is put up to the Board. In case a IncentivesG4-51, G4-52, G4-53, percentage increase (from FY 13-14 to Director is directly or indirectly G4-54, G4-55 FY 14-15) in annual total compensation interested in a particular agenda/ for all employees (excluding the matter, he abstains himself from GAIL signs a Memorandum of highest-paid individual) is 16.22%. The participation in discussion of such Understanding (MOU) with the increase (from FY 13-14 to FY 14-15) agenda item. Ministry of Petroleum & Natural in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual  Related party disclosure(s) Gas every year. The MOU specifies is 37.70%. is made as per the applicable targets for various parameters Accounting Standards as well as including physical, financial, social under the Companies Act, 2013 and and environmental parameters. Conflict of Interest Rules made thereunder. The performance of the Company is evaluated with reference to the Identification, resolution and striving  As per requirement of the targets set against each of these for avoidance of any situations giving Companies Act, 2013 and clause 49 parameters and the composite score rise to conflict of interest is crucial to of the Listing Agreement approval is determined. The composite score is good governance and maintaining trust of the Audit Committee and/or one of the key variables in determining in public institutions. Board and/or Shareholders as the MOU rating which determines the required is taken for Related Party At GAIL, conflict of interests at Board quantum of variable pay for the year Transactions. Further, a policy level are avoided and managed in the in the form of Performance Related has been formulated for dealing following manner: Pay. The remuneration of Directors is with Related Party Transactions determined by the MoPNG.  Directors gives the disclosure as mandated under Clause 49 of his concern or interest in of the Listing Agreement and is The Ratio of the annual total any company or companies or also hosted on the website of the compensation for the organization’s bodies corporate, firms, or other Company. highest-paid individual to the median association of individuals by giving annual total compensation for all 26 Fostering Responsible Growth Corporate Governance & Risk Management (continue) Risk managementG4-2, G4-14, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 isk management is one of the key aspects of corporate governance. Most prominent of these being Organisation of Economic Co-operation & Development (OECD) principles of corporate governance and Securities While it may be impossible to eliminate committee headed by unit head. and Exchange Board of India’s Clause all risks, we take utmost care to Mitigation measures are also devised 49 of the listing agreement which mitigate and reduce our risk exposure by respective units. integrates risk management to to the maximum possible levels. These corporate governance. The Companies measures include:Risk Management Policy & Procedure Act 2013 requires its Board of to protect & add value to the Directors to develop and implement a  Specialized Corporate Level Risk organization and its stakeholders with risk management policy and identify Steering Committee to deal with the following objectives: risks which may threaten the existence risks of the Company.  To establish a risk intelligence  Risk management policy framework for the organization  Risk Officers at units  To establish ownership throughout institutionalize risk management the Organization and embed risk professionals throughout GAIL at management as an integral part all levels of the business rather than a standalone system GAIL’s risk management framework was institutionalized way back in the  To help the decision makers of year 2007. A robust risk management the organization explicitly take framework supports GAIL’s business account of uncertainty, the nature strategy and operations. Risk of that uncertainty, and work management framework is constantly towards a solution to address it updated for new and emerging risks emanating from business expansion  To ensure that all the current and interests. and expected risk exposures of the organization are identified, GAIL has formulated and implemented qualitatively and quantitatively the Enterprise Risk Management evaluated, analysed and Policy across all assets, plants and appropriately managed offices. The Chief Risk Officer and Risk Management Committee review  To enable compliance with the various types of risks whether relevant legal and regulatory existing and or anticipated in short requirements and international to medium term in future. Risk norms Management Department appraises  To assure demonstrable the corporate level Committee of achievement of objectives and Executive Directors, Risk Management improvement of financial stability Committee of functional Directors of the organization of Board, Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Unit level risks The risks are evaluated, quantified including Social & environmental risks & prioritized and mitigation plans are mapped and being monitored are reviewed & monitored at quarterly through unit level steering various stages. The Corporate Sustainability Report 27 2014-15 Level Risk Steering Committee unit head. Mitigation measures are also bind them in terms of financial year. has been established to oversee devised by respective units. the implementation of the risk GAIL is very sensitive to environmental management policy & procedures. This The following risks have been impact coming out of our operations. committee meets quarterly to review identified and deliberated in Corporate The environmental concerns are the corporate key risks, reports from Level Risk Steering Committee paramount and efforts are always sites and units. The same is reviewed meetings as well as other corporate in place to minimize / neutralize the by Risk Management committee level meeting in line with the Risk impact of climate change & greenbi-annually and annually by Audit Frame work of GAIL. GAIL is deploying house gas emission, fresh water Committee. Policy & procedures are all efforts to mitigate the identified withdrawal, waste disposal etc. We periodically reviewed & monitored by risks. Identified risks are as follows: take all possible precautionary steps Functional Directors, Audit Committee to ensure that our operations perform  Risk associate with nonwithin permitted limits keeping the & Board. development of critical effect on community and society to a GAIL has identified top corporate infrastructure to support supply minimum. business risks which are NG Sourcing, chain management of long term business decision of importing Demand risk, E&P Business, Project Execution, Overseas Venture, LNG. Business Development, Internal Control Regulatory Compliance & Reporting, Project Execution & Marketing Systems & their New Pipeline bidding, Human capital groups are trying to formulate a deficit, Financial and Change in Govt. strategy to counter all possible Adequacy Policy. Specific groups for instance situations. GAIL has developed Internal Control HSE coordinates all risks pertaining to System in its various business  Risk associated with ageing and Environmental & Safety related issues processes, commensurate with size exposure of Pipeline. Corporate and Social & CSR related issues are & nature of business to help achieve O&M department is in the process administered by another corporate its objectives. The Company has an to address the issue. group. These groups update GAIL in-house Internal Audit Department Management from time to time.  Operational risks emanating functionally reporting to Audit out of post petrochemical Committee (Sub-Committee of Board) We have also formulated and expansion have been identified which is considered as global best implemented the Enterprise Risk and concerned departments are practice. Internal Audit carries out risk Management Policy across all making their roadmaps to tide based auditing as per the annual audit assets, plants and offices. The Chief over the situation. plan approved by Audit Committee. Risk Officer and Risk Management Committee review various types  Risk associated with non-sync Internal Audit Department consists of risks whether existing and or of Human Resource with the of professionally qualified executives anticipated in short to medium term in upcoming GAIL’s Business from various disciplines who carry future. Risk Management Department portfolios. HRD is developing out audit of financial, commercial, appraises the corporate level strategy to meet the situation. technical and other business activities Committee of Executive Directors, of the Company besides reviewing the Risk Management Committee of  Risk emanating from Third adequacy of Internal Control Systems; functional Directors of Board, Audit Party Damage in Pipeline. O&M risk management framework in line Committee and Board of Directors. department is gearing up to meet with Board approved Internal Audit Unit level risks including Social & the eventuality. Charter/Manual which contains best environmental risks are mapped and global practices in the profession of Identified risks generally have a long being monitored quarterly through unit Internal Auditing. gestation period and it is difficult to level steering committee headed by 28 Fostering Responsible Growth Corporate Governance & Risk Management (continue) Ethics & IntegrityG4-56, G4-57, G4-58 thics and integrity are the cornerstones of performance and sustainability. At GAIL, we believe in adhering to all Anti-corruption applicable statues in letter and spirit and endeavour to adopt best and BriberyG4-DMA, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 practices to go beyond adherence of statutory frameworks and bring transparency, accountability and equity in all facets of its operations. Besides strengthening the risk management framework and building strong In terms of SEBI (Prohibition of internal controls, GAIL is redoubling its efforts towards developing suitable Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992, the vigilance mechanisms in order to curb corrupt practices it may encounter Board has formulated the ‘Code of during the course of its business. During the reporting year, various Internal Procedures and Conduct for improvements were introduced in its systems and processes by GAIL for Prevention of Insider Trading in dealing achieving better governance. Some of these significant improvements are: with the securities of GAIL’ (Code of Insider Trading). Being a Public Sector  Development and utilization of Complaint Monitoring System (CMS) Enterprise, GAIL also ensures that to monitor all complaints received at work centres/ departments for all the applicable rules, regulations, further disposal. laws and bye-laws of the land are adhered to. Code of Conduct for Board  Introduction of percentage base tenders in the organisation. Members and Senior Management Personnel has also been framed  Quarterly automatic alerts to respective Officer In-charge for taking for the Board Members and Senior suitable action on outstanding retention money of the vendors. Management Personnel to ensure  Whistle blower policy hosted on Company’s intranet for wider ethical business conduct. Over the awareness of the employees. years, we have also been successful in developing and implementing Vigilance department is taking care of the bribery and corruption related systems and processes for internal issues based on the CVC guidelines and related circulars. These guidelines controls throughout our organizational and circulars extend to wholly owned subsidiaries and Joint Ventures of structure. GAIL where equity of GAIL is more than 50%. G4-58Various systems and procedures have been developed / adopted to make the company’s system and practices robust against bribery and corruption e.g. Whistle Blower PolicyG4-55, Fraud Prevention Policy, Integrity Pact and Complaint Monitoring System. The Code of Conduct, CDA Rules / Standing Orders, Fraud Prevention Policy and Whistle Blower Policy are applicable to all GAIL employees including those on secondment or deputation to the Joint Venture Companies, Subsidiaries, Government Bodies including autonomous institutions, Regulatory Authorities etc. Further, ‘Integrity Pact’ and ‘Fraud Prevention Sustainability Report 29 2014-15 Policy’ extend to suppliers, contractors CVC guidelines in which GAIL and  e-tendering implemented in etc. In the past, the company has taken contract employees participate GAIL is an electronic system of initiatives in order to reduce incidents in different activities focused on receiving bids for all tenders of corruption within the organization. anti-corruption measures. floated by GAIL having estimated Some of these initiatives are discussed value of INR 25 lakhs and above. below: Bill Watch system (BWS) implemented in GAIL is a web Online Reverse Action was  Integrity Pact: GAIL has enabled software for tracking implemented in GAIL to maintain singed MoU with Transparency the movement of bills submitted clarity and transparency in high International. As part of this MoU, to GAIL in order to ensure value procurements. Integrity Pact is incorporated transparency in the system and to in all tenders valued at INR 1 Cr. monitor timely payments to the Training Programs on Anti-Corruption & above. In order to promote party. Policies & Procedures of the transparency the MoU and Organization are conducted at GTI Integrity Pact Program are  File movement system (FMS) Noida. Employees are also nominated accessible on GAIL’s public implemented in GAIL is an for such programs organized by domain website. As part of the e-monitoring tool for tracking file external agencies. Apart from these, Integrity Pact Program, GAIL has movement within the organisation employees are updated on Antiappointed Independent External in order to bring transparency in Corruption Policies & Procedures Monitors who are responsible for decision making. of the Organization through Lecture monitoring the implementation series by eminent speakers, online  e-Payments implemented in GAIL quizzes, essay competitions etc. every of Integrity Pact Program and for online transfer of funds for year during the Vigilance Awareness address the grievances of payments to vendors against Week. vendors/contractors. service / supplies rendered.  Anti-corruption awareness for All the business units are analysed  e-Receipts implemented in GAIL for business related risks as per employees: All Employees at for receipt of payments from the CVC guidelines by conducting the time of joining are sensitized various customers for easy investigations against complaints, to the policies and mechanisms accounting and automatic update surprise inspections, periodic related to Anti-Corruption. Every in customer ledger. inspections, major works inspections year, all major locations observe Vigilance Awareness Week as per and CTE-Type inspections. 30 Fostering Responsible Growth Corporate Governance & Risk Management (continue) Grievance procedures, irregularities and exercise of delegated powers. Customers can GAIL is also operating Centralized Public Grievance Redress and RedressalG4-37, G4-41, G4-49, lodge complaints related to product Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) G4-50, G4-DMA, G4-EN34, G4-LA16, quality, technical and commercial in portal which is a Government of India nature. GAIL Customers can register Portal (Department of Administrative G4-HR12,G4-SO11 Service Request / Complaint / Indents Reforms and Public Grievances) and 24 x 7 online through GAIL’s webpage. aims at providing the citizens with GAIL is committed to provide services a platform, for redressal of their to its stakeholders to their satisfaction G4-57 In order to ensure speedy disposal grievances. It empowers the citizens in a transparent manner by upholding of employee grievances, GAIL has to lodge their grievances / complaint the highest values of corporate established an Online Grievance online. Grievances related to GAIL are governance and ethics. Redressal System and the same is received online through the Ministry monitored by Corporate HR. The of Petroleum and Natural Gas. After Our endeavour is to uphold and aggrieved employee registers his/ responding / redressal, the grievance ensure implementation of our core her grievance in the system and is closed in the portal. Grievances organizational values. However, if the concerned HR –In-Charge has received, redressed and responded due to any unprecedented reasons, to redress the grievance within through this portal during the year stakeholders find that there is / are stipulated time period. The system 2014-15 are classified below:reason(s) to improve, then they are has auto-escalation feature and in encouraged to report the same. Option case grievance is not redressed within to lodge complaints online is available stipulated time period, the grievance on our website (http://www.gailonline. escalates from HR-In-Charge to com/final_site/online_complaints.html). GM(HR), Corporate Office and finally Vigilance complaints can be lodged to Director (HR). Further, the system for complaints regarding vigilance has also provision for appeal to next viz. corruption, forgery, cheating, level in case the aggrieved employee misappropriation, favours, wilful is not satisfied with the replies / relief negligence, reckless in decision making, provided. blatant violation of systems and Complaints Complaints Complaints Received Under Investigation Resolved 1 0 1 Environment related complaints 5 0 5 Labour practices complaints 11 0 11 Human rights related complaints 16 0 16 Society related complaints Besides this, GAIL also has a Complaint Handling System whereby written complaints received at various work centres are uploaded in the system, for centralized monitoring and redressal. Sustainability Report 31 2014-15 GAIL has a well-defined sustainability governance structure following a top-down approach that spans across various critical functions to effectively manage Sustainability organizational complexities. At Board level we have Sustainable Development GovernanceG4-34, G4Committee is chaired by Director (Projects) and all functional directors are members to the committee. This committee has been instrumental in giving 35,G4-36, G4-48 direction, implementing, and monitoring progress on sustainability parameters across GAIL’s operations. Sustainable Development Committee Director (Projects) Chairperson Director (Marketing) Director (HR) Director (Finance) During the reporting year, the  Effective and focused  Apart from the Board level Committee met three times and communication of GAIL’s committee, GAIL also has a took some key decisions which are sustainability initiatives and Sustainable Development presented below: achievements to internal and Steering Committee, which is external stakeholders. chaired by the Director (HR) and  Mapping of revised Sustainability includes all aspect owners at HoD Aspirations 2020 targets with  Initiation of accounting for GAIL’s level. KRA’s of OICs / HoDs. Scope 3 emissions.  Approval of GAIL’s Sustainability Report. Director (HR) Chairperson HoD HoD HoD HoD HoD (O&M) Pata, HoD HoD HoD HoD HoD (F&A) (RM) (PC-Mktg) (HR& HRD) HoD (O&M) CR, (CC& (CST) (C&P) (HSE) (CP) HoD (MktgHoD HoD (O&M) CO CSR) Gas) (Trg), Noida GAIL also has multi-disciplinary committee at sites comprising senior executives including aspect owners and site coordinators. These site specific coordinators and the aspect owners receive trainings in their respective set of specialized areas. With the purpose of integrating sustainability with the Corporate Strategy, Corporate Sustainability Team is a part of the Corporate Planning Department. To further strengthen the reliability and data authenticity, internal committees formed at GAIL sites crosscheck / verify sustainability data captured. Sustainability Strategy 2600 KM JagdishpurHaldia Pipeline Initiated activities for construction Generated 108.37 million kWh of Wind Power Generated 1.24 million kWh of Solar Power Energy is considered as catalysts for economic growth. With a growing economy and a 1.26 billion population aspiring for a better quality of life, India’s energy demand growth is inevitable. While three-fourth of the hydrocarbon energy requirements are met through imports in India, it becomes imperative to explore sustainable opportunities by securing cleaner, accessible and affordable energy to fuel nation’s growth story. 34 Fostering Responsible Growth Sustainability Strategy (continue) n order to sustain our growth trajectory responsibly, GAIL has developed strategy for the period 2011-2020. This strategy is currently under execution and the Company is closely monitoring progress on various strategic initiatives as well as assessing the dynamic environment to evaluate its impact on GAIL’s businesses. The top Business strategy management has been playing a crucial role in achieving strategic objectives and to make the company an integrated “Our aim is to reach every state and household of India. In line with the national hydrocarbon major with significant priorities of developing 15000 Km National Gas Grid over next 3-4 years, upstream, midstream and downstream we are committed to develop gas infrastructure throughout the country for interests by 2020. Maharatna status efficient delivery of gas to end consumers. As we envisage GAIL to make rapid has given greater flexibility to pursue strides in terms of growth, our firm intent on responsible growth will help us to global opportunities aggressively. stand apart. With this positive outlook, we aim to tread towards and go beyond the realms of traditional success.”Director (Projects) This year we have witnessed gameacquire equity in producing assets / changing disruptions in oil and gas liquefaction facilities to source equitysector with significant implications linked LNG. GAIL has made remarkable on GAIL’s businesses. Our yearprogress in sourcing LNG by finalizing on-year profits dropped by 31% several short-term and long-term and our revenues by 1.18%. GAIL’s deals with suppliers, like Sabine Pass management has taken a strong note Liquefaction LLC (USA), Gazprom of these changes and has devised a (Russia) and WGL Midstream Inc. robust strategy to overcome these (USA). Further, GAIL’s US subsidiary challenge. Our endeavor remains to has booked LNG capacity in Dominion ensure business sustainability across Cove Point’s LNG liquefaction terminal different segments. in US. In addition, GAIL is pursuing LNG shipping business and plans to own / In the upstream segment, GAIL aspires long term charter hire LNG ships to to import substantial LNG through transport LNG from US to India and conventional route as well as through other global markets and has also terminal capacity booking and also CMD, GAIL, Shri B. C. Tripathi addressing gathering during MoPNG Strategy Meet-2015 Sustainability Report 35 2014-15 Left to Right Shri Santanu Roy, GM(CP), Ms. Vandana Chanana, ED(CC&CSR), Shri L. R. Gupta ED (F&A), Dr. Ashutosh Karnatak, Director(Projects), Dr. Ajay Mathur, D.G. (Bureau of Energy Efficiency), Shri M. Ravindran, Director(HR), Shri A. K. Manchanda, ED (Mktg-JV & IGS), Shri N. K. Nagpal,GM (F&A & CST), Shri S. C. Hatwal, ED(C&P) ventured in the LNG trading business MMSCMD gas into the country through marketing. The Company is currently through its wholly owned subsidiary, this pipeline. Further, TAPI Pipeline doubling existing petrochemical GAIL Global Singapore Pte Limited. Company has been incorporated as a capacity at Pata and the project is at Special Purpose Vehicle in the Isle of the commissioning stage. A Greenfield To facilitate increase in LNG volumes, Man. petrochemical plant is also being GAIL plans to set up LNG terminals setup in Assam through its subsidiary, / floating storage and regasification In the midstream segment, GAIL Brahmaputra Cracker & Polymer units (FSRUs) and is also booking aspires to retain its leadership Limited (BPCL). Another petrochemical additional regasification capacities position through continuous pan-India plant at Dahej is being set up through in existing and new terminals expansion of pipeline network. The a JV, ONGC Petro-additions Limited being set up by other companies. Company now has a total network of (OPaL). By 2016, the Company is After commissioning of Dabhol approximately 11,000km pipeline in the expected to have 1.7 MMTPA polymers. LNG terminal, GAIL aims to bring country. Additionally, GAIL has started the terminal to full capacity by pre-project activities for constructing On the retail side, GAIL is targeting constructing breakwater facility. approximately 2600 Km Jagdishpuradditional 40-50 cities / Geographical GAIL has also tied-up additional Haldia Pipeline. Actual construction Areas (GAs) through its subsidiaries regasification capacities at Dahej LNG will commence in synchronisation with and JVs for City Gas Distribution (CGD) terminal with Petronet LNG Limited readiness of anchor load customers in the coming few years. The wholly (PLL). Further, in line with the LNG along the pipeline network. Further, owned subsidiary, GAIL Gas Limited, sourcing efforts, the Company has to cater to the growing demand and to is progressing on track with respect intensified its gas market development increase its geographic reach, various to CGD projects in the cities of Kota, efforts in the country to attract and other pipeline projects are at different Dewas, Meerut and Sonepat. Further, retain more customers. phases of execution which will take the GAIL Gas Limited has won the 4th network size to around 15,000 km. PNGRB CGD bidding round for the city In order to bridge the demand-supply of Bengaluru. gap of natural gas and to address In the downstream segment, GAIL energy security needs of the country, aspires to be amongst the top In order to achieve all the strategic GAIL is aggressively pursuing the petrochemical players in the country goals efficiently and in a time bound transnational pipeline project, by expanding existing capacities, manner, major thrust is being given Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistansetting up new plants, acquiring to strengthen and enhance the India (TAPI) pipeline project. GSPA equity stakes in upcoming projects, capabilities of human resource. has already been signed to import 38 along with product off-take rights for Accordingly, recruitment, training 36 Fostering Responsible Growth Sustainability Strategy (continue) and development activities are savings of 2.65 million kWh. We have index, implementation of SAP incident being suitably aligned with strategic renewed our commitment towards / accident log, and HSE workshop on objectives to enable GAIL to our communities by implementing safety leadership. implement and achieve its strategic GAIL Utkarsh initiative which goals by 2020. remains our flagship Corporate GAIL is among the leading Oil & Gas Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Company in India to take voluntary targets to improve its sustainability Sustainability Apart from this, we also have other CSR activities such as GAIL Kaushal performance. In an attempt to raise StrategyG4-EN5, G4-EN18 (livelihood generation and Skill the bar further, we have revised our development) Sashakt (women Sustainability Aspirations 2020. As India’s youngest Maharatna public empowerment initiative), and Saksham enterprise, GAIL is committed to “As an energy major, our responsibility (care of elderly and differently abled creating a better future for tomorrow. is not only to ensure availability, people) which were implemented Our commitment towards India’s affordability and access of energy to during the year. better future is not limited to the the nation, but also to strengthen our virtue of our cleaner energy business We have taken strong steps in the operations and processes with the but extends beyond that. We have direction to ensure safety and that no aim to be less resource intensive. Our been rigorously working to reduce incidents take place in future. Some Sustainability Aspirations 2020 is a the impact of our operations on of these initiatives include monthly step is this direction. Through these the environment and society. This safety day observance, monthly safety voluntary targets in our priority areas involves taking strategic initiatives and review by Director (HR) & Director we have not only created an internal venturing in clean energy initiatives (Projects), revised incident reporting pressure but have also taken the bold such as wind and solar. In FY 14-15, system, greater sensitization of step to disclose it transparently in GAIL has generated 108.37 million kWh employees, review and improvement of the public domain.” of wind power and 1.24 million kWh of existing disaster management systems -Director (Human Resources)* solar power. At an operational level, and emergency response and plan, we have implemented various energy introduction of safety score (a more (* for Business Development related conservation initiatives during the comprehensive safety performance activities) year which have resulted in collective monitoring system) in place of safety Sustainability Aspiration 2020 Key Focus Area Aspiration 2020 (Base Year 2010-11)  33 % reduction of GHG emission intensity. GHG Emissions (Scope I and II)  5% reduction of Specific GHG emission. (Additional Corporate Level Target)  5% reduction of specific energy in LHC & PC products Specific Energy Consumption  5% reduction of Specific Energy Consumption. (Additional Corporate Level Target) Water  45% reduction water consumption intensity. Consumption  15% reduction of specific fresh water consumption. (Additional Corporate Level Target)  Increase Waste Water Recycling by 5% Waste Water Recycling  Zero Discharge at Pata & Vijaipur (Additional Corporate Level Target) Training/Awareness  100 % of our employees and all new joinees to be made aware within one year of on Sustainability their joining Sustainability Report 37 2014-15 Our progress on Sustainability Aspirations Sustainability training is provided to 40% GAIL Employees till FY 14-15. GHG Intensity (tCO2e/INR Crore) Specific Energy Consumption GJ/MT of LHC & PC Product * 80.00 75.81 64.18 60.00 54.97 15.00 14.70 43.85 44.33 14.50 14.50 14.30 40.00 14.50 14.20 20.00 14.00 0.00 13.50 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Water Consumption Intensity Waste Water (WW) Recycled (m3/INR Crore) (% of WW generated) * 500 419.7 400 344.8 288.8 300 222.4 250.2 60.0 45.30 45.70 38.50 39.30 33.90 200 40.0 100 20.0 0 0.0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 * Performance moving away from target in following areas  Specific Energy Consumption – Due to underutilization of capacity of some plants.  Waste Water Recycling – Due to ongoing pre-commissioning & commissioning activities especially at GAIL Pata & Vijaipur plant. Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 25 28 Contractors Customers / Vendors GAIL 195 16 Employee Represnetatives 7 NGOs One to One Engagement 1026 employees participated in Online Survey What matters and where it matters: Our Materiality Centric Approach With the changing business dynamics, the performance of a company, apart from tradition financials, is also measured through how they manage on the economic, social, environmental and ethical aspects to create a long-term value for its stakeholders. At GAIL, we remain committed to our stakeholders with the aim to grow in a transparent and accountable manner. Engaging with our key stakeholders and materiality process helps us in deciding on issues to focus on in order to mainstream sustainability into our decision making. 40 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) or GAIL stakeholder engagement is about managing relationships with our stakeholders in an efficient and an effective manner. This not only helps us in identifying opportunities but also in assessing emerging risks which may increase in magnitude at a later stage in future. These stakeholders include individuals, groups and organizations that affect or are affected by our business. A mapping of the primary and secondary stakeholders was prepared in Stakeholder Engagement Session discussion with different departments. This mapping has been presented.G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Over the past few years we have Stakeholder responses were been successful in constructively sought for a list of 20 issues across integrating stakeholder engagement economic, environmental, social and into our governance, organizational governance dimensions. The medium strategy, and management. The of engagement included focused group engagement exercises are taken discussions, questionnaire surveys, up through different departments and face to face interactions with the and also with the help of external stakeholders. Both qualitative and agencies. Such exercises are taken quantitative techniques were used for up at regular intervals (customer and data collection. Questionnaires were employee satisfaction surveys) while developed based upon shortlisted some remain need based (such as need issues identified. As a part of this and impact assessment survey). The engagement exercise 28 customers, results of stakeholder engagement are 7 NGOs, 25 Contractors/Vendors, 16 informed to and reviewed by senior representatives of local communities, management. were consulted. Apart from this, 195 employees took part in the exercise During this reporting a dedicated through interactions at sites and 1026 stakeholder engagement exercise employees participated in the online was conducted with six stakeholder survey. groups across 10 locations. Employees Customers Suppliers & Investors Business Partners Government & GAIL Local Regulators Communities Civil Society Competitors NGOs Trade Labour Unions Media & Acedemia Associations Sustainability Report 41 2014-15 The top 5 issues emerging (for each stakeholder surveyed) as a result of this stakeholder engagement exercise have been presented below:Contractor / Vendors Customers Skilled Health and Right of Operational Manpower Safety Issue 2.6 Land Use Excellence 2.79 Availability 2.16 2.64 2.04 2.50 New Business Safeguarding Opportunities Human Rights Skilled and Overseas Manpower Venture 2.12 Availability 2.57 Innovation 2.04 2.50 Gas and Petrochemical Gas and Petrochemical Marketing Marketing NGO New Business Right of Land Opportunities and Use 3.00 Overseas Venture 2.86 2.57 Safeguarding Human Rights 2.86 Uncertainity 2.71 in Govt. Policy Gas and Petrochemical Marketing Community Regular Employees Gas and Operational Health and Operational Petrochemical 2.61 Excellence Safety Issue 2.59 Excellence Marketing 2.57 2.36 2.46 1.99 Uncertainity Gas and in Govt. Petrochemical Policy Marketing Safeguarding 2.54 Human Rights 2.09 Skilled 2.54 2.07 Manpower Availability Regulatory Issues Transparency and Ethics 42 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) Employees Customers Community 1. Health and safety 1. Operational excellence 1. Gas and petrochemical marketing 2. Operational excellence 2. Skilled manpower availability 2. Operational excellence 3. Gas and petrochemical marketing 3. Innovation 3. Safeguarding human rights 4. Skilled manpower 4. Gas and petrochemical 4. Regulatory issues availability marketing 5. Uncertainty in govt. policy 5. Transparency and ethics 5. Safeguarding human rights NGO Contractor / Vendors 1. Right of land use 1. Health and safety 2. New business opportunities 2. Right of land use and overseas venture 3. Skilled manpower availability 3. Uncertainty in govt. policy 4. New business opportunities 4. Gas and petrochemical and overseas venture marketing 5. Gas and petrochemical 5. Safeguarding human rights marketing Sustainability Report 43 2014-15 A summary of our engagement strategy has been presented below:Importance of the We regard our employees as our greatest asset and Stakeholder Group engages with them continuously for superior results. Engagement Teams Human Resource Department, Human Resource – Employee Relations & Policy, Corporate Operations & Maintenance, Health Safety & Environment Department, Corporate Sustainability Team. Frequency of Engagement Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily. Mode of Engagement Satisfaction surveys, Grievance Redressal, Suggestion schemes, CMD open house, Sustainability Survey, Various Employees committees, Emails, Journals, Meetings with employee associations and unions; Various Events including GAIL Day celebration, Sports Meet, Health Campaign etc. Key initiatives taken  Communication on GAIL’s business goals, values and to address concerns, principles perceptions, advice & suggestions  Action planning on major projects  Implementation of best practices  Facilitating learning and developing  Track key performance indicators and action plans  Understand and address concerns  Idea generation, sharing and learning Importance of the GAIL’s primary business is of gas transmission which makes Stakeholder Group it very important for the Company to engage with the suppliers on a continual basis. Transparent relationship with supplier help the Company to reduce risks and discover new opportunities. Also, this helps us to improve our supply chain and planning. Engagement Teams Contracts & Procurement Department, Projects Department. Suppliers Frequency of Engagement Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily. Mode of Engagement Supplier meet, Emails, meetings. Key initiatives taken  Integrity Pact Mechanism to address concerns, perceptions, advice &  Pre-tender & Pre-Bid Meeting suggestions  Conciliation through Settlement Advisory Committee  Reverse auction  Bill watch system  File Movement System  e-Tendering 44 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) Importance of the GAIL regards its customers as partners in growth and Stakeholder Group works with them to improve the quality of services and products. The Company has also developed an online customer suggestion system to effectively address customer concerns. Customers Engagement Teams Marketing Department, Total Quality Management Department. Frequency of Engagement Annual, Quarterly. Mode of Engagement Customer Interactive Meets, Customer feedback. Key initiatives taken  Customer Suggestion Box: To understand customer to address concerns, requirements, address operational concerns & to get perceptions, advice & feedback on new product development. suggestions  Customer Satisfaction Index: To understand their satisfaction levels  Customer Ledger: For transparent transactions Importance of the Community is an important stakeholder for us as these Stakeholder Group communities provide us the social license to operate. We have also developed a CSR policy for effective Communities development of the community. Engagement Teams Corporate Social Responsibility Department. Frequency of Engagement Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily, Need-based. Mode of Engagement Community Meetings, Project Meetings, Annual Reviews. Key initiatives taken  Executing social responsibility initiatives /projects. to address concerns, perceptions, advice &  Understanding and addressing their concerns on suggestions critical incidents Importance of the Investors play primary role in a company by funding Stakeholder Group the operations of the company and thus receiving ‘part ownership’. By this virtue they become one of the most important stakeholders. GAIL respects the rights of the investors and keeps them informed through various channels. One such channel is the Company website which has an exclusive section dedicated to the investors. Investors Engagement Teams For Institutional Investors & Analysts: Finance & Accounts For Retail Investors: Company Secretariat Frequency of Engagement Annual/ Quarterly/ as and when necessary Mode of Engagement Annual General Meeting, Investor Meets, Investor Conferences, Conference Calls, Website hosting of financial information Key initiatives taken  Clearly communicating the company’s values, business to address concerns, plan, strategy, risks, growth prospects, etc. perceptions, advice & suggestions  Highlight the company’s performance vis-à-vis previous periods  Address the concerns of investors with respect to the future challenges. Sustainability Report 45 2014-15 Importance of the In todays, well connected world, media plays the role of an Stakeholder Group opinion maker in the society. Apart from this, media also helps businesses in communicating with other stakeholders Media through various channels. Engagement Teams Corporate Communication Department Frequency of Engagement Need-based Mode of Engagement Press Meets, Interviews Key initiatives taken  Relationship building to address concerns, perceptions, advice &  Appraising on performance highlights and lowlights suggestions  Point-of-view on major sectoral developments Importance of the Industry associations provide an opportunity to businesses Stakeholder Group to voice their concerns, present best practices, share knowledge and collaborate with each other. GAIL has been a member of key industry associations like PETROFED, SCOPE CII, FICCI, PHD Chamber of Commerce, GRI Focal Industry Point India, TERI-BCSD etc. Engagement Teams Various Departments such as Corporate Planning, AssociationsG4-15 Marketing, Business Development, TQM, HSE, Internal Audit, Projects, etc. Frequency of Engagement Need-based Mode of Engagement Seminars, Conferences, Industry Expo Key initiatives taken  Share performance data to address concerns, perceptions, advice &  Inform on keys decisions and projects suggestions  Participate in conferences and seminars  Engage in public policy advocacy Importance of the Government and other regulatory agencies play a very Stakeholder Group important role in influencing how businesses operate throughout the world. This is in form of taxes, regulatory and other policies, creating a level playing field for businesses, providing access to capital and other related functions. GAIL regards compliance to all laws and Government regulations as a high priority. and Regulatory Engagement Teams Regulatory Affairs Department, Law Department, Corporate Planning Department, Liaison & Parliamentary Agencies Affairs Department, Company Secretariat. Frequency of Engagement Annual, Quarterly Mode of Engagement MoUs, QPR, Open-House sessions, Hearings and other Meetings, written views/comments to PNGRB on various regulatory matters, as required by PNGRB. Key initiatives taken  Relationship building to address concerns, perceptions, advice &  Performance appraisal through MoUs suggestions  Submission of progress reports  Discussions on major investment plans 46 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) Engagement various channels and engagement mechanisms as mentioned above, In addition to engaging with the stakeholder groups as mentioned with other which are vital for our business above, GAIL is also member of many continuity. We have defined specific trade and chamber/ associations. StakeholdersG4-15, G4-16 roles and responsibilities of the key These associations help us engage We engage with our stakeholders to departments in GAIL to address these with various other stakeholders to share values and co-create growth concerns, monitor, and ensure that communicate our views and opinion with them. Further their concerns they are addressed in a timely and through the association’s platform. were identified by them through efficient manner. Some of the major ones are as below:Broad category Trade and chamber / associations of engagement Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative India Private Limited Global Compact Network India (UNGC’s India Chapter) TERI – BCSD (The Energy and Resources Institute -Business Council for Sustainable Development) India GHG Program World Environment Foundation Other business Project Management Associates related International Market Assessment CEO Forum engagement The India CFO Forum IMA India Private Ltd. Institute of Internal Auditors, USA Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) Petroleum Federation of India (Petrofed) International Gas Union (IGU) National Institute of Corrosion Engineers International, USA (NACE) British Safety Council (BSC) International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers (GIIGNL) United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Gas Centre World Energy Council India Chemical & Petrochemicals Manufacturer’s Association (CPMA) International Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) Materiality materiality was to deliberate on sustainability issues that impact us areas of conjunction between our business and stakeholders is the key Even though materiality assessment and would drive our growth in the to unlocking “responsible growth”. remains ingrained in our sustainability future. An exhaustive list of 57 issues GAIL has been conducting materiality conduct, it received renewed focus was shortlisted to 20 issues across assessment for the past five years this year as this year marks GAIL’s first economic, social, environmental, to identify sustainability issues of sustainability report as per GRI G4 governance and other domains. These critical importance. This is essential guidelines. Under the light of these issues were taken to stakeholders in developing a focused sustainability new guidelines, materiality receives for their views. 1300 responses strategy for the Company. This year as even more focus as the report would across six stakeholder groups were we graduate from GRI G3.1 reporting revolve around these key material received which were used to deduce guidelines to GRI G4 reporting issues identified. our most material six issues. With guidelines we have renewed our such widespread response, we materiality exercise to deduce six key G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 Our approach to believe that exercise of identifying material issues from an exhaustive list of 57 issues.G4-2 Sustainability Report 47 2014-15 Materiality Assessment Approach of GAILG4-18 Step : 1 Step : 2 Identifying key issues Mapping the related to the GAIL stakeholders to be from the perspective of consulted business sustainability 11 stakeholder groups Exhaustive list of 57 mapped across GAIL’s issues supply chain 6 Material issues 6 stakeholder groups and deduced from about 10 locations short listed 1300 responses for seeking response Step : 4 Step : 3 Collating stakeholder Seeking stakeholder feedback and deriving response / data top material issues collection 48 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) G4-19 This year’s materiality assessment Following this, a mapping of through online survey. The respondents involved a greater detail of research. stakeholders was conducted including rated the issues are being of high, To start with we reviewed our primary primary and secondary stakeholders. medium or low significance. These sources such as risk management There were 11 stakeholders which interactions led way to developing a approach, business performance were identified. Primary stakeholder rich repository of of qualitative and & strategy and other internal were identified as those which quantitative data which was used to documents. Secondary resources have interests that are directly infer the most material issues. The such as media reports, press releases, linked to the fortunes of a company collation of inputs received from the issues highlighted by peers in the including shareholders and investors, stakeholders was analyzed on site Oil & Gas sector etc. were also employees, customers, suppliers, level basis as well on site level. These reviewed. Based on this research, and residents of the communities results were discussed with the senior an exhaustive list of 57 issues were where the company operates management of GAIL whose response identified and deliberated upon. whilst secondary stakeholder were was also taken into account for Various departments (including identified as those which have indirect developing the final materiality matrix. Business Development, Operation & influences on an organization or are Maintenance, Company Secretariat, less directly affected by its activities. Besides, the final materiality matrix Corporate Communications, Finance & They include the media and pressure was prepared on the basis of the Accounts, Human Resources, Security, groups, and others that inhabit the feedback received in the online survey Legal, Marketing, Parliamentary business and social networks of the and that during the management Affairs, Project Development, Business organization. discussions. The materiality matrix Information Systems, Internal Audit, which evolved after the analysis is GAIL Training Institute, and Exploration Six stakeholder groups were identified presented opposite:-G4-27 & Production) took part in these from whom responses were sought deliberations. Based on the internal through focused group discussions, deliberations, the list was reduced to questionnaire surveys, and face to 20 issues which were to be taken to the face interactions. In all about 1300 stakeholder groups for assessment. responses were received from interactions conducted at 10 sites and Sustainability Report 49 2014-15 Material Issue for GAIL for FY 14-15 Health & Safety High Operational Excellence Transparency & Ethics Skilled Manpower Medium Gas & Petrochemical New Business Marketing Importance to Stakeholders Opportunity & Overseas Waste Management Venture Regulatory Issue Human Rights Local Community Innovation Exploration & Engagement Production Uncertainty in Government Policy Low Fresh Water Consumption Land Use Rights Low Medium High Importance to GAIL’s Management The material issue identified through this exercise are i) Health & Safety ii) Operational Excellence iii) Skilled Manpower iv) Gas & Petrochemical Marketing v) Regulatory Issues & vi) Innovation. Approach towards material issuesG4-20, In this report, we have highlighted our approach towards the identified issues & company specific aspects in detail, which have a close relationship with GAIL’s G4-21,G4-23 Sustainability Performance. At the same time the related GRI aspects have been mapped with the identified material issues and their performance have been reported in the subsequent section of the report. 50 Fostering Responsible Growth Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality (continue) Material Issues, Boundary, Aspect and key Stakeholders ImpactedG4-19 Material Issue Aspects Boundary Report Section Major Stakeholders Health & Safety  Occupational health & safety Within GAIL  Safety: in our every  Employees, endeavor while we grow  Asset Integrity & Process  Communities Safety  Employee  Community Operational  Asset Productivity* Within GAIL  Corporate Governance  Shareholders & Excellence & Risk Management. Investors,  Material  Striding towards  Employees,  Energy Excellence: The way we strive to grow  Communities  Water  Investor  Emissions  Supplier  Effluent and waste  Community  Overall  Employee  Procurement Practice  Economic Performance  Indirect Economic Impacts  Environmental Grievance Mechanism  Anticorruption  Grievance Mechanisms For Impacts On Society  Local Community  Compliance Sustainability Report 51 2014-15 Material Issue Aspects Boundary Report Section Major Stakeholders Human capital  Employment Within GAIL  Human Capital: at the  Employees core of our growth  Labor/Management relation  Employee  Talent retention & employee relations*  Corporate Governance & Risk Management  Diversity & equal opportunity  Equal Remuneration for Women and Men  Training & Education  Non-discrimination  Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  Child Labor  Forced or Compulsory Labour  Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms  Security Practices  Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Gas &  Marketing of product & Within GAIL  Transforming our  Customers Petrochemical service* business approach: Marketing Safeguarding our  Marketing Communication, growth  Product & Service Labelling  Customer  Customer Health & Safety  Compliances Regulatory  Compliances Within &  Dynamic Regulatory  Government Issues Beyond Landscape: Harnessing & regulatory  Public Policy GAIL opportunities for agencies growth  Anti-competitive Behaviour Innovation  Innovation at GAIL* Within GAIL  Driving Innovation:  Shareholders/ Redefining our growth Investors  Research & development*  Employees  Customer  Supplier * These aspects are not included under the GRI G4 aspects but have been included in the report to provide completeness to the material issues identified. Safety : In Our Every Endeavour while We Grow Implementation of BEHAVIOUR BASED SAFETY (BBS) across GAIL installations Roll out Pan India for GAIL‘s Gas Pipeline related incident reporting Consolidated Pipeline Integrity Management System Rolled out for 1100 KM Pipeline in Phase-I GAIL has always regarded health and safety as a high priority. As an entity, we are committed to conduct business with proper safety measures. All our employees are trained in the best possible manner and are instructed to perform their duties keeping in mind safety measures and gadgets. Preparation, prevention and protection are the three keys to safety for the organization. In the past year we adopted a more pro-active and futuristic approach so as to ensure that our communities also remain safe. The Company truly believes that ensuring healthy and safe workplaces and communities is an essential part of fostering responsible growth. 54 Fostering Responsible Growth Safety : In Our Every Endeavour While We Grow (continue) afety and health management is one of the vital constituents of Oil and Gas industry activities because of the operational conditions; hydrocarbons and other associated chemicals pose serious safety and health threats to the workers. This is reflected by industry surveys that report risk of health, safety incident as one of the top most risk for the industry. The need to At GAIL, ‘Safety First’ always remains our motto and ensuring health and safety of protect employees, local communities our stakeholders remains on the top of our management’s agenda. The recently and minimize social and environmental conducted materiality survey also highlighted the need for GAIL to continue to impact is always paramount, with any update its preparedness levels and improve its safety performance. perceived negligence in this area is Even though the probability of occurrence of a safety related catastrophe is penalized heavily and the perception low, it has always remained on GAIL’s radar and we continuously assess the main of the responsible organization can be contributors to this risk, which can change over time. With respect to safety, irreparably damaged. our efforts remain to be right at every time as even a single incident can lead to irreparable damage to the company and its stakeholders. The recent unfortunate incidents that happened during the year have indicated to reinforce the same to ensure complete safety. Culture at GAILG4-DMA GAIL’s Corporate Health, Safety & to the Occupational Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy signed by Environment aspects/issues in the Chairman and Managing Director organization through demonstrating accords highest priority to achieve the importance of health and safety an organizational culture of HSE issues at board level. At top level excellence as an integral part of HSE is reviewed by Sustainable company’s business that is governed Development Committee of Board, by the dedicated policies and which is chaired by Director (Projects) procedures. In this regard different and all functional directors are guidelines are issued from time to members to the committee. At GAIL we time. Implementation of policies aspire for ‘Zero Reportable Accidents’ & guidelines including statutory every year. regulations and standards is ensured across GAIL by regular monitoring Management and auditing system. At GAIL, HSE mission is to ensure that the risks SystemsG4-DMA to health and safety of workers are properly controlled. As a part of GAIL has a well-established health, the corporate responsibility, the safety and environment management management encourages all units system (HSEMS), which is based on Oil to improve management systems to Industry Safety Directorate’s (OISD) reduce incidents, injuries and ill health; Guidelines on Safety Management to progressively take preventive and System in Petroleum Industry. protective measures for ensuring GAIL also follows the directives safety of employees, contractors, of the Petroleum and Natural Gas customers, suppliers & communities. Regulatory Board (PNGRB). Safety The Management is highly committed measures at GAIL are formulated by the elaborate & comprehensive HSE Sustainability Report 55 2014-15 Management System implemented Apart from monitoring performance, Our HSEM system comprises of at all GAIL Locations in the Country. emergency preparedness is also following 18 elements encompassing HSE performance across operations reviewed by the Sub-Committee of entire business operations and risk is reviewed in every Board meeting. Board. profiles. Process Safety Personnel Safety Information Risk Analysis and Management Facility Design, Third party Services Construction & PreStartup review Employee HSE Leadership & Participation Commitment Operation & HSEMS Work Permit System Maintenance Procedures Control of Defeat Management of and Reliability of Change Critical system and Occupational Devices Health Training Inspection & Maintenance Environment Management Compliance Audit Emergency Planning Incident and Response Investigation & Analysis 56 Fostering Responsible Growth Safety : In Our Every Endeavour While We Grow (continue) The corporate HSE policy is the GAIL Training Institute (GTI). 300 qualified people manning the apex document of this system and man-days of training were imparted on concerned department etc. In order is approved and signed by CMD. The health, safety and environment related to move further towards Best in Class efficacy of the implemented system programs. Safety practices, now the difficult is also subject to audits by reputed journey is to imbibe Safety in all we national and international agencies. “In view of the recent past incidents, think and do. Focused BBS Journey Appropriate corrective measures which have severely impacted the across all GAIL Locations shall help are taken in time bound manner to company, we are learning from our us in improving all our safety related eliminate gaps identified during such past experiences, and our endeavor parameters. Improvement in all audits. remains to strengthen our systems these parameters will also ensure and procedures to avoid incidents our forward step towards our overall Our Employees and Contract Workers in the future. We have rolled out the objective of Zero Incidences. are strongly encouraged to adopt Behaviour Based safety programme safe working culture and behaviour to across the organization to inculcate It was felt that to build strong safety ensure effective implementation of the behaviour of maintaining utmost culture one needs to imbibe safety in the HSE Policy. For all employees of safety standards.” all activities of the organization right workman category, the Company has from design stage to construction, issued Standing Orders with provisions Director (Human Resources)* commissioning, operation & of any conduct within Company’s maintenance. It is with this deep (* for Business Development related premises or its precincts which is desire to eliminate incidences, GAIL activities) likely to endanger the life or safety of embarked upon a journey of BBS any person is treated as misconduct. to address the human element and Where the workman is entitled for Behaviour Based improvise on the existing processes. treatment and benefits under the Employees States Insurance Act, Safety (BBS) at GAIL In view of above, BBS journey was 1948 or the Workman’s Compensation BBS is an exercise and a tool to focus started in 2013. Corporate steering Act, 1923, the Company shall arrange and address the behaviors of all Committee and task force were for the treatment and compensation personnel involved towards enhancing developed at corporate level to accordingly. safety of the people, equipment, plants oversee the BBS implementation and and community at large. Site steering & functional committees Training our employees for use of safe and lead trainer were developed for practices at workplace is an important GAIL installations across India are further sustaining BBS at respective part of strategy to ensure safety at at a certain level of Safety, which is sites of GAIL. Accordingly, BBS has GAIL. This has also been one of the good enough in terms of firefighting been rolled out successfully across the parameters of the Internal MoU of equipment, procedures, signage, GAIL installations in March 2015. Sustainability Report 57 2014-15 Expected Benefits of applying BBS  Develop safety culture across the  Communicate management’s organization. commitment to safety.  Reduce injuries and modify employee behaviour by reinforcing  Allowing the employee to assume  Increased productivity due safe work practices and the principal responsibility for to reduced injury related to eliminating at-risk behaviour. safety. absenteeism and illnesses.  Reduce costs related to injuries  Raise overall safety awareness.  Develop Positive Reinforcement and incidents. to prevent workplace injuries/  Increase observation skills. accidents.  Develop communications skills.  Develop leadership skills. Safety of contractual employees “Safety first, Safety by heart, is the motto we operate with. Hence, “Behavioral Based Safety” has been launched to develop safety as an integral part of work culture within the Organization. We strongly believe that Safety Awareness is also required at External Stakeholder level (i.e. Authorities, General Public etc.) to achieve the Objective, for which a massive campaign in the form of “Public Awareness Programme” has been launched at all O&M Sites. Through this safety awareness is being created among the external Stakeholders.” Director (Projects) With respect to safety, GAIL follows the same philosophy for the permanent and contractual employees. Special efforts are made to keep the contractual workers safe. At all installations, Fire & Safety Department ensures that all contract workers use appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) through regular monitoring and surprise checks. Further, periodic safety audits are conducted by Corporate HSE Department and health and safety issues of contract workers are also addressed. Fire and Safety Training for security employees As a model principal employer, GAIL while awarding contracts, ensures the provision for safety kits & liveries to contract workers by engaging with the contractor. Some other initiatives taken by GAIL specifically for contractual employees include:Trainings : Induction and monthly refresher fire safety & hazards awareness training before first entry of each contract worker and on regular basis time to time. Tool box talk have been carried out by GAIL executive before commencing job, during tool box talk information regarding all the associated hazard with the work is being given to worker with their mitigation measures. Safety awareness program were conducted by management for contract employee on regular basis as per Safety Training Calendar. 58 Fostering Responsible Growth Safety : In Our Every Endeavour While We Grow (continue) Health check-ups : Proper health check-up of the contract employee carried by registered medical officer as per factory Act before deployment of workers on the job. The number of accidents / causalities occurred during each of the last Five years. Description 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Accidents (other than 1 fire/leakage) Fire / Leakage 2 3 2 No. of Fatal Incident 1 2 O&M (not covered above) No. of Fatalities 22 2 Injured (all above 18 8 1 incident) Monitoring : Plant safety committee consists of representative from contract employee to discuss the safety and health related issue with top management on quarterly basis. Standard Operating Standard Operating Procedures have been made available to concerned area operators for better safety during execution of jobs. Task briefings about the job Procedures (SOP) : are being carried out by the Engineer In charge before assigning the maintenance jobs. We have also ensured displaying MSDS boards near by the processing/ handling/storage area as well as at strategic locations in local language. Dos, Don’ts & safety instructions have been displayed in process, storage and chemical handling areas. Work Permit System : All the jobs are carried out as per OISD-105 and are supervised by GAIL employee to ensure the safe execution of job. During the previous reporting period we undertook major safety related initiatives such as implementation of BBS approach at GPUs and Petrochemical Plant, showcasing Standard Operating Procedures through a model film, launch of the “Life Saver Scheme” to prevent major causes of life threatening incidents, and conducting third party safety audits. Despite such structured approach there were 07 Nos. of Level I incidents and 03 Nos. of Level III incidents reported to PNGRB during the year as per ERDMP regulation of PNGRB. Out of these incidents two fatal incidents that occurred during the current reporting year. In order to ensure that no such incidents take place in future, GAIL has taken a series of steps. Sustainability Report 59 2014-15 Safety across supply & International Standards. HAZOP study and Risk Analysis is carried art IT enabled system Software Application in the form of Centralized chain out during design stage to identify Pipeline Integrity management the hazard risk mitigation. Further System (CPIMS) has been rolled out At GAIL we believe that there is HAZOP study and Risk Analysis is for 4100 km pipelines in Phase-I. The business sense in ensuring safety of also carried out in regular intervals CPIMS comprises various modules not just our operations but also that of and suitable risk mitigation measures. viz., Data base module, Threat & our stakeholders. With this philosophy, Permit to Work system is followed in Risk assessment module, Corrosion Health, Environment & Safety form all our installations to ensure safety Analyst, Cathodic Protection Analyst, an integral part of tender document during maintenance works. Emergency Geospatial Analyst, Pressure testing during tendering for procurement of Response & Disaster Management module, Task Manager, Reporting goods and services. Moreover, Safety Plan prepared and Quarterly Mock module, Management Dashboard, Permits, Work Permits, Visitor Entry Drills conducted to practice emergency which will facilitate integrated and System are being adhered with for exercise and ensure availability of detailed health status and analysis. all activities undertaken by suppliers all required resources to tackle any and customers inside plant premises. emergency. Automated fire protection Awareness programme is carried out Safety briefing is given to all suppliers system like gas suppression system for surrounding villagers along the & customers visiting the plant. for control rooms, water spray system pipeline route and they are explained Visitors are provided safety induction, for pumps & piping area etc. are not to do any digging/excavation in training on nature of hazards with provided for immediate dousing of fire the ROU, inform GAIL about any gas instructions to be followed in case of at its incipient stage. leakage and actions to be taken in case any emergency situation. The process of natural gas leakage from pipeline. plants and cross country pipelines An enterprise-wide Risk Based Printed leaflets in the local language are designed as per the best Indian Analytic Software and state of the are distributed among the villagers. Transportation safety GAIL has an established procedure with checklist for safety check of tankers and wagons before loading of hydrocarbon. All the drivers of tankers are also provided with Transport Emergency (TREM) card having details of actions to be taken in case of any emergency. All the drivers and their assistants are also provided safety training along with do’s and don’ts during transportation of hydrocarbon. Natural gas is raw material for process plants at Gandhar, Vaghodia & Vijaipur, which is transported through underFire and Safety Training for drivers ground gas pipelines. These pipelines are operated & maintained by a separate GAIL Operations & Maintenance Road transportation is used for / control system and Terminal team. Cathodic Protection Monitoring transporting products like LPG, Automation System (TAS) are available (which helps in reducing corrosion of Propane, Pentane, and Naphtha. for safe operations & SOPs are the pipelines) and intelligent pigging Checking of these road tankers is available for safe loading activities. is done as per standard frequency to carried out as per the guidelines of Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR) LPG is being transported to nearby maintain integrity of pipeline. Close 1989, Static and Mobile Pressure bottling plant of OMC at Gandhar & Interval Potential Logging (CIPL) Vessels rules by GAIL’s designated Vijaipur; Foot patrolling of the pipeline / Direct Current Voltage Gradient Fire & Safety (F&S) employee. After is being carried out on regular intervals. (DCVG) surveys to confirm the health physical checking of the road tankers, All tankers are loaded only after & integrity of external coating of the data of tanker safety checking is saved ensuring that they are carrying the LPG Pipeline. Patrolling is done to monitor in the SAP system. For product filling, emergency response kits. any exposure/third party activity near pipeline. well established loading automation 60 Fostering Responsible Growth Safety : In Our Every Endeavour While We Grow (continue) After KG Basin Government and villagers. GAIL also dispatched multiple teams to development centre at Nagaram under GAIL’s CSR initiative – Kaushal, GAIL has an 18” (46cm) underground undertake foot-patrol of every inch of supply of medical equipment to pipeline which transports gas from its pipeline network. Primary Health Centre (PHC) Nagaram, ONGC’s Tatipaka refinery to Lanco’s Mamidikuduru Mandal and Community 1,466MW Kondapalli power plant near An international consultant of repute Health Centre (CHC), Razol and Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. This is to carry out third party audit of its provision of Mobile Medical Care a 205 km long pipeline supplying 0.5 pipeline safety systems and other Unit at Nagaram/Rajahmundry, for million standard cubic metres of gas hydrocarbon installations. extending medical care to affected per day and passes through Nagaram families due to fire and for villages which is a village in East Guntur district Post incident along pipeline route. of Andhra Pradesh about 560kms from Hyderabad. remediation Our activities in the area have not been limited to incident affected areas but In the early hours of June 27, 2014, Post incident at Nagaram Village, GAIL have extended to other villages in there incident of fire triggered by promised a slew of measures to ensure the East Godavari District and West lighting of a stove by nearby tea Relief & Rehabilitation of the affected Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh. vendor, due to which 22 people lost people as well as on strengthening of These activities include repair and their lives and 18 were injured. Pipeline Network in KG Basin so as to renovation of 525 school toilets and prevent recurrence of such incidents providing running water facilities, in future. Immediate action skills training for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in partnership with A compensation of INR 25 lakhs (INR Immediate action was ensured by GAIL 20 lakhs by GAIL, INR 2 lakhs from National Handicapped Finance and so that the fire did not spread to cause Prime Ministers’ National Relief Development Corporation, Ministry any more damage. Fund, INR 3 lakhs by State Govt.) was of Social Justice and Empowerment, handed over to the kins of each of the installation of water purification plants The pipeline section (17 km) was and construction of roads. deceased. isolated immediately and preliminary reports suggested damage of the pipeline to the extent of 1.5 meters Further, ex-gratia amount of INR 5.5 lakhs (INR 5 lakhs by GAIL and Review of internal length. GAIL Chairman and top officials INR 50,000/from Prime Ministers’ protocols reached the location immediately after National Relief Fund) was handed over the incident. The Crisis Management The incident also called for deep to each of the injured persons. The Group of GAIL immediately swung into introspection within the system to medical expenses were born by GAIL action on receipt of information of relook whether we could make our of all the injured persons and best Tatipaka Fire incident. systems even stronger to assure possible medical care was provided. that no such incidents take place. GAIL helpdesks were set up at Apollo The Tatipaka – Dindi section was Post incident, a senior level in-house Hospital & Trust Hospital at Kakinada, immediately isolated and the fire was committee has been constituted by KIMS Hospital at Amlapuram and controlled with the help of Fire Tenders. GAIL to investigate the matter and in Balbolini Hospital at Rajahmundry, parallel external agencies – Engineers Medical Assistance was provided where the injured were being treated. India Ltd., a Public Sector Engineering immediately and the injured were All facilitation was rendered to the Company under MoPNG and Ms/. shifted to nearby hospitals – KIMS family members of the injured persons Velosi Certification Services (India) (Amalapuram), Apollo (Kakinada) and at these hospitals. Ltd., a reputed third party inspection Bollineni Hospital (Rajahmundry) for A total of approximately INR 10 agency have been engaged to treatment. crore towards ex-gratia, relief investigate the matter independently. An inquiry was also set up by & rehabilitation measures and Later on, the reason for the failure had the Government and GAIL. GAIL compensation for damages has already been identified to be corrosion due to constituted an internal inquiry headed been incurred /committed by GAIL. poor quality of gas. by Executive Director (Operations A series of welfare-measures have also and Maintenance). Executive Director been added as part of its Corporate (Human Resources) nominated as Social Responsibility initiatives the nodal officer for coordinating the including providing shelter for the relief and rehabilitation measures and affected families, setting up of a skill to work closely with local authorities, Sustainability Report 61 2014-15 Upgradation & Various measures have been taken since then by GAIL for upgradation & strengthening of Pipeline Network. Some of these measures taken up in KG Basin Strengthening of Pipeline are as follows: Network in KG Basin : Intelligent Pigging : Subsequent to start of operations at safe pressure recommended by EIL as mentioned above, Intelligent Pigging had been carried out in all the lines again. Reduction in Pipeline Based on the results of the Survey, repair works have been carried out and the operating pressures have been further reduced in some of the lines. Pressure : Installation of OnLine As per the policy decision taken in GAIL, post Incident, On-Line Analyzers need to be installed at all places where flow of gas is more than 1 MMSCMD in case of Dry Analyzers : Gas and more than 0.2 MMSCMD in case of wet gas. Analysis at other locations shall be carried out through Portable Analyzers / Lab testing. Further, 11 Source Points have been identified for installation of Online Moisture and H2S Analyzers. The Analyzers are under procurement and the delivery is expected by Oct’15. In the meanwhile, fortnightly analysis is being carried out through Portable Analyzers at all Source Points and the presence of moisture / corrosive components beyond acceptable limits is being taken up continuously with Suppliers for corrective measures. Implementation of GAIL Intent of the Scheme is to hire services of villagers for reporting any important information about Pipeline safety, unauthorized work within RoU, attempts Sahayogi Scheme to of any pilferage etc. to GAIL. This Scheme has been implemented by hiring improve engagement approximately 50 persons from different villages with a task to cover 12 Km each day by line walk. with Villagers: Public Awareness Community Awareness Programmes for District / Revenue Officials – The Awareness Programmes have been conducted at Rajahmundry, Kakinada, Tanuku, Programmes for Vijayawada, Tadepalligudem in July 2014 for Revenue Officers of East Godavari , sensitizing on Safety West Godavari and Krishna district. in and around Tatipaka Community Awareness Programmes for Villagers through Burra KathaAround Pipeline: 80 Villages have been covered through these initiative. Further, printing and distribution of Safety Calendars and Do’s and Don’ts in Pipeline RoU to Government Offices, Police Stations, Fire Stations, Revenue Offices and among public. 62 Fostering Responsible Growth Safety : In Our Every Endeavour While We Grow (continue) Major initiatives taken liquidation of points to be ensured. SMS and Voice Message Service have been implemented for on Pan-India Basis for 2. Monthly Safety Review by this purpose. Regional Gas Director (HR) & Director Management Centre (RGMCs) Safety excellence (Projects). and National Gas Management As a continually improving Centre (NGMC) have been made 3. Incident reporting system has Organization, assimilating the learning responsible for ensuring timely been revised to improve the and adopting latest technological communication on crises. reporting structure where various developments for improving Safety communications of the ministry 6. Sensitization to employees and Health & Integrity of the Assets have also been incorporated. specifically posted at NGMC / has been one of the strong forts of RGMCs on incident reporting. GAIL since its inception. A slew of 4. Review and improvement of the measures were taken up to enhance existing Disaster Management 7. Roll out of Pan India Toll Free Health & Safety in GAIL’s Operations system and Emergency Response Number A 5 digit toll free number on Pan-India Basis. These included & Disaster Management Plan (15101) for incident reporting has creating a culture of safety through:(ERDMP) and de-briefing to all been initiated across India in concerned. place of earlier existing 11 digit 1. Monthly Safety Day observance: number for ease in remembering All site OICs have been instructed 5. Improvement in Crisis the number. Calls dialled for this to dedicate 10th of each month as Management System Crisis Number (15101) will land at RGMC a Safety Day where all the safety Management System, to of respective region or NGMC. related issues will be thoroughly handle crises efficiently and reviewed at the OIC level. All effectively, has been reviewed and 8. Introduction of “Safety Score” pending points related to Audits revamped for faster and precise A more comprehensive Safety like OISD, PNGRB T4S, other communication to all concern Performance Monitoring System. external and Internal Audits points groups and Top Management, This has replaced the earlier HSE to be reviewed and action for fast in case of emergency. A Group Index. Sustainability Report 63 2014-15 9. Implementation of SAP Incident / of Centralized Pipeline Integrity which will facilitate integrated and Accident Log. Management System (CPIMS) detailed health status and analysis. The has been rolled out for 4100 KM CPIMS has internationally accepted 10. Formulation of Centralized pipelines in Phase-I. data base system i.e. Pipeline Open Integrity Monitoring Group (CIMG) Database (PODS) for management of – CIMG was formed for centralised The CPIMS comprises various modules all pipeline related data. monitoring of health & integrity of viz., Data base module, Threat & Pan India Pipelines and to maintain Risk assessment module, Corrosion data base. An enterprise-wide Analyst, Cathodic Protection Analyst, Risk Based Analytic Software and Geospatial Analyst, Pressure testing state of the art IT enabled system module, Task Manager, Reporting Software Application in the form module, Management Dashboard, Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow 105 quality circle projects enabled saving of ` 2.78 crores ISO 50001 Energy Management GAIL IN A PHASED MANNER At GAIL we believe that to grow and outperform the standards we set in the past it is essential to continuously improve and upgrade ourselves. Our approach to excelling operationally does not remain limited to process improvements, cost reductions, better asset productivity but extends to managing resources responsibly. The greater we optimize our consumption of resources today, greater will be left for our future generations. Thus, leading to a more sustainable future. 66 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) il & Gas sectorG4-DMA companies globally are facing challenges with a volatile economy, intense competition and rising energy & material costs. Global competitiveness is placing tremendous pressure on cost, quality and responsiveness to stakeholder’s demands. Improving operational efficiency has become a necessity As a Continually Improving Organization, not just for short term business gains we believe in raising the bars of but also for long term success. Cost performance levels for ourselves. With reduction, quality and productivity improvement in different business this objective, various initiatives have process has become the key been taken during 2014-15, as below, for instruments for gaining competitive advantage. Operational excellence is systematic improvement: the pursuit of conducting business in a manner that continuously improves the  Benchmarking Performance Indicators: A Benchmarking quality of goods and services, reduces Study is being carried out through internationally reputed cost, increases speed and enhances Consultant to identify the contemporary global benchmarks for flexibility to achieve competitive performance in Project execution, Operation & Maintenance, superiority. GAIL believes operational Tendering & Ordering and Contract Management. The same will excellence is the systematic be set as performance yard sticks for performance during the management of health, safety and next 3 years. environment; reliability and efficiency of people, systems, process, assets  Cardinal Rules: Expected baseline performance has been set and supply chain. for the core Departments through Cardinal Rules for ensuring consistency, efficiency and effectiveness in performance.  Development of Systems & Procedures: To nurture the culture of system oriented functioning, a massive exercise has been taken up to develop Systems and Procedures & Standard Operating Procedures (SoP) for each activity that is taken up on regular basis. These Systems / Procedures / SoPs are then vetted by internationally reputed consultants so as to align with global best practices.  (SOMES) TE – an advanced philosophy for integrity management of Pipelines: Integrity Management of Cross Country Pipelines is not a mere maintenance activity. It requires focus on various other elements also due to the direct impact these elements have on the integrity Management. (SOMES) TE is the technique thus developed to ensure focus on Safety, Operations, Maintenance, Environment, Stakeholders, Technology and Education. Sustainability Report 67 2014-15  MCRAA The foundation for training / certification courses to encourage employees sharing functional excellence: Monitoring, / field trips has been given their views with management Controlling, Reporting, Analyzing top priority. The Competency without any inhibitions, a web and Improvement Auditing is the Development Programme is being portal named SLICE (Suggestions philosophy that works as the implemented in three stages. – Lessons Learnt – Initiatives foundation for the highest levels Base level education required at & Innovations – Case Studies – of functional excellence we are different levels / positions (eg. Extraordinary Efforts) has been striving for. All the activities being ASME certification course for developed and implemented. All executed will be monitored and Mechanical Engineers, NACE the communications received controlled for timely completion. certification course for Corrosion through this portal are reviewed Further, the status / progress will Engineers etc.) at Level-1, on monthly basis by a senior be reported to appropriate levels specialized education required level committee and appropriate of management through periodic for specific job requirement at actions are taken subsequently reports as well as analyzed for Level-2 and advance education based on recommendations of this identifying trends / issues etc. required for cadre development Committee. Further, improvement Audits will for specialized jobs such as ILI, CP, be conducted by the own team HDD etc. at Level-3.  Profit Maximization: With a view members to identify the lapses to maximize the Projects by / deviations, if any, for taking  ABCDE The 5 pillar approach: reducing the wasteful expenditure, corrective actions so that there Attitude, Behavior, Commitment, optimizing the operations and will be bare minimum observation Discipline, Efficiency, we believe energy efficiency practices, when the audits are carried out by are the enablers for change and Project Profit Maximization has Statutory / External Agencies. we strive to build excellence in our been launched in the last year and systems, procedure, practices, the study is going on presently  Competency Development: policies and strategies through at various work sites of GAIL. Education & Experience this approach. The study and implementation complement each other and of the recommendations will be education enhances experience.  Encouragement for Open completed by 2016-17. For sustainable performance, Communication through SLICE growth and competitive edge over Portal: Open communication Director (Projects) peers, development of requisite between employees and competencies in the executives management is one of the is essential. Hence, Competency essential parameters for employee Development through appropriate engagement and thereby performance excellence. Hence 68 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) Health & Safety transmission and distribution assets (e.g., pipelines, compressor stations, regarding LPG off-take rates and monitoring of the status of pipeline At GAIL we place the highest priority valves, right-of-ways, etc.) in one parameters at different segments. on the health and safety of our continuous model. This unique feature workforce, process and assets. In delivers a connected network model of In its endeavor to become a truly FY 14-15 Health and Safety was the entire natural gas transmission and global company with state-of-the-art considered as one of the material distribution infrastructure, permitting technology in all its operations and issues and it is covered separately in integration with other corporate activities, GAIL has built a nerve-centre detail. systems for true enterprise data of technological excellence which will sharing. envelope all its business needs. This includes Network Management Centre Asset productivityG4National Gas Management Center, (NMC), GAIL Polymer Technology DMA which is the first of its kind for the Centre (GPTC), GIGALINK (IT & ERP gas business in India, encompasses Data Centre). Achieving and sustaining excellence in management of entire GAIL’s gas the Operation & Maintenance of the trading, transportation and LPG GAIL’s gas pipeline systems are assets is the prime objective of the transmission business throughout designed in accordance with ASME, corporate philosophy. High standards India with the availability of live data OISD, PNGRB standards. Various of quality, application of current at centralized location for monitoring guidelines under API, DIN, BS, Canadian technologies and extreme diligence pipeline parameters, delivery Standards, NACE, NFPA, etc. are also in monitoring and maintenance of the conditions at all major customer followed. assets are some of the key elements terminals, gas reconciliation and GAIL is pioneering to create stateof a successful O&M strategy. With accounting for entire gas business. of-the-art Central Pipeline Integrity these objectives, GAIL is continually Seven Regional Gas Management Management System (CPIMS) for improving with a renewed focus on Centers (RGMC’s) at Mumbai for pipeline integrity in India CPIMS high levels of system availability Maharashtra, Baroda for Gujarat, is a systematic approach towards and reliability. In this endeavor, it is Rajahmundry for Andhra Pradesh, managing integrity of a pipeline also envisaged to ensure that the Pondicherry for Tamil Nadu, Agra for system. The centralized, enterprise various practices and procedures Agra-Firozabad network, NCR O&M for wide and computerized IMS aims to are streamlined with uniformity and National Capital Region and Agartala improve effectiveness of integrity consistency across the company. for Tripura continuously monitor and management program where the data control the gas supply quantities, As GAIL natural gas transmission is geo-spatial as well as temporal quality and operational and safety and supply involves many high risk in nature and it is online GIS based. aspects of the pipeline. These regional activities with many uncertainties that The system is accessed, updated centers provide remote access to the could adversely affect business. To and utilized from across the various consumers terminals and can remotely mitigate risk, we look for maximizing locations of the company. CPIMS helps configure, control and monitor flow asset performance as well as getting a GAIL to: rate and volume of various consumers. better return on investment. GAIL has  Enable online integrity status of robust asset integrity monitoring and To ensure efficient real time each pipeline. maintenance program. management and gas nominations, delivery and allocation with accurate  Enable online status of current Gas and pipeline asset management gas reconciliation, a Gas Management threats & risks to pipeline. requires large linear networks System (GMS) is also available consisting of hundreds of explicitly in NGMC. GMS is a web enabled  Enable online status of Probability connected pieces of equipment system, which integrates all the of failures & Consequences of that are geographically dispersed, shippers, suppliers, customers and Failure. managed, and located using various transporter of gas to provide better geospatial views into the system. Data  Make available online pipeline co-ordination and transparency in Gas integrity is crucial and downstream data in Design, Construction, Transportation business. or across-stream integration is Assessment. vital to the company’s bottom line. G4-DMA NGMC is also equipped with The fundamental feature of GAIL’s  Standardize Integrity Assessment live data of GAIL’s LPG transmission natural gas pipeline infrastructure is a Processes. pipelines namely JLPL and VSPL, single, traceable, geospatial network thereby facilitating better coordination  Compliance of the Statutory asset database for all natural gas with Oil Marketing Companies Regulations. Sustainability Report 69 2014-15 The key benefits of PIMS are:  Reduction in insurance costs.  Regulatory compliance for safety to environment, public and  Reduction in risk of failures and  Increased revenue by increasing property. associated costs. economic life of the pipeline.  Increased asset utilization by reducing downtime. Pipeline Integrity By virtue of the complexity of the process plants and a need for a better improved business processes and delivering value enhancement. Management System organised and streamlined production and maintenance procedures, GAIL Some of the aspects where GAIL By managing critical assets more has taken external & internal targets has always put efforts to augment closely, these systems are helping to in FY 2014-15 MoU and I MoU productivity and asset efficiency improve the uptime of critical revenuerespectively, are shown below. The while simultaneously raising generating assets; reduce the costs company periodically monitors the availability, reliability and safety of its of acquiring, maintaining and even target parameters with respect to the asset. Efficient Asset Performance disposing of assets; and ultimately achievements and for any identified Management has always helped increase shareholder value. gaps; the management strategies to meet these demands, ensuring prompt actions. Data Gathering, Review & Integration Risk Assessment Threat Consequence Assessment Assessment Risk-based Prioritization Inspection Data Rehabilitation Diagnosis of FFP Corrosion Threats Assessment Growth Preventive Repair Inspection Measures Schedule Interval Integrity Management Plan 70 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) Petrochemical Plant Availability (Hrs) Target in 14-15 Achievement in 14-15 GPU 8000 8598 GCU 8000 8560 HDPE-1 7500 8433 HDPE-2 7500 8754 LLDPE 7500 8077 Petrochemical Plant Capacity Utilisation (%) Target in 14-15 Achievement in 14-15 GPU 108 113 GCU 99 103 HDPE-1 107.5 116 HDPE-2 107.5 119.5 LLDPE 102.4 101 Natural Gas Pipeline (Hrs) Target in 14-15 Achievement in 14-15 Uninterrupted Availability of HVJ/DVPL NG Pipeline system 8751 8759.97 Uninterrupted Availability of non HVJ NG Pipeline system 8751 8759.99 LPG Pipeline (Hrs) Target in 14-15 Achievement in 14-15 Uninterrupted Availability of JLPL LPG Pipeline system 8672 8760 Uninterrupted Availability of VSPL LPG Pipeline system 8672 8708.59 Regional Gas Management Centre for LPG Pipelines at Jaipur Sustainability Report 71 2014-15 Process improvement  e-Ledger for Customer: Polymer and LHC Customer can check operating on SAP – ERP package. In order to optimize processes, their online statement of account  Gas Management System on increase yield and reduce variability, through GAIL website. ERP Package (SAP): End-toGAIL has always been putting efforts end process for Gas business us to optimise all our processes,  Gas Customer Portal: Customers has been automated leading to identify all sources of waste, can view/download their joint transparency and avoiding manual conserving resource, define the tickets / invoices and upload the intervention. The invoices are means of improvement and set a daily nomination. generated with digital signature. control system to maintain and sustain  Customer satisfaction surveys:  E-Digitization system performance. This helps in increasing Customer give their feedback (E-Document Management output, significant reduction in on products (Polymer, LHC & System): A centralized solution is resource consumption and an increase Gas) bought from GAIL and their in place for digitization of physical in quality and consistency. We have satisfaction level. documents for efficient storage developed e –sustainability module to and retrieval. collect and manage our sustainability  Employees self service Portal: related data from different units. Employees self services portal  GPS Based Tracking of Pipeline for preferring and viewing various Patrolling: To ensure line walk is Business Information claims, applying leaves, view done in intended pipeline ROU corridor only, an automated GPS Salary, PF & Pension cards, loans Systems – Towards and advances, performance & GSM based system is being Digital Future planning and appraisals. implemented. Unauthorized halt, deviation from predefined route  e-Sustainability Module: is highlighted using SMS, E-mail GAIL as a policy matter has gone for all The e-sustainability module alerts. out Efforts on Digitization of systems is developed to facilitate much before launch of Digital India. To monitoring, analysis and therefore start with every employee has been taking measures on improving Total Quality provided with a computer. Practice of ETender, Introduction of E-Document sustainability data performance Management of GAIL. There are three level Management system, E-Note sheet, In GAIL, Total Quality Management authorization mechanisms given Group calls & SMS, Rollout of (TQM) approach has been adopted as in the system to maintain the trail E-Logbook, Simplification & extensive an integrated management philosophy of data for entry, review & approve use of SAP module are in place. aimed at continuously improving the respectively. quality of products and processes e-Governance @ GAIL  e-Business Responsibility to achieve customer satisfaction. At Reporting (BRR) Module: The Corporate level, TQM group oversees  e-Banking: Electronic transfer e-BRR Module is developed and coordinates the quality and of payments / receipts to / from to capture information, case performance improvement activities. Vendor, Customers, Employees, studies catering to requirements Major activities are: Govt. agencies etc. along with an of guidelines/frameworks/ e-mail Intimation. questionnaire such as GRI, CDP , “We understand that the focus DJSI, NVG etc. remains towards securing energy  eTender with Reverse auction: supplies for our customers while Tenders are hosted on GAIL &  Digital Version (Website) of GAIL ensuring its affordability and access” NIC portals. Electronic receipt Sustainability Report FY 13-14: of Vendor quotations /offers for For first time, GAIL has developed –Director (Marketing) purchase of goods and services a dedicated website for it’s GAIL through E-Tender portal. Reverse Sustainability Report FY 13-14 auction also takes place for (gailsustainabilityreport.com) eligible tenders.  Enterprise Business Applications  e-Bill tracking: Vendor can track running on ERP Package (SAP): the status of his bill from receipt The Core business process to release of payment by GAIL Financials, Logistics (Sales & through GAIL website. Purchase), Maintenance, Human Resource with Payroll are 72 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) Customer Satisfaction saving of INR 2.78 crores. Major Quality Control Projects undertaken during Energy Management and Customer Value 2014-15 are: System : Management:  Modification in station piping at The implementation of ISO 50001 energy management system Dibiyapur compressor station to initiative was started across GAIL in With a view to provide a transparent achieve fuel saving of about 2700 a phased manner in 2013-2014. GAIL and efficient system for customers’ SCMD per day resulting in annual Gandhar unit received ISO 50001:2011 feedback and in order to evaluate saving of ~INR 1.0 crore. certification in 2013-14 and GAIL GAIL’s products and services for continual improvement, GAIL (India)  HRSG drum level control at Vaghodia unit was recommended for Ltd. monitors Customer Satisfaction Vaghodia resulted in annual saving 2nd stage certification audit in 2014-15. Index on Half-yearly basis. An online feedback system has been developed of ~ INR 42 lakhs. Quality Management to incorporate all the performance  Cost optimization in operation System: parameters against each business of Boiler Feed Pumps for HRSG TQM Department coordinates with area, which are considered important system installed at GREP28 departments across Delhi, Noida to our customers. During 2014-15, Vaghodia resulted in annual saving and Zonal marketing offices for timely customer satisfaction index was of ~INR 65 lakhs. accomplishment of internal audits, ~90% against the target of 89%. As a certification audits, surveillance audits part of Customer Value Management,  Demand controller was installed to control KVA demand within and effective implementation of the 75 visits were undertaken for direct Quality Management System. All our interaction with our valued customers contractual demand resulted in saving of ~INR 3.25 lakhs at major units operate with Integrated and obtain feedback on GAIL products Management System philosophy and and services. investment of INR 0.5 lakhs at Hazira. are ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. Quality Circle Projects Best three Quality Circle projects each year are selected and the project In FY 2014-15, 105 quality circle proponents are suitably rewarded. projects were completed enabling a Sustainability Report 73 2014-15 Energy Consumption (Million GJ) 39.33 40.19 45.00 38.51 38.28 39.01 40.67 37.07 37.36 39.83 39.32 36.42 40.00 35.86 39.92 35.09 37.41 35.00 30.00 25.00 20.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 1.04 1.17 1.12 1.13 1.23 0.00 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Total direct energy consumption Total indirect energy consumption Total energy consumption (Excluding Flaring & Venting) Total Energy Consumption (Including Flaring & Venting) Energy efficiencyG4-DMA Our major thrust is on expansion of infrastructure to make cleaner and Additionally, it is the endeavour of O&M to constantly improve on its For GAIL energy efficiency lies in the affordable energy source accessible performance in this area. Specific highest priority. This is reflected in to all consumers. We have maximized energy consumption is one of the our Sustainable development policy our resource value through state-ofimportant monitoring parameters of which focuses on improving energy the-art technologies, strive for energy plant performance. efficiency across operations. We efficiency at each level of operation strive to capture all the opportunities and consistently deliver best-in-class The important factors contributing to to conserve energy and improve performance. reduction in energy consumption and efficiency wherever possible. As internal consumption are: we understand our responsibility to In GAIL, energy conservation has been adopted as an integral part  Better maintenance techniques for ensure supply of energy in a safe and of the Operation and Maintenance health monitoring of the plant and environmentally friendly manner, we philosophy. Adherence to efficient equipment resulting in an increase work towards increasing clean energy operation and quality maintenance of minimum time between failure in the overall energy mix in our total practices in O&M has resulted in (MTBF). energy consumption. optimum energy consumption. 74 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue)  Savings in electrical energy by LHC Recovery (MT/MMSCM) reducing the operation of the process gas after-cooler. 100.0  Savings in gas consumption by 96.8 92.4 using heaters (GFHs) and standby Closed Circuit Vapour Turbine 95.0 (CCVT) at RR stations only when 93.2 required. 92.7  Cooling water header 90.0 modification. 90.3  Optimisation of R.G. Compressor load. 87.2 85.0  Maximization of gas throughput and LPG recovery.  Reduction in the number of plant 80.0 interruptions due to power failure FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 by suitably arranging power from GTG for essential loads. GTG reliability has significantly improved the plant reliability and ourselves. We are committed to reduce an integrated energy management performance. our specific energy consumption system conducting energy audits, by 5% till 2020. For achieving this strengthening its procedures and other We have also gone beyond to set target, an organization wide plan technical interventions. voluntary energy reduction targets for has been developed with the help of Natural Gas based Closed circuit Vapour Turbine replaced by Solar Power at Dibiyapur Compressor Station in Uttar Pradesh Sustainability Report 75 2014-15 Some other energy  Modification of delivery of primary Each year we sign MoU with Ministry compressor discharge of Petroleum and Natural Gas which conservation measures clearly outlines our performance goals taken at GAIL include :  PLC based burner management for the next year, based on the goals we system in RG heater develop an internal strategy to achieve  Optimum utilization of grid power them and that calls for various process instead of captive power  Optimization of purge flow to improvements to be undertaken with in Flare the system.  Switching over of CCVT power to Grid/ Solar power  Modification of lighting system Gas Processing Units Target in 14-15 Achievement in 14-15 Weighted Average Operational Efficiency of GPU Vijaipur, 87.0 88.81 Gandhar & Vaghodia Our Initiatives GAIL Vijaipur  Replacement of existing air conditioners with 5 star BEE rated machine.  Fault rectification done in power distribution feeders and motor starter feeder in VDPL sub-station and energy savings of approx. 260 kWh per year from a single feeder. Total savings achieved INR 74784.  80W HSPV lamps were replaced with maintenance free 43W LED lamp to save energy 37 W energy per lamp. GAIL Dibiyapur  Modification in compressor station piping of GTC (primary) was carried out to achieve fuel savings of about 2702 SCM per day resulting in annual savings of approximately, INR 1 crore.  Solar power system of each 10KW rating, to replace CCTVs at 5RR stations in the pipeline system.  Energy saving initiatives was under taken at Control & Administrative building in lighting system and replaced whole conventional tube light fittings with LED based lighting and saved approx. 3754 kWh of energy GAIL Vaghodia  Change in control strategy in HRSG drum level controller by considering mass instead of volume. This resulted in annual savings of INR 42.30 lakhs at zero investment.  Cost optimization was also carried out for boiler feed pumps for HRSG system by adjusting recirculation line control valve installed at GREPVaghodia. This resulted in the savings of INR 65.0 lakhs at zero investment GAIL Hazira  Demand controller was installed to control KVA demand within contractual demand which resulted in savings of INR 0.5 lakhs. 76 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) Construction of operation parameters was conducted by IIT Delhi team. Findings: With the use of Building Information Modeling model-based Energy Efficient constructability studies ie providing The purpose of this study was to richer and more extensive as well Buildings for Gas provide scientific and technical advice as relevant information demanded Pipeline Stations towards improved energy efficiency (including water) and reduced by various stakeholders and clients and that too at a very reasonable Background: GAIL (India) Ltd, in line construction period for Pipeline expense of time, energy analysis, with its vision, joined hands with IIT Station Buildings (PSB) including discussions with manufacturers, site Delhi and has undertaken study on Dispatch Terminal (DT), Receipt visits, quantity and cost calculations, “Construction of Energy Efficient Terminal (RT), Intermediate Pigging consultation with experts, and other Buildings for Gas Pipeline Stations”. Stations (IP) and Sectionalizing Valve design studies led to a detailed Conventional design and construction stations (SV) for GAIL . comparison of the technologies. approach currently utilized leads to Research Methodology and Scope: An The study has reviewed several offdelay and other wastages which are extensive data collection process was site technologies considering their contrary to the stated company goals undertaken to develop a database of pros and cons and after a systematic and objectives. Further, it was decided innovative technologies suitable for comparison between above mentioned to consider innovative technologies pipeline station buildings. Shortlisted, off-site techniques, RAPID WALL towards design and construction of five technologies that were studied technology i.e. fiber reinforced gypsum buildings, making it energy efficient. in comparison to the traditional panels are pre-cut as per the design of The research team envisioned the use load-bearing brick wall construction the house so that they need to be just of off-site techniques for the projects technique are: (a) AAC Blocks; (b) assembled and joined at site, found to i.e. form of construction in which there EPS panels; (c) Dry wall; (d) Solid wall be an eco-friendly, sustainable, cost is a tendency to reallocate the effort panels; and (e) Rapid Wall. effective and speedy construction , that goes into construction from the construction site into the controlled pertaining to prevailing conditions. These construction techniques, when setup of a manufacturing unit. utilized can significantly speed up GAIL will be promoting findings of this the construction process and hence study towards design, construction Objectives: The project objectives are can provide an effective method for and quality norms as suggested by in line with the broader goal of GAIL i.e. overcoming the shortfalls pertaining the manufacturer and the design to provide green energy throughout to the constructed buildings. Off-site consultant for their pilot project, so as India. Using modelling and simulation construction may also avail many other to be leader amongst energy efficient of generic building designs and based advantages like better finish quality, companies. on input received from GAIL a detailed improved construction schedule, analysis on design, construction and better labor health and safety etc. Emission Management portfolio. We have also set-up a Pilot Project at Ghaizpur landfill site in Delhi bench-scale to validate the results and catalyst performance. Another Project G4-DMA, G4-EN30 to capture and destroy the fugitive is underway to identify Algae species methane emissions for mitigating the that can convert CO2 to value added Climate changeG4-EC2 is an integral part GHG emissions. This project has also products. of our Sustainability Aspirations 2020 been successfully registered with and we are extensively focusing on UNFCCC for availing carbon credits. Successful Development and managing our emissions and strive adaptation of these technologies shall to reduce our carbon foot print. The GAIL R&D is also pursuing projects help in reduction of CO2 emissions. company recognizes the significance of to reduce CO2 emissions by utilizing climate change impact on the business and monitors business risks and the same for conversion to useful products. Three numbers of Projects Promotion of Low opportunities arising out of national are being pursued to develop catalyst Carbon Technology and international regulations and for production of Syngas from CO2 and protocols related to climate change. Methane through Dry, Tri-reforming Hydrogen is an Ultra-clean Fuel There is an increased thrust on using and partial oxidation route. Over 90% and its widespread usage shall lead renewable energy for own operations CO2 conversion has been achieved to reduction of Carbon footprint. and making it available to others as with the catalysts developed in these However, the advent of Hydrogen well. This is evident from our strong Projects. It is planned to take up economy requires technology wind energy and a growing solar energy detailed analysis of these catalysts at development efforts in its different Sustainability Report 77 2014-15 facets viz. Production, Transport and company’s philosophy and is an emissions reduction. Three continuous Storage to make it cost-effective, safe integral part of GAIL’s Sustainability ambient air quality monitoring stations & reliable. GAIL R&D has developed Policy. Climate change & environment have been installed in Pata unit to a novel nano-composite material to related risks have been incorporated monitor NOx, SOx, hydrocarbons, store over 6 weight% of Hydrogen at in GAIL’s ERM framework. We have carbon monoxide and noise on a 30 bar. The validation of the material to recognized climate change risks continuous basis. Data is continuously store and supply the desired quantities driven by changes in regulation, monitored at all stations. All emission of Hydrogen is now being studied by physical climate parameters & other parameters are well within the coupling it with PEM Fuel Cell. climate-related developments. permissible limit. Every year we estimate cost of Another project is being pursued to management & investments for GAIL has been acknowledged as one develop a hybrid system for providing various environment related issues of the leaders among the CDP’s India stand-alone power. The system appearing across our organization Leaders 2014 Climate Disclosure comprises of a PV Cell, Electrolyzer, and substantial expenditure is Leadership Index (CDLI). GAIL is the Hydrogen Storage and PEM Fuel Cell. incurred on Environment Protection only Company in Utilities category The integration and testing of various every year. GAIL has set up portfolio among the top 22 India Leaders. This components is in progress. of renewable businesses. Projects requires the organisation to disclose under clean development mechanism on the data, regarding company’s GAIL is also pursuing R&D projects carbon footprint, energy usage and have been considered as climate in the area of Underground Coal climate change strategies that enables change opportunity in GAIL. We are Gasification (UCG) as part of Clean stakeholders to more easily assess the currently keeping a close eye on the coal technology. UCG Technology financial risks posed by climate change developments in the field of climate provides various environmental to companies. This further shows our change e.g. Intended Nationally benefits in converting Coal to Energy commitment for effectively managing Determined Contributions (INDC), through in-situ gasification and is our emission portfolio. National Regulations such as NAPCC especially relevant for Indian Coals etc. and would further evaluate its which are deep lying, un-mineable  GAIL Hazira has initiated the financial implications if and when and of low-grade. A Modelling process of utilizing wind energy found to be significant and would take Framework for UCG is being developed produced by GAIL Kandla, Gujarat. definitive action on the same in years to understand the Gasification to come.  Installation of skid for capturing phenomena of Indian Coal. In addition, Techno-Economic Feasibility Report seal vents gas in GTC & purchase GAIL has installed state-of-the-art (TEFR) for setting-up a Pilot Plant at of infrared camera at GAIL pollution control devices suitable for Barmer, Rajasthan is being carried out. Vijaipur. the purpose of reducing atmospheric pollution. Various technological  Replacement of CFC in F&S Climate Change adaptation and interventions have also been installed system by aragonite at GAIL mitigation is also embedded in the at all our operational units for air Vijaipur. GHG Emission (MtCO2e) 3.00 2.62 2.64 2.49 2.54 2.53 2.36 2.38 2.50 2.29 2.25 2.26 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.23 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.28 0.00 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Total Scop 1 emissions Total Scop 2 emissions Total GHG emissions at GAIL 78 Fostering Responsible Growth Striding Towards Excellence: The Way We Strive To Grow (continue) Renewable energy The SPV will set-up about 1000 MW of Wind & Solar Grid Connected purchase renewable power obligations for 5 of its locations. 10257 non-solar GAIL transitioned from captive power Renewable Energy Power Projects certificates of worth INR 1.54 crores producer to commercial producer of every year for five years. have been self-retained. We recognize energy. As a part of GAIL’s strategy this as a milestone in the field of 2020 initiative, out of the targeted GAIL entered into solar power renewable energy. 500 MW wind power capacity by 2020 generation by winning the bid to the company has successfully set up set up a 5 MW Solar Plant under the Further installation of a solar farm wind power projects of 118 MW across Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar at Pata and Vijaipur is proposed with states of Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Mission in Rajasthan. The project was a solar developer which may reduce Karnataka. commissioned in February 2013. GAIL energy costs. The same may be also takes up various projects around developed through Energy Service Further, MoU has been signed between solar ranging from new and innovative Company (ESCO). MNRE & MoP&NG for setting up for projects to operational excellence. promoting development of Solar, Our voluntary, ‘Sustainability Wind, Bio-mass, small Hydro & other The company also forayed into the Aspirations 2020’ have been set for renewable energy (including hybrid) business of trading renewable energy reducing Specific Energy Consumption projects through SPV. GAIL is one certificates (RECs) for Tamil Nadu and GHG emission intensity. The of the stakeholders in SPV, which is WEG projects where we successfully revised target has been set for perusing setting up of Grid Connected sold 10646 RECs with net revenue reducing specific GHG emission by 5% Renewable Energy Power Projects. generation of INR 1.57 crores. These from the base year 2010-11 across our certificates have been utilised to operation and progress is monitored regularly. The management is focused Renewable energy generation as % of total Grid Electricity on the short term and long term action plan to achieve this goal. We have well consumption established environment management 60.00 systems which are dedicated to 49.03 function beyond compliance levels. 50.00 44.32 G4-EN4, G4-EN17 We have estimated our 40.00 34.59 Scope 3 CO2 emissions for business travel which came out to highly insignificant as compared to Scope 1 & 30.00 2 CO2 emissions. To further reduce our Scope 3 emissions, a total of 437 hours 20.00 of video conferencing was conducted in FY 2014-15. A pilot study has been 10.00 carried out to account indirect GHG 3.05 0.06 emission on account of product 3.73 dispatch and ~0.12 t CO2 for FY 2014-15 0.00 has been resulted. FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Sustainability Report 79 2014-15 Water managementG4intensity. Zero water discharge at Pata is targeted to achieve by FY 2017. This sufficient for watering the plants and trees in the GAIL township for 90 days. DMA would be achieved through promotion It also has sprinkler setting for water of rainwater harvesting, utilization the plants which saves up-to 70% of Water conservation and management of treated effluents within the unit water. STP water which was earlier is described as one of the focus areas premises and reduction in water losses being used for horticulture will be in GAIL’s Sustainable Development and leakages. conserved on use of rainwater thereby Policy. We strive to recycle usable leading to electricity conservation water with the aim to reduce fresh At GAIL Jhabua, challenge in also ultimately leading to groundwater water intake. As a result of our efforts, maintaining sufficient greenery during recharging. units at Vijaipur and Gandhar and also summer season due to scarcity of NG Compressor stations, LPG pumping water was faced. In order to address New flow meters were installed in stations have now achieved ‘zero water this challenge project ‘Jalashay’ was place of non-working flow meters for discharge’ status. conceptualized to collect rainwater and better monitoring of water supply and store it and reuse it for horticulture consumption in various consuming Water intensity & fresh water purpose. This was an initiative under heads and further action is taken to consumption reduction and increase sustainable development and was conserve water accordingly. in water recycling are main focus successfully completed in August, areas of ‘Sustainability Aspirations Apart from this, project ‘Behti dhara’ 2014. The project comprises three 2020’. According to the revised targets has been undertaken by GAIL at sections of rain water storage of set by GAIL, we have to achieve 15% Vijaipur to capture evaporation losses capacity 0.83 million litres which is reduction in fresh water consumption and conserve water. Total Water Consumption (Million m3) Waste Water Performance FY 14-15 (Million m3) 14.50 14.33 14.08 0.58 13.81 13.86 14.00 13.50 12.90 13.00 1.69 12.50 12.00 1.07 11.50 11.00 FY10-11 FY11-12 FY12-13 FY13-14 FY14-15 Water recycled/reused Total Water discharged (outside plant boundary) Total Waste water generated Our Water Consumption by Source in FY 14-15 Surface water (river, sea, lake, stream) Groundwater Rainwater 3% Municipal water supply Water tankers and utilities 1% 96% 80 Fostering Responsible Growth Augmentation of to be in line with the said Rules. In this regard following systemic procedures waste categorization in Schedule-I of The Hazardous Wastes (Management Existing Sewage is being implemented: Handling and Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2008 clearly states Treatment Plant at i. All the concerned departments that oily sludge emulsion and slop oil from waste water treatment plant GAIL Gaon, Pata maintains a record of E-waste generated at site/department. are one of the hazardous wastes of a petrochemical industry. At GAIL Gaon Township, tertiary ii. The inventory of E-waste is treatment is provided to the sewage Pata plant has a WWTP to treat maintained as per E-waste Rules. effluents by Membrane Bio Reactor industrial water in such a way that Technology. This helps in complete reiii. The E-waste is disposed off by it acquires the contents within the use of water for horticulture purposes specified limits as per legal authorities. in Vivekananda sports complex and a. Buyback of E-waste against This plant treats the industrial waste green belt in GAIL Gaon. The plant is supply of new electrical and water produced from all the units of capacity of treating 1 MLD sewage electronic equipment. and maintains the specification as prescribed by the pollution control per day. b. Return of the E-waste to the board before it discharges the effluent respective producers. into the river. Waste managementG4c. Sale to MoEFCC, CPCB/SPCB Background With the increase DMA, G4-EN23 of polymer production, waste water authorized recyclers. generation has also increased. These GAIL’s commitment towards waste iv. E-waste management became part increased waste water & contaminated management is reflected in its of safety/environmental audits. rainwater from different parts of plant sustainable development policy that catchment area is being collected into lays much emphasis on improving GAIL Vijaipur enlisted the services of surge ponds through Oily Water Sludge waste management practices local treatment, storage, and disposal (OWS) via MRS. This part of effluent across all operations. We adhere at Pithampur (MP) for solid hazardous water is then gradually & suitably to all statutory compliances and waste as per industrial best practices. treated in Wet Weather Flow (WWF) environmental clearances through Temporary storage site for such waste system of WWTP. respective pollution control boards and has also been clearly demarcated. With the help of this system, major regular renewal of consents to operate Under Plastic Waste Management part of free oil along with the sludge for hazardous waste authorizations Rules, GAIL Vijaipur has completely is accumulated and stored in surge accorded. However, we also have wellbanned plastic carry bags of less than pond during unavoidable transfer established environment management 40 microns in its facility as well as in of Oily water Sludge from MRS systems which are dedicated to its township. Further, a Plastic Waste by intermittently running of high function beyond compliance levels. Committee has been constituted to capacity screw pump. However the GAIL also represents in the FICCI look after its effectiveness and is oil and sludge remained entrapped / Environment Committee that works empowered to fine those retailors / accumulated in surge pond as a waste. on a broad spectrum of environmental contractors who are caught flouting This resulted into the accumulation of hazardous waste over the years. issues like Municipal, Electronic and this particular restriction. Hazardous Waste Management, Across locations we are not involved in Solution A simple technological Corporate Sustainability, Clean intervention was taken to address Technologies, Environment and Forest. any activities related to transporting, the problem. A horizontal centrifugal We use knowledge and assistance importing, exporting or treatment of pump was installed with priming from external parties like TERI for waste deemed hazardous under Basel arrangement the suction such that workshops and undertaking projects Convention. G4-EN25 suction of proposed pump shall be like that for waste management. lower enough to ensure that only water Oily sludge is drawn while the existing screw pump scraps the maximum oil along with E-waste Management management water in its flow system. The discharge of the proposed pump is fed in the train GAIL is committed to fulfill GAIL follows an approach of reducing of Wet weather System (WWS). With responsibilities of bulk consumer for waste as a part of its responsibility this modification surge pond could be compliance to E-waste (Management towards environment and society. spared for cleaning purpose. & Handling) Rules, 2011, MoEFCC. The Waste management has emerged as a actions for environmentally sound critical issue posing long term impacts Result In the reporting year 5508 disposal of E-waste generated have on the environment. Also, hazardous MT of oily sludge was uplifted. Sustainability Report 81 2014-15 Solid Waste in Numbers by Disposal Method FY 14-15 17% 12% 5% 66% Solid Waste by Weight by Disposal Method FY 14-15 Deep Well Injection 1% Incineration 10% Landfill Onsite Storage Other 23% Recycling 66% Reuse Liquid Waste by Disposal Method FY 14-15 8% 1% 91% 82 Fostering Responsible Growth Transforming Our Business Approach: Safeguarding Our Growth Hub linked L enry abin N H om S e Pa G fr s s MMTPA 3.5 Tie up in Dom i Point term nio 2.3 M ina MT PA ve Co n USA l, Imported 23 LNG Cargoes GAIL sells around 67% Natural Gas sold in the country Sustainability Report 83 2014-15 A country’s economic growth is closely correlated to the energy demand. India is in transition. It is moving from a planned economy with extensive central controls, to one based increasingly on the operation of market forces. As a leading player in the gas sector in India, GAIL is well-positioned to play an important role in the fast-growing energy sector in the country. 84 Fostering Responsible Growth Transforming Our Business Approach: Safeguarding Our Growth (continue) ndia has emerged as one of the fast growing economies in the world wherein the energy sector holds the key in accelerating country’s economic growth. By 2025, it is expected that China and India will emerge as biggest energy consumers after US. The rapidly growing industrial base, urbanization, as well as improvement in the standard of living have widened the gap between energy Natural Gas scenario and challenges demand and supply. for GAIL India meets its Natural gas Indian energy sector is going through requirement through Domestic a critical phase and is facing several Natural Gas and Imported Re-gasified challenges. The industry and the nation Liquefied Natural Gas (R-LNG). at large would need to make choices Keeping in view the shortage of natural to address key issues like volatile gas in the country, domestic gas is prices, global linkage of raw material allocated to various sectors based on prices, limited domestic availability the Policy Guidelines issued by the of gas, LNG market dynamics Government from time to time. In case including availability at affordable of imported gas, the marketers are prices for Indian market, importance free to import LNG and sell the R-LNG of efficiency across the value chain, to customers. In recent years, Indian alternate energy developments, natural gas sector has faced significant evolving regulatory framework downturn due to low availability of and policy guidelines, downstream domestic gas. According to recent BP market reforms, changing competitive Statistics, India has shown decline in landscape, etc. Also, globalisation gas production by 5.9 % and in gas has meant that our energy markets consumption 1.5 % in 2014 compared are more and more linked to global to previous year. India’s production markets. The uncertainty caused by and consumption of natural gas for such factors in the oil and gas sector the year 2014 has been 31.7 and 50.6 will continue to pose newer challenges. BCM respectively. India’s natural This will require significant scaling up gas consumption has consistently of capabilities, and doing that in an exceeded domestic production. With effective and long-lasting manner will sluggish domestic production and be another key challenge for GAIL. persistent demand growth, India is becoming increasingly dependent on After three years of relative stability, LNG imports. Historically, LNG imports oil prices have fallen sharply since have helped to meet the rising demand mid-2014. Global natural gas markets supply gap. For the year 2014, India have already felt some impact from imported 37.41% of its natural gas for the slide of oil prices. Gas prices in domestic consumption. some markets are contractually tied Sustainability Report 85 2014-15 Gas sourcing and sector wise supply Percentage (%) share of Sectors 20 MMSCMD 27% 73% 52 MMSCMD 1 13 21 1 5 10 9 2 5 2 3 Fertilizers Power CGD for CNG & Petrochemicals Gas Based LPG Other* PNG Domestic R-LNG (* Others include sectors like Steel, Refinery, sponge iron etc.) 86 Fostering Responsible Growth Transforming Our Business Approach: Safeguarding Our Growth (continue) to oil prices. India relies heavily on imports to satisfy its demand given Our Initiatives for market through its Singapore Subsidiary in line with globalization relatively limited domestic production. Natural Gas Marketing ambitions. We are also focusing on To ensure security of supply, most making upstream investments in gas GAIL is continuously focused in Asian buyers relied principally on assets, liquefaction facilities and LNG its effort to manage the risk and long term contracts, largely indexed shipping to build a presence in the exploiting the opportunities from to oil prices. Recent fall in oil prices entire LNG value chain . We imported the uncertainties of the international directly impacts the Asian gas price 23 LNG cargoes during this year from market. GAIL has developed a Longpushing it significantly lower. In such various international sources on short term Import Portfolio of 24 MMTPA. a scenario, long-term contracts term as well as spot basis to meet During 2011-15, 75 spot/mid-term become uncompetitive while the spot immediate domestic gas requirement. cargos have been imported. To reduce market becomes attractive due to fall the growing demand-supply gap of Further, with greater impetus given to in spot LNG prices. GAIL is currently natural gas, GAIL has also signed the CGD sector by the Government, facing new challenges in growth of several long-term LNG contracts, we are expanding our CGD and PNG revenue and profitability. This year, the notably 3.5 MMTPA Henry Hub linked network to cover various cities Gas Marketing segment registered LNG from Sabine Pass, USA and 2.3 supplying gas for domestic consumers, a decrease of INR 910 Crore in MMTPA capacity tie-up in Dominion public transport, and commercial/ profitability. Cove Point terminal, USA. GAIL has industrial entities. The company has also been facing also tied-up 2.5 MMTPA LNG from headwind in terms of growth of Gazprom – Russia and is an active As India’s leading Natural Gas major, trading and transmission volumes partner in TAPI pipeline project, GAIL has been instrumental in the due to substantial fall in domestic wherein it has already signed the GSPA development of the Natural Gas gas, lower off take of R-LNG due to with TurkmenGaz for importing 38 market in the country. Today GAIL is higher price and LNG regasification MMSMCMD of gas from Turkmenistan. the flagship natural gas company of infrastructure constraints among other GAIL has also commissioned 5 MMTPA India with around 67% market share issues. There is also no visibility on the Dabhol LNG terminal as “Owners in natural gas marketing. GAIL is upside in availability of domestic gas Engineer”. Further, discussions are supplying Natural Gas to customers volume in the near future. Also, due to on with M/s Adani Ports and Special across India. GAIL has adopted Gas declaration of geographical areas by Economic Zone Ltd (APSEZ) for equity Management System to handle PNGRB, GAIL is unable to extend Last participation and booking of capacity multiple sources of supply and delivery mile connectivity / CGD connectivities in the proposed regasification terminal of gas in a co-mingled form and in various areas. Tarrif revisions by at Dhamra port in Odisha. provide a seamless interface between PNGRB on a retrospective basis have shippers, customers, transporters and GAIL has also been trading some of suppliers. impacted GAIL by INR 440 Crore. its LNG portfolio in the international Sustainability Report 87 2014-15 GAIL Domestic Gas Sales 2014-15 (%) 39% Fertilisers 5% Gas Based LPG plants forLPG extraction 25% Power CGD for CNG (Transport) & PNG (Domestic) Purpose Petrochemicals 8% Sponge Iron / Steel 2% Other 3% 17% GAIL Imported Gas Sales 2014-15 (%) 50% 8% Fertilisers 5% Other 10% Power CGD for CNG (Transport) & PNG 5% (Domestic) Purpose Small Consumer 8% 7% Refineries 7% Petrochemicals Sponge Iron / Steel The potential for growth of the natural gas market in India is tremendous. “With growing profitability challenges with changing business dynamics, However, this is a very price sensitive it is necessary to look within and explore opportunities to drive down the market as the ability of customers operational cost and increase system efficiency. Decreased domestic to pay differs between sectors. The availability of gas, reduction in gas transmission volumes and tariffs, power generation and fertiliser sectors fall in commodity prices of liquid hydrocarbons and polymers has posed are the main consumers. Fertiliser challenges to maintain growth in profitability levels. In such a situation, profit producers are subsidised by the maximization project viz. Project ‘Sanchay’ is a step in this direction that aims government and have limited ability at improving profitability across business segments.” to absorb higher prices. In the power generation sector, gas has to compete -Director (Finance) against coal for base-load generation. Any change in the fertilizer sector, power sector or in coal markets will have a significant impact on future gas demand. 88 Fostering Responsible Growth Transforming Our Business Approach: Safeguarding Our Growth (continue) Petrochemicals and GAIL is significant player in this segment. Indian LLDPE / HDPE “The year has been challenging for – Scenario and segment is primarily dominated by the industry as well as the company. imports accounting for about 30% Business dynamics have changed challenges for GAIL of total market share. In contrast with fall in domestic gas availability According to a recent report by Platts, to PE segment, Indian PP segment creating greater dependency on India’s petrochemical demand growth has surplus capacity and currently higher priced RLNG. Higher feedstock is expected to register annual growth produces almost 4,060 KTA and cost coupled with falling polymer of 7.7% over next ten years. However, exports the excess volume. prices has depressed the profitability the per Capita consumption of plastics of petrochemicals segment. As we At present, GAIL is in the process gear up, we look forward to the in India is only 9 Kgs whereas global of doubling the capacity of its Pata continued support and trust of our average is 30 Kgs and China averages Petrochemical Plant to 810 KTA. stakeholders in these testing times.” almost 40 Kgs. Hence, it is expected Further, Brahmaputra Cracker and that India will witness major expansion Polymer Ltd. (BCPL), a JV between Director (Marketing) in capacity and consumption of GAIL, Numaligarh Refinery Limited plastics in next four-five years. (NRL), Oil India Limited (OIL) and Like Global polymer industry, Indian Government of Assam, is setting up polymer industry is dominated a plant in Lepetkata, Assam which by Polyolefin (Polyethylene – PE will produce a 220 KTA PE as well and Polypropylene PP) which as 60 KTA of PP. GAIL is also a Joint represent about 65% of the total Venture partner in the Greenfield polymer capacity and production in petrochemical project OPaL being set India. LLDPE and HDPE constitute up at Dahej in Gujarat. approx. 85 % of PE consumption Sustainability Report 89 2014-15 Our Initiatives for be very important for which GAIL is already taken actions. GAIL is taking processes and quality systems ensure that the products conform to Petrochemicals various actions viz. securing cheaper the technical specifications, backed Spot R-LNG and long term for Ethane by high quality services to provide Marketing import to take care of this. GAIL is complete solution to the customers. We are working on developing our doing pricing of its polymer products GAIL endeavors to develop new areas network of Consignment Stockists on import parity prices in line with of polymer application in line with and empowering our Zonal offices the industry practice. The increase government thrust areas such as to for immediate response to market in Import duty on polymer is having address the issue of water scarcity and dynamics to absorb the additional positive effect on domestic polymer its importance for agriculture, GAIL capacities. Further, GAIL is also products and also on GAIL. has focused in developing polymer analyzing product and logistics which can be used in Drip Irrigation. It Considering the growing consumption, is also developing new grades in the optimization for existing capacities. proper disposal of plastic waste is also GAIL polymer Technology Centre which We are in the process of doubling essential to address the environmental will not only increase the market share its our distribution network, going concerns by all the stakeholders of GAIL’s HDPE in extrusion coating for feeder warehouse in the major involved such as raw material but will also protect the existing consumption centers, augmenting manufacturers, processors, common HDPE raffia market share in Domestic the manpower including technical public, municipalities and various govt. market. expertise, etc. for export and regularly agencies. GAIL is committed towards engage with the overseas bulk buyers. producing a quality product with GAIL is also under the process of In addition, Project Sanchay for creating, maintaining and ensuring a conducting training of youth from maximization of profits for Polymer safe and clean environment. GAIL’s under privileged background by products is under progress. Steps polymer products are environmentimparting residential training through are also being taken to develop the friendly and fully recyclable. GAIL CIPET at Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabad, capabilities of the team. provides a wide choice of grades Hyderabad & Guwahati. In view of the drop in crude oil prices, with consistent and reliable quality sourcing of cheaper raw material will to its customers. Its manufacturing 90 Fostering Responsible Growth Human Capital: At the Core of Our Growth e-Gyan Prawah e-Learning portal: Association with Harvard Business Publishing with a customization of Harvard Manage Mentor Sustainability Report 91 2014-15 At GAIL we truly believe that the employees are the pride and the strength of our organization. The employees, through their unrelenting dedication and loyalty have been instrumental in achieving and exceeding our business objectives and milestones. 92 Fostering Responsible Growth Human Capital: at the Core of Our Growth (continue) Human resources challenges in the present business context Energy security remains a strategic priority for India. Earlier in 2013, Petroleum Ministry unveiled its plan for to make India energy independent he sector needs to tide over reason for the success or failure of by 2030. India is currently the world’s the challenges of attraction the organization. The financial capital, 9th largest economy with a US$2.06 and retention efficiently technology or processes of the trillion GDP. The country’s oil and gas to support current operations and organizations, by themselves, cannot sector has contributed significantly accomplish the planned growth. accomplish organizational goals as to the Indian GDP, and the sector is Planning for the sustained availability these resources depend on human expected to become increasingly of a competent workforce is the resources. critical for India’s economic universal challenge faced by all development. Anticipated business sectors of the oil and gas value chain. The company has continued to growth in the sector is contingent to Upstream talent shortage and ageing exercise its both options i.e. to hire the availability of skilled manpower workforce is a critical issue presently and train fresh graduates and to hire in the country. The sector is likely to being faced by global as well as Indian experienced people with required skill require more professionals in the next upstream industry. The industry is sets for instant capability utilization. couple of years due to retirement, especially constrained with shortfall With the boom of unconventional attrition and business growth. Core of manpower with specialized skills methods in exploration and production, functions are likely to account for such as in reservoir engineering requirement of fresh competencies major share of required manpower. or with experience of developing has arisen and it has got an edge over The upstream sector is expected to unconventional gas assets. the conventional ones. With shale gas see the maximum shortfall of Human “With the immediate challenges discoveries and production worldwide, Resource on account of high numbers foreseen in Oil & Gas business, particularly in the United States these of retirement. In the downstream we at GAIL need to see that our unconventional competencies became sector like refining and petrochemical valued human capital is at the real incentive for organizations. sectors are going to face strong requirement of professionals as these core of our business growth. It has The company has been carrying out sectors are witnessing substantial become even more imperative for regular assessment of required capacity additions. Further CGD & us to hire, train and develop our manpower and accordingly continued marketing sector is also going to see human capital in alignment to our to build the capacity and capabilities additional manpower requirement identified business goals, objectives in the specialized areas to tackle due to exponential growth in pipeline and future leadership positions. diverse business needs in Sourcing, infrastructure and the network. It is also important to keep them Mergers and Acquisition, Trading, Manpower projections studies for in preparedness for meeting the Power, Shale Gas, Shipping etc. the oil and gas industry also predict a business challenges, emerging Further actions are being taken to substantial demand for skilled oil and regulatory issues, shift in national strengthen the existing capabilities gas professionals in near future. priorities and demands of new in Upstream, Contract, Project, business segments.” Regulatory & Risk Management, etc. Director (Human Resources) Emphasis has been given to form a cross functional team for areas where multiple skillset is required. The Changing Approach company has rolled out Competency towards Talent Mapping to benchmark and improve performance standards. Focused ManagementG4-DMA training programs have been planned for capability building in existing areas. At GAIL, human capital is considered Advanced training programs are to to be as the most valuable asset be organized for selected group of that account for the most important executives in strategic business areas. Sustainability Report 93 2014-15 Several initiatives have been taken by GAIL to strengthen its Knowledge  To focus on the proper placement of employees in jobs to which they Retaining talent Management System. are best suite taking into account Human Resources’ Department their qualification / experience, continuously engages with the Recruiting right talent and aptitude etc. employees through formal and informal mediums. The Company GAIL HR Strategy is aligned with its The company has a well-planned believes in philosophy of optimum core business objectives. The role of system of Human Resource Planning utilization of manpower and the Human HR personnel is becoming increasingly (HRP) both at corporate and unit Resource Planning (HRP) is given challenging due to the talent-crunch level. The non-managerial and attention of highest order. Company in the sector. GAIL HR has deployed non-supervisory level posts are also ensures healthy work life balance. rotational program that includes normally filled at unit level, whereas The principles of Total Quality different assignments to ensure the executive level posts are filled Management (TQM) are implemented availability of an adequate talent centrally. Presently the e-Recruitment in all processes of the Company which pool for leadership roles. Besides the system is followed wherein the posts also include the Human Resource focused and intense in-house training are advertised at company’s website Management (HRM). system, the company also looks toward and candidates are applying online. outer world to gain new capabilities. Further, recruiting right talent is Some key initiatives taken up by carried out through different mediums GAIL to boost employee retention Transparent selections on merit such as open recruitment, lateral includes freedom of expression of basis is the hallmark of company’s hiring in critical areas, engagement thoughts and ideas through a number recruitment policy. Objective of the of experts / advisors, secondments/ of communication channels like company’s Recruitment policy are: deputation etc. in line with the HR plan. CMD Openhouse, Online Grievance Experienced talent is targeted for Redressal Mechanism, Suggestion  To plan the manpower mid and senior level positions through Scheme; Due recognitions to Long requirements and budget the lateral hiring. Service and Women Employee Awards, requirement of requisite human and competitive compensation and resources with necessary qualifications, skills, aptitude and New Hires in benefits. We also aim to promote the values of diversity and inclusivity experience etc. 2014-15G4-LA1 throughout our workforce. The overall success of our HR policies is evidenced  To regulate and facilitate Male Female Total by our low attrition rates. recruitment and selection of suitable human resources in the New Hires 300 14 314 Company. in 2014-15 BP Statistical Review, 2015 Presentation 94 Fostering Responsible Growth Human Capital: at the Core of Our Growth (continue) Employee turnover in FY2014-15G4-LA1 Male Female Total Employees separated 66 3 69 Age Profile of Employees Separated <30 30-50 >50 Total 34 9 26 69 Employees returned to work after parental leave (for FY 2014-15)G4-LA3 Gender No.s Number of employees entitled to parental leave Male 4010 Female 255 Number of employees that took parental leave Male 117 Female 14 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended Male 117 Female 14 Employees returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 Male 133 months after their return Female 11 Retention rates of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended Male 100% Female 93% Performance The core areas of Corporate Governance which the Company intends to follow in the modern business environment include rigorous, planned and scheduled AppraisalG4-LA11 training to its employees. GAIL has designed a very rational GAIL believes training and development is necessary for knowledge and skill system of Performance Appraisal and upgradation of employees. It provides an opportunity to learn the new things Development (PAD) Reporting. An open and refresh the old. The company has a structured process for training and system is followed in the Company development for the employees to ensure a workforce that is suitably equipped where the employee gets a chance with knowledge, skills, attitude and practical exposure to highly specialized jobs. of self-appraisal and development. Our GAIL Training Institute (GTI) set up in the year 1997 at Noida is an ISO 9001 Promotion system in GAIL is based certified facility that provides resources and facilities for all kinds of training on a system which is a combination to our employees. To cater to maximum employees into this process, we have of both meritocracy and seniority. increased our infrastructure by setting up another GTI in Jaipur in 2005. 100% of regular employees are receiving regular performance/ career In FY 14-15 Hours development reviews. Average Hours of training per year per employee -male 41 Training & Average Hours Of training per year per employee -female 38 developmentG4-DMA, Other trainings are also carried out at GAIL which includes trainings on soft skills, motivation, functional aspects, health, safety, environment, human rights G4-LA10 etc. Training on health and safety policies and procedures of the organisation has been one of the parameters of Internal MoU of GTI and 300 Man-Days Training and development of human were devoted for imparting training on Health, Safety & Environment related resources at GAIL is one of the primary Training Programs organized at GTI and external training programs within India. concerns to the Company and it An expenditure of approximately INR 8.5 lakhs was incurred for trainings with invest a lot of money, time and other respect to environmental education. resources to take care of this issue. Sustainability Report 95 2014-15 Employees who received safety and skill up-gradation training in FY 2014-15 Permanent Employees (Total) 94.5% Permanent Employees (Male) 95% Permanent Employees (Female) 96% Casual/ Temporary/ Contract Employees 25% Disabled Employees 91% Apart from these scheduled trainings, Training Program for fresh recruits i.e. knowledge of other functional areas. employees are also imparted inputs Executive Trainees. Further, for new business areas, regarding Safety & Skill upgradation training modules have been developed in functional areas and behavioral Training programs for skill focussing on E&P activities, Hedging, aspects through e-knowledge management and lifelong learning that Shipping among other areas. sharing programs, online Quizzes and support the continued employability Competitive events organized on of employees are organized at GAIL We also realise the need to be future various occasions. Training Institutes. Training programs ready and are constantly building our on skill enhancement and capacity succession planning. With the aim of In addition to formal and structured building are the focus areas of top developing leadership, programs are training, we offer on the job training to management. Skills are further conducted for executives at senior our workforce that motivates them to sharpened through training programs levels. In order to assess the talent perform better and in turn contribute designed for different levels of pool at senior level, executives are to their success and our growth. This is employees. Apart from this, crossmade to undergo development centres. a major factor in retaining our talented functional training programs are Developmental gaps identified through professionals for a long duration. GAIL also organized as a routine wherein this process are mitigated through HR team has formulated a rigorous and participants from cross-functional executive development programs, job effective Induction cum Orientation areas are enabled with the basic rotation and higher responsibilities. 96 Fostering Responsible Growth Human Capital: at the Core of Our Growth (continue) Average hours of Training 139479.5 129831.45 160000 140000 120496.75 107250.5 99218.7 120000 100000 54010.45 51487.25 48595.75 80000 41835 60000 29071 40000 28617.5 38944.5 26493 25008.9 26789.25 20000 0 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Management Employees Workmen (Direct Employees) Contractual Labour (Operations)(Direct) Male (Manhours) Male (Manhours) Male (Manhours) 10000 9256 9000 7210.6 6856 8000 7000 5974 5445 6000 5000 4000 3000 1392 1520 1268.6 2000 903.5 987.5 670.5 875 859 1000 0 0 0 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Management Employees Workmen (Direct Employees) Contractual Labour (Operations)(Direct) Female (Manhours) Female (Manhours) Female (Manhours) Sustainability Report 97 2014-15 Some of the significant initiatives taken for human resource development by our company in the year 2014-15 include: e-Learning initiatives association with Harvard Business Publishing with a customization animations to keep the module interesting. At the end of the at GAIL of Harvard Manage Mentor based module an assessment exercise is on key areas of developments presented to the participant. e-Learning initiatives have been one identified during Senior of the most innovative training and 3. Executive Trainee (ET) Online Management Development Centre development initiatives taken up Monitoring & Assessment System: exercise. at GAIL. These are available to our is used for tracking the progress employees in three forms:2. eLearning Module on CNG made by the ETs. Business Overview: This e-learning 1. e-Learning portal (e-Gyan Prawah): module is of one hour duration and This portal has been developed in uses interactive platforms and 98 Fostering Responsible Growth Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Harnessing Opportunities for Growth Compliance of Statutory Regulation in last 3 Years Sustainability Report 99 2014-15 Shri K D Tripathi, Secretary, MoPNG interacting with Top management at GAIL C.O. Organizations across a wide spectrum of sectors are coming under the regulatory purview today more than ever before. New laws, regulations and public expectations have pushed governance and compliance even higher up the organization’s agenda. We believe in adapting ourselves to the foreseen regulatory environment, strengthening our systems while we grow. 100 Fostering Responsible Growth Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Harnessing Opportunities for Growth (continue) n enabling regulatory environment plays a crucial role in development of a sector while ensuring cost and time effectiveness and maximum benefits to all stakeholders. Development of competitive natural gas markets and attracting investments in development of infrastructure requires appropriate regulatory framework which supports market development. Our effective Aspects Pertaining In order to foster competition in the ‘Content’ segment, the ‘Carriage’ is and robust governance and reliable compliance tools in the organization to PNGRB Regulatory usually subjected to open access to third parties under close regulatory ensures tapping of opportunities from the changing regulatory landscape. Framework oversight, including determination From a regulatory point of view, the of transportation rates /tariffs. activities of natural gas sector are This aspect is fundamental to the broadly classified under ‘Carriage’ overarching approach to regulation of and ‘Content’ segments. While the the natural gas sector. ‘Content’ segment covers the activities The above aspect is articulated in the of ‘marketing and sale’ of goods, i.e., Government of India Policy document natural gas, the ‘Carriage’ segment (Policy for development of Natural Gas refers to transportation of gas through Pipelines and City or local Natural Gas transmission pipelines and gas Distribution Networks, 2006), under distribution networks, including City Clause no. 1.1 as follows: Gas Distribution networks. Petroleum and Natural Gas Sector Other Central Level State Level Regulators Government Bodies Ministry of DGH Oil Industry Energy Petroleum and (upstream) Development Directorates Natural Gas Board Departments Oil Industry PNGRB of Commerce Safety (Downstream) and Industry Directorate Petroleum Conservation and Research Association Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell Sustainability Report 101 2014-15 Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi during inaugural of activities of Jagdishpur Haldia gas pipeline. 1.1 “Regulatory reforms permit Act provides for regulating the refining, to GAIL are also under various stages and encourage market forces processing, storage, transportation, of appeals. Some such areas pertaining to enhance competition and distribution, marketing and sale of to GAIL include pipeline authorization, produce a more competitive petroleum, petroleum products and common carrier, tariff, unbundling of and efficient industry structure. natural gas, but excluding the activities gas transportation and gas marketing While there is growing recognition of production of crude oil and natural activities. that competition can reduce gas, so as to protect the interests of the need for regulation, in many consumers and entities engaged in The timing and content of any final areas there exist some areas of these activities. Furthermore, for the changes in regulations made by the monopoly where the benefits of development of the gas sector in India, Regulator is not in the control of regulation potentially outweigh including the establishment of a Gas individual entities. However, regular the cost. Natural gas pipelines Grid with open market access for all participation in public consultation infrastructure and City or local players on a nondiscriminatory basis, exercises conducted by the Regulatory natural gas distribution networks PNGRB is mandated with the function Board and making submissions to (CGD networks) fall under this of developing a comprehensive set the Regulator in writing helps us category.” of technical requirements and safety to anticipate or to minimize our standards as well as a code for gas risks associated with any sudden or Thus, pipeline regulation ensures grid connectivity, so as to ensure unforeseen changes in regulations. a level playing field to foster a operational compatibility. Adherence competitive environment. With greater “GAIL is experiencing headwinds to such standards and codes are an impetus being given to increasing the with increasing regulatory pressures integral condition of authorization for pipeline infrastructure, extending that are building risk to the existing gas pipelines as well as city or local reach of City Gas Distribution and business. Slow rollout of CGD sector natural gas distribution networks. Piped Natural gas networks, a and tariff cuts on existing pipeline conducive regulatory framework We comply with the notified PNGRB network is making gas transmission provides an enabling environment for regulatory framework in respect sector unviable and posing threat to the industry to grow and prosper. of applicable activities pertaining the proposed national gas grid. to petroleum products and natural The Petroleum & Natural Gas We believe in responsible growth is a gas. The regulations/amendments/ Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has been prerequisite to remain sustainable & authorizations/orders/decisions of established by the Central Government competitive while developing robust PNGRB are appealable before PNGRB for carrying out the various provisions systems and practices to achieve it.” Bench/Appellate Tribunal/Courts and of the PNGRB Act, 2006. The PNGRB accordingly, some of them pertaining Director (Marketing) 102 Fostering Responsible Growth Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Harnessing Opportunities for Growth (continue) Resistance in Right of Use (RoU) We understand that the regulatory vigilance issues, safety and security, and delay in statutory clearances is compliance continues to be complex expansion and diversification hampering natural gas infrastructure business challenge. As new laws and plans with the Ministry and other growth. Pipeline projects get delayed regulations are introduced, their government bodies at regular intervals. and at times getting scrapped requirements challenge us to greater due to RoU and Land acquisition levels of transparency, objectivity We are also aware about the impact resistances and delay in clearances and professionalism. With increased of our operations on environment and, and permissions. The delay leads accountability and potential exposure therefore, continuously work towards to increase in costs of the projects, to liability, we need to ensure that reducing the emissions, effluents, sometimes making them unviable. regulatory standards are clearly and waste produced. We have well Further, it is important to synchronize understood and adhere to robust established environment management pipeline laying with downstream compliance management systems. We, systems which are dedicated to customer readiness. For example, in therefore, consider Government and function beyond compliance levels. All case of Jagdishpur-Haldia Pipeline, other regulatory agencies a key player statutory compliances with respect firm tie-up of volume would be in influencing how businesses operate to preventive maintenance schedule important for the project to take throughout the world. This is in form and environmental clearances through off. Also, LNG regas infrastructure of taxes, regulatory and other policies respective Pollution Control Board are constraints are limiting R-LNG sales. and tools, providing access to capital taken in due course, along with creation The above factors have impacted the and other related functions. We strive of separate budgets for compliances. financial performance of GAIL. to achieve compliance to all national Technologies and equipment like and international regulations and take scrubber systems, effluent treatment G4-DMA Being a Central Public Sector it as a highest priority. plants have been installed at the units Enterprise (CPSE), GAIL is directly to control air emissions and discharged accountable to the Government We have systems in place to ensure water below the prescribed limits of of India for its performance and that technical and safety standards Pollution Control Board. The hazardous fulfillment of business objectives. are given utmost priority. In addition to solid waste generated at our facilities We also engage with the Directoratethe PNGRB mandates, we also follow is stored and disposed of as per the General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) for our the OISD Standards. A developed best available environment practices exploration and production activities framework ensures compliance with complying with applicable regulations. that contribute to the nation’s energy the provisions of all applicable laws security. For E&P Blocks where GAIL and such frameworks are adequate Our pipeline are designed, constructed is the Operator, all compliances and operating effectively. Our Risk and maintained in line with the in respect of various statutory Management Policy & Procedure requirement of international standards regulations related to Mines Act, protects and adds value to our like the ASME, API, DIN, ISO and Explosives Act and Rules, Environment organization and stakeholders to national standards like the OISD. The related acts and rules, Hazardous enable compliance with the relevant pipeline network is designed after Waste (Management, Handling & legal and regulatory requirements a detailed environmental impact Transboundary Movement) Act and and international norms. We regularly assessment and series of approvals Rules and Manufacture, Storage map our legal and regulatory risks from Ministry of Environment and & Import of Hazardous Chemicals across sites through online risk Forests. The pipeline alignment is Rules were complied. In addition, register, in addition to other aspects. selected in such a way that the length provisions of Production Sharing Risk related to gas allocation policy, is optimized avoiding ecologically Contract signed with Government gas pricing policy, PNGRB related sensitive and protected areas/ of India and other Host Government regulations, Climate change and geographically unstable areas/ less were followed for which necessary environment related laws / regulations number of obstacle crossings like NH co-ordination was maintained with and sustainability related regulations / SH / Railways, restricted / reserve Directorate General of Hydrocarbons among other pertinent issues have forest area/ Coastal Regulation (DGH). Challenges related to obtaining also been included. For regulatory Zones (CRZ). All contractors involved timely Environment Clearances were related issues, we engage extensively in pipeline laying operations are address through mutual discussions with Government and regulatory mandated to limit activities only within with various agencies and regulatory agencies. Additionally, we have the approved Right-of-way. We adhere bodies and also by seeking time regular discussions on our financial to Indian regulation on Resettlement extension to complete the activities as performance, gas allocation and and Rehabilitation; however we have per provisions of Production Sharing utilization, gas pricing, Natural gas not envisaged any R&R within our Contracts. pooling and swapping mechanism, projects and operations this year. energy security, project planning, Sustainability Report 103 2014-15 We also actively engage with several other regulatory authorities for compliance, we are confidently able to declare that there has been no instance Anti-Competitive ensuring compliance to laws & of non-compliance with any stock Behavior:G4-DMA, G4-SO7 regulations. Apart from fulfilling exchange, SEBI on any matter relating GAIL is India’s largest natural our regulatory requirements to capital market over the last 3 years. gas company and understands including submitting annual reports We always aim to establish a the responsibility to function in a and statutory filings as per Listing meaningful stakeholder engagement to responsible manner. Following which, Agreement, organizing site inspections maintain our “social license to operate”. GAIL aims to work strictly according and filing compliance reports to the Therefore, we consciously plan our to the laws and regulations including authorities, we are also involved CSR activities and work towards those involving anti-competitive with them for developing policies / improving the societal condition of and ethical behaviour. GAIL works regulations for Indian oil and gas the areas we operate in, as a socially under the purview of Competition industry. and environmentally responsible Commission of India and with high We try to establish a constructive corporate citizen. FY 2013-14 also saw ethical and moral standards without dialogue with the regulators. We also the passing of the landmark legislation indulging in any form of practices which engage with industry bodies the put with implications for Corporate Social restrain any competition in the market. up the concerns of the sectors and Responsibility i.e. the Companies Act There have been six cases which have enable a holistic and inclusive policy 2013. GAIL in order to comply with the been filed against GAIL regarding development. We continue to work provisions of said Section 135 and the unfair trade practices, restrictive trade with industry associations like FICCI, accompanying Rules is currently in the practices and misuse of monopoly. CII, International Gas Union, Petrofed, process of revisiting and redrawing its Five cases were filed before PNGRB World Energy Council, TERI, on various Corporate Social Responsibility Policy while one case was filed before issues in the energy sector. We as also modifications in the existing Competition Commission of India. initiated our association with US EPA approval process, structure and CSR Competition Commission decided in for Global Methane Initiative to work allocation FY 2014-15 onwards. favor of GAIL. PNGRB in 4 matters on the challenge of fugitive emission in There have been no incidents of decided against GAIL which are Natural Gas transportation. Further, we non-compliance with respect to presently pending before Hon’ble have also undertaken voluntary targets regulations and voluntary codes Supreme Court for adjudication. Out through Sustainability Aspirations concerning health and safety impacts of the four matters decided by PNGRB, 2020. The details of the same have of products and services during their in one case the Board imposed a fine been disclosed in the Sustainability life cycle, marketing communications, of INR 1 lakh against GAIL. PNGRB Strategy section of this report. including advertising, promotion, and decided one case in favor of GAIL. Organizations have a lot to gain, both sponsorship by type of outcomes. Except for one there have been strategically and tactically, from no cases where administrative or building trust and fostering longThere have been no incidents of judicial sanctions have been levied term cooperation with regulators not non-compliance with respect to against the organization for failure only on an individual level concerns regulations and voluntary codes to comply with laws or regulations, but also on large issues with bigger concerning health and safety impacts including: international declarations socio-political implications. Where of products and services during their / conventions / treaties, and national, trust exists, regulation can become a life cycle, marketing communications, sub-national, regional, and local mechanism for industry-wide – even including advertising, promotion, and regulations and cases brought against global – cooperation on issues ranging sponsorship by type of outcomes. the organization through the use of from financial prudence to technical international dispute mechanisms innovation and climate change. With or national dispute mechanisms such strong foundation for regulatory supervised by government authorities. 104 Fostering Responsible Growth Driving Innovation: Redefining Our Growth INR 50 Crores Spent on R&D Enhanced Security for Pipelines and Operations Full fledged R&D Centre Proposed Sustainability Report 105 2014-15 Innovation is a critical component in improving individual and organizational performance. With challenging times, we understand there is a need to adapt to radical changes, which call for out-of-the-box thinking. Inspiration for innovation usually stems from a combination of need to bring about a change; how people perceive and pursue that change till the end; and a congenial environment to accomplish that change. It is only through innovation that we can bring about such avantgarde transformation. 106 Fostering Responsible Growth Driving Innovation: Redefining Our Growth (continue) n expanding economy and a growing population have resulted in increased consumption of primary energy resources, such as coal, oil and natural gas, in India. Energy consumption in India has nearly trebled over the past 20 years and is likely to be more than double over the next 20 years. Oil and gas industry players face challenges on its increasing growth and scale, capturing midto long-term Increasing business opportunities, the flexibility Benchmarking competition to address market dynamics and with Global best Cost changing business needs. Technology practices reduction challenges are ever present as resource declines, recovery increases, and difficult-to-explore resources Least time/cost become more prevalent, including Efficiency/ basis project productivity limited accessibility and the need for implementation. Drivers of improvement new production technologies. Innovation Customer Growing Delight market Demand Quality HSE assurance commitment GAIL has been a dominant player in and expansion hurdles, we are the gas markets, of late it has been shifting our focus to boosting lastfacing competition from other players, mile connectivity (LMC) to provide making it imperative for us to ideate linkage for city gas distribution and and develop new business models to compressed natural gas distribution minimize the business risks and grow outlets. We also intend to focus on in competitive market. We believe establishing connectivity between that innovation and competitiveness our trunk pipelines and 40-60 cities have a dynamic, mutual relationship. in the near-to-medium term. Looking In order to prosper in a competitive at the potential opportunities in our environment, we have always relied on sector, some of the major initiatives innovation as a vital parameter in the that have been undertaken as a part achievement of such an environment of innovation management includes that will not only reduce the gap pilot project on landfill gas (LFG) between demand and supply but recovery, installation of pipeline also generate economic value, new intrusion and leak detection systems jobs in the economy and cultures of (PID), bench scale study of waste entrepreneurship. plastics to hydrocarbon, new polymer development, e-tendering and With our core business of natural gas reverse auction schemes, switching pipelines facing challenge due to low to renewable energy, investment in utilisation, domestic gas shortage cleaner technology etc. Sustainability Report 107 2014-15 Steering Innovation Secretary (MOP&NG) for preparing the road maps for innovations in their (* for Business Development related activities) Innovation has always served as respective streams. an undoubted success key for the To drive this initiative, we have been acknowledged as a major growth of businesses. Its importance becomes more critical owing to cut Innovation Process at stakeholder for implementation of SIC throat competition prevailing in the GAIL recommendation for the midstream industry. Therefore, for us, it becomes sector in the country to drive more important to develop scientific “As the torchbearer for the Sectoral innovation in this sector. We recognize approach among our employees to Innovation Council in the Hydrocarbon the significance of innovation and face challenging business environment sector, we believe that innovation not shall continue to put our sincere in uncertain times. only promotes out of box thinking efforts for it. A team comprising of within individuals but also results in R&D and Corporate Planning was The Government of India has also bringing out solutions to pushes the nominated from our company for considered innovation as a significant economic growth to new horizons.” Sectoral Innovation activities. To drive driver for growth of prosperity and ahead innovation activities within the competitiveness in 21st Century -Director (Human Resources)* company, Innovation Workshops were and the Hon’ble President of India conducted during the reporting period. declared 2011-21 as the “Decade of Innovation”. Taking cognizance of the importance of innovation, the R&D Activities former Prime Minister set up the National Innovation Council (NInC) to discuss, analyse and help implement strategies for inclusive innovation in India and prepare a Roadmap for IndustryAcademia Crossfunctional Innovation 2010-2020. In order to Interface & Sectoral Innovation drive innovations in the petroleum Collaboration Team within GAIL and natural gas sector and to provide executable and implementable policy inputs and initiatives, three subgroups for the SIC for P&NG sector Coordinator, Sectoral Suggestion have been formed, i.e. Upstream, Innovation Council for Committee in GAIL Downstream and Midstream under Midstream Sector the Chairmanship of respective Joint 108 Fostering Responsible Growth Driving Innovation: Redefining Our Growth (continue) Research & Development at GAIL We have intensified our focus on Research & Development (R&D) activities and put in place a R&D Policy Vision To be a leading R&D establishment in Natural gas, its derivatives & beyond, driven by values of Innovation, Integrity, Customer centricity with focus on Technology assimilation and Talent nurturing. Mission Strive to develop and assimilate Innovative and Cutting-edge technologies to meet the Business requirements of GAIL. Policy Statement R&D department is committed to development of new or improved materials, fuels, products, processes, systems or devices through research findings. Design, construct and test through Pilots & models the new technologies prior to their commercialization. Provide information on latest technological advancement to maintain the technological edge of GAIL in all its businesses. Sustainability Report 109 2014-15 Our total Spending on R & D (in INR crore ) FY 15 50.90 FY 14 53.88 FY 13 50.70 0 15 30 45 60 Policy and Manual that streamlines their suggestions Innovative ideas creative SLICE, and motivate them the Selection, Award and Monitoring that should be pursued as R&D. The to contribute for the growth and of R&D projects. We recognize the Suggestions can be submitted through prosperity of the organization. All importance of R&D to remain at the our website. http://gailonline.com/ employees are eligible to give SLICE. forefront of technology and, hence, final_site/R&D-12/Suggestion.html There is no restriction in the number of have set a goal to spend at least 1% SLICE that an employee can give. of previous year’s PAT on R&D every year. The DPE has mandated all PSUs Our Efforts In order to facilitate above, an to spend over 1% of PAT on R&D GAIL firmly believes that innovation application (SLICE) has been activities. Accordingly, GAIL’s R&D can lead to multiple benefits for developed & hosted on the home page expenditure in FY 2014-15 was required the organization therefore makes a of GAIL Intranet for submitting SLICE. to be over INR 43.47 crores. GAIL has constant effort to create a culture that All the communications received spent over INR 50 crores in FY 2014-15 supports innovation in all its business through this portal are reviewed on which is substantially higher than the verticals. monthly basis by a senior level mandated value. committee and appropriate actions are taken subsequently based on Through our streamlined innovation Encouragement for Open recommendations of this Committee. process, we have pursued various R&D Communication through We have also introduced and projects in identified thrust areas SLICE Portal implemented a reward-based with an aim to develop high-impact innovative technologies that unlock Open communication between Suggestion Scheme for the employees new energy sources, improve efficiency employees and management is one to promote organization-wide idea of existing operations and add value of the essential parameters for generation for incremental innovation. to the products. Our judicious mix of employee engagement and thereby Such scheme provides an apt R&D portfolio comprises of various performance excellence. Hence environment for stimulation of positive Basic/Applied/Pilot & Technology to encourage employees sharing their thinking and creativity among our development projects encompassing views with management without employees to come-up with innovative the natural gas value chain. any inhibitions, a web portal named suggestions for bringing about more SLICE (Suggestions – Lessons Learnt Economy, Efficiency and Effectiveness We have also deployed an intranet R&D – Initiatives & Innovations – Case – the ‘3E’s essential for survival and Portal where detailed information on Studies – Extraordinary Efforts) has growth – of the company in liberalized its R&D projects is disseminated. The been developed and implemented. market scenario. The suggestions are employees and other stakeholders The objective of this scheme is to evaluated in a time bound manner can provide suggestions and feedback promote Teamwork, Ownership for implementation and the best on the R&D projects to carry out and Accountability at all levels suggestion is awarded with the CMD any improvement or midcourse by evolving an organized channel trophy. correction. In addition to this, our leading to improvements in work external stakeholders can also submit place and recognize employees with 110 Fostering Responsible Growth Driving Innovation: Redefining Our Growth (continue) Revised Suggestion Accordingly, a revised and more comprehensive suggestion scheme suggestion for consideration; Scheme has been formulated which is expected  Time bound evaluation of the to provide immediate impetus to suggestions and declaration of In the light of what has been stated results; the employees to start the process above, and the fact that the existing of thinking and come up, within a suggestion scheme has been perceived  Liberal monetary rewards where reasonably short span of time, with to be not sensitive enough to attract tangible monetary savings are suggestions for bringing about all qualitative suggestions from the established and accepted round development and progress of employees to bring about tangible enhancement of the ceiling of the company. improvements in the functioning of the amount of reward to INR the company, a need has been felt The revised scheme, as enunciated 1,00,000/-; to review the suggestion scheme in the succeeding paragraph,  Ceremonial presentation of currently prevailing in GAIL and make encompasses, inter-alia, the following:cheque, CMD’s trophy, and a it more effective and broad based in  Direct submission of suggestion merit certificate for the best tune with the best practices prevailing through GAIL Intranet; suggestion(s); and within India so that all the employees of the company are motivated  Endorsement of a copy of the  Global viewing to bring about more to come up with suggestions for merit certificate in the personal transparency; improvements in all spheres of work in file and ACR of the employee for GAIL and inculcate a spirit of proactive  Immediate monetary reward of the relevant year. collaboration with the company’s INR 2000/and an appreciation objectives and goals. letter on acceptance of a To take forward innovation activities being implemented or have potential undertaken as and when required / within the company, we organised for implementation in Business observed to enhance the effectiveness a workshop to provide a platform areas of GAIL. It was attended by of HWP System. to address challenges including Senior Officials, Cross Functional knowledge forum, developing an Team Members and Presenters who We have also implemented security innovative culture, dedicated group deliberated, discussed & debated on tracking system for our pipeline / department etc. a total of 15 various Innovative initiatives either along with SCADA system for on line presentations were conducted from implemented / being implemented or monitoring of operating conditions. various departments like – Business have potential for implementation in It also ensures the health of the Information System, Contracts & Business areas of GAIL. pipeline Gas Transportation System: Procurement, Corporate Planning, Monitoring system through existing Corporate Communication, Exploration Our online hot work permit system as SCADA in Gas Management Centre & Production, GAIL Training Institute, per OISD 105 is implemented through through which the line pack, pressure, Health Safety & Environment, Project SAP to carry out hot jobs. It contains temperature, flow, Cathodic Protection Development, Projects, Operation and details of work to be carried out, status etc. are monitored online. The Management (Pata & NCR), Polymer time duration of work authorization; existing system is upgraded to New Marketing, Research & Development a checklist is filled up by issuer, SCADA which will also feature online and Total Quality Management explanatory note, general instructions leak detection system for pipelines. in respect of various Innovative and necessary remarks etc. Additional initiatives either implemented / innovative improvements are also Sustainability Report 111 2014-15 Under our Project TRANSCAP, we have deployed a web platform for Future Plans pursuing collaborative and sponsored R&D work with institutes like IIT, CSIR online data acquisition and make the We have also identified the thrust labs etc. GAIL is also in the process system robust which not only eases to areas of R&D in line with our business of seeking collaborations with world collate data and avoid follow-ups but areas and follows a focused strategy renowned institutions to take up also alerts user through notifications. to take up R&D projects in these R&D in niche areas. Accordingly, a As a result, the manual intervention areas. The thrust areas include energy proposal for setting-up of full-fledged is reduced and data management efficiency, development of new R&D Centre has been taken up. In becomes easier. catalysts and new polymer grades, CO2 the coming decade, GAIL shall have conversion, micro & nano material/ a dedicated R&D Center to carry As an initiative to convert waste plastic fuel cells, renewable energy and out research works in our Core and to diesel GAIL collaborated with unconventional energy sources. We Emerging Areas to address the nation’s CSIR-IIP (Council for Scientific and also plan to set-up of Pilot Project on energy and environmental challenges Industrial Research – Indian Institute ‘Waste Plastics to Hydrocarbons’ for to enable a secure, abundant, reliable, of Petroleum) and have been able to validating the bench-scale results for renewable and affordable energy. convert polyolefin products into the eventual commercial-scale operations. cleanest grade of diesel. We are the Some our planned initiatives that are first to have the capability to convert under consideration for coming years 1 tonne of plastic and other polyolefin includes national gas management products into 850 litres of the cleanest and control systems, development grade of diesel. of new solvents for gas sweetening, development of low cost sensor for GAIL has implemented a pilot Landfill CNG/PNG etc. Gas (LFG) Project at Ghazipur Landfill site. Currently, 125 M3/Hr of LFG with Recently, there has been a major Methane content of about 25 vol% is breakthrough in policy approval of an being captured and safely destroyed innovative mechanism to revive and in an enclosed flare system. Methane improve utilization of the stranded is a GHG and 25 times more potent gas based power generation capacity than CO2 in causing Global Warming. in the country by supplying imported Therefore destruction of Methane Regasified Liquified Natural Gas helps in the efforts towards reduction (R-LNG). Such mechanism will of GHG emissions. Accordingly, the ensure environmental friendly power LFG Project has been successfully generation as compared to coal validated and registered with UNFCCC based and will also provide ample in Sep’2014 for availing carbon credits opportunities for optimal use of gas under CDM mechanism. In 2014-15, infrastructure like gas pipelines and reabout 200 MT of fugitive Methane gasification capacities in the country, emissions going into the atmosphere which are currently underutilized. have been destroyed which is a reduction of 5000 Tonnes of CO2 In addition, we are also looking forward equivalent. to pursue projects in upcoming areas like Underground Coal Gasification, Currently, GAIL is pursuing sponsored Fuel cells, Hydrogen and Gas Hydrates and collaborative R&D work at various in line with the Company’s aspiration to research Institutes and Laboratories in emerge as an integrated hydrocarbon India. Few of these R&D Projects have major by 2020. led to creation of novel Processes. GAIL has filed for Patents to secure the Many Projects have been taken up in Intellectual Property in such Projects. all these areas and GAIL is actively 112 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders 700 Investment of Crores in 118 MW Wind & 5 MW Solar Energy Total Commitment 118.07 Crores Continuing with our commitments – Our Customer Satisfaction Stakeholder centric Approach Sustainability Report 113 2014-15 Engaging with stakeholders is relevant for any type for organization, especially in context of running an organization responsibly. Building trust with stakeholders is very important, aided by understanding their viewpoints and motivations. Engaging with stakeholders helps ensure potential problems are addressed, or changes communicated and understood. For these reasons it is important for companies to find ways and means of engaging with all their stakeholders. 114 Fostering Responsible Growth Shareholders / Investors Our Stakeholders (continue) e are committed to ensure long-term profitability of our businesses and contribute to the wealth of our shareholders and investors. GAIL being a Central Public Sector Enterprise is accountable to the Government of India which is our major shareholder. GAIL’s Shareholding Pattern 56.11 % President of India 7.28 % Other 1.41 % GDRs 18.80 % FIIs IOC 2.42 % ONGC 4.83 % 9.15 % LIC G4-DMA Our belief of ensuring sound  Expanding City Gas Distribution Retaining our value creation and building trust by upholding high level of transparency (CGD) through JVs / subsidiaries to 40-60 cities commitment towards for all our stakeholders is guided by our  Significantly enhancing Vision statement. stakeholderspetrochemical production and GAIL came a long way from being marketing capacity A dedicated known as a “Natural Gas transmission stakeholders wise company” to now pursuing a vision of  Improving gas sourcing through LNG imports and cross border securing access energy for generations section is developed to come. pipeline networks Further, aligned with Government’s  Strengthening our foothold in vision to create National Gas Grid E&P operations and acquiring and provide access of Natural Gas as hydrocarbon assets cleaner fossil fuel, we have identified  Set up LNG regasification focus areas for new future investments terminals & book re-gas capacities as part of our business strategy. These also serve as our way towards  Unlock demand across customer achieving economic sustainability segments including:  Focus on Last Mile Connectivity  Increasing our Natural Gas pipeline network presence across India Sustainability Report 115 2014-15 Investor Management Further, GAIL seeks feedback from Investors & Analysts; Investor Relation Redressal Committee has been formed for looking into investor’s Grievances and Engagement Survey was conducted to determine and matters relating to Registrar & their expectations from the company Share Transfer Agent. “We consistently endeavor to create a in terms of Investor Relations (IR) and transparent and lasting relationship with our investors and analysts to ascertain areas of improvement in IR management at GAIL. Analysts GAIL’s Economic with whom we engage on a regular have appreciated the improvement Performance Overview basis. In addition to conducting and made by GAIL in the IR management participating in investors meet, this in the survey and given some valuable G4-EC8 In financial year 2014-15, GAIL year we also conducted an Investor suggestions for making improvements (India) Limited registered a Turnover Relation Survey as a proactive in the Investor relations in GAIL. (net of excise duty) of INR 56,569 approach to Investor relations crore as against INR 57,245 crore in management.” Company will continue to provide best the previous fiscal. The Gross Margin possible investor relations services in during 2014-15 stood at INR 5,557 crore Director (Finance) disseminating information to Investors as against INR 7,599 crore last year. and Analysts at right time and from The Profit Before Tax during the year We keep our investors informed the right people. In view of the above, was INR 4,284 crore as against INR about all our endeavors as well as Investor Zone section of corporate 6,402 crore in the previous year. The achievements on a regular basis. website has been reviewed during Profit After Tax in 2014-15 was INR Transparency and information sharing FY 14-15 and made more informative 3,039 crore while it was INR 4,375 crore is important for us to keep our and investor friendly. Further, in the previous year. investors aware about our business, governance, financial / non-financial shareholders/ Investors Grievance performance and prospects. GAIL has been for engaging with its investors by through its top management and investor relation function. These communications are Financial Performance (Standalone) made through various channels like news releases, press meetings of senior management, annual report and Sales (net of ED, in ` Cr.) Gross Margin (PBDIT, in ` Cr.) website. 7945 57245 56,569 7,234 During 2014-15, to pursue the objective 47,333 5,973 6,247 5,620 of effective communication with 40,281 investors, GAIL organized Analyst 32,459 Meet and Conference call immediately after the announcement of Annual and Quarterly Financial results for Half year ended September, 14 and Third Quarter ended December, 14. FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 In addition to the regular meetings held with investors on one to one PBT (in ` Cr.) PAT (in ` Cr.) basis, we engage with investors through public platforms such as 4375 investor conferences and meets. Top 6402 4,022 6,058 3,654 3,561 management / Senior Executives from 5,240 5,340 3,039 Finance, Marketing, and Business 4,284 Development and Projects besides executives from site offices attended 4 Domestic Investor conferences organized by top brokerage houses of the country and 1 international meet each in Hong-Kong and Singapore. FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 116 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) Economic Value GeneratedG4-EC1 (INR Million) Parameter FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 2014-15 RevenuesG4-9 3,29,837 4,11,745 4,83,572 5,88,153 5,78,555 Economic Value Distributed Parameter FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 2014-15 Operating Cost 2,70,115 3,54,441 4,10,649 5,17,214 5,18,284 Employee wages and benefits 7,527 7,208 10,674 9,082 10,608 Payments to providers of capital 10,700 14,352 17,240 20,368 14,983 Payment to Government 18,342 18,652 22,386 22,513 13,988 G4-EC4, G4-SO6 No Financial Assistance received from Government of India in FY 14-15. GAIL did not make any financial or in-kind contribution to political parties, politicians or related institutions. In FY 14-15 GAIL’s Profitability reduced by 31% in comparison with FY13-14. The Major reasons for this reduction are given below: Under capacity utilization The company has also been facing headwind in terms of growth of Trading and Transmission volumes due to substantial fall in domestic gas from 66 MMSCMD of Natural Gas pipelines in FY14 to 59 MMSCMD in FY15. The capacity utilization of Natural Gas pipelines is only 45%. Lower gas transmission / low pipeline capacity utilization and thereby low revenue is unable to cover fixed cost such as Depreciation & Interest leading to stressed returns from new pipelines such as Dabhol Bangalore Pipeline, Dadri Bawana Nangal Pipeline, Chhainsa-Jhajjar Pipeline etc. Decrease in availability In recent years due to decrease in availability of Domestic Gas for Petrochemical production in FY15 to the level of 17% of total gas consumption as against of Domestic Gas 63% in FY14, higher level of expensive imported LNG is being used for polymer production. In comparison to FY14, Gas cost for Production of Petrochemicals has increased. This has led to decrease in profitability from Petrochemical business segment during FY15. Rapid fall in crude prices With rapid fall in crude prices during FY15, there was a significant fall in average Price realization from sale of Liquid Hydrocarbons by 16% leading to negative impact in FY15. High prices of imported Fall in Domestic gas coupled with Consumer resistance to buy high priced LNG, particularly by Power & Fertilizer companies, led to decrease in Gas Marketing LNG volumes by 7 MMSCMD (decrease by 9%) compared to FY14. Tariff Reduction The negative impact on profitability of FY15 on account of reduction in Natural Gas pipeline network tariffs by PNGRB is INR 449 Crore. Sustainability Report 117 2014-15 Our Initiatives for worldwide registering its presence across the gas value chain. In April Man’. This will bring 38 MMSCMD of natural gas from Turkmenistan to India Business growth 2013, GAIL through its indirect wholly via 1814 Km TAPI pipeline. owned subsidiary, namely, GAIL “Energy is considered as catalysts for economic growth. While threeGlobal (USA) LNG LLC (GGULL) had LNG Regasification signed a Terminal Service Agreement fourth of the hydrocarbon energy (TSA) with Dominion Cove Point Terminals and Shipping requirements are met through LNG, LP for booking 2.3 MMTPA GAIL is also focusing on making imports in India, our endeavor liquefaction capacity in the Cove Point investments in gas assets, liquefaction remains to explore sustainable LNG liquefaction terminal project facilities and LNG shipping to have opportunities by securing cleaner, located in Maryland. The terminal has presence in entire LNG value chain accessible and affordable energy to received both Non-FTA authorization to achieve the twin objectives of fuel nation’s growth story.” and FERC approval and is currently enhancing India’s energy security Director (Human Resources)* under construction. The expected and providing better value to our date for commencement of supplies customers. As the lead company in (* for Business Development related is January 2018. In order to tie up gas natural gas, GAIL has contracted gas activities) for liquefaction at the terminal, The supplies to put in place a diversified company got into an agreement in long-term import portfolio of GAIL has been working rigorously November’14 with WGL Midstream Inc approx. 86 MMSCMD of gas from to create maximum returns for its (WGLM). WGLM is a part of a group Qatar, Australia, USA, Russia and investors. This is possible only through having a rich history of over 160 years Turkmenistan through multiple LNG sustained business growth. Some of in natural gas supply business in the and transnational pipeline deals to these initiatives are discussed below:mid-Atlantic region. meet the ever increasing demand for natural gas in India. These deals Gas sourcing and supply This year we successfully formed SPV were a testimony to the Company’s of GAIL (India) Ltd. ISGS (Pakistan), GAIL today focuses on developing commitment towards developing the AGE (Afghanistan) and Turkmengas pursuing new business opportunities Indian Gas market and helping India to (Turkmenistan) incorporated in ‘Isle of achieve energy security in the long run. Diversified Gas Sourcing Russia Gazprom 2.5 MMTPA 2019/20 – 2038/39 US Henry Hub Cheniere & Dominion: Qatar 5.8 MTPA 2017/18 4.5 of 7.5 MMTPA 2036/37 Turkmenistan Until 2027/28 38 MMSCMD (10.6 MMTPA) 2019/20 – 2048/49 Regas Capacity Nigeria 2.5 MMTPA – Dahej 0.75 MMTPA 5.0 MMTPA Dabhol 2013-2015 Portfolio Supplies Gorgon GNF 0.24 MMTPA up to Dec’15 0.42 of 1.44 MMTPA 2016 2034 Long-term Import Portfolio Diversification across Price Indices Quantity : 23.8 MMTPA (~85.6 MMSCMD) Henry Hub 24.5% (5.8 MMTPA) Diversified Sourcing across geography : Japanese Crude Cocktail-31% (7.42 MTPA) Russia, Middle-East, Australia, USA Oil 44.5% (10.6 MMTPA) 118 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) Petrochemicals and LHC Natural Gas and LPG City Gas Distribution GAIL is one of the leading players in Pipelines GAIL is a pioneer in City Gas Indian Petrochemical market with 810 Distribution business in India with Since inception, GAIL has laid over KTA capacity and over 15% market 8 JVs, notably IGL Delhi and MGL 11,000 Kms of natural gas pipeline share. Apart from that, GAIL also Mumbai and a subsidiary GAIL Gas Ltd. network which is the backbone of produces almost 10% of the total LPG natural gas transmission in India. Apart produced in India (~1040 KTA) and over from gas pipeline, GAIL has also laid Focus on renewables 240 KTA of other liquid hydrocarbon. over 2000 Km of LPG transmission Since 2010, GAIL is progressively With the aim to become a leading pipelines to ensure safe, economical creating a portfolio of renewable petrochemical segment company, we and easy transmission of LPG. The businesses (solar, wind, etc.). Currently are increasing our existing capacities, pipeline infrastructure has increased GAIL has a renewable portfolio of 118 setting up new plants, and acquiring by about 5000 km during the last seven MW wind and 5 MW solar with total equity stakes in the upcoming projects. fiscal years. On the anvil are projects investment of over INR 700 crores. that shall add about 5000 kms of natural gas pipelines which will give us access to more customers and newer markets. Major Projects (On-going & Upcoming) Vijaipur Auriya P/L** (VAPPL) Length : 672 Km, Cost : Over `4500 Cr. Pata Petchem Expansion Cap : 8.9 MMSCMD Cost : Over `8000 Cr. Cap : 0.4 MMTPA Jagdishpur Haldia Pipeline** Length : 1850 Km, Cost : Over `11000 Cr. Cap : 16 MMSCMD Poly Butadiene Rubber Cost : Over `2500 Cr. Cap : 110 MMTPA DAHEJ & GANDHAR JAGDISHPUR Phenol Acetone Project* GAYA Cost : Over `2000 Cr. BCPL Cap : 108 KTPA (Phenol) & 67 Cap : 0.28 MMSCMD HALDIA KTA (Acetone) of HDPE/LLDPE SURAT and Polypropylene PARADIP ONGC Petro Additions Ltd. (OPAL) Surat Paradip Pipeline** GAIL has 15.5% equity stakes Length : 1990 Km (`995 Cr.) BANGLORE Cost : Over `10000 Cr. Cap : 1.1 MMTPA (Ethylene), MANGLORE Cap : 75 MMSCMD 04 MMTPA (Propylene) KANJIKKOD Kochi Mangalore Bangalore (Ph.-II) KOCHI Length : 879 Km, Cost : Over `2900 Cr. Cap : 16 MMSCMD * Map Not to Scale * Phenol Acetone Project, VAPPL is under consideration ** To be commissioned in synchronization with anchor load customers Sustainability Report 119 2014-15 Research & development Declaration on Our MoU At GAIL huge emphasis is laid on complianceG4-EN29, G4-DMA Being a Central Public sector research and innovation. Thrust areas We ensure all our operations comply Enterprise sign an External of GAIL’s R&D involve Energy efficiency with national and international Memorandum of understanding (MoU) and conservation, development of new regulations applicable to us along with document with the government. The catalysts, development of new polymer achieving our business excellence MoU specifies the objectives of the grades, CO2 conversion / utilization, goals. There have been no significant agreement and obligations of both micro and nano-materials / Fuel cells, fine or non-monetary sanctions were parties. It has mutually agreed targets renewable energy and unconventional imposed for non-compliances with on both financial (50%) and nonenergy sources. Currently 25 R&D laws and regulations in the year. financial parameters (50%). projects are being pursued and many developmental projects are being Some of the non-financial parameters undertaken at sites. We also follow of the MoU in FY 2014-15 are shown as the mandate to spend 1% of PAT every under: year on research and innovation. Performance Report of Some of the non-financial performance of MOU in FY 2014-2015 is shown here: Criteria Unit Excellent Target Achievement PAT per Employee INR Lakhs 92.78 71.22 Job Linked Vocational Skill training to youth of No. of Youth 2800 3382 underprivileged rural/ semi-rural families under trained Project ‘GAIL – IL&FS SKILL SCHOOLS’ at 3 locations (Continued Flagship Programme) Project Jaldhara Integrated Watershed Management No. of Milestones Six Milestone Six Milestone Project in villages of District Jhabua, MP achieved Skills Training for employability of women in North East No. 360 480 States of India Development of New Solvent for Gas Sweetening No. of Milestones Five Milestone Five Milestones achieved Development of Metal Oxide thin-film based Low cost No. of Milestones Seven Milestone Seven Milestone Sensor for CNG/PNG achieved % of targeted senior level executives covered in career % of target group 90 96.4 development training in order to equip them for future leadership roles as well as in Succession Planning Training Days per employee per year No. of Training 2 5.07 Days per employee 120 Fostering Responsible Growth Employees Our Stakeholders (continue) mployeesour human capital forms the core of our business. With the foundation laid through superlative skill deployment, development of employee competencies, and a culture of innovation and collaboration, our employees act as one of our pillars for a successful road ahead. We believe that our employees are highly productive assets for the organization and it is our prime responsibility to GAIL’s employees drive the manner, GAIL has implemented and cater to their needs and take care organization to new heights through revised its HR policies, procedures of them. With this strategy, we are their unrelenting hard work and from time to time. Overall HR function sure to achieve the goal of fostering dedication. GAIL’s Human Resources is headed by Director (HR) supported responsible growth. (HR) function has worked towards by a HR team at Corporate and site developing a strong bond with our locations. Apart from these systems employees based on mutual trust and we have also been the first PSU to respect. implement SAP ERP Human Capital Management (HCM) application, In an effort to support our human including SAP Employee Self-Service resources in an agile and effective (ESS) application. “Our strength lies in our most valued asset i.e. our Human Capital. At GAIL, the mission of human resource management is to create a resourceful environment which facilitates sustainable growth of organization through synergistic development of HR & Technology coupled with strong emphasis on team excellence and employee-development.” Director (Human Resources) Employee Relations medical facilities in such regions. and WelfareG4-EC3, G4-LA2 We have also undertaken several initiatives to boost the employee We believe that inclusion and morale by organizing events and empowerment of people will make activities during important festivals them more creative and productive. We and other significant occasions for lay strong emphasis on understanding employees and their families. Some our employees’ concerns and their important initiatives taken up by GAIL expectations to increase their as a part of our retention strategy are motivation levels and keep them presented below:efficient at all times.  Attractive compensation and A major thrust area of the organization benefit package: GAIL offers has been to provide our employees attractive compensation package with a conducive working atmosphere, to its employees. We provide especially in the remote locations several other benefits such as where access to high quality living advances in form of house building is low. For this we have developed advance, conveyance advance residential and commercial areas, among others. GAIL also provides sports facilities, clubs, schools and a two year child care paid leave Sustainability Report 121 2014-15 Independence Day Celebration to female employees. Apart from suggestions through the GAIL grievance escalates from HR-Inthese GAIL provides other benefit intranet. Charge to GM(HR), Corporate plans to employees that include Office and finally to Director Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical  Promoting Sports: We (HR). Further, the system has also encourage them to participate Benefits, Earned Leave Benefits, provision for appeal to next level in sporting events such as Terminal Benefits, Half Pay Leave in case the aggrieved employee Inter Regional Sports Meet and recognitions to Long Service. is not satisfied with the replies / (IRSM) and Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB). relief provided.  Superannuation benefits: GAIL makes a provision for 30% of Basic pay and Dearness allowance  Quality of life: GAIL townships built with facilities Developing a culture as Superannuation benefits which such as sports club, gym, of innovation and includes Contributory Provident swimming pool, library, etc. are Fund (CPF), Gratuity, Pension and aimed at improving the quality collaboration Post Superannuation medical of life of our employees and It is our endeavor to inculcate a benefits. their family members even in participative work culture in the remote locations where our  Rewards and recognition: organization, which is conducive to the facilities are situated. Since rewards and recognitions phase of transition with the changing are key to improving  Grievance redressal: In order business scenario. The work ethics employees’ motivational levels, to ensure speedy disposal of supports horizontal cooperation as institutionalized mechanisms exist employee grievances, GAIL has well as vertical integration in each in GAIL to ensure that employees established an Online Grievance function. are adequately recognized for Redressal System and the same is Our business context has evolved their contributions. These include monitored by Corporate HR. The rapidly in the past few years. In order the following: aggrieved employee registers his/ to help our employees to stay in sync her grievance in the system and  Suggestion Scheme: To create with the dynamic environment, GAIL the concerned HR–In-Charge has a participative work culture recognizes that innovation, creativity to redress the grievance within and driving innovation GAIL and initiatives are crucial determining stipulated time period. The system initiated “suggestion scheme” factors and needs to be channelized has auto-escalation feature and under which employees in an organized way backed by in case grievance is not redressed can directly submit their appropriate incentives so that each within stipulated time period, the 122 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) employee would be encouraged contribution to the overall growth current reporting period and 27 (432 and motivated to put forward his of the organization. The awards aim Man-hours) executives were imparted suggestion for achieving organizational at recognizing and encouraging the training on labour laws and outsourcing excellence. outstanding women employees of with elements of Human Rights. GAIL for their services in the fields of The issue of human rights is central Development of our Functional Management, Corporate to good corporate citizenship and to Social Initiatives and Corporate human capitalG4-DMA Cultural Initiatives. a healthy bottom line. All employees during induction are trained on GAIL’s Executive trainees recruited by GAIL GAIL is proud to be an Equal Conduct, Discipline and Appeal (CDA) are subject to a rigorous and effective Opportunity employer and promotes rules to develop their understanding on Induction cum Orientation Training diversity and inclusivity at workplace. these aspects. Program. The training lasts for two It does not discriminate amongst its and a half months and the training plan employees on the basis of gender, GAIL has created a Women Cell is prepared in consultation with the cast, creed, or religion or on any such which is responsible for reviewing Steering Committee. Further, yearly basis and provides equal pay for the planned schemes and other Training Need Assessment exercise equal work. GAIL complies with Equal programmes centered on Women is conducted for development need Remuneration Act, 1976 and there is development. GAIL Women Cell also of our employees. The details of the no discrimination in wages based on liaison with National Commission for training plan are discussed in the gender. The Company also ensures that Women; SCOPE and Women in Public section on human capital. no discrimination is practiced during Sector (WIPS) forums for the cause the recruitment / career development of Women’s development. Further, Occupational, Health / appraisal process processes and GAIL has a well-defined policy for prevention of sexual harassment at the for compensation in any work center. and SafetyG4-DMA, G4-LA5 No incident of discrimination was work place. reported during FY 14-15. At GAIL we believe that employees are the most critical part of the GAIL Child, Forced and family. It is of utmost importance to Human Rights G4-DMA, Compulsory LabourG4us to ensure that our employees stay G4-HR2 DMA, G4-HR5, G4-HR6 in the best of the health and are safe and secure. We have taken preventive GAIL not only complies with the laws GAIL follows a zero-tolerance policy and protective measures to ensure of the land (such as laws relating to for Child & forced Labour and ensures safety of our employees and other labour practices, child labor, forced that no such employment occurs at any stakeholders. Health & safety has also labour, working conditions etc.) but of our operations. In order to guarantee emerged as a material issue for GAIL also commits itself to other voluntary this, every new recruit is required and has been addressed separately agreements under International bills to submit a proof of age. Further, in the section on health & safety. and treaties. GAIL is also a signatory the Company is committed to work GAIL has 100% representation of its to the United Nations Global Compact in a pro-active manner to eradicate workforce in formal joint managementwhich has specific focus towards child labor by actively contributing worker health and safety committees human rights. to the improvement of children’s that help monitor and advise on social situation. To promote this, we occupation health and safety program. These policies and voluntary encourage our suppliers also to work commitments of GAIL towards human towards a no child-labour policy. Diversity, Equal rights are upheld and implemented with the right spirit. Training Programs Though there has not been a formal Opportunity and Nonon labour laws and outsourcing are / specific initiative to identify such programs conducted by GAIL discriminationG4-DMA, Training Institute which cover almost operations which face the threat of child labor or forced and compulsory G4-LA3, G4-LA13, G4-HR3 majority of aspects of Human Rights. labour, no incident of engagement of Such programs are conducted as a part child or forced or compulsory labor In line with the philosophy to of annual training plan and In-Charges has been reported in the reporting promote diversity, GAIL Management of outsourcing contracts are imparted year. The concerned executive at every has instituted three awards for training on the subject aspect every location ensures relevant statutes are GAIL women employees for year. A two-day training program on the complied with. their commendable services and subject topic was conducted during the Sustainability Report 123 2014-15 Freedom of which runs with risk related to violation of right to exercise freedom of  Frequency of foot patrolling has been increased on the basis of Association association and collective bargaining vulnerability. during FY 14-15. & Collective  Foot patrolling allowance has been BargainingG4-LA4, G4-DMA, We adhere to Section 9A of Industrial Dispute Act 1947 & Schedule 4 for increased. G4-HR4 providing notice period regarding  Approximately 5000 km pipeline significant operational changes. There network has been mapped in the The Company recognizes Unions is no operation which runs with risk system and in use. representing the interests of their related to violation of right to exercise respective workmen / staff. GAIL  GPS / GIS based foot patrolling freedom of association and collective Employees Association (GEA) is a implemented in Mumbai, Vijaipur, bargaining during FY 14-15. representative body of non-executives JLPL, NCR, Lakwa etc., posted at various Field Offices / Plants / Installations across the Country Security PracticesG4 Pipeline foot patrolling “Exception DMA, G4-HR7, G4-HR9 Report” is being prepared and except Corporate Office. Nonforwarded to all concerned. executives posted at Corporate Office are represented by GAIL Karamchari GAIL’s assets can face threats of  Attended On-shore Security Sangh (GKS). protests, sabotage and even potential Coordination Committee (OSCC) terror attacks. These assets are of Meetings. Minutes of Meetings of A Committee consisting of senior national significance and any incident OSCC were shared, followed up level executives nominated from related to these assets is bound with work centres. various groups, functions and to have social, environmental and work centres looks after various economic ramifications.  The events such as Security ongoing issues with Association at Awareness Week, Security the Corporate Level while at the Considering this scenario GAIL Emergency Response Drill etc., Work Centre level, the Committee management is receptive of these were organized in the Department consists of an Officer In-charge, threats and has responded through / in GAIL . Heads of HR and other Departments. initiatives listed below:100 Percentage of permanent NonBio-metric Access Control System  Achieved zero breach of security have been installed in plants, Executives are members of the GAIL during the year. compressor stations, intermediate Employees Association (GEA) and GAIL Karamchari Sangh (GKS) which pumping stations and GAIL owned  Out of 401 recommendations are covered under the collective offices and issue of ID cards and made by Industrial Security Team bargaining agreements. In all, there are its dispatch and receipt / return of Intelligence Bureau during 911 (i.e. 21% of total employees) regular procedure has been streamlined. their visit to GAIL installations, employees who are members of these 384 recommendations have been recognized unions.G4-11 implemented (95.76%), including recommendations that were Discussions with employee collectives dropped by I.B. and only 17 are are held through Monthly / Bi-Monthly under progress and are under / Quarterly Meetings, both at Work implementation. Centre and Corporate levels. The record notes of discussions held at  Advisory issued to all EDs (O&M) various Work Centres are collated at and concerned OICs to expedite the Corporate Office on a monthly declaration of Prohibitive Area basis for effective monitoring by the for all pending installations under Director (HR). There is no operation their jurisdiction. 124 Fostering Responsible Growth Community / Society Our Stakeholders (continue) ur operations are mostly situated around remote dwellings that lack basic utilities and infrastructure. GAIL believes in the concept of sharing value and has taken upon itself to bring infrastructure, modern amenities, provide skills for increased employability and encourage local prosperity amongst these local communities. Through these efforts we are fostering responsible growth in own way for our communities. Observance of Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidyalaya at school in GAIL Pata With 11,000 Km network of natural Secretary (MoPNG) as members of the gas pipeline spread across India, committee. Our annual report on CSR we operate in some of the most policy and programmes implemented remote locations of the country. We will be included in the Board of understand the importance of the Directors’ report and information on communities we operate in and try to GAIL CSR committee will be also be put in our best effort for addressing presented in the company’s annual their concerns. We have a structured report as well as on the website. framework to address the needs and In line with the new policy, 75% of all concerns of the communities through our CSR initiatives will be implemented our corporate social responsibility in and around the ‘local areas’ within programs. This consists of our policy 100 Km radius mostly in the remote document which provides procedures areas. These local communities also and focus areas for our CSR initiatives. include indigenous people located Our CSR policy was revised according around our operations. Indigenous to the provisions under section people are present at our Jhabua 135 of the Companies Act 2013 and location in state of Madhya Pradesh DPE guidelines, 2014. The policy but no incidents of any conflict have also allocates 2% of our average appeared during the reporting period. net profits made during the three Being a PSU, our primary aim remains immediately preceding financial years as that of serving people and we for the CSR spent. Board of Directors partner with these local and indigenous have constituted a Corporate Social communities to create win-win Responsibility (CSR) Committee situations for all stakeholders. Need (Sub-Committee of the Board) assessment surveys are carried out to with our C&MD as chairman of the evaluate needs of these communities committee and Director (HR) , Joint and also assess baseline scenarios. Construction of Toilet under Swach Bharat Swach Vidyalaya Sustainability Report 125 2014-15 Based on these assessments, data and information through community Swachh Vidyalaya” program. In essence, GAIL’s interventions have Engaging local interactions, activities are planned and endeavoured to provide greater communities implemented. impetus to inclusive and equitable These activities will be carried out with social development. Communities are our very important the help of registered trusts, societies, stakeholders and we engage autonomous bodies, government -Director (Human Resources) continuously with them through department, NGOs etc. if required. various community development To ensure transparency and effective Focus Area-wise CSR initiatives. Our CSR policy covers our management, a robust monitoring entire area of operation. All community framework will be instituted by the spent FY 14-15 development initiatives try and company providing for periodic In alignment with the company’s vision, incorporate a dimension of community monitoring at different levels. our CSR performance indices are also involvement/interaction, awareness With ‘Hriday’ at core of our CSR generation, engagement, stakeholder philosophy, community projects are included in our yearly MoU signed with MoPNG. For the reporting year interaction and capacity building. now designed separately and are titled the MoU focused majorly on three The initiatives are taken up through a by the objective they seek to achieve. GAIL is working on the following focus programs; collaborative effort and a process of areas under the CSR program as engagement with the local community, described below:  Job linked vocational training to including local governance structures youth of under privileged rural / and institutions. The company also  GAIL Arogya – (wellness); nutrition, semi-rural families under project insists on the implementing agency health, sanitation and drinking water GAIL – IL & FS skills school participating in the community (Continued flagship program) in a phase wise manner, while  GAIL Ujjwal (Towards bright simultaneously building the community future); education initiatives  Project Jaldhara – Integrated motivation and capability to operate  GAIL Kaushal – (Skill); livelihood watershed management project in the programme or the service on their generation and skill development villages of district Jhabua own. During our engagement with local  GAIL Unnati – (Progress); rural communities for impacts, programs  Skills training for employability development and assessments we have not come of the women in the North East across any significant negative  GAIL Sashakt – (Empowerment); states of India. impacts on the community due to our women empowerment initiative presence in the area.  GAIL Saksham – (Capable); Care of the elderly and differently abled Our Total Commitment for these initiatives in the year 2014-15  GAIL Harit –(Green); is INR 118.07 crores. environmental centric initiatives Through these cross-sectional SWACHH community development programs, BHARAT (32%) KAUSHAL 19% AROGYA 25% we ensure holistic development of (Skill Dev.) (Health) the communities, thereby ensuring sustainable dimension to the CSR programmes. We at GAIL believe that sustainability of our business growth is inherent UJJWAL 8% UNNATI 13% in responding to the needs of the (Education) HRIDAY (Rural Dev.) people, in benefiting communities, in protecting our environment and upliftment of the marginalized sections of the community. As part of our CSR campaign towards providing SASHAKT SAKSHAM (Women (Care for Elderly & hygienic sanitation facilities, GAIL is Empowernment) HARIT Differently Abled) supporting and constructing nearly (Environment 3500 toilets under “Swachh Bharat, Projects) 126 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) Engaging with NGOs / social initiatives only does GAIL put these deserving students on the path to sustainable Charitable trusts 1. GAIL Arogya wellness; nutrition, professional and personal success, health, sanitation and drinking but also creates human assets for the As an effort to attain its social water nation. This flagship programme has commitments GAIL has adopted enabled a record 92 students from multi-stakeholder approach for Under project Arogya, we have disadvantaged backgrounds to qualify implementing its interventions started 18 Mobile Medical units IITMains exams and 50 of them have collaborating with communities, (MMUs) across the states of cleared the advanced level as well in governmental and NGOs, academic Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, the year 2014-15. Over the years, more institutions and others to identify Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand, than 90% of the beneficiaries have emerging issues, develop projects Andhra Pradesh and Punjab covering successfully secured admissions in and effectively respond to challenges. around 374 villages and serving premier engineering colleges of India. Once interventions/initiatives are population of almost 3,20,000. Free identified, they are closely monitored medications and pathology services GAIL has also set up the GAIL by dedicated CSR professionals of are also provided by these MMUs Charitable and Education Trust to GAIL both at the corporate and on site in the form of ‘Swasthya Jaanch extend financial assistance to needy level. Machine’. Understanding the role and children on merit basis, some of these significance of Transporters/Drivers/ are as follows: Impact AssessmentG4Truckers in furthering the business operation and to address the problem  Project Assistto provide financial DMA, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1, assistance to 600 violence of HIV/AIDS associated with this G4-SO2 segment, GAIL has been running STI affected children in districts of clinic in Uttar Pradesh. Assam and Jammu & Kashmir in partnership with National We carry out an annual exercise of third ‘Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya’ Foundation for Communal party impact assessment study of CSR (Clean India, Clean School) Harmony. projects which included in the MoU signed with Ministry of Petroleum and This is another initiative taken up  Scholarship to 281 beneficiaries Natural Gas. Other than these Annual by GAIL to support Swachh Bharat of Project Utkarsh admitted to Studies for specific flagship long Abhiyaan’s commitment towards various Engineering Institutions term projects, GAIL has conducted providing hygienic sanitation facilities, across India in FY 14-15. three Independent Impact Assessment GAIL is constructing and supporting Studies for its CSR Projects in the construction and functionality of  Scholarships extended to 370 last decade from Institutes and nearly 3500 toilets under ‘Swachh children from various schools Consultancies of repute which include Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya’ program across GAIL work centres under Tata Institute of Social Sciences over FY 2014-15 and FY 2015-16. GAIL Scholarship Scheme. (Mumbai, Maharashtra), Soul Ace 2. GAIL Ujjwal (Towards bright 3. GAIL Kaushal Skill; livelihood Consultants (Gurgaon, Haryana), Delhi future); education initiatives generation and skill development School of Social Work and Jamia Millia Islamia ( Delhi). The CSR projects are Job linked Vocational skill training Project Utkarsh evaluated on milestones achieved by to youth of under privileged rural / the Cross Functional CSR Committee This pioneering project provides allsemi-rural families under project ‘GAILformulated at every work centre of expenses paid, specialised residential IL&FS skill schools’ is a continued GAIL. At the end of the project, a coaching/intensive mentoring so that flagship program of GAIL. As this report pertaining to the impact of bright children of underprivileged program has been very successful the programme, is submitted by the families can compete for engineering in providing vocational training and implementing partner specifically entrance examinations such as the livelihood opportunities to the youth highlighting the project milestones Indian Institutes of Technology Joint of under privileged families by creating achieved and the quantitative and Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE). sustainable job opportunities, GAIL qualitative benefits generated. Beneficiaries are selected through a decided to implement this program on stringent written examination. Once a long term basis. The programme is Highlights from some these children qualify, GAIL also designed in such a way that it makes subsidises their academic expenses a significant impact on the targeted of our community / for the engineering course. Thus, not segment and attempts for selfSustainability Report 127 2014-15 sustainability of these programs at units. The program was to extend by GAIL. Environment conservation the point of exit. For the reporting year training to young unemployed or underinitiatives include a Gas based this program was developed in three employed in the trades pertaining Crematorium at New Delhi, Bio regions across India as follows: to service sector and other trades Gas Plants and development of identified as per the needs of the Environment Parks for thousands of  Guna (Madhya Pradesh), 881 region. poor labourers’ living in slums. students trained in FY 2014-15 Training and placement support was Various initiatives were also taken at  Dediapada (Narmada, Gujarat), provided to 480 Safai Karamchari the organization for managing flora 1500 students trained in FY 2014women from the states of Assam and fauna around our operational units 15 and Tripura in in BPO, Personality at Vaghodia approximately 34.7% of Development, Call Centre related skills the total plant area is covered under  Tandur (Rangareddy, Telangana), etc. in partnership with National Safai green belt and continuous efforts are 1001 students trained in FY 2014-15 Karamcharis Finance and Development in place to increase the green belt area. Further trainings were given to 60 Corporation. Indigenous species of trees and shrubs beneficiaries from the underprivileged are planted for better suitability to the 6. GAIL Saksham – (Capable); Care local climatic conditions. community in the plastic industry of the elderly and differently related skills from CIPET, Ahmedabad. abled At Vijaipur according to the targets As mentioned above at Dediapada, of Sustainable Development and Trainings were provided to 1500 To address the issue of Elderly abuse those of IMoU, a massive green belt persons with disability in collaboration Project Return of a Million Smiles development exercise in reporting with National Handicapped Finance was launched which is a holistic media period was undertaken that involved and Development Corporation under campaign targeted at the young the plan of planting 10000 trees along the realm of project Swadheen. generation to raise awareness. with their maintenance at the plant 4. GAIL Unnati – (Progress); rural 7. GAIL Harit –(Green); environment complex. The focus of this exercise development centric initiatives included the plantation of saplings that are local and indigenous to the local Project Srijan (Creation) GAIL’s commitment towards the population such as Sesame, Mango, Environment forms an implicit part of Neem, Jamun etc. Project Srijan (creation), undertaken its Vision statement and through its post the devastating floods in the state CSR Expenditure (in INR Crores)CSR initiatives it has promoted this of Uttarakhand, has provided training GAIL’s CSR Expenditure for FY 14-15 is cause through specific environmentfor alternate livelihood generation to INR 71.89 Crore much higher compared friendly programmes. Projects related nearly 1000 women, training to masons to FY 13-14 CSR expenditure of INR to Rain water harvesting, water for disaster proof construction, and 62.57 Crore. Recharging and Ground water reuse facilitated formation of 36 Self Help system have been supported aptly Groups and Farmer Interest Groups. Efforts toward rehabilitation of the people of the region have also been made through construction of households using Disaster Proof Technology. 5. GAIL Sashakt – (Empowerment); women empowerment initiative Skills training for employability of the women in the North East states of India According to the MoU signed between GAIL and government of India, the skills training program was designed to focus on the states of Assam and Tripura where we have our operating 128 Fostering Responsible Growth Customers Our Stakeholders (continue) ostering responsible growth cannot be complete if it is not empathic towards the needs and demands of our customers. At GAIL, we aim to provide superior quality products with last mile connectivity for uninterrupted supply for their operations. Our customers, also, benefit through use of cleaner fuel provided by us to reduce their emissions. By delivering this enhanced CustomersG4-DMA gain consumer base even in the times of growing competition. In order to value to our customers we have been able to create a large customer base. GAIL initially started as a natural increase its customer base in all areas It must be noted that with these gas transmission but has diversified of operation CGD JV/Subsidiary customers, our financial performance businesses in liquid hydrocarbons, companies of GAIL are providing easy is strengthened, eventually helping us petrochemicals, LPG transmission, access to customers with the help of in fostering growth. city gas distribution, exploration & innovative digital technology. Some production, telecom & telemetry of the examples are installation of services, and power generation. Kiosk by IGL and Android based mobile application by MGL (MGL Connect). Today GAIL, is no longer remains no longer remains only in B2B segment. In line with the target given by Hon’ble Its ventures in City Gas Distribution Prime Minister, GAIL and its JV/ (CGD) include eight joint venture and Subsidiary Companies are making one nine subsidiary which operates 631 all out efforts to reach the domestic CNG stations, including 111 daughter customers in their areas of operation stations, 403 online stations, and for which various innovative schemes 117 mother stations. These joint are being implemented and awareness venture and subsidiary companies program are being carried out. also cater to over 14 lakhs domestic, Further, for improvement of 4700 commercial, and 1400 industrial environment, efforts are being made consumers. Our management has by CGD JVs/Subsidiary companies responded to changing consumer of GAIL in coordination with GAIL JV dynamics through greater consumer Group for the development of green centricity which has helped GAIL corridor in the Country. Sector wise Gas Supply FY 32 % Fertilizer 14 % CGD for CNG & PNG 4% Power 5% Petrochemicals Gas Based LPG 14 % Others including steel, Refineries, 31 % Spong Iron etc. Sustainability Report 129 2014-15 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) (%) is reflected in its vision statement. Evaluation of Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) helps us to know how well we serve our customers. Every year, 100 we conduct business-wide customer satisfaction survey to gauge their satisfaction levels on a number of 95 well-defined parameters such as 92 product quality, usability of product, technical support, delivery of material, 90 90 packaging, service quality, customer 89 89 90 concerns and suggestions for improvement. TQM Department is coordinating 85 customer feedback through online feedback system on half yearly basis. The overall CSI for FY 2014-15 was 90%. Further, as part of customer 80 value management, direct interaction FY 11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 is made with customers by visiting their premises. In FY 2014-15, 75 visits were conducted for interacting with NG, PC and LHC customers. During the year, 58 complaints were received from During the year, we employed Our focus is to work with major power the customers, all except one were various initiatives to engage with and fertilizer companies and also resolved by the end of the reporting our customers. Some of the common smaller consumers using costlier period. methods of engagement are customer liquid fuels. To serve the growth in meets across business segments, petrochemicals, we intend to increase In addition to seeking our customers’ personal interactions with customers our capacities and have been investing feedback, we realized that it is by the respective account managers in expansion activities. This would important to create a platform as mapped in CAMS, customer result quadrupling of our installed where one way communication with visits being made to customer’s capacities and an increase in our stakeholders can give way to a twopremises on regular basis, bi-annual market share from 15% (in FY15) to way dialogue and this communication Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 30% by FY18. to happen on a real time basis. campaigns, stakeholder engagement Taking cognizance of this, we launched surveys, online suggestion box, online Driving customer the official blog site GAIL Voice.com customer complaint portal and third party CVM visits. Business segment satisfaction at GAILG4that will be the first among any energy company in India. GAIL Voice.com along wise summary of interaction with PR5 with our other social media pages is customers is captured under CAMS. aimed to create that platform where “While the major focus remains on our customers, our beneficiaries, The strategic intent for regular maintaining its dominant position in employees, people at large can come customer engagement is to get the gas business, we understand that share their views, share our content first-hand information of market can only be achieved by upholding a and make an all-out attempt to help us intelligence, build and strengthen cordial relationship with customers. create a better tomorrow together. customer relationships to augment Regular customer meets ensure sales, address customer’s concern & issues to top management / other exchange of information, ideas and concerns for mutual benefit. This year Responsible departments, resolve customer’s grievances, build personal rapport with our customer satisfaction index stood StewardshipG4-PR1, G4-PR2, at 89.72%.”Director (Marketing) G4-PR6, G4-DMA customers, technical trouble shooting, These interactions are also critical in GAIL (India) Limited aims to be the determining the key issues faced by first choice of its customers. GAIL’s Being a responsible organization, the customers. commitment towards customers we are also committed towards developing safe, environment friendly 130 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) and economical products. We pursue regulations and voluntary codes It is noteworthy that these consumers this vision through an organization concerning marketing communications, are in medium and small manufacturing wide Total Quality Management including advertising, promotion, and enterprise category which was earlier (TQM) system. Our approach embeds sponsorship by type of outcomes. All dependent on costlier and more a comprehensive look into the life the major installations of GAIL are polluting liquid fuels, leading into less cycle impacts of our products in accredited with OHSAS 18001 and GHG Emissions after switching to terms of safety and environmental committed towards assessment of natural gas. impacts and to seek technologically health and safety impacts of products and commercially viable solutions to for improvement. There has been a global movement mitigate them. On the petrochemical amongst industries to slowly graduate side G-LEX (brand name for HDPE) and Through our Gas Management System towards products and services that G-LENE (brand name for HDPE and (GMS) we are able to handle multiple minimize impacts on environment and LLDPE) are our major products. sources of supply and delivery of societal resources and we have been gas in a co-mingled form and provide a part of this journey since inception. While plastics have been traditionally a seamless interface between Natural Gas, our prime product, is a considered as environmental shippers, customers, transporters cleaner alternative to polluting fossil pollutants, we perceive them as ecoand suppliers. Under the GMS, the fuels such as coal and crude oil. We friendly due to their high recyclability. entire order-to-cash cycle has been have developed adequate systems Plastics can be recycled back into the automated and is available on real time to ensure that the benefits of this system, thereby reducing the need to basis from upstream gas supply, gas essential fuel reach the society without extract virgin natural resources. We transportation to billing, payment and compromising on safe use. Over the have partnered with Indian Centre for final receipt of payments. This system last 10 years we have established a Plastic in the Environment (ICPE) on helps in monitoring vital aspects of firm footing in City Gas Distribution educating and building awareness of the pipeline network on a real time (CGD) to ensure energy access even to consumers on the benefits of plastic basis including information regarding the marginalized section of consumers. products and the need to – create a network utilization, gas sales, volume secure plastic waste management transferred, revenue generation Labelling and system and maximize recycling of and price variations. The system plastic waste back into the system. thus ensures higher transparency marketing codesG4-PR3, We continue to keep track of our and objectivity, besides improving G4-PR4, G4-PR7 customer satisfaction index across our efficiency through central aggregation businesses and hone ways and means of all information and data. Information GAIL follows all applicable local to engage and work closely with our is made available to customers directly and international standards such as customers towards addressing any through the GMS portal facility, thus HazChem codes, GHS etc. with respect areas of concern. empowering them to better plan and to labelling. For petrochemicals, apart utilize the gas supply. from the statutory requirements of For our Petrochemical products apart furnishing the product details on the from the statutory requirements of Along with this, we also have focused polymer bags, we also provide the test furnishing the product details on the approach towards executing spur-lines report to conform the parameters of Polymer bags, we also provide the Test connectivity to the last mile consumer. quality of the product being supplied report to conform the parameters of The focus has essentially shifted from for each batch of product dispatched. quality of the product being supplied sourcing to efficiently and effectively Further, food grade certificates and for each batch of product dispatched. market the sourced gas at a desirable BIS standard conformity certificates Food grade certificates and BIS level of profitability and ensuring are also issued to customers on standard conformity certificates are last mile connectivity. Till a year back, demand. GAIL being a government also issued to customers on demand. only gas sourcing was major issue organization is not involved into the GAIL adheres to the various codes across GAIL’s operations. However, sale of banned or disputed products. or standards like ISO 9001:2008 based on the recent developments viz. standards, Solvent Control Order, signing of long term contracts with Codes or standards relating to PNGRB codes, applicable BIS several international operators, it was marketing communications applied standards, OISD guidelines, PESO realized that Gas sourcing & marketing across the organization. These include standards and regulations, Weights becomes a material issue for GAIL. ISO 9001:2008 standard, solvent and Measurements Code related to To improve our reach, this year we control order, PNGRB codes, applicable marketing communications for all its extended last mile connectivity to BIS standards, OISD guidelines, PESO products. There have been no incidents 66 members of consumers supplying standards and regulations, Weights of non-compliance with respect to around 5.55 MMSCMD of Natural gas. and Measurements Code. Sustainability Report 131 2014-15 At present, HDPE fertilizer bags are was to (i) improve the aesthetics of laminated inside with LLDPE/LDPE the HDPE bags and (ii) to reduce the material to protect the content from processing cost of HDPE bags. Certain moisture/air ingress. This inside features of this grade are enhanced lamination process is a labour intensive like physical strength of lamination, Strategic activity – as, reverse lamination of the adhesion strength with HDPE bag, peel bags are carried out manually. This strength and compatibility with LDPE development of increases the processing cost of the for ease of processing. New Grade by GAIL bag. In case of PP bags lamination is kept outside because it has good This is a strategically targeted grade Polymer Technology abrasive strength. Also the outside with reference to upcoming GAIL’s expansion in petrochemicals as the Centre -EC52A110 in lamination improves the printing and the overall aesthetics of the bag. development of this grade will not only FY 2014-15 In order to address the problem in increase the market share of GAIL’s HDPE in extrusion coating but will HDPE bags a new HDPE lamination also protect the existing HDPE raffia grade has been developed to match the market share in Domestic market. properties of outside lamination of PP. Another purpose of this development Further, we are taking proactive steps with Industry associations viz Indian plastic parks, GAIL will ensure regular for advocacy on plastic recycling Centre for Plastics in Environment availability of its products by opening and plastic parks. We developed a (ICPE) & Chemicals & Petrochemicals CS stock point. GAIL is also under the film “Say YES to Plastics” which has Manufacturers Association (CPMA) for process of conducting training of youth been shown at various forums such propagating proper disposal of plastic from under privileged background by as PlastIndia, Indiachem, IPLEX etc. waste and it’s recycling. Recently, imparting residential training through exhibitions, Customer Meets, govt. ICPE has setup a plant in New Delhi for CIPET at Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabad, officials, etc. GAIL is jointly working conversion of waste plastic into oil. In Hyderabad & Guwahati. 3rd from Left : Director Marketing, GAIL during WGC, Paris 2015 132 Fostering Responsible Growth Suppliers Our Stakeholders (continue) AIL’s supply chain involves a mix of global and local suppliers who are indispensable of conducting our day to day activities. We work with these suppliers to foster responsible growth by creating a symbiotic partnership with our suppliers to ensure constant raw material availability and other products and services for our operations. In this two-way partnership we have learnt much from some of “GAIL is constantly expanding its global presence through its participation our suppliers and have also passed on along the natural gas value chain. It is also evaluating various global our learnings to the smaller / newer opportunities with the prime objective of securing gas supplies for the energy / upcoming suppliers with special security of the country. We are securing imported LNG to reduce demandefforts for the MSMEs. supply gap of natural gas” -Director (Marketing) G4-DMA GAIL in the conduct of its believes in giving equal opportunity business has to deal with number of to all and has policy in place which contractors, vendors and suppliers. It has no discrimination in identification is our constant endeavor to maintain of supplier on the basis of caste, and foster most ethical and corruption colour, gender, religion or region. free business environment where We host our tenders on our website complaints from the contractors which is available in public domain and suppliers are dealt in a just, fair and whosoever is interested can and transparent manner. Thus, our participate in those tenders without relationship with our suppliers is based even visiting the tender issuing site. on transparency and fairness. GAIL “We view Suppliers / Contractors / Consultants as critical partners in our growth. A symbiotic relationship with these key Stakeholders not only ensures economic gains, higher quality, improved planning and timeliness of project but also ensures greater long term support and value. We have developed an effective Stakeholder Management Mechanism wherein regular meetings are held with key Suppliers / Contractors / Consultants to understand their issues / concerns and address them appropriately in time-bound manner. Further, we are in the process of developing a pre-dispute resolution mechanism, through which we are aiming to minimize the post closure legal disputes / arbitrations. This Mechanism is expected to be implemented from 3rd Quarter of 2015-16 onwards.” -Director (Projects) Some of our initiatives towards ensuring transparency and fairness include e-tendering and reverse auctioning. These are discussed in detail below: Sustainability Report 133 2014-15 e-Tendering among short-listed bidders; RA System introduced for tenders above INR 50 Encouraging local and GAIL has introduced e-tendering Crore micro and small scale which is based on the principle of competitiveness and such Short-listed bidders get an opportunity suppliers to reduce their prices online in a procurement practices are executed In line with the “Public Procurement transparent and fair manner; identity in a manner that is transparent, fair, Policy” for Micro, Small & Medium of bidder(s) not disclosed. competitive and cost effective. This Enterprises (MSMEs) GAIL procures process also contributes towards Major Benefits: 20% of its supplies from MSMEs saving of paper and is a green initiative with 4% from MSMEs owned by the of the organisation. Our IT team  Less time is spent in arriving at scheduled caste or the scheduled continuously works with various final prices. tribe entrepreneurs for the goods departments to provide solutions and and services rendered by such extend IT enabled services across the  Minimizes human involvement. organizations. These industries are entire process. generally local & small producers from  System offers greater insights into the current market pricing. the surrounding communities near the Electronic tendering (“e-Tendering”) place of work. (on SAP-SRM platform) a process  Gives equal opportunity to all on a secure platform for sending Under this policy, benefits like waiver short listed suppliers to be most and receiving tenders by electronic from tender fee and EMD, Purchase competitive. means, rather than the old paper based Preference etc. are available. This method was implemented.  To help bidders to know their price reduces the transaction cost of the / position dynamically vis-à-vis the suppliers / vendors involved in the Initially, e-Tendering was made other suppliers and provide them tendering process. mandatory for tenders beyond an opportunity to react to it. estimated value of INR 50 lakhs. Further, GAIL has already introduced However after witnessing the positive response ceiling was further lowered Policy level initiatives e-procurement that also helps out the local and small vendors to quote in down to INR 25 lakhs. large numbers with ease and reduces GAIL has signed a MoU with Transparency International India their tendering cost. In all tenders preThis e-tendering process has resulted (TII) to ensure that all our activities / tender/ pre-bid meeting are conducted in better security as:transactions and complaints emerging to ensure wider participation and to  Tender documents can only be during tendering process are handled educate vendors on the tendering accessed by authorized parties. in fair and transparent manner. As process. GAIL also interacts with the a part of this MoU, Integrity Pact is small and local vendors at various  Neither party can deny sending or forums like vendors meet / MSMEs incorporated in the tender with value receiving documents. meet / Industry Conclave etc. In the INR 1 crore and above. A copy of MoU and Integrity Pact Program has been reporting period, vendor development  Alteration of tender documents is uploaded on our website for the program for MSMEs have been either impossible or easy to detect reference of all relevant stakeholders. conducted at Pata, Vijaipur, Jaipur, whilst also allowing the tenderers As a part of Integrity Pact Program, Corporate Office, Mumbai, Jhabua, to insert their rates and prices. GAIL has appointed Independent Rajahmundry & Vadodara. External Monitors who are responsible Reverse Auction for overseeing the implementation of Online procurement tool to obtain Integrity Pact Program and address the competitive price; online negotiation grievances of vendors / contractors. 134 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Stakeholders (continue) Vendor development programs 59 probable Service Providers have are organized by GAIL to improve been registered with DIC, Auraiya and the suppliers’ performance and have been provided Entrepreneurs capabilities to meet our needs and Memorandum Part II certificate expected value. During the reporting year, vendor development programs A Vendor Development Program for were taken up at Pata, Vijaipur, and GTI MSEs was held in December, 2014 at Noida. GTI-Noida. Director (MSME-DI) and Zonal General Manager, NSIC attended GAIL Pata initiated action for the program. Further, 70 participants Vendor Development enrolment of service providers as from 44 Micro and Small Enterprises by GAIL MSE keeping in view of their long term association with GAIL. GAIL, attended the program. Pata in association with District An awareness programme on Vendor Industries Centre (DIC), Auraiya, Development / MSME was conducted organized a camp in May, 2014 to at Vijaipur, Guna. The programme was facilitate on-line registration of eligible conducted in association with MSME, service providers as MSME by DIC, Indore and vendors from Bhopal, Auraiya. Overall, 48 service providers Indore and Guna participated in the participated in the camp. Due to programme. aforesaid initiative of C&P – Pata, Interactive Session with MSMEs With these efforts and regular interaction with local MSEs by site offices with a view to enhance the participation of MSME’s in various tenders, GAIL has been successful in increasing the participation of MSME and the same is reflected in the Y-O-Y growth in procurement from MSME. Sustainability Report 135 2014-15 Responsible supply Expenditure of Procurement from MSMEs chain G4-DMA, G4-HR5, G4-HR10 We believe we can have a positive 300 259.16 influence on our suppliers by engaging with them on the social, 200 137 ethical and environmental aspects 75.5 81.5 100 of their business. All our vendors and suppliers have to comply with General 0 Conditions of Contract (GCC) which 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 covers provisions relating to impact on compliances, society, environment, labour practice, and human rights Procurement from MSME (in INR crores) aspects. As per provisions of GCC, the supplier engaged with GAIL is required to follow all government / statutory policies / rules which provide various aspects like separate toilets, washing places for men and women, compulsory We have prescribed the minimum age contain ‘Health, Safety & Environment canteen facilities and medical limit of 18 years for employment / Policy’ approved by GAIL. Apart from services for all employees. Further, contract labour. As per provisions of this we also treat transporter safety no grievances related to human rights contract, the contractor is required as an important aspect of our supply were filed against the organization to obtain labour permission from chain, details for which have been during the reporting period. GAIL does authority / GAIL, wherein they have to discussed in the operational excellence not allow child labor to work in any of confirm that they do not engage child section. our establishments. labor. All contracts placed by GAIL HeadG4-EC9, G4-LA14, G4-HR1 Units 2014-15 Total Procurement Of Goods & Supplies INR Million 27700 Total Procurement Of Goods & Supplies From Local Suppliers INR Million 25400 % Of New Suppliers That Has Been Screened Through Environmental Criteria % 100 % Of New Suppliers That Has Been Screened Through Labour Practice Criteria % 100 % Of New Suppliers That Has Been Screened Through Human Rights Criteria % 100 % Of New Suppliers That Has Been Screened Through Criteria For Impacts On % 100 Society % Of Suppliers Identified Having Significant Actual & Potential Negative % 0 Impacts On Society. % Of Suppliers Identified Having Significant Actual & Potential Negative % 0 Impacts On Society With Which Relationship Has Been Terminated 136 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Performance Snapshot Environmental PerformanceG4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN10, G4EN15,G4-EN16, G4-EN19, G4-E20, G4-EN21, G4-EN22,G4-EN23, G4-EN29, G4-EN31,G4-SO8, G4-PR9 Material Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Consumption NG Processed MMSCM 14849 15120 14373 14529 13584 NG To Product MMSCM 1060 1137 1080 1058 1112 Lean NG To P/L MMSCM 13342 13419 12944 13203 12044 Associated MT 10412 9916 10631 10563 11350 Material Packaging MT 2112 2249 2208 2090 2228 Material Recycled Material MT 0 0 0 0 0 Energy Consumption (GJ) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Direct Energy 38281008 39012486 37359156 35859826 35088263 Indirect Energy 1039694 1166546 1118455 1126035 1233894 Renewable Energy 9755 12156 27980 88274 95944 Energy From NG Flaring 379338 337453 367375 347921 355781 Energy From LPG Flaring 987 4923 2472 2889 3035 Energy From NG Venting 115026 133305 444484 490193 626991 Energy From LPG Venting 2789 3739 2619 4744 5626 Energy Consumption by 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Source (GJ) Diesel 19294 19666 20093 20330 18628 Natural Gas 30790595 31033613 30056464 28988285 28163438 Residual Fuel 7465046 7956762 7279523 6849248 6906178 LPG 6073 2444 3076 1963 18 Total Direct Energy 38281008 39012486 37359156 35859826 35088264 Energy Saving (GJ) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Total Energy Saved 672232 1174650 152061 55967 575362 Sustainability Report 137 2014-15 Renewable Energy Generation 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 (GJ) Wind Energy 31715 43414 545124 464398 404929 Solar Energy 35 75 3262 34621 31553 Total Renewable Energy 31750 43489 548386 499018 436481 Emissions (tCO2eq) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Scope 1 Emissions 2261535 2363624 2381898 2285196 2252649 Scope 2 Emissions 233261 256278 256781 258538 280981 Total GHG Emissions 2494796 2619902 2638679 2543735 2533629 GHG Saving (GJ) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Total GHG Saved 39402 66159 8805 4225 33253 Air Emissions (Tons/Annum) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 SPM 906 1012 912 815 491 NOx 710 695 848 968 1482 CO 0.04 0.03 0 668 607 SOx 260 193 178 304 216 VOC 0.01 0.01 0.02 2.25 18 R-134a 44 169 0 226 226 ODS Gas Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Consumption R22 Kg/Annum 2393 2299 2778 1951 2428 ODP CFC-11 233260.9 256277.7 256780.7 258538 280,980.60 Water (Million M3) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Total Water Consumption 13.8 14.1 13.9 12.9 14.3 Total Waste Water Generated 1.6 2.3 2.4 2.0 1.7 Total Waste Water 0.04 0.03 0 668 607 Discharged 0.9 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.1 Water Recycled/ Reused 0.7 0.9 1.1 0.8 0.6 138 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Performance Snapshot (continue) Waste Disposal Method* Waste Category (Unit) Solid (MT) Liquid (Litres) Miscellaneous (Numbers) Deep Well Injection 0.4 0 0 Incineration 3 0 461 Landfill 5538 0 0 Onsite Storage 57 13532 1456 Other 865 78014 1055 Recycling 1953 965924 5636 Reuse 0 0 14 * In line with requirements of GRI G4 guidelines Waste data has been provided by Waste Disposal Method Environmental Expenditure ( in 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 INR Million ) Treatment and Disposal of Waste 5 7 8 4 10 Depreciation and Maintenance 16 16 16 16 85 Cost of Equipment Used In Pollution Control External Services for 3 4 5 5 9 Environmental Management External Certification of 1 1 1 1 2 Management Systems Personnel For General 17 20 18 17 18 Environmental Management Activities Extra Expenditures for Installing 0 10 1 0 29 Cleaner Technologies Other Environmental Costs 17 6 5 3 7 59635445161 Total 5 7 8 4 10 Environmental Expenditures Environmental Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Fine Show Cause Numbers 0 1 0 0 0 Notices Received Environmental INR 0 0 0 0 0 Fines Sustainability Report 139 2014-15 Social PerformanceG4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA9, G4-LA12, G4-10 Health and Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Safety of Permanent Employees Management Numbers 235 245 247 290 301 Representatives in Safety Committees Non-Management Numbers 170 172 182 189 166 Representatives in Safety Committees Near Miss Cases Numbers 179 156 156 217 316 Male Near Miss Cases Numbers 0 0 1 2 2 Female Minor Injuries Numbers 2 0 0 0 3 Male Minor Injuries Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Female Reportable Numbers 2 0 0 4 0 Injuries Male Reportable Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Injuries Female Lost Days Due Numbers 115 0 0 0 0 To Reportable Injuries Male Lost Days Due Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 To Reportable InjuriesFemale Fatalities Male Numbers 1 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 First Aid Cases Numbers 20 17 11 1 3 Male First Aid Cases Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Female Manhours Worked Million 6.4 6.6 5.6 7.5 6.3 Male Manhours Manhours Worked Million 0 0 0.2 0.3 0.2 Female Manhours Occupational Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 DiseasesPermanent Employee-Male 140 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Performance Snapshot (continue) Occupational Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 DiseasesPermanent Employee-Female LTIFR Male Reportable 0 0 0 0.54 0 Injuries Per Million Manhours Worked LTIFR Female Reportable 0 0 0 Injuries Per Million Manhours Worked Severity Rate Lost Days 18 0 0 0 0 Total Per Million Manhours Worked Fatality Rate Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Male Per Million Manhours Worked Fatality Rate Fatalities 0 0 0 Female Per Million Manhours Worked Sustainability Report 141 2014-15 Health And Safety Of Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Contract Employees Near Miss Cases Male Numbers 189 208 184 229 207 Near Miss Cases Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 2 Minor Injuries Male Numbers 28 3 3 4 9 Minor Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Reportable Injuries Male Numbers 1 0 0 6 8 Reportable Injuries Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Days Due To Reportable Numbers 0 0 0 192 47 Injuries Male Lost Days Due To Reportable Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 InjuriesFemale Fatalities Male Numbers 2 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 First Aid Cases Male Numbers 110 73 57 8 73 First Aid Cases – Female Numbers 0 0 0 0 0 Manhours Worked Male Million Manhours 20.1 30.7 16.7 19.7 19.8 Manhours Worked Female Million Manhours 0 0 0.4 1 0.5 Occupational DiseasesNumbers 0 0 0 0 0 Permanent Employee-Male Occupational DiseasesNumbers 0 0 0 0 0 Permanent Employee-Female LTIFR Male Reportable 0.05 0 0 0.31 0.4 Injuries Per Million Manhours Worked LTIFR Female Reportable 0 0 0 Injuries Per Million Manhours Worked Severity Rate Total Lost Days Per 0 0 0 9.29 2.31 Million Manhours Worked Fatality Rate Male Fatalities Per 0.1 0 0 0 0 Million Manhours Worked Fatality Rate Female Fatalities Per 0 0 0 Million Manhours Worked 142 Fostering Responsible Growth Our Performance Snapshot (continue) Contract Employee Distribution (Numbers) 2014-15 Security Staff Male 1935 Security Staff Female 0 Regular Contract Worker Male* 13135 Regular Contract Worker Female* 265 * Number keeps on changing due to start and completion of activities Permanent Employee Distribution 2014-15 Senior Management (E7-E9) Male 256 Senior Management (E7-E9) Female 6 Middle Management (E4-E6) Male 1358 Middle Management (E4-E6) Female 49 Junior Management (E0-E3) Male 1520 Junior Management (E0-E3) Female 159 Non-Management (S0-S7) Male 871 Non-Management (S0-S7) Female 41 Senior Management (E7-E9) : <30 Years Age 0 Senior Management (E7-E9) : 30 To 50 Years Age 60 Senior Management (E7-E9) : >50 Years Age 202 Middle Management (E4-E6) : <30 Years Age 0 Middle Management (E4-E6) : 30 To 50 Years Age 1105 Middle Management (E4-E6) : >50 Years Age 302 Junior Management (E0-E3) : <30 Years Age 552 Junior Management (E0-E3) : 30 To 50 Years Age 852 Junior Management (E0-E3) : >50 Years Age 275 Non-Management (S0-S7) : <30 Years Age 78 Non-Management (S0-S7) : 30 To 50 Years Age 716 Non-Management (S0-S7) : >50 Years Age 118 Employee Turnover Management 61 Employee Turnover Non Management 8 Employee Turnover Age<30-Male 34 Employee Turnover Age<30-Female 0 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Male 7 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Female 2 Employee Turnover Age>50-Male 25 Employee Turnover Age>50-Female 1 New Employees Hired During FY: Male 300 New Employees Hired During FY: Female 14 New Employees Hired Who Resigned In The Same FY: Male 10 New Employees Hired Who Resigned In The Same FY: Female 0 Sustainability Report 143 2014-15 Training 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Management Employees (Direct) 99219 107250 129831 120497 139647 Male Management Employees (Direct) 5974 5445 7211 6856 9256 Female Workmen (Direct Employees) 48596 29071 26493 25009 26541 Male Workmen (Direct Employees) 1392 1520 1268.6 875 1191 Female Contractual Labour (Operations) 28617 38944 41835 53878 45767 Male Contractual Labour (Operations) 0 0 670 983 7199 Female Permanent EmployeePhysically 0 0 0 1007 2652 Disabled Contract Worker -Physically 0 0 0 0 4 Disabled Total Training For Direct 155180 143286 164804 153237 176636 Employees (Site-Based) Emission Calculation  Total Scope-2 Emissions has been calculated by weighted average  Direct & Indirect Energy from different fuels, renewables and Methodology grid Emission factors given by electricity has been calculated by Central Electricity Authority, the corresponding calorific value  Total Scope-1 Emissions has been Government of India for NEWNE of the fuel and theoretical thermal calculated based on the IPCC (covering former Northern, equivalence respectively. Emission Factors and internal Eastern, Western and NorthProcess Calculations. Emissions Eastern regions) and South Grid.  NOx, SOx, SPM, CO, VOC have have been identified from The Guidelines used are GHG been reported by Test Report data different sources of fuel and direct Protocol, ISO 14064. and standard calculation formula. CO2 emissions. 144 Fostering Responsible Growth Independent Assurance Statement Introduction DNVGL represented by DNVGL Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNVGL’) has been commissioned by the management of GAIL (India) Limited (or ‘the Company’) to carry out an independent assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainability Report 2014 -15 (‘the Report’) in its printed format. The verification was conducted during June-July’ 2015, for the year of activities covered in the Report i.e. 1st April’2014 to 31st March’2015. The intended users of this Assurance Statement are the management of the Company. The management of the Company is responsible for all information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed reports.Our responsibility in performing this work is regarding verification of Sustainability performance disclosed in the Report and in accordance with the agreed scope of work with the management of the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or coresponsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. Scope, Boundary and Limitations of Assurance The scope of work agreed upon with the Company includes verification of the following:  The verification of the qualitative and quantitative information on sustainability performance disclosed in the report covering Economic, Environmental and Social performance of the activities undertaken by the Company over the Reporting period 1st April’2014 to 31st March’2015 and based on the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4) and Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS);  Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report including external references;  Evaluation of the AccountAbility principles and specified performance information,described below, for a Type 2, Moderate Level of assurance, in accordance with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below;  Information related to the Company’s Sustainability Issues,responses,performance data,case studies and underlying systems for the management of scuh information and data;  Information relating to the Company’s materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement processess;  Evaluation of the disclosed General and Specific Standard Disclosures for ‘in accordance’-Core reporting requirements covering the systems, and the processes which Company has in place for adherence to the Reporting Principles set out in GRI G4;  Confirmation of Sustainability Disclosures related to GRI G4 – ‘in accordance’-Core as declared by GAIL. The aspect boundary is based on the internal materiality assessment conducted across six stakeholder groups predominantly covering GAIL ‘Indian Operations’, and excludes the key supply chain activities, Joint Ventures and Susbidiaries as set out in the report. During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement.The reported data on economic performance is based on audited financial statements by the Company’s statutory auditors. No external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. Verification Methodology This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 ((AA1000AS (2008)) and DNVGL Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ available on request from www.dnvgl.com ). The Report has been evaluated against the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set out in AA1000AS (2008) and the Reliability of specified sustainability performance information, as required for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement, and adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality as set out in VeriSustain. During the Assurance Engagement, we adopted a risk based approach, i.e. we concentrated our verification efforts on the issues of high material relevance to GAIL business and its key stakeholders. As part of verification, we visited GAIL Corporate Office at New Delhi, GAIL Training Institute (GTI) & Jubilee Tower at Noida and five operational sites located in India i.e.Pata (U.P.), Vijayapur & Khera (M.P.),Mansarampura & JLPL pipelines HQ,Jaipur and Vaghodia (Gujarat). As part of the engagement, we have verified the statements and claims made in the Report. In doing so, we have:  Reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality determination process;  Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, data accuracy, information flow and controls;  Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by the Company;  Conducted in-person interviews with middle and senior management team and other representatives, including data owners and decision-makers from different functions of the Company during corporate and site visits;  Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the Company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report;  Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. Conclusions The Sustainability Report 2014-15 is prepared based on GRI G4 Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures for ‘in accordance’-Core. In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the disclosures on sustainability performance reported in the Report along with the referenced information provides a fair representation of the key material aspects, related strategies, disclosure on management approach and performance indicators and meets the general content and quality requirements of GRI G4 i.e.,  General Standard Disclosures: The reported information under this section generally meets the disclosure requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Core reporting. Sustainability Report 145 2014-15  Specific Standard Disclosures: The reported information under this section generally meets the disclosure requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Core based on GRI G4 covering generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) and Performance Indicators for identified material Aspects as below: Economic  Economic Performance – G4-EC1 ,EC3 , EC4;  Indirect Economic Aspects – G4EC7;  Procurement Practices – G4-EC9; Environmental  MaterialsG4 –EN1;  Energy – G4-EN3 ,5, 6;OG2 & OG3;  Water – G4EN8 & 10;  Emissions – G4-EN15,16,18 to 21;OG6  Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22 to 26;  Compliance – G4-EN29;  OverallG4-EN31;  Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – G4-EN34; Social Labour Practices and Decent Work  Employment – G4-LA1 to 3;  Labor/Management Relations – G4-LA4;  Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5 to 7;  Training and Education – G4-LA9 to 11;  Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4-LA12;  Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – G4-LA13;  Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – G4-LA16; Human Rights  Non-discrimination – G4-HR3;  Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining – G4-HR4;  Child Labor – G4-HR5;  Forced and Compulsory Labor – G4-HR6;  Security Practices – G4-HR7;  Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms – G4-HR12; Society  Local Communities –G4-SO1,SO2;  Anti-corruption – G4-SO4,,SO5;  Public PolicyG4-SO6;  Anti-Competitive BehaviourG4-SO7;  Compliance – G4-SO8;  Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – G4-SO11;OG10;  Asset Intergrity and Process Safety – OG13; Product Responsibility  Customer Health & Safety – G4-PR2;  Product and Service Labelling – G4-PR3,PR4,PR5;  Marketing Communications – G4-PR6,PR7;  Compliance – G4-PR9. 146 Fostering Responsible Growth Independent Assurance Statement (continue) We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’ : AA1000AS (2008) Principles Inclusivity: The stakeholder identification and engagement process includes engagement with key stakeholders to identify key sustainability challenges and concerns through different channels and the process is documented. The material issues emerging from the stakeholder engagement were collected and prioritized, and the results are fairly reflected in the Report. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality: The materiality determination process was revalidated based on inputs from key stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, governments, regulatory bodies, local communities and senior management of GAIL.The Report focusses its disclosures on key material aspects at macro level and has not missed out any known material aspects for the Oil and Gas Sector. The management of Company has established internal process for monitoring and management on a continual basis for their long term organisational sustainability. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Responsiveness: We consider that the Report has adequately disclosed the strategies and management approach related to identified key sustainability aspects and challenges considering the overall sustainability context of the Oil & gas sector, within the identified aspect boundary. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at the Corporate Office, Jubilee Tower and GTI Noida, five operational sites were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been communicated for correction. Hence in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report is generally reliable. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Specific Evaluation of the information on Sustainability Performances We consider the methodology and process for gathering information developed by the Company for its sustainability performance reporting to be appropriate and the qualitative and quantitative data include in the Report was found to be identifiable and traceable; the personnel responsible were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data and its reliability. We observed that the report presents a faithful description of the Company’s sustainability activities. Additional parameters as per DNVGL’s Protocol Completeness: The Report has fairly reported the General and Specific Standard Disclosures including the management approach, monitoring systems and sustainability performances indicators against GRI G4 requirements corresponding to the ‘in accordance’ – Core option. The Company has confirmed that the systems for aggregating data for these disclosures are being developed and set the internal time lines for disclosure. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Neutrality: The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and presentation. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement reported to the management of the Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusions on the Report; however they are generally consistent with the management’s objectives:  The company may expand the boundary of material aspects in the supply chain, Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries within its sphere of control and influence.  The disclosue on management approach could consider disclosure on Aspect-specific DMA guidance to futher explain the management approach with respect to material aspects of the O&G sector industry.  The future Report may expand disclosure on organisational sustainability impacts, and process of consultation between stakeholder and highest governance bodies on environment and social topics, and its outcome. DNV GL’s Competence and Independence DNV GL is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV GL states its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. While we did conduct other third party audits work with GAIL (India) Limited in 2014-15, in our judgement this does not compromise the independence or impartiality of our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions and recommendations. We were not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. We maintain complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. Sustainability Report 147 2014-15 Glossary API American Petroleum Institute INR Indian National Rupee OBC Other Backward Classes ASME American Society of IT Information Technology NOx Oxides of Mechanical Engineers Nitrogen CPCB Central Pollution Control IL&FS Infrastructure Leasing and SOx Oxides of Sulphur Board Financial Services CPSE Central Public Sector IMS Integrated Management ODS Ozone Depleting Enterprise System Substances CVC Central Vigilance Commission ISO International Organization PNGRB Petroleum and for Standardization Natural Gas Regulatory Board CMD Chairman and Managing IPIECA Formerly International PPAC Petroleum Director Petroleum Industry Planning and Environmental Conservation Analysis Cell Association CFC Chlorofluoro Carbon JLPL Jamnagar Loni Pipeline PNG Piped Natural Gas CGD City Gas Distribution JV Joint Ventures PCB Pollution Control Board CRZ Coastal Regulation Zone KG Krishna-Godavari PUC Pollution Under Control CAGR Compounded Annual Growth LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas PE Poly-Ethylene Rate CNG Compressed Natural Gas LHC Liquid Hydrocarbon PAT Profit After Tax CSR Corporate Social LP Low Polymer PPP Public Private Responsibility Partnership CSI Customer Satisfaction Index MDG Millennium Development RGPPL Ratnagiri Gas and Goals Power Private Limited DVPL Dahej-Vijaipur Pipeline MBA Masters of Business RLNG Re-gasified Liquid Administration Natural Gas DGM Deputy-General Manager MoU Memorandum of R&D Research and Understanding Development DGH Directorate-General of MT Metric Tons RTI Right To Hydrocarbons Information DIN Dutch Institute fur Normung MMSCMD Million Metric Standard SC Scheduled Castes Cubic Meter per Day EPA Environmental Protection MoEF& Ministry of Environment, ST Scheduled Tribes Agency CC Forests & Climate Change ED Executive Director MoP&NG Ministry of Petroleum and SPM Suspended Natural Gas Particulate Matter E&P Exploration and Production MoRD Ministry of Rural SD Sustainable Development Development FY Financial Year MFO Mixed Fuel Oil TERI The Energy and Resources Institute 148 Fostering Responsible Growth GTI GAIL Training Institute NCR National Capital Region TMT Thousand Metric Tons GPU Gas Processing Unit NH National Highways tCO2e Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent GREP Gas Rehabilitation and NIT National Institute of TPA Tons per Annum Expansion Project Technology GJ Giga-Joule NG Natural Gas TDS Total Dissolved Solids GRI Global Reporting Initiative NGO Non-Government TI Transparency Organizations International GHG Greenhouse Gas NoC No objection Certificate TAPI TurkmenistanAfghanistanPakistanIndia HVJ Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur OHSAS Occupational Health and UNGC United Nations Safety Assessment Series Global Compact HSE Health, Safety and OIC Officer-in-Charge UNFCCC United Nations Environment Framework Convention on Climate Change HSEMS Health, safety and ONGC Oil and Natural Gas US United States environment management Corporation system HRSG Heat recovery steam OISD Oil Industry Safety UP Uttar Pradesh Generator Directorate HDPE High Density Poly-Ethylene OMC Oil Marketing Companies UPTU Uttar Pradesh Technical University HR Human Resources O&M Operation and Maintenance VSPL VizagSecundrabad Pipe Line HRD Human Resources OFC Optical Fibre Cable Development HoD Head of Department Sustainability Report 149 2014-15 GRI Content IndexG4-32 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number External Assurance Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 8 Message from Leadership Yes; 145External G4-2 26 Corporate Governance & Risk Management, 46 – Materiality Assurance Statement ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 GAIL (India) Limited Yes; 145External G4-4 10 About GAIL, Assurance Statement G4-5 New Delhi, India G4-6 10 About GAIL, 7 GAIL Annual Report FY 14-15 http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/pdf/AR2014-15/GAILAR2014-15.pdf G4-7 GAIL is a Central Public Sector Enterprise, listed on BSE, NSE and Global depository receipt (GDR) on London Stock Exchange G4-8 10 About GAIL, 23 to 27 GAIL Annual Report FY 14 -15 G4-9 10 About GAIL, 21, 30 GAIL Annual Report FY 14-15, 116Investors http://www.gailonline.com/final_site/index.html G4-10 139 Performance Snapshot G4-11 122 – Employees G4-12 18 to 19 About GAIL G4-13 5 About the Report G4-14 26 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-15 45 Stakeholder engagement G4-16 46 Stakeholder engagement IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 13 About GAIL, 157 GAIL Annual Report FY 14-15 Yes; 145External G4-18 47 Materiality, 5 About the Report Assurance Statement G4-19 48 – Materiality G4-20 49 – Materiality G4-21 49 – Materiality G4-22 5 About the Report G4-23 4 to 5 About the Report 150 Fostering Responsible Growth STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 40 Stakeholder engagement, 46 – Materiality Yes; 145External G4-25 40 Stakeholder engagement Assurance Statement G4-26 40 Stakeholder engagement, 46 – Materiality G4-27 40 Stakeholder engagement, 46 – Materiality REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Financial Year 14-15, 4About the Report Yes; 145External G4-29 This is GAIL’s 5th Sustainability Report and the 4th Sustainability Assurance Statement Report was released on 17.09.2014 G4-30 Annual G4-31 159 Way Forward G4-32 4, 5 About the Report, 149 GRI Content Index G4-33 5 About the Report GOVERNANCE G4-34 24, 31 Corporate Governance & Risk Management, Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 17 GAIL Annual Report FY 14-15 G4-35 24, 31 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-36 24, 31Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-37 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-38 18 to 19 & 45 to 50 GAIL Annual Report FY 14-15 G4-39 24 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-40 24 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-41 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-42 24 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-43 24 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-44 24 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-45 26 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-46 26 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-47 26 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-48 27 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-49 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-50 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-51 25 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-52 25 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-53 25 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-54 25 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-55 25 Corporate Governance & Risk Management ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 16 to 17 About GAIL, 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Management Assurance Statement G4-57 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Management G4-58 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Management Sustainability Report 151 2014-15 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Material Aspect DMA and Page Number Omission External Assurance Indicators CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-DMA 114 Investors Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EC1 116 Investors Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EC2 76 Striding towards Excellence: the No way we strive to grow G4-EC3 120 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EC4 Nil, 116Investors Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Indirect Economic G4-DMA 114 Communities Yes; 145External Assurance Impacts Statement G4-EC7 126 Communities Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EC8 126 Communities Procurement Practices G4-DMA 134 Suppliers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EC9 We consider India as local. Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 135 Suppliers CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-DMA 82 Transforming our business apYes; 145External Assurance proach: safeguarding our growth Statement G4-EN1 136 Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN2 136 Our Performance Snapshot No Energy G4-DMA 73 Striding towards Excellence: the Yes; 145External Assurance way we strive to grow Statement OG2 118 – Investors Yes; 145External Assurance Statement OG3 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN3 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN4 78 Striding towards Excellence: the No way we strive to grow, 136 – Our Performance Snapshot G4-EN5 36 Sustainability Strategy Yes; 145External Assurance Statement OG5 Not Applicable No G4-EN6 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 152 Fostering Responsible Growth Water G4-DMA 79 Striding towards Excellence: the Yes; 145External Assurance way we strive to grow Statement G4-EN8 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN10 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Emissions G4-DMA 76 Striding towards Excellence: the No way we strive to grow G4-EN15 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN16 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN17 78 Striding towards Excellence: the No way we strive to grow G4-EN18 36 Sustainability Strategy Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN19 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN20 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN21 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Effluents And Waste G4-DMA 71-Striding towards Excellence: the Yes; 145External Assurance way we strive to grow Statement G4-EN22 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN23 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 71-Striding towards Excellence: the way we strive to grow OG6 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN24 No significant spills Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN25 Not Applicable Page 80 Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-EN26 There is no significant impact of our Yes; 145External Assurance wastewater discharges and run-offs Statement to water bodies located in the vicinity of our operations Compliance G4-DMA 102 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Yes; 145External Assurance harnessing opportunities for growth, Statement 119 Investors G4-EN29 119 Investors, Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Transport G4-DMA 68 Striding towards Excellence: the No way we strive to grow Sustainability Report 153 2014-15 G4-EN30 We have estimated our Scope 3 CO2 No emissions for business travel which came out to highly insignificant as compared to Scope 1 & 2 CO2 76 Striding towards Excellence: the way we strive to grow Overall G4-DMA 68 Striding towards Excellence: the Yes; 145External Assurance way we strive to grow Statement G4-EN31 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Environmental G4-DMA 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Grievance Mechanisms Management Statement G4-EN34 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA 92 Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth Statement G4-LA1 93 Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth Statement G4-LA2 120 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-LA3 83-Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth Statement Labor/Management G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Relations Statement G4-LA4 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Occupational Health G4-DMA 54 Safety: in our every endeavour Yes; 145External Assurance and Safety while we grow, Statement 121 Employees G4-LA5 121 – Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement 139 Our Performance Snapshot G4-LA6 139 Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-LA7 139 Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Training and Education G4-DMA 94 Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth; Statement 121 Employees G4-LA9 139 Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-LA10 94 Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth Statement G4-LA11 94 Human Capital: at the core of our Yes; 145External Assurance growth Statement 154 Fostering Responsible Growth Diversity and Equal G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Opportunity Statement G4-LA12 139 Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Equal Remuneration G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance for Women and Men Statement G4-LA13 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Supplier Assessment G4-DMA 132 Suppliers No for Labor Practices G4-LA14 135 Suppliers No Labour Practices G4-DMA 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Grievance Mechanisms Management Statement G4-LA16 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA 122 Suppliers No G4-HR1 135 Suppliers No G4-HR2 122 Employees No Non-discrimination G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-HR3 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Freedom of G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Association and Statement Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Child Labor G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-HR5 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Forced or Compulsory G4-DMA 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Labor Statement G4-HR6 122 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Security Practices G4-DMA 123 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-HR7 123 Employees Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Assessment G4-DMA 123 Employees No G4-HR9 123 Employees No Supplier Human G4-DMA 134 Suppliers No Rights Assessment G4-HR10 134 Suppliers No Human Rights G4-DMA 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Grievance Mechanisms Management Statement Sustainability Report 155 2014-15 G4-HR12 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Local Communities G4-DMA 113-Communities Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-SO1 126 Communities Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-SO2 126 Communities Yes; 145External Assurance Statement OG10 We did not have any incidents of No significant disputes with local communities and indigenous people OG11 Nil No Anti-corruption G4-DMA 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement G4-SO3 28 Corporate Governance & Risk No Management G4-SO4 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement G4-SO5 28 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement Public Policy G4-DMA 102 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Yes; 145External Assurance harnessing opportunities for growth Statement G4-SO6 116 Investors Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Anti-competitive G4-DMA 103 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Yes; 145External Assurance Behavior harnessing opportunities for growth Statement G4-SO7 103 Dynamic Regulatory LandYes; 145External Assurance scape: harnessing opportunities for Statement growth Compliance G4-DMA 103 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Yes; 145External Assurance harnessing opportunities for growth, Statement 119 Investors G4-SO8 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance for Impacts on Society Management Statement G4-SO11 30 Corporate Governance & Risk Yes; 145External Assurance Management Statement Asset Integrity And G4-DMA 68 Striding towards Excellence: the Yes; 145External Assurance Process Safety way we strive to grow; Statement 54 Safety: in our every endeavour while we grow OG13 58 Safety: in our every endeavour Yes; 145External Assurance while we grow Statement 156 Fostering Responsible Growth SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health & G4-DMA 128 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Safety Statement G4-PR1 129 Customers No G4-PR2 129 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Product and Service G4-DMA 130 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Labeling Statement G4-PR3 130 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-PR4 130 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-PR5 129 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Marketing G4-DMA 129 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Communications Statement G4-PR6 129 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement G4-PR7 129 Customers Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Compliance G4-DMA 102 Dynamic Regulatory Landscape: Yes; 145External Assurance harnessing opportunities for growth, Statement 119-Investors G4-PR9 136 – Our Performance Snapshot Yes; 145External Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 157 2014-15 Linkages with API/IPIECA and UNGC Guidelines Section API / IPIECA Guidelines UNGC Principles Governance and Strategy SE11, SE12, SE14 Principle 10 Sustainability Governance E1, E2, E6 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality E6 Health & Safety HS1, HS2, HS3, HS5 Operational Excellence E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E9, E10, SE7, SE9, Human capital SE6, SE8, SE10, SE15, SE16, SE17, SE18 Gas & Petrochemical marketing HS4 Regulatory issues Innovation Shareholders / Investors E1, E2, E3, E6, E8, E10, SE13 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Employees HS1, HS2, HS3, SE6, SE8, SE10, SE15, SE16, Principle 1, SE17, SE18 Principle 2, Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 Community / Society E5, E7, E8, SE1, SE2, SE4 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Customers HS4 Suppliers SE5, SE7 Performance Snapshot E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E10, HS3 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 158 Fostering Responsible Growth Linkages with NVG-SEE Principles Principle No NVG-SEE Principles Linkage with Sustainability Report FY 14-15 Sections 1 Businesses should conduct and govern Governance and Strategy themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 2 Businesses should provide goods and Sustainability Governance, Customers services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 3 Businesses should promote the well being Human Capital – core of our success of all employees Employees 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, Employees, Communities and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. 5 Businesses should respect and promote Human Capital – core of our success human rights Employees 6 Business should respect, protect, and make Operational Excellence, efforts to restore the environment Communities 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing Corporate Governance, Stakeholder Engagement & public and regulatory policy, should do so in Materiality, Regulatory issues a responsible manner 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth Employees, Communities, Innovation and equitable development 9 Businesses should engage with and provide Customers value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Our Participations We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder of the GAIL acknowledged among the CDP’s India Leaders Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and support the mission 2014 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). of the GRI to develop globally accepted sustainability reporting guidelines through a global, multi-stakeholder process. Sustainability Report 159 2014-15 ur sustainability journey of the past half a decade has been both challenging as well as exciting for us. From taking small steps with our first report to today being one of the most well-known organizations in the domain of sustainability – GAIL has come a long way. We have developed in-house online sustainability data collection module which is indigenous and customised for our reporting framework and operations. This report is also a reflection of the different best practices that we have developed. This year was eventful and made us rethink our approach on a lot of factors ranging from business continuity, financial planning, and safety related issues. These challenging times taught us to identify opportunity even in the midst of chaos. As a result, opportunities we identified and we embarked upon various initiatives such as reinventing our competitiveness, securing raw material supply, marketing of our products, and exploring various pipeline intrusion detection and leak detection systems available which would be implemented in a phased manner to name a few. While we continue to identify and mitigate the range of risks that change dynamically, we are also upgrading ourselves with the latest set of technologies and innovate further. While we upgrade our processes, we have also upgraded our sustainability communications. This report is GAIL’s 1st Sustainability Report based on GRI G4 guidelines, which is the latest set of sustainability reporting guidelines available. In this context, we conducted a much detailed stakeholder engagement and materiality exercise which has also been discussed in the report. As we move ahead in our sustainability journey, we would aim to fulfil not only to comply with regulatory requirements but also other voluntary initiatives such as those of UNGC and our revised Sustainability Aspirations 2020. We are also committed to all our stakeholders and also seek their support in this journey. We value for constructive feedback. Your queries can be directed to : G4-31 Mr. Santanu Roy, General Manager (Corporate Planning) sroy@gail.co.in Mr. M. K. Biswas Deputy General Manager (Corporate Planning) mkbiswas@gail.co.in Designed by: National Advertising Agency
