2014 Our commitment to … CASINOS AUSTRIA AG AND ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. INTERIM REPORT Facts & Figures FACTS & FIGURES CASINOS AUSTRIA in millions euro 2012 2013 2014 Total revenues (inland) 273.9 263.1 271.6 Tax payments (inland) 98 96 105 Employees* 1,562 1,575 1,670 Casino guests (in millions) 2.32 2.36 2.50 Numbers of gaming tables 233 234 235 Numbers of slot machines 1,955 1,968 2,010 * Annual average full-time equivalent, incl. Cuisino Ges.m.b.H., Casinos Austria Sicherheitstechnologie GmbH (CAST), Congress Casino Baden Betriebsges.m.b.H. (CCB) and Casinos Austria Liegenschaftsverwaltungsund Leasing GmbH (CALL). FACTS & FIGURES AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES in millions euro 2012 2013 2014 Total sales (inland) 2,955.32 3,049.11 3,150.98 Tax payments (incl. gaming related taxes as well as taxes from ordinary income and other taxes and duties) 454.51 433.83 447.02 Sports sponsoring in acc. with Section 20, Austrian Gaming Act 80.00 80.00 80.00 Employees* 507 532 532 * Annual average full-time equivalent. FACTS & FIGURES CASINOS AUSTRIA AND AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES 2012 2013 2014 Electricity consumption in kWh 6,164,225 5,729,746 5,287,130 Heat consumption in kWh 2,613,000 2,397,160 2,018,700 Water consumption in m 3 11,506 11,190 8,460 Companies at a Glance in 2014 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE IN % SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE IN % Casinos Austria AG Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. 1 4 1 Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG 1 Casinos Austria AG 2 5.3 % 68 % 2 2 Medial Beteiligungs-GmbH 2 Lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. UNIQA 32 % Vienna Insurance Group 1 3 Raiffeisen Gruppe SHAREHOLDINGS Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG Lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. 38.3 % • CLS Beteiligungs GmbH 3 Münze Österreich AG Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG, 33.2 % BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH 4 Private Shareholders • RSV Beteiligungs GmbH 23.2 % ERSTE Group Bank AG, Raiffeisen-Invest-Gesell­ schaft m.b.H., Österreichische Volksbanken-AG • LTB Beteiligungs GmbH Medial Beteiligungs GmbH BAIH Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH, BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft and Österreichische Postsparkasse AG, ra AG Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG Hypo-Banken-Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H., Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, ERSTE Group Bank AG • Österreichischer Rundfunk SHAREHOLDINGS IN % Casinos Austria AG lotto-Toto Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna Casinos Austria Österreichische Lotterien International Holding GmbH Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Headquarters: Vienna 100 % 68 % 32 % 50 % Entertainment Glücksund Russisch Österreichische 50 % 59 % Unterhaltungsspiel Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna Albanisch Österreichische Headquarters: Vienna Lotterien Holding Gesellschaft m.b.H. Headquarters: Vienna 100 % 100 % 56 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Österreichische win2day Glücksund 000 Ural Loto Sportwetten EntwicklungsUnterhaltungsspiel Headquarters: Gesellschaft und Betriebs­­ Betriebsges. m.b.H. Ufa, Russia m.b.H. gesellschaft Headquarters: Lotaria Kombëtare Headquarters: m.b.H. Vienna Sh.p.k. Vienna Headquarters: Headquarters: Vienna Tirana, Albania LOCATIONS IN AUSTRIA 12 casinos 13 WINWIN outlets More than 5,100 lottery sales outlets win2day on win2day.at tipp3 in more than 3,250 lottery sales outlets and on www.tipp3.at GAMING REVENUES/SALES IN EUROS Casinos Austria: By casino Austrian Lotteries: By product 3,150,975,002.38 Bad Gastein 1,280,874 Lotto “6 aus 45”* 586,376,137.78 Kleinwalsertal 3,683,129 Toto and Torwette 9,060,902.65 258,344,107 Kitzbühel 7,045,635 Bingo 10,069,672.30 Graz 12,360,863 EuroMillions* 339,981,892.80 Seefeld 13,412,015 ToiToiToi 18,765,344.00 Baden 18,589,572 Zahlenlotto 1–90 4,055,973.00 Velden 20,508,397 Joker 182,932,051.69 Salzburg 22,061,330 Rubbellos 127,730,969.00 Innsbruck 23,870,709 Brieflos 22,988,735.00 Linz 24,885,142 Klassenlotterie 31,345,806.00 Wien 49,678,044 win2day and Keno 1,179,383,695.59 Bregenz 60,968,397 win2day Poker** 3,325,708.60 WINWIN 634,958,113.97 * Incl. share amount; ** Players play against each other in the win2day Poker Room. win2day charges and retains a fee (=rake) for facilitating the game. Rake only. EMPLOYEES ELECTRICITY AND HEAT CONSUMPTION SHARE in % (ABSOLUTE NUMBERS*) CHANGE IN KWH Casinos Austria Austrian Lotteries Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries 7,000,000 6,164,225 5,729,746 5,287,130 69.2 % 58.2 % 1,126 323 5,000,000 3,000,000 2,613,000 2,397,160 2,018,700 30.8 % 41.8 % 1,000,000 501 232 2012 2013 2014 * as of 31.12.2014 electricity consumption heat consumption Reporting Period/ Contents Report Profile This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ReFacts & Figures port is an interim report and has been prepared Companies at a Glance in 2014 and produced for the benefit of all internal and external stakeholders of Casinos Austria AG 1 Reporting Period/Report Profile (“Casinos Austria”) and Österreichische Lotte1 Contents rien Gesellschaft m.b.H. (“Austrian Lotteries”). 2 Forewords As such, it provides an insight into the perManagement Board formance of the Casinos Austria and Austrian CSR Director ­L otteries Group in the past year, with a focus CSR Officer on the economic, environmental and social 4 CSR Organization challenge in Austria. This interim report con5 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact centrates on the 2014 business year (up to and 6 Casinos Austria Corporate Principles including 3 ­ 1 December 2014). It is the eighth 6 Austrian Lotteries Guiding Principles CSR report published by Casinos Austria and 7 Group Management Bodies the seventh such report produced by ­Austrian 8 Group Organizational Structure ­L otteries. Casinos Austria and Austrian 9 Our Business ­Lotteries published their first joint CSR report Casinos Austria in September 2012. Austrian Lotteries WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals This interim report documents the group’s WIN2DAY – Online Gaming progress with regard to its CSR goals and has tipp3 – Sports Betting been compiled in line with the principles of the 11 Our Stakeholders UN Global Compact. However, given its inter13 Legal Foundations im nature, a GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 14 Compliance Management audit has been purposely not included. The next 16 Responsible Gaming ­C asinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries CSR re19 Economy port produced in accordance with the GRI Stan23 Environment dard will be published in 2016 and will cover the 25 Engagement for Society and Good Causes years 2014 and 2015. 31 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) The content of this interim CSR report was com32 Goals piled by the CSR Officer in consultation with the Directors and in close cooperation with all afImprint fected Business Units and Corporate Functions. Addresses and Contact Details The data and facts contained therein, which Customer Service Center were supplied for the report by said Business Casino Locations Units and Corporate Functions, were selected by WINWIN Outlets the ­responsible experts from the records and Counseling Facilities statistics they have been diligently compiling and maintaining for many years and have been verified for correctness and accuracy by their respective line managers. CSR update 2014 1 Forewords MANAGEMENT BOARD Responsibility: a matter of principle The companies in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Environmental sustainability also has to be a permanent ­Lotteries Group work in a particularly sensitive sector of and important goal for a company in the services sector. the economy. As providers of gambling services, society The optimization of energy consumption, avoidance of rightly expects us to set ourselves particularly high stanwaste and sourcing of sustainable products are all importdards of business integrity. Responsibility is thus a matter ant aspects of our CSR system – as is the care we take to of principle in all our activities: it is the guiding precept in ensure that the events hosted in our casinos or in our own our strategic corporate planning and it defines the way we dedicated event location, Studio 44 on the Rennweg in interact with our customers, our staff and the stakeholders Vienna, are designed as so-called green events. Finally, but in society. equally importantly, we consider it our responsibility to support initiatives and projects that are of benefit to society. Three pillars underpin CSR management in our group: the Our group is one of Austria’s biggest sponsors of culture responsibility exercised in our core business, environmental and the arts, and as partner to a wide variety of organizaresponsibility through effective environmental protection tions, we support both numerous initiatives in sport as well and the sustainable deployment of resources and, last but as many charities and social causes. not least, social and cultural responsibility in our capacity as sponsors of and partners to relevant causes, projects This interim report on our CSR activities documents and initiatives in society. how responsibility is a matter of principle in our group and exemplifies our goal, namely that our corporate and All three areas are of equal importance to us. We consider business activities should ultimately serve to benefit all it absolutely crucial for a company to accept and demonAustrians. strate responsibility both for its own products and services as well as in its dealings with its customers and business partners. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is regarded both at home and abroad as an industry leader Casinos Austria AG Management Board: in the development and implementation of player protecKarl Stoss · Bettina Glatz-Kremsner · Dietmar Hoscher tion and responsible gaming methods, of measures to combat money laundering and corruption, and in data protection Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Management Board: and information security. By being innovative and demonKarl Stoss · Bettina Glatz-Kremsner strating clear commitment, we assume a pioneering role in these fields for the gaming industry as a whole. Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher 2 CSR update 2014 CSR DIRECTOR CSR OFFICER Active engagement Responsibility is not for society a matter of luck Companies have a responsibility to society. They must be CSR in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is “good corporate citizens” in the true sense of the word, not an abstract concept and certainly not an impermeable members of society who actively support the community. “black box”. Instead, it is a vibrant process that enjoys the equal support of all members of staff and all members of This principle constitutes the real basis of CSR and correthe Management Board – a principle that permeates all the sponds to the understanding by which it is practiced in the companies in the group. Once a month, representatives Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. The concept of all Business Units and Corporate Functions sit down of corporate social responsibility has, in the meantime, together to discuss, evaluate and plan CSR activities and gained an increasing foothold in the corporate world. Politics, issues. The results are published internally and made availNGOs and society are placing increasingly high demands on able to all members of staff. businesses, while an increasing number of companies are, at the same time, recognizing that they have to act accordThese awareness-raising measures often themselves proingly. We have always welcomed this trend, and it has now duce new, sustainable ideas which have a positive impact become clear that we – as pioneers of CSR – have indeed on corporate development. been on the right path from the very outset. The EU Directive adopted in April 2014 once again raises The EU Directive 2014/95 represents a further milestone on the demands placed on CSR management. Since C ­ asinos the CSR journey and for the first time makes the disclosure Austria and Austrian Lotteries already adhere to the two of non-financial and diversity information – such as social established systems proposed by the EU, namely the and environmental factors – mandatory across Europe for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact certain undertakings and groups. While the Directive will (UNGC), we welcome this development. We are convinced require us to adjust some of the finer details of our CSR that society will, in future, pay growing attention to how reporting, it essentially means that what has been standard companies handle their social responsibility. practice in our group for many years will now also become the standard in Europe. This interim CSR report provides an overview of the status quo in the group and the progress we made in the 2014 The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group was one of business year. It will be supplemented next year by an the first gaming groups worldwide to implement a systemin-depth CSR report covering the years 2014 and 2015. Our atic approach to CSR management that is tied directly to CSR activities inspire us with confidence and optimism, the Management Board. As a result, Casinos Austria and not least because environmentally, ethically and socially Austrian Lotteries were both also accepted as participants in responsible action secures sustainable, economic success. the UN Global Compact in 2011. The European Casino Association (ECA) likewise draws on Casinos Austria’s know-how I hope you enjoy reading this report and look forward to the in systematic CSR management. creative discussions it provokes. This interim report is intended to provide you with an overview of our CSR activities and corresponding developments in the past year. Dietmar Hoscher Hermann Pamminger Director, Casinos Austria AG CSR Officer for the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group csr@casinos.at CSR update 2014 3 CSR Organization There are three levels to CSR management in the Casinos CSR MONTHLY MEETING ­Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. First, CSR is firmly anchored in the group at Management Board level, where The members of the CSR Forum also meet in person to share responsibility for the topic is assigned to one specific Director. information and ideas at the monthly CSR meeting. This At present, the position of CSR Director is held by Dietmar meeting is planned and prepared by the CSR Officer, with Hoscher. The CSR Director assumes the ultimate responsibility the agenda sent out in advance to all members of the Forum for the achievement of the CSR goals and for the implemenby e-mail and posted on the collaboration platform along tation of the numerous voluntary commitments made with with any relevant documents pertaining to the individual respect to social responsibility in our corporate strategy. He points. Forum members can also add their own points to the is supported in this role by a CSR Officer (second level), who ­agenda. At these meetings, all current or upcoming events are coordinates CSR activities on the operative level. This CSR discussed, tasks allocated and questions relating to multiple Officer serves as facilitator for the evaluation, communication departments clarified as required. The results of the meeting and realization of CSR initiatives and activities. Together with are documented in the minutes, which are also stored on the the Corporate Communications Division, the CSR Officer is collaboration platform – along with all additional documents also responsible for organizing the related reporting measures and materials relating to the CSR topics discussed and worked and producing the corresponding CSR report. The individual on by the Forum – and thus made permanently available to all CSR measures themselves are implemented in the respective members. Business Units and Corporate Functions, with ongoing support and monitoring activities (in the process management sense) likewise provided by the CSR Officer. The third level to CSR in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is the ­so-called CSR Forum, which plays a central role in translating our CSR activities into our day-to-day business operations. CSR Director CSR FORUM Dietmar Hoscher The CSR Forum was established to facilitate coordination and communication between all staff in the group involved in im­ plementing CSR measures. The members of the Forum come from all Business Units, from those Corporate Functions that CSR Officer are relevant for CSR activities as well as from Casino Wien in Hermann Pamminger Vienna (as representatives of our twelve casino operations in Austria). The CSR Forum currently has a total of 33 members. Communication in the CSR Forum takes place on two l­evels. Firstly, its members share information via e-mail using a dedi­cated mailing list set up specifically for this purpose. The mailing list includes all members of the Forum and allows them CSR Forum to send each other relevant news quasi at the click of a mouse. Representatives of the Business Units and It also enables them to enter into dialog and discuss questions Corporate Functions (see Page 8). The CSR without any unnecessary organizational effort. Secondly, they Forum meets on a monthly basis. communicate with each other in a closed CSR Forum group on our internal Enterprise 2.0 collaboration platform. This platform serves as a transparent and clearly structured communication and storage medium for CSR content: data, facts, presentations and other relevant documents as well as discussions between members can be permanently saved and made readily available to authorized users without getting lost in the daily flood of other e-mails and information. 4 CSR update 2014 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact At the core of the UN Global Compact lie ten principles ­derived from various international declarations. HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ­internationally proclaimed human rights; and ­environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ­responsibility; and LABOR Principle 9 Principle 3 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the friendly technologies. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 5 including extortion and bribery. the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher CSR update 2014 5 Casinos Austria Austrian Lotteries ­ Corporate Principles Guiding Principles 1. As a services company, everything we do centers on // Austrian Lotteries is an internationally renowned gaming our guests and their individual needs and demands. Our company with a responsible, innovative and cooperative behavior and the design of our products combine interna­ approach. We offer a broad portfolio of high quality prod­ tional quality and service standards with the decisive ucts for the adult gaming market. Responsible gaming “value added” of typically Austrian friendliness and charm. forms the basis of all our business activities. This core atti­ tude to our stakeholders is actively practiced by company 2. We treat others the way we wish to be treated ourselves. management and by all our staff. 3. Our staff, works council and management are fully commit­ // Maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers ted to a sustainable, socially balanced, fair and cooperative and the licensing authority is central to all our efforts and attitude that centers on our guests. endeavors. We combine regulatory responsibility with entrepreneurial commitment, live credibly by these prin­ 4. We are aware of and accept our responsibility to society. ciples and are an economic success with a clear financial basis and strength. 5. Gambling can be a problem for some people. We there­ fore accept and are committed to the regulatory mandate // Our business model embraces innovation. We develop and of the Austrian authorities and strive in all our casinos to use modern technology to guarantee the best possible promote, encourage and offer the optimal level of respon­ ­level of security in our gaming products. Our pioneering sible gaming for our guests. role can be attributed above all to our motivated, high per­ forming staff, who are a cornerstone of our lasting success. 6. We are aware of and accept our responsibility for our We are committed to providing them with an attractive company. working environment that encourages open communication and supports a work-family balance. 7. In line with our corporate objectives, all our employees are empowered and required to assume responsibility, be // We see ourselves as a good corporate citizen and support innovative and show commitment. institutions and projects that serve the interests of Austria and its population. In line with the license ­awarded to us, 8. We offer our employees a stimulating and supportive work­ we strive to make our products available across the whole ing environment. of Austria. We work closely and responsibly with our sales partners and strive to ensure our c­ ustomers always enjoy 9. Job descriptions, scope of authority and any associated the best possible service. In doing so, we place a partic­ responsibilities are clearly defined. This leads to informed, ularly strong emphasis on adherence to our responsible purposeful and motivated employees who provide our gaming principles. guests with optimal service. 10. We draw our strength from our clear focus on our guests and our markets. 6 CSR update 2014 Group Management Bodies CASINOS AUSTRIA SUPERVISORY BOARD AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES SUPERVISORY BOARD Executive Committee Executive Committee • Walter Rothensteiner • Walter Rothensteiner, Director General President, Director General (Chair) President of the Supervisory Board • Kurt Pribil • Gerhard Starsich, Director General Vice President, Director (1st Deputy Chair) 1st Vice President of the Supervisory Board • Elisabeth Stadler • Erich Hampel Vice President (2nd Deputy Chair) 2nd Vice President of the Supervisory Board • Maria Theresia Bablik Vice President (3rd Deputy Chair) Members • Maria Theresia Bablik Members • Gerhard Baumgartner, University Professor • Hannes Bogner, Director • Stephan Koren, Director General • Peter Mooslechner, Director • Alfred Ludwig, Director General • Gerald Neuber, Director • Peter Mooslechner, Director • Thomas Polzer • Gerald Neuber, Director • Josef Pröll, Director • Thomas Uher, Director • Leonhard Romig, Attorney-at-Law • Alexander Wrabetz, Director General • Gerhard Starsich, Director General Members delegated by the Works Council Members delegated by the Central Works Council (CWC) • Bettina Lahoda • Manfred Schönbauer, CWC Chairman • Franz Baumgartner • Reinhard Aichinger • Norbert Eigl • Thomas Bergmann • Gertrude Kopp • Christian Holz • Tassilo Kager • Peter Löb • Erika Pilz • Alexander Nachbaur Audit Committee State Commissioners • Walter Rothensteiner, President, Director General • Alfred Lejsek • Gerhard Starsich, 1st Vice President, Director General • Alfred Katterl • Erich Hampel, 2nd Vice President • Johannes Pasquali • Gerhard Baumgartner, University Professor • Alfred Ludwig, Director General • Alexander Wrabetz, Director General MANAGEMENT BOARD Members of the Audit Committee delegated by the Works Council • Karl Stoss, Director General • Bettina Lahoda • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director • Gertrude Kopp • Dietmar Hoscher, Director • Erika Pilz State Commissioners • Martin Atzmüller (State Commissioner) • Christoph Schlager (Deputy State Commissioner) MANAGEMENT BOARD • Karl Stoss, Director General, Chairman of the Board • Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director as of 1 July 2015 CSR update 2014 7 Group Organizational Structure The group’s individual areas of business are organized into sepexecutive and divisional management teams. Services that arate Business Units which draw on the services provided by the are required across the entire group are bundled into so-called Corporate Functions. Each Business Unit (BU) and each CorpoCorporate Functions. These are also assigned strategically to one rate Function (CF) is assigned strategically to one or more memor more board member(s) and managed by one or more head(s) ber(s) of the Casinos Austria or Austrian Lotteries M ­ anagement of division. Boards. Operational management is handled by the respective Business Units Casinos in Austria International Business Lotteries Karl Stoss, Dietmar Hoscher, Karl Stoss, Dietmar Hoscher, Karl Stoss, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Business Unit Management: Executive Management: Business Unit Management: Christian Schütz Alexander Tucek, Peter Ulovec Christoph Zurucker-Burda Betting & VLT/ Sports-Related Skill Games Slot Machine Business Online Gaming Dietmar Hoscher Dietmar Hoscher Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Executive Management: Executive Management: Executive Management: Philip Newald, Georg Weber Robert Vierziger, Fritz Pühringer Martin Jekl, Emmerich Hager Corporate Functions Corporate Internal Human Development Audit Resources Entire Management Board Entire Management Board Karl Stoss Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Peter Ulovec, Erhard Peinthor Erich Valenta Reinhard Summerer, Christian Schütz Corporate Finance & Public & Communications Group Controlling Legal Affairs European Affairs, CSR Karl Stoss Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Dietmar Hoscher Dietmar Hoscher Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Martin Himmelbauer Wolfgang Sperl Peter Erlacher Markus Eder Information Responsible Gaming, Technologies Services Advertising & Sponsoring Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Karl Stoss Dietmar Hoscher Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Extended CF Management: Erich Schuster Nathan Bomze Herbert Beck as of 1 July 2015 8 CSR update 2014 Our Business Casinos Austria absolute security in the handling of all games and Twelve casinos in Austria, twelve gaming venues Casinos Austria’s unrivalled reputation for integwhose characteristic local features make each rity, the twelve casinos in Austria really do offer and every one of them quite extraordinary. They the very best in gaming and entertainment. all differ in their architecture, regional setting and atmosphere, yet all still bear the unmistakAUSTRIAN LOTTERIES able hallmark of Casinos Austria. In Baden, Bad Austrian Lotteries has been offering a wide Gastein, Bregenz, Graz, Innsbruck, Kitzbühel, range of classic lottery games and instant lottery Kleinwalsertal, Linz, Salzburg, Seefeld, Velden products for the adult gaming market since 1986. and Vienna, guests at Casinos Austria’s casinos The company conducts all its business activities enjoy an international gaming mix that extends in a responsible manner, with player protection from Roulette and Blackjack through Poker to the and responsible gaming always accorded the popular Mega Million slot machines. highest priority. Particular importance is given here to the protection of minors and to protecting Competent staff are on hand to ensure that all customers against excessive desire to gamble. guests enjoy a perfect casino experience. This starts the moment they enter the casino lobby, The Austrian Lotteries product range comprises where each guest receives a warm and friendly the Lotto, EuroMillions, Toto, Torwette, Bingo, welcome and, of course, immediately encounters ToiToiToi, Zahlenlotto, Joker, Rubbellos, Briefthe highest possible level of player protection. los and Klassenlotterie lottery games as well as Each member of our casino staff is highly the gaming options offered by three subsidiary trained to ensure, in turn, that each guest can companies, WINWIN, win2day and tipp3. The relax and enjoy a carefree, responsible night of company’s lottery products can be purchased at gaming. over 5,100 sales outlets across Austria and on the internet. First-class dining and bar facilities, operated under the Cuisino – Genuss-Events by Casinos A dynamic and forward-looking company, Austria brand, round off a perfect night at the ­Austrian Lotteries is one of the best-equipped casino. From light snacks to gourmet cuisine – lottery companies in Europe from a technology there’s something for every taste. perspective. Integrity, absolute security in the handling of games and the use of state-of-theBut people also go to the casino for entertainart gaming technologies are accorded utmost ment, and this is clearly reflected in the events on priority. offer in Casinos Austria’s casinos, where theater, cabaret or dinner shows as well as an impressive winwiN – Video Lottery Terminals range of tournaments all feature prominently WINWIN offers a combination of café, bar and on the calendar. With the added reassurance of modern gaming at a total of 15 outlets across CSR update 2014 9 Austria in Bruck an der Leitha, Krems, ­Kufstein, centrally. The games offered in the win2day Landeck, Lienz, Linz/Urfahr, Mayrhofen, ­Poker Room, Bingo Room, Casino Games section Salzburg City, Schärding, Schwaz, Steyr, and Games Room are such electronic lotteries. ­Vöcklabruck, Wels, Wiener Neustadt and Zell Keno is offered in accordance with Section 12b of am See. WINWIN outlets are meeting places for the Austrian Gaming Act, but is available excluentertainment-minded people who enjoy a good sively via the internet on win2day. The win2day. night out. They offer guests aged 18 or over the at online gaming platform is a joint venture opportunity to try their luck on cutting edge between Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries. video lottery terminals (VLTs) in stylish settings, Access to the site is restricted to people aged 18 with good value bistro cuisine, well-trained staff or over who are registered as residents in Austria. and regular live music events and attractive entertainment programs. VLTs are optically similar tipp3 – SPORTS BETTING to classic slot machines but differ in their gaming Since its first betting slip was played on ­ mechanism. While each slot machine calculates 24 August­2001 in Vienna, tipp3 has come to win/lose decisions independently via a random epitomize sports betting in Austria. In addition generator, these decisions are calculated for VLTs to sports betting, tipp3 has also been offering by a central random generator based on predeterpopular skill-based games like Schnapsen (an mined odds and payout rates. The games played Austrian variation of the Sixty-Six card game), on VLTs are classed as electronic lotteries. Safe, Backgammon, Rummy and Jolly (an Austrian reliable and legitimate gaming fun is guaranteed. variation of Rummy) via the internet since 2009. WINWIN is a VLT brand operated jointly by On average, around six million tipp3 bets are ­Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries. placed each year at over 3,300 sales outlets across Austria, via the internet portal www.tipp3.at or WIN2DAY – Online Gaming via smartphone. tipp3 bets can only be placed by Computer, tablet or smartphone – win2day is persons aged 18 or over. As an Austrian ­company, the premier address for online gaming. From Österreichische Sportwetten GmbH offers its Ace Poker to Zero-Sum, from American Roulette products exclusively on the domestic market to Zahlenlotto, the win2day gaming platform under the tipp3 brand and is licensed to operate offers a comprehensive range of gaming options sports betting in all nine federal states in Austria. – from classic Austrian Lotteries products and tipp3 is backed by renowned, financially strong sports betting to the electronic lottery games and economically successful shareholders, who on offer in its Casino Games, Poker, Bingo and are known for their continuity and long-term Games Rooms. Pursuant to Section 12a of the corporate policies. Österreichische Sportwetten ­Austrian Gaming Act (Glücksspielgesetz), elecGmbH has also been offering solutions to other tronic ­lotteries are draws in which the player betting providers and companies who wish to participates directly via electronic media and enter the sports betting market under the BGS – for which the win/lose decision is calculated Better Game Solutions – brand since 2010. 10 CSR update 2014 Our Stakeholders Responsible and sustainable corporate action is a new company, Österreichische Spielbanken demonstrated most clearly in the way a company AG, which was renamed Casinos Austria AG in deals and works with its various stakeholders. 1985. Since its very beginnings, interaction with individual stakeholder groups has always been The principle of ongoing dialogue with key a core focus of business activities at Casinos stake­holder groups has always been reflected Austria, which was established from the outset in the company’s organizational structure. as an organization with firm roots in Austrian Accor­d ingly, a department for the prevention of society. The company’s history dates back to gambling addiction was already set up at a very the year 1934, when the first casino in Austria early stage in its development. This department, was opened in the town of Baden near Vienna. which at that time went by the name “CustomFurther operations followed, and the country’s er Service” (Kundenbüro), is now a separate gambling sector was subsequently reformed in division in the group: the Corporate Function 1967. This reform led to the establishment of Responsible Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring. Contrib t a te Le STAKEHOLDER DIAGRAM gislato tion; p uting to the rs rovidin develo g inform pment Stable Po ation o of gam R e li t n new b develo ling legisla­ gi i c a pments relatio on l D Ad re he al e c sp re an i s nships li Re on nc ab sib e t d ion ilit le o l Lo M ap eg pr isla cal ak y; S al e re sp oa ti L e er ir ch on ve s a hip; fa on S sib to ; pa l tF al an d rtners liability le, th ym ed s Pa r t e on pa lon ris en yin g ks t o er arr re based earnings; g-t of f ta al c F e der , the er ga xe to ner s Ea m rni m sa on ng s; inv es s bli n ib uti res nk ng d d o ntr po Ba ents ;c t ns ut ible ion ies s I nv m rlat trols a to co i s ; rpo es l leg on rat t or gu to r y c ec itiz s Re rencegulato en he re Special In Ad t of Reliability teres t G ou ; support in roups realizing Casinos orities their resp ective inte Local Auth in the host rests Austria sible action ship respon Good citizen communities AUSTRIAN ani n g O r g ion s LOTTERIES Cus tom i ut Gam s ti t er s ible arch In unicationity , Ade an d o n s e resp quate p Gue s p e s m a b il onsib rodu sts Re e n t R m n co pproac h le c e s, n ope ia Su gam t portf r s i t i d Pe r t i a e a rch, ed n; pp in g o li o ; sec ; fair i v s e Re Un n s a n n d re M io lia li e urity ness o ga at cy ; ser z a ti t e achin m ren bi lit r s vice ; ees r r ts fo r o a f y; port in sp fa Sup the tific po ly tran Rel ia irn Owners Economic stability; long-term strategy; earnings a p Re n d E es nS sup com atio s; rs i b pan n to co p r e mp s bs op tn e es y er atis n s e n l oy at Pa r ng illi io fac t por n tat ee w in g y; tio i ve sup ilit wit n; ide s or h ng; ib ss s l oy h on ndi e c n Sp s e ar c Ac Em sta p der ; jo Re ; un rity ecu ility bs ,C s; j o ul t arie ur e Sal , CSR update 2014 11 The key stakeholder groups were thus already This permanent, ongoing contact to individual known when Casinos Austria and Austrian stakeholder groups is augmented through regular ­L otteries published their first CSR reports publications. Our annual reports provide inforin 2006. Dialog with these stakeholders was mation on economic developments and trends. likewise already firmly established. In the years Our staff magazine Ein.Satz and weekly intranet since then, this structure has been subjected to newsletter keep employees up-to-date on what’s a critical analysis in the course of the production going on in the group and provide them with a of each CSR Report and adapted as required. forum for communicating their own issues and Stakeholder issues have also featured r­ egularly achievements. on the agenda at the group’s monthly CSR meeting, which was introduced in 2013 and is attended by staff from the individual Business Units and Corporate Functions. GOALS WHICH THE CASINOS AUSTRIA AND AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES GROUP HAS SET ITSELF WITH REGARD TO The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT: Group communicates regularly with its stakeholders via a range of channels. Joint events ––Implementation of events to establish and continue dialog with the with representatives of tourism (Tourism Talks) group’s key stakeholders and culture (Culture Talks) serve to foster and ––Development of a materiality analysis for key stakeholder groups promote dialog on shared interests and common ––Preparation for the implementation of measures and standards to ground. Sales partners are invited to attend spepermit CSR reporting in accordance with GRI 4 Guidelines (Global cial responsible gaming events over and above Reporting Initiative) any normal business meetings and contacts. A lively discussion with casino guests is an established part of corporate culture. OUR STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER Communication Dialog Inclusion informing listening involving observing discussing working together 12 CSR update 2014 Legal Foundations In Austria, the state holds a monopoly on gamGaming Act. The central issue here is the striking These principles are in keeping with established bling pursuant to Article 10 (1) 4 of the Federal of the licenses for three Poker salons, thus rencase law of the Court of Justice of the European Constitutional Law (Bundes-Verfassungsgesetz). A dering Section 22 of the Gaming Act obsolete. Union (ECJ), which has ruled in several findings monopoly of this kind is in keeping with the EU’s (e.g. Schindler 1994, Gambelli 2003, Placanica rules on competition when it serves the purpose As regards lottery games, Österreichische 2007, Liga Portuguese 2009, Engelmann 2010, of restricting the gambling market as a whole Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. holds the license Dickinger 2011, Hit Larix 2012) that the proviand combating gambling addiction and crime. pursuant to Section 14 of the Austrian Gaming sion of games of chance is a service of a special Act to operate lotteries as defined in Sections nature and that national restrictions of this marThe Austrian Gaming Act (Glücksspielgesetz) 6 to 12b of said Act, BGBl. No. 620/1989, as ket – up to and including the establishment of a stipulates that the state can award one license amended in BGBl. I No. 105/2014. This includes monopoly – are justified when they serve to limit for lotteries (including electronic lotteries), the right to offer games of chance on the interthe overall supply as well as to combat gambling 15 casino licenses and three poker salon licenses. net. Like terrestrial gambling, online gambling addiction and crime. ECJ rulings also confirm Electronic lotteries include (online) games of in Austria also falls under the state monopoly that appropriate advertising and some expansion chance and video lottery terminals. and can therefore only be offered legally by the of the legal supply is required to suppress illegal authorized license holder, i.e. by Austrian Lotoperators. In addition to these national licenses, the nine teries with the win2day online gaming platform. individual federal states (Länder) in Austria can In the decision dated 10 October 2011, Austrian The strict requirements regarding the award each issue their own licenses for the operation Lotteries was awarded the license pursuant to of a casino license in Austria are stipulated in of gaming machines pursuant to Section 5 of the Section 14 of the Austrian Gaming Act to operate Section 21 of the Gaming Act. Pursuant to these Gaming Act. Each individual federal state can isthe lotteries defined in Sections 6 to 12b of said requirements, a license can only be awarded, sue a maximum of three such licenses. The total Gaming Act, BGBl. No. 620/1989, as amended in for example, to a gambling company which can number of gaming machines in each individual BGBl. I No. 76/2011, for the period to 30 Septemdemonstrate an ownership structure with a suffifederal state is also restricted by law. ber 2027. The precise term of the license is from cient spread to prevent one shareholder exerting 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2027. The award a controlling interest. In addition, this company As regards casinos, Casinos Austria holds all of the license was the culmination of a compremust have a paid-up nominal equity capital of at twelve casino licenses currently awarded under hensive call for tenders by the Austrian Federal least 22 million euros and provide evidence of the provisions of the Federal Law of 28 NovemMinistry of Finance. the lawful origin of said equity capital. ber 1989 on the Regulation of Games of Chance (Bundesgesetz zur Regelung des GlücksspielwesThose games that fall under the term “games of Player protection and the prevention of gamens, Federal Law Gazette (Bundesgesetzblatt/ chance” in Austria are determined by the legislabling addiction are mandatory requirements BGBl.) No. 620/1989 as amended in BGBl. I No. tor in Sections 1 and 2 of the Gaming Act and are for the award of a gambling license in Austria. 105/2014; hereinafter referred to as the (Ausfurther restricted by the exceptions stipulated Accordingly, Section 21 (2) 7 of the Gaming Act trian) Gaming Act) and operates these casinos at in Sections 4 and 5 of said Act. The explana­ stipulates that a license can only be awarded to the following locations: Baden, Bad Gastein (from tory notes that accompany the Gaming Act also an applicant if said applicant can be expected 01.01.2016 in Zell am See through the transfer clarify why the legislator has elected to establish to best exercise the license by virtue of its experiof the license from Bad Gastein), Bregenz, Graz, a national gambling monopoly. ence, infrastructures, development measures Innsbruck, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalsertal, Linz, and own equity capital/resources as well as its Salzburg, Seefeld, Velden and Vienna. These Gambling might, by its nature, be a leisure service, systems and arrangements to prevent gambling licenses were renewed in 2012 and 2013 and are but it is one that must come with a very strong addiction, to protect gamblers, to prevent money valid for a period of 15 years. The licenses were sense of responsibility and a particular respect laundering and criminal activities, to ensure awarded in two packages for the following perifor the related risks to society. With gambling the security of its operations, to assure quality, ods respectively: city package – 1 January 2013 also comes the risk of gambling addiction, which to monitor its operations and to meet any other to 31 December 2027 (casinos in Vienna, Graz, can go as far as to threaten a person’s economic applicable provisions in the Gaming Act. Innsbruck, Linz, Salzburg, Bregenz); regional existence. Likewise, measures must be taken to package: 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2030 effectively counter the penetration of organized Casinos Austria currently holds the licenses (casinos in Baden, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalsertal, crime – from gambling fraud to money laundering to operate casinos in twelve locations. For the Seefeld, Velden, Zell am See). – into the gambling sector. Accordingly, from the reissue of these casino licenses, an individual health and regulatory perspectives, a liberalconcept outlining the development potential and As a result of the 2010 Amendment to the Gamized gambling market would not be desirable the effects on the host region had to be provided ing Act, a further three casino licenses are to be – competition between providers would lead to for each venue. awarded in Austria in addition to the existing an excessive expansion of gambling services and twelve casinos. The call for tenders for these render measures like player bans or advertising The successes enjoyed by the Casinos Austria and three individual licenses (Vienna South-West, restrictions almost unenforceable in practice. Austrian Lotteries Group to date can be attri­ Vienna North-East and Lower Austria 2) was buted in great part to the high levels of quality launched on 26 November 2012. The deadline Conversely, despite these risks, a total ban on and innovation which the two companies repeatfor the submission of bids was 10 June 2013. games of chance is also not desirable from a edly continue to demonstrate in their gaming ­C asinos Austria participated in this call for tenpolitical perspective, since it would simply result operations. Not to mention the vast experience ders, lodged ordinary appeals against the three in the emergence of an illegal gambling market gained over the many successful years in which subsequent negative decisions and won the case that cannot be controlled. An approach which Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries have in the proceedings before the Administrative imposes appropriate restrictions to prevent proved themselves to be reliable partners for Court. the undesirable side effects of gambling and the licensing authority and have come to serve monitors compliance with these restrictions is as role models for gaming companies all over The consultation draft package for the far more effective. Since legal, licensed gambling the world for their high level of responsibility 2015/2016 Tax Reform Act (Steuerreformgesetz) thus also has the task of suppressing illegal gamtowards the state and society. in Austria also includes an Amendment to the bling, it must be promoted accordingly. CSR update 2014 13 Compliance Management Compliance at Casinos Austria and Austrian COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK IN THE CASINOS AUSTRIA AND Lotteries stands for adherence not only to AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES GROUP laws and regulations but also to the voluntary provisions or codes of practice that have been established in the group. Compliance Management Our compliance management system encom­ passes all the principles and measures applied to adhere to specific rules and to avoid any infringement of such rules. AntiData Corruption Protection Our compliance management measures cover a broad range of topics and issues and include measures to prevent criminal activities like money laundering and to ensure adherence to Responsible strict data protection provisions through, for Gaming example, an information security management system. They also foresee regular audits to ver­ ify compliance in procurement transactions. Combating Information Money Security Laundering The following priorities were set with regard to compliance in 2014: February 2014 Casinos Austria’s responsible gaming manage­ ment system was certified by the Austrian Standards Institute (formerly ÖNORM). C ­ asinos Austria is thus the first gaming company world­ wide with a responsible gaming management system that conforms to a recognized, pre­ defined standard and has been subjected to a thorough audit by the professional auditors at Compliance the Austrian Standards Institute. A recertifica­ Management tion audit will be carried out in 2015. For us, compliance means the totality of all April 2014 measures which serve The suitability, implementation and effective­ to ensure that the comness of the anti-corruption system at Casinos panies in our group, our Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien management bodies and ­G esellschaft m.b.H. was verified in an inde­ our employees adhere pendent audit carried out in 2014 by PwC. The to all applicable rules, audit was conducted on the basis of the appli­ laws, regulations and cable standards and professional obligations provisions. for auditors in Austria in accordance with the 14 CSR update 2014 IDW PS 980 auditing standard “Principles for October 2014 the Proper Performance of Reasonable Assur­ To ensure conformity with compliance guidelines, ance Engagements Relating to Compliance a range of additional provisions were added to Management Systems”. With due regard to this procurement policy at Casinos Austria AG and standard, and in the opinion of PwC based on the Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. insights obtained in the audit, the statements All members of staff were informed about the regarding principles and measures to avoid new provisions, which were brought into force by corruption contained in the corporate descrip­ means of a group-wide directive. tions of the anti-corruption system and related documentation are commensurate and suitable November 2014 both with regard to identifying risks of signif­ A quarterly management review was introduced icant breaches of anti-corruption provisions in in November 2014 to ensure that the Manage­ good time and with sufficient certainty as well ment Board can systematically and periodically as to preventing such breaches. The group plans verify the effectiveness of the data protection, to extend these activities to the Casinos Austria anti-money laundering and anti-corruption International operations in 2015. In future, the management systems. This comprehensive ISO 19600 Standard (Compliance Management review of all compliance-related activities con­ Systems – Guidelines) published in December tains audit reports, feedback from external and 2014 shall serve here as the benchmark. internal customers, information on process per­ formance and conformity, recommendations for July 2014 corrective and preventive measures, details of The high level of data protection in the C­ asinos follow-up actions relating to prior management Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group was once reviews, information on changes which might again confirmed in a comprehensive recerti­ affect the management systems and recommen­ fication audit carried out by SQS. In addition dations for improvements. All members of the to the headquarters of Casinos Austria AG, Management Board receive a copy of the review. ­Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. and Casinos Austria Sicherheitstechnik GmbH, The effectiveness of the group’s measures and this audit also included the casinos in Graz, controls to prevent money laundering were also Velden, Seefeld and Innsbruck. The recertifi­ audited in 2014 in an internal audit process. cation was brought forward because Casinos All relevant staff received training from the Austria AG has also commissioned SQS with ­A nti-Money Laundering Officer with regard quality management certification in accordance to the EU’s Fourth Anti-Money Laundering with the ISO 9001:2008 standard. The joint Directive, which is expected to come into force recertification thus aligned both certification in 2015. periods (three years). The auditors determined that the company’s management and staff all In future, in addition to the rule-based measures demonstrate an extremely high level of under­ and controls that are already in place, increased standing for quality management and data use of the risk-based approach is also foreseen in protection and are particularly aware of and the field of compliance. Effective risk manage­ sensitized to data protection issues. In the ment in compliance will strengthen the focus on opinion of the external auditors, the level of economic viability and self-responsibility in all customer orientation is also exceptionally high. affected areas. The next recertification audit will be carried out in 2015 at the casinos in Bregenz and Kleinwalsertal as well as at the headquarters of Casinos Austria AG, Österreichische L ­ otterien ­G esellschaft m.b.H. and Casinos Austria Sicher­heitstechnik GmbH. CSR update 2014 15 Responsible Gaming GAMBLING For Casinos Austria, Austrian Lotteries and to enable them to recognize tell-tale gaming ADDICTION their subsidiary companies, responsible gaming behavior and combine this with corresponding is a core aspect of our responsibility to society. technical systems to ensure that gaming behav­ Gambling addiction We take our responsibility in this regard very ior is permanently monitored. Needless to say, is not just a problem seriously, and our responsible gaming measures this is all done discretely and unobtrusively so for the individual conand policies far exceed statutory requirements. no one has the impression that someone is con­ cerned, it is also a These range from training courses, workshops stantly looking over their shoulder. If a guest’s problem for society as a whole. Only in a soand seminars for staff and sales partners on gaming behavior raises cause for concern, a ciety which recognizes how to handle responsible gaming issues in specially trained member of the casino staff the problem to its full their dealings with customers through to infor­ will approach them to discuss the situation. extent can meaningful mation and advice for at-risk players, in which They then work together to find an appropriate prevention measures our dedicated player protection website ­ solution, be it an entry ban, a stake limit or a be used to ensure that www.spiele-mit-verantwortung.at plays a restriction in the number of visits permitted in a gambling remains a central role. given period. Minors are strictly prohibited from positive leisure pursuit gambling, and stringent entry controls in the and that the associated We also focus intently on prevention and the casino lobby ensure that young people under the risks are kept to a minprotection of minors. Our managers and staff age of 18 never even come near the gaming areas imum. Casinos Austria with direct contact to customers and guests in the first place. and Austrian Lotteries regularly attend specially designed respon­ encourage and participate in the necessary sible gaming seminars and workshops where Casino staff again participated with great inter­ public debate on this they are trained by national and international est in the responsible gaming training provided topic and in doing so experts. at all Casinos Austria casinos during the report­ submit their business ing period. The group’s in-house responsible activities and responLeading institutions both at home and abroad gaming experts provided them with in-depth sible gaming programs regularly draw on the know-how of our in-house information on the latest findings in gambling to a critical public for experts. We have also been working closely and addiction research and offered local counsel­ discussion. sharing information intensely with counseling ing and treatment facilities the opportunity to and treatment facilities across Austria for many present their services. Casino staff were thus years. The insights gained in our Responsible able to familiarize themselves with the problem Gaming, Advertising & Sponsoring division gambling services provided by these facilities PLAYER flow directly into our corporate strategy. Our and received a comprehensive synopsis of the PROTECTION goal here is an optimal customer policy in which diagnosis and treatment of gambling addiction responsible gaming is rigorously implemented as as well as concrete insights into the work carried Section 25 (3) of the a matter of principle. out by counseling and treatment facilities. Austrian Gaming Act stipulates that only soCertified responsible gaming called specially trained Responsible Gaming All responsible gaming and responsible adver­ members staff are permitted to talk to players at Casinos Austria tising measures at Casinos Austria are managed about a potential gamthrough our responsible gaming management bling problem. These For Casinos Austria, perfect customer service system. We had always sought a possibility to members of staff are extends beyond the actual casino visit. The obtain certification for our responsible gaming also required to attend high level of player protection that sets Casinos activities and finally achieved this objective in refresher courses or Austria apart and guarantees fun gaming without February 2014. To obtain this certification, our take new courses in a bitter aftertaste starts the moment a guest responsible gaming and responsible advertis­ relevant subjects every registers in the casino lobby. We provide our ing instruments were subjected to an intensive year. casino staff with regular and thorough training audit by the Austrian Standards Institute using 16 CSR update 2014 Responsible certification criteria developed by the European RESPONSIBLE GAMING Gaming Hotline ­C asino Association (ECA). Casinos Austria was At WIN2DAY the first gaming company worldwide to have Modern-day gambling its responsible gaming management system Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries have services providers have certified according to ECA standards, thereby also always accorded special relevance to to be easy to contact reinforcing and once again living up to our repu­ the protection of minors and to preventing and offer their custo­ tation as a pioneer in this field. consumers from excessive gambling on the mers professional information, help and win2day online gaming platform. A range of possible solutions. A different responsible gaming mechanisms are uniform responsible RESPONSIBLE GAMING thus in place on the win2day site. Users cannot, gaming hotline for AT AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES for instance, simply just begin gambling again the Casinos Austria at the end of a self-exclusion period, they have and Austrian Lotteries Since its inception, Austrian Lotteries has made to actively confirm that they wish to do so. Group was set up in it its task to actively counteract potential prob­ Pop-up windows also appear automatically 2013 to handle queslems that might arise as a result of gambling. To on the screen during slot games to help users tions relating to responensure gaming remains a fun pastime, the com­ manage the amount of time they are spending sible gaming and player pany has voluntarily committed to and enforced on gambling. protection. The hotline a diverse range of appropriate restrictions. It can be reached free of monitors adherence to its terms and conditions win2day continues to bet on MENTOR charge in Austria on the following number: of play, informs customers in detail about the Back in 2013, an innovative new tool was im­ 0800 202 304. odds and the risks of gambling, incorporates plemented on the win2day site to provide users relevant responsible gaming aspects into game with a better overview of their own gambling designs and the development of new games and behavior. MENTOR is a player protection instru­ places particular importance on providing good ment that is based on latest findings in gam­ training to its staff. bling addiction research and provides users with on-screen information on their gambling behav­ Responsible gaming in lottery sales outlets ior in a clear and visually attractive format. In Children and young people are not – and 2014, user acceptance of this self-monitoring have never been – a target group for Austrian instrument was evaluated. The results of this ­L otteries products. International studies show evaluation were communicated in depth. that people should not have their first contact with gambling at too early an age. Austrian GamCare seal of approval for high standards MENTOR Lotteries has operated a voluntary restriction of responsible gaming on the sale of all its lottery products since April In 2014, Austrian Lotteries was once again MENTOR is an intelli2009. These may only be sold to persons aged 16 awarded the GamCare Certificate of Social gent player protection or over. Its sales partners play a central role in Responsibility for the online gaming platform program which can this policy to protect minors, since they are the win2day. GamCare is the UK’s national center identify trends and proones who have to enforce this voluntary restric­ for the provision of information, advice and vide the respective user with personalized feedtion. Regular checks using mystery shoppers are practical support in relation to the social effects back. Using current and carried out to monitor adherence to this respon­ of gambling. GamCare responsible gaming and historical data on their sible gaming measure. social responsibility certification audits are actual gambling behavcarried out on an annual basis. With the award ior, users can judge any of this certification, GamCare again attests that trends for themselves the win2day platform continues to comply with and take corresponding the “GamCare Player Protection Code of Practice action. for Remote Gambling”. CSR update 2014 17 RESPONSIBLE GAMING at WINWIN sales activities adhere to the highest ethical standards and, in particular, are not targeted at Access to the gaming facilities in the WINWIN any vulnerable groups who might be at risk of outlets is restricted to persons aged 18 or over. developing a gambling problem. Full adherence In cases of doubt, an official photo ID must be to the Code of Conduct Responsible Advertising presented as proof of age. Each VLT is equipped is ensured by mandatory procedures which are with specific responsible gaming features de­ applicable across the entire group. Since Novem­ signed to assist players in their time and cash ber 2014, all relevant advertising materials also management and limit the maximum playing bear the following notice: “Verbraucherinfos auf time. In preparation for the entry into force on spiele-mit-verantwortung.at” (“Information for 1 January 2015 of the mandatory player protec­ consumers can be found on w ­ ww.spiele-mit-­ tion provisions in Section 25 (3) of the Austrian verantwortung.at”). This dedicated responsible Gaming Act, 35 so-called specially trained mem­ gaming website now also lists the odds and bers of WINWIN staff completed an intensive payout rates for all individual products. responsible gaming training program in 2014. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group now has a total of 146 such specially RESPONSIBLE GAMING ACADEMY trained members of staff. Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries have Preparations for the mandatory registration of been hosting their annual Responsible Gaming all guests and the connection of the ­v ideo lottery Academy (RGA) since 2004. At the RGA, dele­ terminals to the Austrian Federal Computing gates have the opportunity to attend a series Center from 1 January 2015 were also completed of dedicated seminars and workshops and in 2014 along with the necessary adaptations to discuss the latest responsible gaming insights the gaming system and terminals to accommo­ with external experts. The 11th RGA, which was date the responsible gaming provisions. held in Vienna on 21 and 22 May 2014, focused on the need for a regulated gambling sector and in­c luded presentations by internationally RESPONSIBLE GAMING at TIPP3 renowned experts on topics like “Social M ­ edia Games and Youth”, “Advertising Gambling Prod­ tipp3 bets – both at sales outlets and via the ucts and Services” and “Sports Betting”. internet – can only be placed by persons aged 18 or over. Customers in the tipp3 sales outlets are served by staff with appropriate training in GOALS FOR 2015 responsible gaming. Users of the www.tipp3.at site are shown their personal account balance on – Process optimization in the WINWIN outlets to ensure compliance the screen at all times to help them manage the with the provisions of Section 25 (3) of the Austrian Gaming Act amount they are spending. They also have the − Continuation of the Responsible Gaming Academy, which features option to reduce their personal deposit limit at presentations on the latest research findings and studies in respon­ any time. sible gaming and the prevention of gambling addiction; the 2015 RGA will focus on social gaming, one of the most challenging areas for the future RESPONSIBLE ADVERTISING − Redesign of the group-wide responsible gaming training and conti­ nuing education program The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries − At Austrian Lotteries, prolongation of measures which have proved Group has always voluntarily based its adver­ effective in the past, including, in particular, the use of mystery shoptising activities on high ethical standards. An pers at sales outlets eleven-point “Code of Conduct Responsible − Evaluation and further development of the MENTOR player informaAdvertising” ensures that all advertising and tion and guidance system on win2day 18 CSR update 2014 Economy 2014 was a very successful year for the C ­ asinos Casinos Austria: Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. All Number of Gaming Tables and Slot Machines in Casinos companies in the group, i.e. Casinos Austria, 2014 ­Austrian Lotteries, Casinos Austria Interna­ American Roulette 68 tional and the Entertainment subsidiary with Double Roulette 2 the Online Gaming (win2day), Video Lottery Blackjack 63 Terminals (WINWIN) and Sports Betting (tipp3) Business Units, reported increases in sales com­ Blackjack X-change 7 pared to the previous year and thus contributed French Roulette 2 to bringing total sales for the group to a new Tropical Poker 13 record of 3.62 billion euros. This constitutes Poker 50 an increase of 3.34 percent compared to 2013. Easy Hold’em 16 2.43 billion euros were paid out in winnings in Punto Banco 7 2014 – more than ever before in the group’s his­ Other 7 tory. The group also paid a total of 552 million Total 235 euros in taxes and duties, once again confirming its position as one of the biggest taxpayers in Austria. Slot machines 2,010 Total investments in the double digit millions Roulette introduced a new variation of the game For Casinos Austria in particular, 2014 was a in which small bets have the chance to win up very eventful year on many counts. With total to 1,200 times the amount bet. Guests acknowl­ investments in the double digit millions, the edged all these measures and flocked in increas­ company refurbished its casinos in Bregenz, ing numbers to the twelve Austrian casinos, Velden, Salzburg and Vienna, giving each of which welcomed a total of 2,504,422 guests in them a brand new look that caters to the de­ 2014, a rise of 6 percent year-on-year. Revenues mands of contemporary casino guests. The eight were up by 3.2 percent to 271 million euros, casino restaurants operated by Casinos Austria generated in equal measure from rising gaming flourished under the new Cuisino food and bev­ revenues and a healthy plus at the Cuisino F&B erage (F&B) brand, while the launch of Double subsidiary. Casinos Austria: Guest Numbers 3,000,000 2,324,067 2,362,720 2,504,422 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,373,659 1,345,702 1,317,911 1,000,000 950,408 1,017,018 1,186,511 2012 2013 2014 Total National guests International guests CSR update 2014 19 Casinos Austria: Innovative gaming ideas generate growth Taxes Paid by Casino Operations in Austria Austrian Lotteries followed its excellent results in TEUR 2014 in 2013 with a further 3.3 percent increase in 13 1 2 1 Velden 8,466 sales in 2014 to an all-time high of more than 34 3.15 billion euros (including win2day and 10 1 1 1 2 5 2 Salzburg 7,719 2014 WINWIN). This can be attributed in part to the 6 3 Bad Gastein 451 extremely positive trend at the video lottery 4 Kitzbühel 2,518 7 terminals subsidiary WINWIN, which posted 9 8 5 Baden 6,530 sales of around 635 million euros, an increase 6 Seefeld 5,274 of 15.1 percent compared to the previous year 7 Wien 16,213 (2013: 551 million euros). Innovative new forms 8 Kleinwalsertal 1,475 of playing lottery games, like the TeamTipp 9 Bregenz 23,166 (“team numbers”) and Anteilsschein (“share 10 Linz 8,800 tickets”) options, brought a healthy increase in 11 Graz 3,616 Lotto “6 aus 45” lottery ticket sales to 586 mil­ 12 Innsbruck 8,993 lion euros (+2.4 percent) and in EuroMillions lottery ticket sales, which were up by 5.4 percent 13 Headquarters 12,243 to 340 million euros. The multi-game strategy Total 105,462 for Rubbellos scratch-off tickets also continued 273.9 263.1 271.6 300 to prove a success, with a number of new games –3.9 %* +3.2 %* brought to market – including two that can also 250 be played on mobile phones and tablets – and Casinos 200 Austria: Revenues in Austria a 7 percent increase in sales year-on-year to in millions euro 128 million euros. 150 273.9 263.1 271.6 300 100 –3.9 %* +3.2 %* An operating profit of 57.69 million euros (com­ 250 50 pared to 44.4 million euros in the previous year) 200 at Austrian Lotteries and an operating profit 2012 2013 2014 of 8.9 million euros from the twelve Austrian 150 ­c asinos ultimately produced an encouraging con­ 100 solidated net income for the group of 41.7 mil­ 50 lion euros. 2012 2013 2014 The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group also once again fulfilled its role as one of the biggest taxpayers in Austria: 552 mil­ Casinos Austria: Taxes Paid in Austria lion euros in taxes and duties were paid to the in millions euro Federal Ministry of Finance in 2014, an increase of 4.2 percent compared to the previous year. 150 98 96 105 –2.0 %* +9.4 %* Likewise, the group continued to live up to 100 its reputation as one of the country’s biggest 50 sponsors of social initiatives, culture, sport and tourism. 2012 2013 2014 150 98 96 105 –2.0 %* +9.4 %* * Change 100 in comparison to the previous year. 50 2012 2013 2014 20 CSR update 2014 Austrian Lotteries: Products Regional value creation As Austrian enterprises, we recognize the • Lotto “6 aus 45” importance of contributing to value creation • Toto with Torwette in our home market. Our procurement guide­ • EuroMillions lines clearly stipulate that an emphasis must be placed on strengthening the regional economy • Zahlenlotto 1–90 in the purchasing site’s host location. We give • Bingo due consideration to the economic circum­ • ToiToiToi stances and always select the best, and not the • Joker cheapest, bidder. We strive to look at the costs • Rubbellos from a lifecycle perspective for those goods and • Brieflos services which incur follow-up (maintenance, • Klassenlotterie operating and disposal) costs as a consequence of their period of use. Environmental aspects • win2day.at are also considered when sourcing products. • WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals Wherever possible, subsequent recycling and disposal options are considered during the procurement phase by the purchasing unit and, if necessary, agreed in advance with the supplier. Austrian Lotteries: Sales by Product in millions euro In July 2014, Casinos Austria was once again 2014 certified as a Leading Company by the Leit­­­be­ Lotto “6 aus 45”* 586.38 triebe Austria (Leading Companies Austria) Toto 8.07 platform. The extensive and precisely docu­ Torwette 0.99 mented certification process focuses in par­ ticular on sustainability, market positioning, EuroMillions* 339.98 corporate social responsibility, staff and general Bingo 10.07 stakeholder orientation. The individual criteria ToiToiToi 18.77 are assessed in line with specific guidelines, sim­ Zahlenlotto 1–90 4.06 ilar to a credit rating or corporate assessment Joker 182.93 procedure. Casinos Austria is the only gaming Rubbellos 127.73 company to have been successfully certified by Brieflos 22.99 Leitbetriebe Austria. Klassenlotterie 31.35 win2day.at and Keno 1,179.38 win2day.at Poker** 3.33 WINWIN 634.96 Total 3,150.98 * Including share amount ** Rake only CSR update 2014 21 2,955.32 3,049.11 3,105.98 3,500 +3.2 %* +3.3 %* 3,000 2,500 Austrian Lotteries: Total Sales Annual purchasing volumes 2,000 in millions euro for lottery products 1,500 2,955.32 3,049.11 3,105.98 Austrian Lotteries purchases 27 percent of the 3,500 1,000 +3.2 %* +3.3 %* materials for its lotteries products in Austria, 3,000 500 a further 44 percent in other EU countries and 2,500 less than 29 percent in countries in the rest of 2012 2013 2014 2,000 the world. We consistently use the ecolabel on 1,500 our products and, wherever possible, always 1,000 ­ensure that our printed materials are produced 500 in accordance with Austrian or other ecolabel stipulations or are issued with appropriate 2012 2013 2014 certificates regarding their applicability for recycling as waste paper and their harmlessness to health. Austrian Lotteries: Taxes Paid in millions euro Austrian Lotteries: Annual Purchasing Volumes for Lottery Products 1,000 454.51 433.83 447.02 –4.6 %* +3.0 %* Units (in millions) 2012 2013 2014 500 Rubbellos 45.61 53.81 51.7 2012 2013 2014 Brieflos 24.0 31.12 113 Lottery tickets 34.34 16.24 45.255 *1,000 Change in comparison 454.51 433.83 to the 447.02 previous year. –4.6 %* +3.0 %* Thermal receipt rolls 0.27 0.27 0.22 500 Casinos Austria and its affiliates and subsidiar­ 1 Fewer standard series were produced in 2012 und 2013. 2012 2013 2014 2 Incl. special occasion products and Mega Brieflos. ies not only embody the classic characteristics 3 No Mega Brieflos series were produced in 2014. of a leading Austrian enterprise, they are also 4 There was no relaunch in 2012, so only standard orders were placed in that year. important factors in tourism and the economy In 2013, use was made of existing lottery ticket stock. 5 Lottery ticket production increased in 2014 as a result of the introduction of the in their respective regions. The Casinos A ­ us­t ria TeamTipp for Lotto, EuroMillions and Toto and the Anteilschein for Lotto and and Austrian Lotteries Group has both direct EuroMillions. and indirect effects on production in the Aus­ trian economy. These direct effects stem from the group being embedded in the Austrian econ­ omy’s business and industry network, while the indirect effects are those that stem from tour­ ism: our casinos are not only highly significant economic factors for their host locations in their own right, affluent casino guests also generate corresponding indirect effects. 22 CSR update 2014 Environment At Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries, we Energy Consumption: Reduction in 2014 in Comparison to 2013 (in MWh) assume responsibility both for our fellow man and for the environment. We consider it our RW44 2014 duty not to be satisfied with standard solutions Supply to core areas 1-4 –63.1 to environmental issues, but to instead seek (offices, corridors, staff kitchenettes, etc.) to go the extra mile and adopt new, innovative IT and air conditioning, computer center –59.0 approaches to environmental protection. This Heating/air conditioning, offices and auxiliary facilities –100.0 includes improving our efficiency in energy and Elevators –6.6 material consumption as well as strengthening Heating pumps –26.0 awareness for environmental concerns among staff across the entire group. MC4 The indicators given below refer for the most IT computing center –17.1 part to the following sites: our headquarters Office area and logistics –170.8 at Rennweg 44 and 46 in Vienna’s 3rd district (HVACE building services systems) (RW44 and RW46) and our logistics center and Total reduction –442.6 parallel computer center at Marie-Curie-Strasse 4 in Wiener Neustadt (MC4). Heat Consumption: Reduction 2014 in Comparison to 2013 Electricity consumption (in MWh) We have been purchasing 100 percent of the elecRW44 2014 tricity for our RW44 and MC4 sites from renewable sources since 2008. Electricity consumption Heat supply to offices –369.0 in 2014 at the RW44 and MC4 sites was reduced by 442.6 MWh compared to the previous year. MC4 This reduction was incurred in the entire uninHeat supply to office area and logistics –9.5 terrupted power supply (UPS) as well as in the Total reduction –378.5 supply to the computer centers, the air conditioning systems for the computer centers and the facility management systems. The savings were achieved in particular through the use of virtuWater Consumption: Reduction 2014 in Comparison to 2013 alizations in the hardware computer centers and (in m³) the raising of the room temperature in the server RW44 2014 rooms. Office building –79.0 Heat consumption Heat consumption at the RW44 and MC4 sites MC4 was reduced by 378 MWh in 2014. This drop was Office area and logistics –394.0 achieved through the reduction in useful heat Total reduction –473.0 loss and the optimization of operating times for air conditioning systems in offices. Water consumption Water consumption at the RW44 site in 2014 Paper consumption decreased by 79 m³ compared to the previous year. Paper consumption at the RW44 and RW46 sites This decrease was achieved through a reduction in is calculated from the quantities of paper ordered air humidification as a result of reduced operating and has remained constant over the last three requirements. A reduction in the need to water the years. A total of 8,000 packs of A4 photocopying lawns, primarily as a consequence of the weather, paper with 500 sheets per pack and 100 packs of resulted in a 394 m³ drop in water consumption at A3 photocopying paper with 500 sheets per pack the MC4 site over the same period. are purchased annually. CSR update 2014 23 WASTE AND PACKAGING MANAGEMENT The following green events were organized by the Studio 44 team in 2014: The use of logistics at our warehouse in ­Wiener Neustadt to handle shipping activities for all Green events in 2014 companies in the group increases efficiency and reduces costs. In the planning of shipping Date Customer Event activities, particular focus is placed on shipping 1 24.04.14 Ecology Institute Green Event frequency, size, quantity and correct mode of transport. 2 06.05.14 Casinos Austria CD Presentation: Harri Stojka 3 04.06.14 respACT Austria Trigos 2014 In 2014, 320.77 tons of waste were generated 4 11.09.14 Menschen für Menschen Discussion evening at our Rennweg 44/46, MC4 and Pfaffstätten sites. The latter is used to collect and correctly 5 20.10.14 Messe & Event Branchentalk live dispose of waste materials like scrap metals, 6 22.10.14 Environment Agency 15-year anniversary plastic and glass components (from slot maAustria chine workshops, etc.). 7 10.11.14 Casinos Austria Alpha Prize for Literature 8 02.12.14 Casinos Austria CD Presentation: WIR4 ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES Implementation of Energy Efficiency Act The objective of the Federal Energy Efficiency GOALS FOR 2015 Act (Bundes-Energieeffizienzgesetz) is to improve energy efficiency in Austria by 20 percent by ––Extension of data gathering of environmentally relevant indicators 2020 and, at the same time, to increase the secufor heat, water, energy and paper consumption to casino sites and rity of supplies and share of renewable energies other outlets in the group in the energy mix and reduce greenhouse gas ––Expansion of the number of certified green events in Studio 44; emissions. The Act was passed by the National increased emphasis on this Studio 44 competence in marketing Council (Nationalrat) on 9 July 2014 with the ––Preparation for the implementation of the provisions of the Federal required constitutional majority and published Energy Efficiency Act in the Federal Law Gazette on 11 August 2014. Preparations for the proper and correct implementation of the provisions of this Act are currently being made throughout the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. Green events in Studio 44 Our in-house event location, Studio 44 at the Rennweg 44 site, has been officially authorized to carry out and certify so-called environmentally-friendly green events since November 2012. Green events are events that conform to a catalog of predefined environmental criteria. 24 CSR update 2014 Engagement for Society and Good Causes We consider it a matter of principle to get inReal corporate success can only be achieved volved and demonstrate a level of commitment through qualified and motivated employees. The to society and good causes that goes far beyond Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is the requirements of our statutory mandate. committed to providing an attractive working environment that fosters open communication As employer of more than 2,200 people in and diversity. We offer our staff excellent career Austria, we carry a large responsibility. As opportunities, training and further education partner to over 5,100 lottery sales outlets, we options. We strive to promote a good work-life contribute to safeguarding jobs. Responsibility balance, the health of our staff and the compatito our guests, players or customers and fair and bility of job and family commitments. reliable cooperation with our business partners are absolute priorities for all companies in our In a series of internal workshops, we defined group. We actively demonstrate our engagement staff targets and measures to ensure equal for society through our sports sponsoring activiopportunities and a gender balance. One of our ties and our support for numerous other projects gender balance goals is to increasingly deploy and initiatives. women with qualifications equal to those of men in male-dominated areas and to help them to climb the career ladder by providing them with special training and further education measures. Excellent apprenticeship scheme and Employees by Gender (in percent) recruiting Austrian Lotteries has been running a business Casinos Austria Austrian Lotteries apprenticeship scheme since September 1999. Since 2012, young people have also had the possi69.2 58.2 bility to complete an information technology apprenticeship in the Casinos Austria and ­Austrian 2014 2014 Lotteries Group. In 2014, our apprenticeship schemes were evaluated in the course of the “place to perform” survey by uniforce ­Consulting 30.8 41.8 GmbH and were rated in first place. This was the first time that uniforce had evaluated apprenticeships in Austria. Around 550 apprentices from Number of Employees in Austria* a range of different Austrian companies participated in the survey and assessed their training company in five categories (work experience, 2,500 2,069 2,107 2,202 social setting, working environment, learning 2,000 aspects, satisfaction and motivation). Casinos 1,562 1,575 1,670 Austria and Austrian Lotteries also received the 1,500 “Silver Seal of Approval” for 2014/2015 in Career 1,000 magazine’s survey of “Best Recruiters”, which 507 532 532 tests over 500 Austrian companies based on the 500 following criteria: recruiting process, online job adverts and job markets, approach and feedback 2012 2013 2014 from applicants. Total Casinos Austria incl. Cuisino, CAST, CCB & CALL Austrian Lotteries * Average annual full-time equivalent CSR update 2014 25 Seminars Youth, benefit all staff in the group. These include, for example, a flexible model for different 2014 phases in life (full-time and part-time options), Investment No. of a maternity leave roadmap with information and in training seminar support for staff, a family business breakfast for (in euros) days staff on maternity leave and in-house childcare Casinos Austria 407,751 1,765 by so-called Flying Nannies on workdays when Austrian Lotteries 878,353 1,992 schools are closed. Total 1,286,104 3,757 Corporate Volunteering We launched a nationwide corporate volunteering scheme for staff in April 2013 under the motto “Good for Austria”. Each member of Full “workandfamily” certification staff is now allowed to spend one working day With our employee and family friendly corpoper year doing voluntary work for a good cause. rate policy, we support our staff in achieving a The focus lies on people, and we work here with balance between their work and family commitsome of our long-term partners like Caritas, the ments and in reconciling these two key areas Hilfswerk public aid organization, the Lebens­ of their lives. Austrian Lotteries had already hilfe counseling and aid organization, the Soma held basic “workandfamily” certification since social markets, the Wiener Tafel association 2011 and obtained full certification in Novemfor social transfer and the Austrian Red Cross. ber 2014. All measures set in the course of the A t­ otal of 165 members of staff volunteered to “workandfamily” audit, which is conducted by spend a day working for a good cause in 2014. Familie&Beruf Management GmbH on behalf Several teams also used the opportunity to do of the Federal Ministry of Economy, Family and something together to help others. Casinos Austria: Gender Quota in Management (in percent and in absolute numbers for 2014) 2013 2014 Absolute numbers 2014 female male female male female male Management Board 33.33 66.67 33.33 66.67 1 2 Heads of Division 0.00 100.00 0.00 100.00 0 9 Heads of Principal 0.00 100.00 50.00 50.00 1 1 Department Heads of Department 16.67 83.33 14.81 85.19 4 23 Group Leaders 60.00 40.00 60.00 40.00 3 2 Casino Directors 0.00 100.00 0.00 100.00 0 10 1st Tier Management 7.69 92.31 7.41 92.59 2 25 2 Tier Management nd 8.99 91.01 10.34 89.66 9 78 26 CSR update 2014 “Don’t gamble with your health” campaign Average Length of Service (in years) A working group was established across the 2014 Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group back in 2013 to evaluate psychological stress in female male the workplace. This group worked with external Casinos Austria 8.6 19.80 occupational psychologists to establish a uniform Austrian Lotteries 11.60 11.40 evaluation procedure. After an initial pilot phase in the first and second quarters of 2014, these Total 10.1 15.6 evaluations were conducted in fall 2014. The analysis of the results and consultation on the next steps will be completed in 2015. Your opinion counts Our “Ideenreich” (“Imaginative Ideas”) suggesOnce a year, sales partners receive individual tion scheme, which was established five years training in responsible gaming from Austrian ago, provides staff across the group with a Lotteries sales representatives – with a differquick and unbureaucratic platform for putting ent focus each year. In 2014, the information forward ideas and suggesting improvements provided focused on feedback on responsible outside the scope of their own department or gaming. The sales partners received an in-depth area of work. In addition, a suggestions forum responsible gaming refresher course and were dedicated specifically to the optimization of also asked to give their opinion on the training work procedures and processes has been set up measures. The insights gained will now flow on our internal Enterprise 2.0 collaboration into future training measures and topics. platform. Austrian Lotteries: Gender Quota in Management (in percent and in absolute numbers for 2014) 2013 2014 Absolute numbers 2014 female male female male female male Management Board 33.33 66.67 33.33 66.67 1 2 Heads of Division 21.43 78.57 23.08 76.92 3 10 Heads of Principal 33.33 66.67 33.33 66.67 1 2 Department Heads of Department 40.91 59.09 39.02 60.98 16 25 Group Leaders 44.44 55.56 31.58 68.42 12 26 CSR update 2014 27 Since it is important for genuine CSR in an orgaEmployees with Special Needs nization to involve as many members of staff as possible in such projects, or at least keep them 2012 2013 2014 informed about what is going on, an increasing Casinos Austria 24 26 31 focus has been placed in recent years on facilitatAustrian Lotteries 7 5 5 ing such involvement. In 2014, an internal CSR forum was established in the Casinos Austria Total 31 31 36 and Austrian Lotteries Group. Representatives of the different Business Units and Corporate Functions now meet once a month in this forum Sick Days (as percentage of total calendar days) to discuss CSR issues and initiate CSR projects. The minutes and documents produced at these 2012 2013 2014 meetings are published on the group intranet, where they can be accessed and commented on Casinos Austria 3.11 2.89 2.90 by all members of staff. In 2014, the “Cooking for Austrian Lotteries 2.54 3.11 3.15 a Good Cause“ initiative that was launched back Total 2.83 3.00 3.03 in 2010 was repeated on almost a monthly basis. The staff from across the group who participate in this initiative come together to cook a meal for people in need, initially at the Gruft homeWorkplace Accidents less shelter in Vienna and more recently at the city’s ’s Häferl, a meeting place and reintegration 2012 2013 2014 center for former convicts. Casinos Austria 9 9 4 Austrian Lotteries 7 6 5 Total 16 15 9 Fluctuation (in percent) 2012 2013 2014 female male female male female male Casinos Austria 5.84 5.18 4.73 5.03 5.29 4.67 Austrian Lotteries 3.62 2.86 2.25 3.12 3.06 5.05 Total 4.73 4.02 3.49 4.08 4.18 4.86 28 CSR update 2014 OUR ENGAGEMENT IN SPONSORING As a successful group of companies, we see sponWE SPONSOR AND PROMOTE soring as part of our responsibility to society. The initiatives, projects, events and more in the following sectors benefits for cultural life and the promotion of social solidarity are two aspects which are always in the foreground when the Casinos Austria and Environment Health Austrian Lotteries Group sponsors and supports & Nature initiatives, events, festivals and projects that are meaningful and of relevance to society. Wherever Humanitarian Arts it makes sense, we seek to establish long-term Sport & Social & Culture partnerships, thus allowing the recipients of our support the possibility to plan for the future. Business, Science & Tourism Working together without barriers Research Inclusion and creating a setting in which people with and without special needs can work alongside each other is a hot topic in modern society – both from an economic perspective as well as in education and everyday life. In November 2014, we hosted the 2nd Austrian Inclusion Day, whose Casinos Austria Music Line theme was “Working Together Without Barriers”. The Casinos Austria Music Line supports contemThe main topic of discussion was the employporary Austrian music outside the mainstream. ment market, where the facts are sobering: the The goal of this sponsoring program is to support number of unemployed people with special needs exciting, innovative, high quality music whose has ­risen almost five times more in the last eight primary focus does not lie on commercial success. years than unemployment in general – and this The Casinos Austria Music Line assists with the figure is still climbing. Around 400 delegates production and presentation of CDs and supports attended four workshops, presentations by unusual music initiatives and events. Its aim is the Austrian Minister of Social Affairs Rudolf to give a start to music projects which would not ­Hunds­torfer and the psychologist Georg ­Fraberger otherwise come to fruition. ­as well as a high-caliber podium discussion moderated by Austrian TV and radio presenter In the case of CD productions, the support proBarbara Stöckl. vided by the Casinos Austria Music Line is usually not restricted solely to the financing of the studio Casinos Austria Integration Football costs. The musicians are also given the opporWorld Cup tunity to present their new CD in a professional The Casinos Austria Integration Football World setting, such as the Casinos Austria and Austrian Cup is an amateur five-a-side football tournament Lotteries Group’s own Studio 44 event location and an active example of how integration and with its excellent technical, acoustic and stage harmonious teamwork function in sport. This facilities and equipment. cooperation with the Sport spricht alle Sprachen (“Sport Speaks all Languages”) association has been in place since 2011, and the 2014 edition of the cross-border tournament series proved as popular as ever. Around 1,800 amateur footballers, the majority of whom have a migration background, take part in the tournament every year. Each team plays for its country of origin. In 2014, the Casinos Austria Integration World Cup was won by the “Bosnia Herzegovina Linz” team. CSR update 2014 29 From the zoo to the theater – SELECTED PROJECTS IN 2014 thanks to 13 Lotteries Days in 2014 Entry to a museum, the theater or even the zoo ––2nd Austrian Inclusion Day with a scratch card or a lottery ticket? Austrian ––Aktion “Leben mit Krebs“ (“Living with Cancer” initiative) Lotteries once again made this possible in 2014 ––ALC – Austria’s Leading Companies with its so-called Lotteries Days (Lotterien Tage). ––Alpha Prize for Literature These special promotion days were created with ––Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund Austria (Workers’ Samaritan Federation) customers in mind and have proved very popular ––Austrian Mountain Rescue Service since their launch back in June 2010. On ­Lotteries ––Austrian National Library ­­Days, all customers who have purchased an ––Austrian Red Cross Austrian Lotteries product enjoy free entry to ––Bregenz Festival the designated venue. The product purchased can ––Burgtheater in Vienna be a Lotto, Toto or Bingo ticket, or even a Brief––Caritas Vienna – House Immanuel for Mothers and Children in Need los break-open ticket or Rubbellos scratch card. ––Casino Grand Prix It doesn’t even have to be for a current draw or ––Casinos Austria Integration Football World Cup series. ––Dancers Against Cancer (association for the care of cancer patients) ––Danube Island Festival in Vienna In 2014, there were six Lottery Days in museums, ––European Forum Alpbach one in Schönbrunn Zoo, four in theaters and one ––European Forum Wachau each at the Kultursommer Laxenburg and Theater ––Fête Impériale – Spanish Riding School Summer Ball Sommer Parndorf theater festivals respectively. ––Hospiz Österreich (Austrian counseling and competence center Around 12,700 customers used the opportunity for hospice and palliative care) to visit these locations on these Lotteries Days in ––ImPulsTanz Festival – DanceAbility Workshops 2014. ––Joanneum Universal Museum– Annual Membership Card ––Klassik in den Alpen (Classical Music in the Alps) – Elina Garanca in Kitzbühel ––Kunsthistorisches Museum (Museum of Art History in Vienna) – Annual Membership Card ––Lebenshilfe Niederösterreich (counseling and aid organization in Lower Austria) ––Licht ins Dunkel (Light into Darkness charity) ––Museum of Natural History in Vienna – Annual Membership Card ––Nestroy – Vienna Theater Award ––Neunerhaus (homeless shelter in Vienna) ––Österreichische Wachkomagesellschaft (society for the care of coma patients in Austria) ––Red Nose Gala – Anniversary Event in Volkstheater Vienna ––Schönbrunn Zoo in Vienna ––Simultania (Award for Disabled Artists) – Art Calendar ––Sollenau meets Grafenegg – Two Sponsoring Projects Come Together ––Technisches Museum Wien (Vienna Museum of Technology) ––Vereinigte Bühnen Wien (theater company in Vienna) ––Vienna State Opera ––Volkshilfe (public aid organization) ––Volkstheater (theater in Vienna) ––Wiener Festwochen (arts festival in Vienna ––Wiener Hilfswerk (public aid organization in Vienna) ––Wiener Kabarettfestival (cabaret festival in Vienna) ––Wiener Stadthalle (event center in Vienna) ––WWF Austria 30 CSR update 2014 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) Companies that join the UN Global Compact are required to submit an annual progress report, the so-called Communication on Progress (COP), to the Global Compact Office in New York. With this report, participating companies attest that they are working to implement the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact and have taken concrete corporate responsibility measures. The COP also safeguards the integrity of the UN Global Compact, by requiring participating companies to report regularly on their progress with respect to its human rights, labor, environmental and anti-corruption principles. It also offers these companies the opportunity to continually improve and promote communication with their stakeholders. Accordingly, this CSR Report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress. Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische ­Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. are both members of the UN Global Compact. Unless otherwise expressly indicated, the goals and information provided in this Communication on Progress apply to both companies. CSR update 2014 31 Goals GOALS FOR CASINOS AUSTRIA AND AUSTRIAN LOTTERIES STRATEGIC GOALS Goal COP Reorganization of CSR activities; establishment of a CSR platform in the group intranet; Realized in 2014; implementation of a monthly CSR Forum; definition of a process to handle CSR topics. continual adaptations Planning and holding of dialogs with stakeholders. Planned from 2015 Definition of materialities for the group. Planned from 2015 Preparation of CSR reporting on a GRI 4 basis. Ongoing MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Goal COP Training courses to communicate basic knowledge and latest findings in gambling addiction Ongoing prevention, money laundering, anti-corruption and data protection. Further recertifications of the different elements in the group’s management systems. Ongoing Realization of the CSR WG concept – group-wide working groups to prepare and evaluate Planned for 2015 projects with CSR aspects. EMPLOYEES Goal COP Management and staff development measures for topics relevant to our Ongoing companies. Training and development of junior staff. Continuation of measures to support work-family Ongoing balance. Continuation of measures to maintain and promote health. Inclusion of CSR duties in the job descriptions of members of the CSR Forum. Planned for 2015 Study/evaluation of psychological stress in the workplace. Since 2014 ENVIRONMENT Goal COP Replacement of lighting at all sites with energy-efficient LED technology. Ongoing Termination of the purchase of still mineral water for staff kitchenettes due to the excellent Completed in 2013 quality of the mains water in Vienna. Energy savings in the computer centers through increased use of virtual server technology Ongoing and through the performance-related regulation of the temperature in the server rooms. Preparation of measures for the implementation of the Austrian Energy Efficiency Act. Ongoing since 2014 32 CSR update 2014 Responsible Gaming Goal COP Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H.: Maintenance of certification according to the Completed in 2014 European Lotteries Association’s Responsible Gaming Standards. Casinos Austria AG: Mid-term audit of the Responsible Gaming certification attained in 2014 From mid-2015 according to European Casino Association Standards. Continuation of the responsible gaming information event for staff and stakeholders. Ongoing Continuation of the Responsible Gaming Academy, an event at which leading experts report Ongoing on and discuss latest findings from gambling addiction prevention research. Launch of dialog with stakeholders on responsible gaming. Planned for 2015 SOCIAL Goal COP Continuation of social engagement and initiatives by the group, e.g. corporate volunteering. Ongoing Continuation of sponsoring programs for social causes, the arts, culture, sport and science. Ongoing Imprint Casinos Austria AG Graphics & Layout Certifications and Awards Rennweg 44 schoeller corporate communications 1038 Vienna, Austria 1070 Vienna, Austria Tel.: +43 1 53440-0 www.casinos.at Photo Copyrights Cover: Heinz Tesarek; Page 9: Österreichische Lotterien Christoph Wagner, Phillip Tomsich; Gesellschaft m.b.H. Page 10: Casinos Austria and Austrian Rennweg 44 Lotteries Photo Archives 1038 Vienna, Austria Tel.: +43 1 79070-0 Print www.lotterien.at AV Astoria Druckzentrum GmbH 1030 Vienna, Austria RESPONSIBLE GAMING Content CERTIFIED Hermann Pamminger Rennweg 44 1038 Vienna, Austria Tel.: +43 1 53440-22527 E-Mail: csr@casinos.at csr@lotterien.at Editor The paper used for this product comes Martina Landsmann from sustainably managed forests and Corporate Communications controlled sources. Addresses and Contact Details CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTERS Casino Innsbruck winwin outlets Salurner Straße 15 Casinos Austria Service Center 6020 Innsbruck WINWIN Bruck an der Leitha Tel.: +43 1 534 40 50 Tel.: +43 512 58 70 40 Wienergasse 3 E-Mail: service@casinos.at E-Mail: innsbruck@casinos.at 2460 Bruck/Leitha www.innsbruck.casinos.at Tel.: +43 2162 63054 Austrian Lotteries E-Mail: bruckanderleitha@winwin.at Customer Service Center Casino Kitzbühel Tel.: 0810 100 200 (max. € 0.10/minute) Hinterstadt 24 WINWIN Krems E-Mail: help@lotterien.at 6370 Kitzbühel Dinstlstraße 3 Tel.: +43 5356 623 00 3500 Krems win2day Service Center E-Mail: kitzbuehel@casinos.at Tel.: +43 732 74289 Tel.: 0810 100 200 100 (max. € 0.10/minute) www.kitzbuehel.casinos.at E-Mail: krems@winwin.at E-Mail: help@win2day.at Casino Kleinwalsertal WINWIN Wiener Neustadt Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Walserstraße 31 Fischauergasse 1-3 ­B etriebsgesmbH (WINWIN) 6991 Riezlern 2700 Wiener Neustadt Tel: +43 1 799 0358 Tel.: +43 5517 50 23 Tel.: +43 664 814 3707 E-Mail: info@winwin.at E-Mail: kleinwalsertal@casinos.at E-Mail: wienerneustadt@winwin.at www.kleinwalsertal.casinos.at tipp3 Customer Service Center WINWIN Linz/Urfahr Tel.: 0810 100 200 333 (max. € 0.10/minute) Casino Linz Hauptstraße 63 E-Mail: kontakt@tipp3.at Rainerstraße 2–4 4040 Linz/Urfahr 4020 Linz Tel.: +43 664 814 3687 Company E-Mail Addresses Tel.: +43 732 65 44 87 E-Mail: linz@winwin.at www.casinos.at E-Mail: linz@casinos.at www.lotterien.at www.linz.casinos.at WINWIN Schärding www.win2day.at Unterer Stadtplatz 3 www.winwin.at Casino Salzburg 4780 Schärding www.tipp3.at Schloss Klessheim Tel.: +43 7712 29729 5071 Wals-Siezenheim E-Mail: schaerding@winwin.at CASINO LOCATIONS Tel.: +43 662 85 44 55 E-Mail: salzburg@casinos.at WINWIN Steyr Casino Baden www.salzburg.casinos.at Grünmarkt 17 Kaiser-Franz-Ring 1 4400 Steyr 2500 Baden Casino Seefeld Tel.: +43 7252 41842 Tel.: +43 2252 444 96 Bahnhofstraße 124 E-Mail: steyr@winwin.at E-Mail: baden@casinos.at 6100 Seefeld www.baden.casinos.at Tel.: +43 5212 23 40 WINWIN Vöcklabruck E-Mail: seefeld@casinos.at Stadtplatz 21 Congress Casino Baden www.seefeld.casinos.at 4840 Vöcklabruck Tel.: +43 2252 445 40-501 Tel.: +43 7672 27056 E-Mail: congress.ccb@casinos.at Casino Velden E-Mail: voecklabruck@winwin.at www.ccb.at Am Corso 17 9220 Velden WINWIN Wels Casino Bad Gastein Tel.: +43 4274 20 64 Kaiser-Josef-Platz 8 Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Straße 14 E-Mail: velden@casinos.at 4600 Wels 5640 Bad Gastein www.velden.casinos.at Tel.: +43 7242 211195 Grand Hotel de l’Europe E-Mail: wels@winwin.at Tel.: +43 6434 24 65 Casino Wien E-Mail: badgastein@casinos.at Kärntner Straße 41 WINWIN Salzburg/Stadt www.badgastein.casinos.at 1010 Vienna Bayerhamerstraße 12a Palais Esterházy 5020 Salzburg Casino Bregenz Tel.: +43 1 512 48 36 Tel.: +43 662 876940 Platz der Wiener Symphoniker 3 E-Mail: wien@casinos.at E-Mail: salzburg@winwin.at 6900 Bregenz www.wien.casinos.at Tel.: +43 5574 45 127 WINWIN Zell am See E-Mail: bregenz@casinos.at Casino Zell am See (from 1.1.2016) Seegasse 5, in der Fußgängerzone www.bregenz.casinos.at Esplanade 4 5700 Zell am See 5700 Zell am See Tel.: +43 6542 47369 Casino Graz Tel.: +43 6542 47 447 E-Mail: zellamsee@winwin.at Landhausgasse 10 E-Mail: zellamsee@casinos.at 8010 Graz www.zellamsee.casinos.at WINWIN Kufstein Tel.: +43 316 83 25 78 Feldgasse 12 E-Mail: graz@casinos.at 6330 Kufstein www.graz.casinos.at Tel.: +43 5372 61777 E-Mail: kufstein@winwin.at WINWIN Landeck ––Lower Austria Drogenberatung des Landes Steiermark/ Malserstraße 25 Suchttherapieverein Steiermark 6500 Landeck Suchtberatung Baden – Friedrichgasse 7 Tel.: +43 5442 63543 Anton Proksch Institut 8010 Graz E-Mail: landeck@winwin.at Helenenstraße 40/41 Tel.: +43 316 326044 2500 Baden E-Mail: drogenberatung@stmk.gv.at WINWIN Lienz Tel.: +43 1 880 10 1370 Internet: www.drogenberatung.steiermark.at Bozenerplatz, gegenüber dem Bahnhof E-Mail: baden@api.or.at 9900 Lienz Internet: www.api.or.at – Salzburg Tel.: +43 4852 67861 E-Mail: lienz@winwin.at ––Upper Austria Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie – Bereich Abhängigkeits­ WINWIN Mayrhofen Schuldnerhilfe Oberösterreich erkrankungen – Spielsuchtambulanz Im Alpenhotel Kramerwirt Stockhofstraße 9 Ignaz-Harrer-Straße 79 Am Marienbrunnen 346 4020 Linz 5020 Salzburg 6290 Mayrhofen Tel.: +43 732 77 77 34 Tel.: +43 662 44 83-4663 Tel.: +43 5285 62026 E-Mail: linz@schuldner-hilfe.at E-Mail: spielsuchtambulanz@salk.at E-Mail: mayrhofen@winwin.at Internet: www.schuldner-hilfe.at/ Internet: www.salk.at/647.html spielsuchtberatung WINWIN Schwaz (from 6.5.2015) ––Tyrol Franz-Josef-Straße 5 Ambulanz für Spielsucht 6130 Schwaz Wagner-Jauregg-Weg 15 Therapiegruppe Contra Gambling Tel.: +43 664 810 36 88 4020 Linz Anichstraße 13/3. Stock E-Mail: schwaz@winwin.at Tel.: +43 505 546 23 65 22 6020 Innsbruck E-Mail: spielsucht.wj@gespag.at Tel.: +43 50 504 839 93 und COUNSELING CENTERS AND Internet: www.promenteooe.at/spielsucht +43 512 57 30 54 TREATMENT FACILITIES E-Mail: christoph.hannemann@uki.at ––Carinthia The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Verein BIN – Beratung – Information – Group has been working for many years Spielsuchtberatung Landeshauptstadt Nachsorge with a range of institutions which carry out Klagenfurt a. W. Beratungsstelle Innsbruck research into gambling addiction and which St. Veiter Straße 195 Anichstraße 13/3. Stock provide caring advice, counseling and treat9020 Klagenfurt 6020 Innsbruck ment to people with gambling problems and Tel.: +43 463 537 57 82 Tel.: +43 512 57 30 54 their relatives. E-Mail: spielsuchtberatung@klagenfurt.at E-Mail: innsbruck@bin-tirol.org Internet: www.bin-tirol.org Responsible Gaming Hotline Spielsuchtambulanz de La Tour Tel.: 0800 202 304 Nikolaigasse 39 Therapieund Gesundheitszentrum (free of charge in Austria) 9500 Villach Mutters Tel.: +43 4242 24 368 Nockhofweg 23 Responsible Gaming Homepage E-Mail: spielsuchtambulanz.villach@ 6162 Mutters www.spiele-mit-verantwortung.at diakonie-delatour.at Tel.: +43 50 504 839 93 E-Mail: christoph.hannemann@uki.at ––Vienna Sonderkrankenhaus de La Tour De-La-Tour-Straße 28 ––Vorarlberg Ambulante Behandlungseinrichtung 9521 Treffen Spielsuchthilfe Tel.: +43 4248 25570 Stiftung Maria Ebene Siebenbrunnengasse 21/DG E-Mail: krankenhaus-delatour@ Maria Ebene 17 1050 Vienna diakonie-delatour.at 6820 Frastanz Tel.: +43 1 544 13 57 Tel.: +43 5522 727 46 0 E-Mail: therapie@spielsuchthilfe.at ––Styria E-Mail: stiftung@mariaebene.at Internet: www.spielsuchthilfe.at Internet: www.mariaebene.at Fachstelle für Glücksspielsucht Steiermark Anton Proksch Institut c/o b.a.s. – betrifft abhängigkeit und sucht Beratungsstelle Clean Feldkirch Gräfin-Zichy-Straße 6 Steirische Gesellschaft für Suchtfragen Schießstätte 12 1230 Vienna Dreihackengasse 1 6800 Feldkirch Tel.: +43 1 880 10-0 8020 Graz Tel.: +43 5522 380 72 E-Mail: info@api.or.at Tel.: +43 664 964 36 92 E-Mail: clean.feldkirch@mariaebene.at Internet: www.api.or.at E-Mail: office@fachstelle-gluecksspielsucht.at Internet: www.mariaebene.at Internet: www.fachstelle-gluecksspielsucht.at SHG Anonyme Spieler – W. Gizicki Erlaaer Straße 52 1230 Vienna Tel.: +43 660 123 66 74 E-Mail: shg@anonyme-spieler.at Internet: www.anonyme-spieler.at as of 1 July 2015
