Sustainable Innovative Empowering Respectful PROTEACEAE CULTIVATED EXPORTED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EXTRACT In partnership with: BLOEMENKRAAL LANDGOED ESTATE CONTENTS O ................................................................................................ 2 M CEO ................................................................................................. 3 E S ................................................................................................ 4 H ............................................................................................................... 8 G K P .................................................................................... 9 1. I F B 1.1 Proﬁle, Vision, Mission & Strategy ......................................................... 11 1.2 Organisa on Key Data ............................................................................ 13 1.3 About the Report ................................................................................... 14 2. P 2.1 Impact & Beneﬁciaries of our People Strategy ...................................... 14 3. P 3.1 Impact & Beneﬁciaries of our Product Strategy .................................... 15 4. P 4.1 Impact & Beneﬁciaries of our Planet Strategy ....................................... 16 OUR SISTER COMPANY FYNBL EM is in partnership with our sister company BL EMENKRAAL. This is a partnership that is mutually beneﬁcial for both companies. These two companies share resources as well as key staﬀ members. They also share the beneﬁt of the diﬀerent commi ees, for example the Workers commi ee, Employment Equity commi ee, Environmental commi ee and Housing commi ee, just to name a few. These commi ees consist of 10-14 staﬀ members from both companies and have a Chairand Vice Chairperson that are elected by the staﬀ to represent them. PROTEACEAE CULTIVATED EXPORTED BL L EMENKRAAL ANDGOED E STATE PAGE 2 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO FynBloem has experienced signiﬁcant year-on-year growth during the last six years of our existence. We have grown by 40% this past year. One of our biggest challenges was adap ng our organisa on to the increased capacity and capabili es to match the growth. We have made big investments in our people, developing leadership skills and empowering employees. This was not only achieved by means of formal training but also with the emphasis being placed on 'on-the-job' training, and by exposing managers and staﬀ to interna onal business prac ces. Managers and team leaders were given the opportunity to shadow their counterparts in interna onal companies. They were sent to Kenya, Israel, the UK, and Holland. Real industry exposure of this kind is vital to a business supplying top quality products to interna onal markets. Sustainability is a ma er of importance for me. We have come a long way with our sustainability journey and now we celebrate the successes, outcomes, and the results of the signiﬁcant investments we have made into being sustainable from the ground up. We can now tes fy that it makes business sense to be a commercial enterprise based on the values and principles of sustainability. It has become second nature for us to assess new business ventures in terms of our Triple Bo om Line this being People, Planet and Product. Hence our vision: “To uplift people and to be a creator of joy – joy both for our staff as well as for our customers buying our ower products. We want to be a model of sustainability and excellence.” I hope that you will enjoy reading our 2015 Sustainability Report. B B C E O EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 3 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Our Sustainability Journey highlights our goals, our successes, and our key achievements during this past ﬁnancial year 2014-15. It also describes our journey on the sustainability path. We call it our Journey because we intend to con nue improving our products and our business. FynBloem develops, cul vates, processes, and exports sustainably grown fynbos and Protea ﬂower products. Guided by our mission: “To be the ﬁrst, best and most reliable supplier to grow, harvest, process and pack quality Proteas from one loca on consistently throughout the year.” Besides realising an impressive growth rate in the business of 40% in sales compared to the previous year we have spent this past year striving to demonstrate industry leadership in several ways – raising the bar and becoming the benchmark for our industry. We are located in Africa and would like to be a word-class supplier of beau ful ﬂower products adding value to each step of the product on its way to the consumer. Our commitment to industry leadership requires innova ve approaches to long standing prac ces. So far we have extended the concept of innova on to people empowerment, new product development, green building design, land use, harves ng prac ces and processing methods. Leadership thinking in terms of product development has allowed FynBloem to convert a tradi onal seasonally based business to an all-year round opera on beneﬁ ng both customers, and our staﬀ. Another example of leadership thinking is our industry leadership by involving suppliers and relevant stakeholders to create and ensure a complete sustainable supply chain in a robust mul ple partnership model. When we think about our business the attributes that come to mind are: Sustainable, Empowering, Respectful, Innovative, and Successful. When we started in 2009 we had the advantage of being able to develop products and design infrastructure and business processes from scratch – making sure all aspects were ideal for sourcing, processing and shipping to deliver economically viable products, mee ng quality expecta ons of our customers. Six years into our business venture we can tes fy that our ﬂower products are well received and valued by both retailers and end consumers. PAGE 4 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 Steps on our journey towards Sustainability: Preparing the soil for the plan ng of Protea plants; Research on and selec on of Protea cul vars that would secure harves ng all year round; Up-scaling the planta on and produc on volumes; Establishing infrastructure – construc on of new “green” pack house building; Inves ng in a robust cold chain to improve ﬂower quality and lifespan signiﬁcantly; Adop ng interna onal best prac ces – for in-ﬁeld, harves ng, and processing of ﬂowers; Building capacity and capabili es of leader team and staﬀ. Sustainability has been at the heart of our business vision, mission, and strategy and the viability of our business is assessed on all three bo om lines: People, Product, and Planet, which aﬀect our proﬁtability. FynBloem has made signiﬁcant investments into land development, infrastructure, local management training and leadership development. We are con nuously training our staﬀ to meet quality and eﬃciency standards. We are proud of what we achieved this past year in terms of People, Product, and Planet, and would like to share some of the key highlights: People Genera ng growth in a business is only possible if the organisa on is developed and adapted to accommodate and manage the growth. We are making good on our promise and inves ng heavily in staﬀ development and up skilling. During this past year we have expanded our management and support capacity, and increased our staﬀ. We have made a big eﬀort to introduce new work processes and to redeﬁne exis ng ones. Team work has been crucial to delivering our high quality ﬂower products consistently and on me. Our training has therefore been focussed on developing excellent team work, star ng with the “Discover your Team” programme for team leaders and their right hands, and a programme on “Team Work and Produc on Systems” for staﬀ. With our signiﬁcant investments in People this year we are building a solid founda on for future growth – developing new leaders, empowering our staﬀ, acquiring new know-how, and retaining knowledge inside the Company. The spin oﬀ eﬀects will have a posi ve impact on our local community in which we operate. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 5 Product We emphasise that our products throughout the process from planta on to vase are value added products. This year we have invested further into R&D – both in terms of human resources and capacity – and in terms of up-scaling our new product development pipeline. To stay compe ve in the marketplace it is vital for us to con nuously improve our ﬂower product range and introduce new ﬂower varie es. Along our investments into R&D we have also commissioned the establishment of a brand new nursery. The new nursery will be producing cu ngs of poten ally new ﬂower varie es and tes ng these before they will be transferred to the planta on for commercial cul va on. Sustainability both up and down the supply chain is important to FynBloem. We have formed a robust partnership with Flower Valley Conserva on Trust (FVCT), CapeNature, MM Flowers, and ﬁve principal wild foliage suppliers. FynBloem and our wild foliage suppliers are aligning themselves to FVCT's long-standing Sustainable Harves ng Programme. With these ini a ves we are striving towards sa sfying our customers – retailers as well as end customers – in delivering a high quality product with both social and environmental quali es, origina ng from sustainable sources. Planet This year we have been opera ng from our new state-of-the-art green processing pack house for four years and tes fy to the cost and environmental savings of having an end-to-end produc on from one loca on, from the development of a cul var or bouquet, to the ﬁnal end product leaving the pack house. We have analysed data to see if being sustainable in the environmental area is a good investment. We have three business cases on our green investments: ❶ using a professional team to design a green pack house building; ❷ installing a Thermally Ac vated Building System (TABS) in the pack house; and ❸ applying sea freight as transport mode. All three business cases demonstrated a sound return on investment both in monetary terms and in terms of intangible beneﬁts. PAGE 6 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 During the past ﬁnancial year besides the beneﬁts of our green pack house building – we have focused on working towards becoming water neutral. Inves ng in a reed bed, more rain water tanks, and the commissioning of a new dam for water recycling purposes were part of our water neutral eﬀorts. Furthermore we have been doing trials on using soil probes to op mise water usage on each block of Protea plants. Finally, we have been approved by WWF and Danida (Danish development aid agency) to introduce Danish water quality technology in order to improve our water quality which will in turn op mise our ﬂower quality and longevity. With environmental ini a ves such as the above, we believe that we are helping to preserve our Planet – by souring ﬂower products responsibly and by using natural resources eﬃciently. Based on the above achievements we can comfortably say that sustainability is not something we do as add-on ac vity to the core business. Sustainability values and principles are integrated elements of our business – and the good news is that sustainability and proﬁtability go hand in hand. It is possible to be compe ve, eﬃcient, and sustainable at the same me. Besides developing our business both in terms of product variety and interna onal export markets we have also started repor ng on the impact of our sustainability strategy as well as iden fying beneﬁciaries. Some of the key areas of impact are the crea on of more employment opportuni es, especially for women; improvement of environmentally friendly land use methods; improvement of work environment and staﬀ empowerment; and local community upli ment. Looking back, we are proud of what we have achieved this past year. However, we know that our journey is far from over. The sustainability values and principles underpinning our business will guide us in the future taking sustainability to new levels. Looking into the future, we have numerous opportuni es and challenges to look forward to: expansion of our pack house, increasing the size of our planta on, opening a new nursery, inves ng in new dam and new water quality technology, upscaling of the exis ng sea freight transport mode, and introducing a Workers' Trust – all of which will enhance our sustainability for the future. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE7 HIGHLIGHTS July 2014: FynBloem was M&S Farming for the Future category runner-up MM Flowers visited FynBloem Managers visited interna onal customers August 2014: FynBloem exhibited at Cape Flora Expo, Bredasdorp, South Africa Top team visited VegPro, Kenya September 2014: Danish Parliamentary Delega on visited FynBloem Management and team leaders visited Agri Mega Week, Bredasdorp, South Africa Managers visited interna onal customers October 2014: FynBloem became a signatory to the UN Global Compact Management and staﬀ took part in a ﬁlm for M&S on Sustainable Harves ng WWF/Danida (Danish development aid agency) approved water quality project at FynBloem Global Gap audit passed successfully MM Flowers visited FynBloem Managers visited interna onal customers November 2014: FynBloem a ended the Fynbos Joint Management Forum PPECB Inspec on (cold room audit) Department of Labour and Health & Safety inspec on passed successfully January 2015: MM Flowers and interna onal customers visited FynBloem February 2015: Expansion of conveyor belt in pack house fynbos processing area March 2015: FynBloem sold 87,000 bouquets for UK's Mother's Day BBBEE Audit improvement of BBBEE ra ng to level 3 April 2015: Management travelled to Israel to review water technology solu ons May 2015: Emerging Leaders training day at FynBloem: “Lead yourself and your team” June 2015: FynBloem supported the M&S Environmental Week Managers visited MM Flowers (UK) and Potveer (Holland). Potveer in the process of making new pack lines for FynBloem Delegates a ended the Hampton Court Flower Show, UK MM Flowers visited FynBloem PAGE 8 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 GOALS & KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GENERAL GOAL Goal: To obtain Silver valida on as a supplier by July/August 2016. Status: Prepara ons have started to collect data and record processes for the Silver status applica on. PEOPLE Workers Trust Goal: To implement a Workers' Ownership Trust. Status: FynBloem is now in the posi on to make a formal proposal to our staﬀ. The Trust will enable staﬀ to have an equity stake in the Company. BBBEE Goal: To maintain or improve FynBloem's BBBEE (Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment) ra ng. Status: FynBloem improved its BBBEE-ra ng from a level 4 to a level 3. We are working towards level 2 (the ra ngs start from Level 8 and go up to a Level 1). UN Global Compact Goal: To become an oﬃcial signatory to the UN Global Compact. Status: In October 2014 FynBloem became an oﬃcial signatory to the UN Global Compact. PRODUCT Expansion of product range Goal: To grow more Proteas and process more ﬂower bouquets. Status: During 2015/2016 we will enter a new expansion phase. We will be acquiring more land and enter into rental agreements for established crops. Greenhouse & pre-harvest research Goal: To have our own (climate controlled) nursery to be able to undertake more in-depth research – laying the founda on to introduce addi onal cul vars to the market. Status: We have planted new cul vars and appointed staﬀ. The new nursery project was commissioned and will be completed by November 2015. Leucadendron farm Goal: To have our own Leucadendron farm for more variety, be er supply and more bouquet design possibili es. In addi on a Leucadendron farm will open the window period for more sea freighted bouquets. Status: We have achieved our goal. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE9 Supply chain management Goal: To ensure that ﬁve key wild harvester suppliers to FynBloem have the required technical compliance and adhere to current Code of Prac ce. Status: All ﬁve wild harvester suppliers are members of Flower Valley Conserva on Trust's Sustainable Harves ng Programme and adherence to the Code of Prac ce is being monitored jointly by FynBloem and FVCT. Our goal is for all suppliers to adhere to the Code of Prac ce. ENVIRONMENT Sea freight Goal: 60% of our export produc on to be sea freighted and ul mately 80 %. Status: In 2014-15 two trial sea freight containers were shipped. FynBloem expects to ship 20% of product by sea during the 2015-16 ﬁnancial year equivalent to 10 sea freight containers. We will ship progressively more each year un l our goal is achieved. Road transport Goal: To reduce road transport energy by 20% per annum. Status: Investments into road transport equipment are being assessed and will take place during the 2015-16 ﬁnancial year. Recycling Goal: To improve recycling of non-plant material. Status: In 2014-15 we carried out quan ta ve recording of recycling: paper, plas c, glass, metal, cardboard, and polyprop. The recycled amounts cons tuted 60%. Going forward we are aiming to recycle 80%. Optimise irrigation water consumption Goal: To introduce soil probes to measure moisture content in the soil and customise the irriga on scheme to meet the water needs for each block of Protea plants. Status: During the trials it was concluded that addi onal work is required to interface the soil probes and the so ware. This challenge will be a priority for the coming year 2015-16. PAGE 10 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 Water neutral Goal: To be 100% water neutral by harves ng and recycling water and to accurately measure our water consump on. Status: We have installed a total of nine water harves ng tanks with one water tank s ll to be commissioned. Then our total rain water capacity is 40,500 litres and we will be 100% self-suﬃcient in drinking water. The reed bed is performing well and water from the pack house can now be recycled and reused in our planta on. Establishment of a new storage dam for recycled water has been approved and construc on will start during 2016. With the new dam in place we will be 100% water neutral. Water consump on measuring equipment has been installed, we are awai ng so ware installa on. Renewable Energy Goal: To produce and use renewable energy. Status: Solar panels will be introduced during the pack house expansion phase (2016/2017). Monitoring carbon footprint Goal: To measure progress against baseline measurements. Status: Tools are being developed to monitor carbon footprint, water, waste, and energy reduc ons. Our aim is to have this implemented by 2017. “Greener” staff houses Goal: To reduce environmental impact of our staﬀ houses. Status: Paint for insula on has been applied. All houses have been ﬁ ed with solar geysers and energy eﬃcient light bulbs. Rain water tank installa ons are in progress. Training in recycling is ongoing. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 11 INTRODUCTION TO FYNBLOEM Prole, Vision, Mission & Strategy FynBloem, established in 2009, is a joint venture between two entrepreneurs, Beyers Beyers from South African and Laurits Møller Larsen. FynBloem produces and exports unique indigenous Protea ﬂower and foliage bouquets. As of 2015 FynBloem farms 90 hectares of Proteas, employs 169 people. From FynBloem's start in 2009 the sales growth has been signiﬁcant – especially in the past three years 2012-15. FynBloem strives to be the ﬁrst to grow, harvest, process, and pack Proteas from one loca on i.e. a complete integra on of primary produc on and value-added processing. By upscaling produc on to 90 hectares FynBloem has suﬃcient cri cal mass to supply consistent, sustainable, and high quality ﬂower products to its customers all year round. We pride ourselves with our dened company attributes Sustainable, Empowering, Respectful, Innovative and Successful. PAGE 12 10 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 Vision “To upli people and to be a creator of joy – joy both for our staﬀ as well as for our end customers buying our ﬂower products. We want to do it excellently, and to be a model of sustainability.” Mission “Be the ﬁrst, best, and most reliable supplier to grow, harvest, process and pack quality Proteas ﬂowers from one loca on – consistently throughout the year.” Values FynBloem’s ﬁve key values as a company and for us as staﬀ: Integrity, Accountabilility, Respect for People, Respect for the Planet and Team Spirit. FynBloem's Four Strategic Pillars COMMERCIAL INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY TECHNICAL EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 13 Organisational Key Data PAGE 14 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 About the Report Repor ng period: Financial year July 2014 to June 2015. Contact person: Beyers Beyers Tel. +27 21 200 0561 Email: csr@fynbloem.co.za Target group: This report is targeted to mul ple audiences – exis ng and new customers, our investors, our partners, stakeholders, and the general public. It is a crucial building block to the rest of our sustainability communica on and disclosures as it informs and guides these processes. We con nue to consider how we can be er meet the needs of our audiences and would appreciate your feedback and sugges ons. Signiﬁcant changes: None EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 15 PEOPLE Impact & beneciaries of our People strategy In partnership with our sister company Job creation: We create employment in Riviersonderend, where most of our employees live; Job security & food security: For people in a deprived rural area, all year round employment has a high impact. This security improves not only the employee's life circumstances directly but also families and wider local communi es. Typically – each employee provides food security for a further 5-6 people. It is also a catalyst for local economic development in rural areas; Jobs lled by women: Our pack house employs mainly women in the produc on lines. Employing women provides not only food security for the families but also ensures that children are be er looked a er ﬁnancially as mothers are o en the primary caregivers. Quality of life improvement: Employees have access to the health clinic, free training, subsidised educa on, and many other beneﬁts. In addi on, a bonus system linked to the company's ﬁnancial performance further increases income poten al; Management development & career opportunities: We have developed our own leaders from within the organisa on by iden fying individuals with management poten al and oﬀered them skills upgrading and a chance to ﬁll senior posi ons. During the last three years using the best skills development and mentorship programmes managers now occupy leadership posi ons and have demonstrated that they have the willingness, capability and conﬁdence to lead their teams competently. FynBloem empowers and expects its team leaders to contribute to business decisions. The team leaders themselves express feelings of joy and pride at working for their company; Employee empowerment through engagement and participation: Through our various commi ees (Workers Commi ee, Environmental Commi ees, Health & Safety Commi ee) we believe that our staﬀ feels involved with decisions aﬀec ng their work environment; Improved life skills: Oﬀering staﬀ courses on life skills and educa on on e.g. HIV/Aids improves our health and well-being; Community upliftment: By engaging in various community ac vi es we contribute to energising our local community – spreading joy amongst people. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 17 PRODUCT IMPACT AND BENEFICIARIES OF OUR PRODUCT STRATEGY FynBloem is situated at the heart of one of the world's great centres of terrestrial biodiversity, the Cape Floral Kingdom of South Africa, now a listed UNESCO World Heritage Site. Fynbos, one of its protected vegeta on types, is indigenous and found nowhere else on earth. FynBloem and its supply chain partners and stakeholders contribute posi vely to ensuring a fynbos legacy for future genera ons. Nature conservation: The FynBloem & Partners Sustainability Monitoring Programme (F&PSMP) beneﬁts the conserva on of fynbos as it makes it more lucra ve for farmers to keep the natural habitat untouched, rather than use the land for commercial agricultural purposes. It also discourages illegal operators, as the buyers of wild harvested fynbos demands harvesters to obtain legal permits and to subscribe to the Code of Prac ces. I.e. FynBloem and its partners contribute posi vely to the sustainable management of the unique natural Protea and fynbos resource which is vital for the conserva on of its vulnerable ecosystems and species; Creation of employment: the wild fynbos industry is a major employer in the region with an es mated 400 families depending on the harves ng of fynbos for their livelihoods. The wild harvester suppliers to FynBloem provide sustainable employment to approximately 140 people in rural areas. As FynBloem's supply expands so does the posi ve footprint of the F&PSMP bringing beneﬁts to the fynbos and to rural communi es; Sustainable utilisation and protection of natural resource: 60,000 hectares are being managed under the Sustainable Harves ng Programme (SHP). FynBloem alone has brought in approximately 20,000 addi onal hectares of fynbos veld under the programme; Ethical and sustainable trade: our partnership approach to the supply of harvested fynbos has built a sustainable programme that beneﬁts the whole supply chain and the consumers buying FynBloem ﬂowers. They are assured that ﬂowers and foliage for the bouquets have been ethically harvested – and that nature in the Cape Floral Kingdom is being sustainably managed. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 19 PLANET IMPACT & BENEFICIARIES OF OUR PLANET STRATEGY In partnership with our sister company The impact of our environmental strategy and ini a ves is substan al and can be measured in terms of how we by means of reducing, reusing, and recycling can be energy and water eﬃcient. Reducing carbon footprint: Ÿ Reducing electricity consump on; Ÿ Energy from refrigera on is recycled and used to warm & cool the oﬃces; Ÿ Using sea freight; Ÿ A one-loca on approach are signiﬁcant in terms of reducing the company’s carbon footprint; Ÿ Reducing road transport => lower petrol/diesel consump on. Responsible usage of water: Ÿ Reducing water consump on in the planta on (weed mats, drip irriga on, and soil probes); Ÿ Harves ng rain water and recycling water; Ÿ Clearing of invasive alien trees & plants that have a nega ve impact on both water quality and quan ty. Recycling: Ÿ Recycling of non-plant material. Usage of renewable energy: Ÿ Plans to apply renewable energy (solar energy) in the new expansion phase of our pack house; Ÿ The pack house was designed according to the Australian Green Building design guidelines. EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 21 OUR PARTNERS Share your input We welcome feedback on our Sustainability Journey. Contact person: Beyers Beyers; Tel. +27 21 2000 561; Email: csr@fynbloem.co.za Contact us FynBloem (Pty) Ltd P O Box 18 RSA – Riviersonderend 7250 South Africa Phone: +27 21 2000 561 Learn more about us Facebook: www.facebook.com/fynbloem Web: www.fynbloem.com (under construc on) PAGE 22 EXTRACT OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015
