UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Edita Bobergs AB 2015 STATEMENT Edita Boberg is really proud to be a Global Compact company. When we in 2009 via our partner Respect (today South pole group) got a chance to work with other Swedish small businesses to join the Global Compact we never hesitated as environmental and safety issues have long been the focus of Edita Boberg. We continue to give priority to these areas and, with our support for United Nations Global Compact, we show our world that we pay attention to important issues related to human rights, labor rights and our shared environment. In this Communication on Progress, we have summarized the progress we have made under any of these principles. Johan Boberg Managing Director, CEO February 2016 Global Compact Principles Action Taken & Impact achieved and/or plans for the upcoming year HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and Edita Bobergs supports Hand in Hand, an organization that works within five areas; respect the protection of womens entrepreneurship, elimination of child labour, health, democratic developments internationally proclaimed and environment to create jobs and make it possible to start new companies. human rights; Edita Bobergs are strongly against perpetration of human rights and we will act with 2. and make sure that they are persistence if it appears within the sphere we can affect. not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the Edita Boberg respects all employees the right to form and join trade unions of their choice freedom of association and and to conduct collective bargaining. Edita Boberg shall ensure that the official the effective recognition of representatives of such unions are not discriminated against and that such representatives the right to collective may contact with union members and access to their workplace. bargaining; We have collective agreement between unions and employers' association which governs 4. the elimination of all forms of wages and other employment conditions. forced and compulsory labour; Edita Boberg does not proceed and will not tolerate the use of child labor. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; All employees should be treated equally, fairly and with respect regardless of race, 6. and the elimination religion, social background, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender, age, of discrimination in respect of union membership or political commitment. We have a equality-policy and an equalityemployment and occupation. plan. Global Compact Principles Action Taken & Impact achieved and/or plans for the upcoming year ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a Edita Bobergs follow the laws and regulations that exist. We are certified according to ISO precautionary approach to 9001, ISO 12647 and ISO 14001. We also holds the Nordic Swan and FSC-COC. environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to We also take our responsibility by being a Climate neutral company (in collaboration with promote greater Respect). Edita Boberg have chosen to offset our greenhouse emissions by investing in environmental responsibility; different CDM-projects (Clean Development Mechanism) 9. and encourage the Achieved development and diffusion of  All purchased electricity comes from renewable energy environmentally friendly  We recover heat from machines and paper chew. technologies.  Switched to more energy-efficient compressed air guns and nozzles.  Verification and sealing of leaks in compressed air systems.  District heating No more oil heating  Filtration Plant for used water moisture (less transports to destruction)  Energy Survey in collaboration with energy consultant.  Employ essentially the ISO 14001 certification for goods.  All staff carrying out “Environmental driving license”  Sellers have been trained in eco-driving  Cargo carrier with a local connection  We buy most of the paper we use from a local paper mill  Energy Star and TCO-branded monitors are used for purchasing hardware.  Optimization / control of ventilation.  Started to work with Lean thinking  Increased our phone-/video conferencing Change in paper waste, energy and hazardous waste Key figures 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Paper waste, tons/Paper 0,26 0,25 0,21 0,24 0,25 0,22 0,24 consumption. TONS Energy/turnover MWh/SEK 41,9 35,9 34,7 39,0 25 20 33 Hazardous waste, Kg/Paper 2,2 4,1 4,5 4,9 3,6 4,4 4,1 consumption. TONS Plans Install presence controlled lighting in rooms where it is appropriate. Continue to encourage cycling to work Reduce paper waste Work even more with LEAN-production in every process new! ANTI-CORRUPTION 10: Businesses should work against Edita Bobergs is strongly against all forms of corruption including extortion an bribery. all forms of corruption, including Corruption is always something you need to be attentive about because it can appear extortion and bribery. anywhere. Business, trades, agreements, contracts and negotiations is in Edita Bobergs always held in a legal, professional an businesslike way.
