TABLE OF CONTENTS The Goal of the Sustainable Growth…………………………………………………………….3 About Ekol……………………………………………………………………………………………………..5 Services……………………………………………………………………………………………………….10 Ekol and Management Systems……………………………………………………….…………15 Most valuable entities which are not shown in our financial statements; Our Employees…………………………………………………………………………………….........18 Ekol and Social Responsibility………………………………………………………….…………26 Achieve sustainable growth by developing environmentally-sustainable projects and business processes………………………………………………………………..27 Ensure that new generations grow to be more socially conscious and wellequipped individuals…………………………………………………………………….…………….37 Ekol Voluntary Day………………………………………………………………………………………44 Ekol and NGO Cooperations………………………………………………………………………..44 Global Principles Compact………………………………………………………………………….48 GRI Indicators Contents…………………………………………….……………………………….49 The goal of the sustainable growth… It is sad but true that we are striving to live in a world where natural resources are diminishing and used up each day. It is crucial for us to realize growth-oriented projects as well as do no harm to nature and give back what has been taken from it for many years. While we are determining the road map for Ekol, we are also aware of the significance of thinking globally and being equally sensitive to all values. We are planning on keeping both internal and external factors under control while gaining ground with our sustainable projects in our goal to become a global company. We continuously build on our corporate values since 1990 when we first identified the customer satisfaction as a prerequisite for the outcome of the way we run our business, and we have always given and will always give particular importance to ethical values. As a result of significant investments made in Europe in 2014, we made our presence visible in Germany, France, Italy, Ukraine, Romania, Bosnia, Spain, Hungary and Greece. With Ekol Poland, founded in 2015, with Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Iran founded in 2016, we are now in 14 countries in Europa present. We are located in 73 different points. In this year, we are planning to open branches in Czech Republic and Slovakia and want to increase number of countries we are operating to 12. With the aim of growing in the newly penetrated markets, we keep on growing fast by extending the service network in Caucasian and Middle Eastern markets to become one of the most prominent regional players in the logistics industry in the next 10 years. We are extending this network day by day in line with the Intermodal transportation system we realized in 2008 as part of our journey to accomplish sustainable growth. We provide more productive and sustainable services with higher quality with our Ro-Ro trips started in 2013. In Intermodal transportation, which we prefer for carrying freight from somewhere to another place, we have joined our 4th Ro-ro ship AYSHE in 2014, additional to our 3 Ro-ro ships, HATCHE, PAQIZE and QEZBAN. These ships operating between Trieste/Italy and Istanbul are equipped with the latest technology, and each of them has a capacity of 240 trailers. With AYSHE, we have provided a fast and unique service from Izmir to France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium and UK lines over Sète port in France. In 2015, FADİQ, 5th member of our Intermodal transportation family has joined us. Thanks to this new vessel to run on Haydarpaşa-Trieste line, we now run 4 trips per week on the route to Italy. We are also continuing to work on decreasing carbon dioxide emissions. In addition to our Intermodal project, we were qualified to be the first Turkish company to join WWF’s Green Office Program in late 2010. We keep the losses incurred in office operations at minimum level by electricity and water savings made within the scope of the program as well as waste management applications. Our motto, “Logistics for a better world” will always light the way for Ekol, the brand to have realized the one and only R&D Center in Turkey’s logistics industry. Ahmet Musul Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ekol Logistics About Ekol Ekol began its operations in 1990 and made customer satisfaction the main focus of its efforts from the very first day of its establishment to become a pioneering brand in Europe. Having launched its commercial activities organising international cargo shipments, Ekol has since achieved to build an integrated company structure offering third party integrated logistics services. With its years of accumulated know-how, highly qualified staff and cutting-edge technological practices, Ekol offers integrated logistics and supply chain solutions to its customers from a wide range of industries. Ekol is capable of offering all kinds of services attuned to the needs of the changing international markets with its technologically well-equipped distribution centers in Turkey & Europe and a young, environment friendly fleet. The company is also capable of providing its customers with end-to-end supply chain management solutions with its extensive warehouse and x-dock facilities, along with state of the art intermodal and transportation equipment. Ekol, which is planning to invest in a Ro-Ro line to provide more efficient, sustainable and competitive services, runs round trips between Haydarpaşa-Trieste ports four times a week and İzmir/Alsancak Sete ports once a week with its 5 high-tech Ro-Ro ships, each with a capacity of 240 trailers. Ekol also operates 40 block trains weekly in round trips between Trieste& Cologne & Ludwigshafen in Germany, Ostrava in the Czech Republic and Sete & Paris in France. Ekol ranks among the pioneering suppliers of integrated logistics services both in Turkey and Europe. Its distribution centers in Turkey sprawl approx. 750.000 m² of land while its facilities in Germany, Italy, Romania, France, Greece, Ukraine, Bosnia, Hungary, Spain, Poland, Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Iran cover a total area of 100.000 m². It boasts a fleet of over 5.000 vehicles and a multi-national workforce of almost 7.000 employees. Our Values Milestones  Ekol Logistics was established in 1990 and served in the international land transportation until 1993.  In 1994, the company made the biggest one-time fleet investment in Turkey and expanded its service network with the addition of air and sea transportation and customs clearance services. That was the first step in the way to becoming a complete logistics services supplier.  In 1996, the company opened its first foreign branch office in Germany.  Ekol began to serve in the field of contract logistics with the Kardelen and Orkide Logistics Centers established respectively in. 1997 and 2001.  In 2002, the company leaped forward with the acquisition of the most important forwarding company of the time, Unok/Unatsan. Realizing a first in the industry, Ekol also founded Process Development Department where only industrial engineers are employed.  In the period 2002-2010, the company opened a stream of warehousing and distribution centres in almost all parts of Turkey to create its existing service network, and now renders its services at 26 locations in Turkey and Europe.  In 2003, Ekol introduced another achievement in its industry thanks to its robust technology infrastructure, and began to use its quadro™ software which was designed in-house to accelerate operation of logistics processes and bring transparency to the customers. Furthermore, SAP was put to active commission.  Within this perspective, in 2007, a Management Systems Development Group was established to introduce integrated management systems, and to develop integrated systems with its R&D team.  In 2008, Ekol began the first Block Train service between Trieste and Ludwigshafen terminal.  End of 2009 saw Ekol gaining another strength by joining forces with a minor partner, Invest AD of Abu Dhabi.  In December 2010, Ekol acquired a leading Scandinavian forwarder, STS International Transport, to achieve industry leadership in that route also.  With a quick start in year 2011, Ekol opened Ekol Italy. The last quarter of the year saw an acquisition in Romania, registering a 300% growth in the Eastern Europe Line, and establishing Ekol Romania. With a substantial focus on Medical Logistics, Ekol opened the largest pharmaceutical distribution warehouse of Turkey in Tuzla Logipark Campus.  In 2012, Ekol was granted the Europe Eco Performance Award. It established the first and only R&D Centre in the logistics sector in Turkey. New facilities were established in 4 different locations in Europe (France, Bosnia, Greece and Ukraine). Ekol was the winner of the ETIKA 2012 Turkey’s Ethics Award granted by Ethical Values Center Association (EDMER).  Ro-Ro trips started in 2013, Ekol Logistics was awarded with AEO certificate (Authorized Economic Operator) by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, making export operations easier. Ekol’s Hungary and Spain branches were founded and the number of European countries in which Ekol Logistics operates reached to nine in 2013. Ekol Logistics was awarded with Green Office Diploma by the World Wildlife Fund Turkey the very same year.  By opening Spain Branch in 2014, organization of European market was expanded. Ro-Ro transportation between İzmir and Sete port was started with new the Ro-Ro vessel called AYSHE. Once again, Ekol was awarded with ETİKA 2013 Turkey's Most Ethical Companies prize given by EDMER. It became the first company obtaining ''Sustainable Logistics Document'' which is developed by UTİKAD and Bureau Veritas cooperation in Turkey as world pioneer. In Capital 500 Most Admired Companies Research, which was organized with participation of 1,620 middle and senior managers from 650 different companies, Ekol was chosen Turkey's Most Admired Logistics Company.  2015 Ekol celebrated our 25th anniversary. Ekol continued to invest in Europe by launching Ekol Poland. Customs clearance services was started to provide at the Novara Facility with Ekol Italy. The fifth Ro-Ro Fadiq was added to the fleet. Major Awards  2015 Ekol once again named Turkey's most admired logistics company by Capital magazine's “Turkey’s Most Admired Companies Survey 2015.”  2015 Ekol won a Special Jury award at the first TEGEP Learning and Development Awards thanks to our Harmandere Vocational and Technical High School project.  2015 Ekol recognized as the Best 3PL for Automotive Supply Chains and the Best 3PL for Consumer Goods Supply Chains by customer vote at eft's European Customer Choice Awards.  2014With it's Sustainability and Environmental Management System Practices, Ekol became the first Turkish finalist logistics company in European Environmental Rewards.  2014Ekol became one of the national champions in European Business Rewards.  It was ganted with “The Most Ethical Companies 2012 and 2013 of Turkey” award in 2013 – 2014 by the Center of Ethical Values Association (EDMER) for two years in a row.  2012 Thanks to its economic success, and environment and social responsibility projects, Ekol was granted the European Eco Performance Award 2012 by St. Gallen University on the basis of an assessment of companies' environmental awareness in their economic business models.  2012In World Logistics Success Rewards given by Dünya newspaper in five categories, Ekol was awarded with prizes in categories ''Storage'', ''Intermodal Transportation'' and ''Most Successful Logistics Company''.  2011 Ekol Logistics received “Business Partner Excellence Award” in the Logistics Field granted by Procter & Gamble every year to its strategic partners worldwide thanks to its strategic innovations and investments.  2011 In the 4th International Logistics Conference held jointly by the Logistics Association (LODER) and Mersin Chamber of Industry and Commerce (MTSO), Ekol Logistics won the enterprise achievement award in the National Logistics Project Contest, with its intermodal project.  2011 Ekol became the only firm in Turkey to purchase and lease to firms the packages used for production and shipment of EPAL licensed automotive and automotive supply industry products produced in Turkey, thanks to the certificate received from EPAL (European Pallet Association).  2011 Ekol's German Branch received the AEO (Authorised Economic Operator) Certificate which will enable it to complete customs operations even more quickly within the borders of EU. A status serving to prove compliance of the supply chain, AEO makes the certified firms' life easier in international trade. Certified operators are assumed to be reliable and compliant, and are able to utilize facilities which help faster access through security and protection related controls in EU countries, as well as simplifications in relevant customs regulations.  2008 Ekol is now a SAP Global Success Story. The same year saw Ekol as the first Turkish firm to make a presentation in the Global Success Stories category in the global Sapphire event.  Ekol's intermodal project awarded by European Union project Cream.  2008 Ekol's projects were among the finalists in the ‘Logistics&Fulfilment’ and ‘Environmental Improvements’ categories in European Supply Chain Excellence Awards.  Ekol realized one of the first 10 applications globally for SAP version CRM2007S. Services: Road Transportation: As a forwarder with one of the largest vehicle fleet in Turkey and Europe, Ekol renders partial and complete road transportation services at European countries Since 2011, Ekol manages over 5000 strong fleet of vehicles, all of which are equipped with environment-friendly Euro-5 and Euro6 engines. Partial vehicle transportation allowing economies of scale by bringing together small quantities of products to make larger cargo parties offers more flexibility compared to complete transportation, due to the higher frequency of departure dates. Thanks to a large service network, deliveries are made all over Europe within the pre-determined time frames. Ekol offers Standard, Express, Super Express, and Speedy service types differentiated on the basis of transit times. Route planning to minimize distances and smart solutions to make more efficient use of the service period of the vehicle, allows flexibility in time dimension, while simultaneously serving to assure service standard and quality. Ekol Logistics's fleet is able to offer transportation solutions such as Road, Cold Chain, Ro-Ro Road, Intermodal to its customers, with an extensive and environment-friendly fleet comprising only EURO-5 and EURO-6 compliant trucks. Since the company is able to provide diversified forwarding solutions, it offers affordable pricing along with suitable time frames. National Distribution: Through its nation-wide distribution network in Turkey, Ekol offers reliable service in partial and complete domestic vehicle transportation, and a wide range of economic custom solutions at competitive prices. The advanced technology employed, its qualified work force and environmentfriendly perspective, Ekol is the leader of its industry, and is the preferred partner of numerous national and international brands. Within the scope of national distribution solutions, Ekol meets transportation needs for out of gauge products on a project basis and also offers various custom transportation solutions including: • Milk run, • Cross Dock, • Flexible Milk Run, • Cross Docking Model (Xdock) Air Transportation: Ekol has adopted the principle of offering the most appropriate solution to any demands coming from customers. With the IATA license and UTIKAD memberships, with strategic partnership agreements with the most reputable airline companies and a large network of agencies to cover the whole world, Ekol works for offering the best quality services to its customers at the most affordable prices. According to 2015 figures, Ekol ranks 24th in IATA rankings. The membership in IATA offers not only a quality management system advantage, but also helps to lower operational costs. Membership helps Ekol to offer Economy, Priority, Consolidated and Charter services taking into account the time and cost-related requirements of customers. The infrastructure to respond to customer requests on a 7/24 basis thanks to E-services, is also able to handle cargoes in every part of the globe, through crosstrade and third party services. Ekol also extended its high standards regarding service quality through memberships in HTFN and Conqueror networks, reinforcing its presence in Europe, America, Asia, Middle East, and Africa. As in the case with Turkey, Ekol is able to provide customs clearance, warehousing and door-to-door transportation services at numerous locations of the world, thanks to a global network of agencies. The large network of agencies and service locations enable Ekol to offer diversified solutions in delivering product to all international airports. Ekol offers diversified services in accordance with customer demands. These include, in addition to transit loading services and cross forwarding services in the world and all European countries, also airport to airport, door to airport, airport to door, and door to door transportation. Services such as integrated warehousing, handling, distribution, customs clearance, palletizing and insurance are offered within the framework of air freight, in line with the needs of the customer. Ekol transports numerous types of products of various sectors, safely and quickly via direct or charter services, from general and perishable cargoes to dangerous substances, textile products on hangers, heavy tonnage products and out of volume goods on special project agreements, livestock, factory transportation, and special forwarded cargoes. Ekol offices in airports, it is able to offer terminal services, providing cargo tracking services with tracking reports at all steps of transportation, from the reception of cargo to door-to-door services. Sea Transportation: Today 80% of all global transportation is conducted over maritime routes. Within this picture, Ekol offers smart intercontinental logistics solutions for many customers all around the world, not only between Turkey and other countries but also between different countries other than Turkey, thanks to agreements with reputable ship owners, a large network of agencies, and FIATA, ITCO, UTIKAD memberships. Ekol plans any possible combinations during the course of transportation of the cargoes of its customers on FCL (Full Container Load) and LCL (less than Container Load) basis and offers ideal solutions on intermodal choices such as road-sea, sea-air, sea-railway transportation types. In addition to port-to-port, port-to-door, door-to-door transportations, Ekol has invaluable experience in consolidating LCL commodities, transit loading services and cross transportation services that are conducted between two different countries. Ekol offers freight alternatives through special contracts it has with shipping agencies , hence providing cost advantages. Ekol with its know-how and infrastructure to transport all kinds of products in various types of containers in its fleet, provides transportation services for any solid, liquid, or gas, from textile products on hangers to flammable and inflammable chemicals, to food products. In addition to providing all container transportation services with open top, open side, reefer, flat rack, and platform type special containers and hanger containers, as well as ISO tank and Flexi tank container transportation services, Ekol also offers optional services such as the procurement, loading, and laying of flexi and hanger containers. Complete, Partial, and Special Equipment options offered on the basis of the amount and type of product, as well as the transportation time, services to any port on the world is possible through suitable planning and competitive prices. Special agreements with ship owners, Ekol is also equipped with a service range to cover boutique services as required by its customers, for sea freights to Far East, America, Africa, Europe, and Middle East. It is able to offer deliveries at the address, customs clearance, and distribution services at every corner of the globe, thanks to its existing set of co-loader agreements, membership in HTFN, and ITCO and Conqueror global agency network. With its qualified staff, e-services, and regular cargo tracking reporting system, Ekol aims to offer both time and cost savings to its customers. Thanks to NVOCC Sertificate, Ekol is able to issue its own bills of lading and enter into freight agreements in the maritime transport operations associated with the U.S., including door-to-door deliveries, without the need for a third party licensed company. Railway Transportation: Ekol offers advantages of railway transportation to its customers on project basis where customers are offered dedicated solution alternatives. Customs Clearance: When the question is customs clearance, Ekol is known as one of the pioneering actors in its sector, for developing the most appropriate solutions by analyzing the needs of its customer as diligently as possible, thanks to its corporate experience and expertise and customer-oriented approach. Ekol has its own external operations staff located in all customs and dedicated special courier staff in order to achieve documentation flow in the fastest way possible, and finalizes any customs clearance process as quickly as possible without any issues. Supply Chain Management: Ekol offers an effective supply chain management services for its customers, from a single source with its integrated logistics services. All operations are managed from a single control centre, allowing better management of the process, along with lowered costs. Each case under the scope of this concept is handled as a dedicated project and solutions are tailored carefully for each customer. Detailed items carefully planned within the project include the scope, aims, targets, success criteria and responsibilities of the project. Sources are managed in the most effective way in order to reach the previously defined targets in accordance with the cost and time criteria. Contract Logistics: Contract Logistics is one of the most important parts of the supply chain, and serves as the intersection in interaction with other processes. Effective management of warehousing activities, timely provision of supplies to outlets, and high accuracy rates in order preparation are important elements in keeping logistics costs, hence product costs down. Given its technical experience and know-how, Ekol is able to re-interpret processes, creating optimization opportunities regarding resource utilization and providing savings. Thanks to synergy and shared resource utilization at multi-user facilities, idle resources are utilized to increase efficiency. This serves to improve operational quality, which in turn helps to minimize the indirect losses to arise due to lost sales. For years, Ekol is able to offer flexible and outstanding solutions to its customers, through the application, through a wider perspective, of its experience accumulated through services to a wideranging set of clients. By determining the problems, expectations, and logistics needs of its customers and with tailor-made solutions Ekol offers services to add value to their businesses. In order to provide its customers higher quality and more robust solutions, which also provide cost benefits, Ekol watches closely any developments in warehousing technologies, adapting applicable automation solutions to its existing processes. This allows economy on man hours, increasing efficiency as well as making it possible to manage daily changes in demand with flexibility and lower costs. Ekol also employs a team of Business Development experienced in project management and specializing for the needs of specific industries. At each facility, locally assigned team members supervise the operations closely, ensuring the implementation of the project design on the field, in a timely and problem-free manner, and within the pre-determined budgetary limits. Continuous improvement activities also serve to improve efficiency and operational quality. In order to provide faster responses to varying requirements of customers, and to offer flexibility in quality service with reference to customers' requirements, Ekol makes a point of making the most efficient use of technology. Moreover, Ekol minimizes the error rate in its warehouses through smart application of automation technologies, provides real-time information to its customers over portal applications, and ensures traceability of its operations. Ekol and Management Systems:  After receiving ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System certificate in year 2004, Ekol established in 2005 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety system.  As of 2010, Ekol moved on to ISO 9001:2008, and was the first logistics firm to certificate Design in the industry. The move to Integrated Management System was completed with the establishment of ISO 14001 Environment Management System.  The bonded warehouse compliant with ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, a first in Turkey, allows Ekol Logistics to meet customer requirements, and develop and commission new systems.  With the most comprehensive Quality Management System in the industry, Ekol Logistics pioneered R&D activities through its custom solutions tailored for its customers.  In 2011, Ekol was able to extent the scope of ISO 14001 Environment Management System, receiving certification for its all 3 large facilities.  In 2011, Ekol Logistics decided to undergo Safety Quality Assessment (SQAS) organized by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), with respect to International Road Transportation, and was able to pass the assessment in February 2012. By underlining the significance it attaches to Health, Safety, Environment, Security, and Quality in its services offered to Chemical Industry, it trained the drivers assigned to international transportation operations accordingly. The rate of work-related accidents are as below; Number of Lost of Accident Employee Years Work-Related Working Frequency Numbers Accidents Days Rate 2009 1642 20 100 5,41 2010 3319 41 54 5,49 2011 5027 48 344 4,24 2012 6791 72 499 4,71 2013 3793 128 529 15 2014 4654 145 422 13,92 2015 5350 195 812 16,21  Within the framework of the “We Are Listening” project, the customer feedback is used as an asset of the company. The Customer Complaints Handling Customer Satisfaction System received ISO 10002 certificate in 2010. By establishing the Customer Complaints & CRM department in 2011, Ekol emphasized the importance it attaches to the consideration of internal and external feedback.  Each year, Ekol Logistics carries out customer satisfaction research through an independent firm, Gfk. By acting on the results of the research for 2010, which showed a 78% overall satisfaction rate, Ekol Logistics was able to improve its operations where there was room for improvement, and to achieve a 90% overall satisfaction rate in 2011. Overall satisfaction rate was 86% in 2012.  In order to prove our carbon dioxide reports which we regularly send to our customers, and our greenhouse gas inventory related to all locations and activities of Ekol Logistics, which have a significant effect on our winning of the Eco Performance Award; a project has been commenced within the scope of the ISO 14064-1 Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Organization Level standard. A project team was formed for the project to be implemented by Management Systems Development and Process Development Departments, and the team received a 3-day (126 person/hour) training. Project activities began in the last quarter of 2012, and field supervisions were completed in February 2013 as part of the project plan. Ekol Lojistik A.Ş. The Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report has been published.  Improvement activities are carried on interruptedly in order to provide all stakeholders with more efficient, fast, reliable and quality service. In this regard, works have begun to be the first company to apply for the AEO Program entered into force in 2013 by T.R. Ministry of Customs and Trade, and to become entitled to receive certification.  ISO 27001:2005 ''Information Security Management System'' is activated at Ekol. Protecting data integrity and confidentiality/privacy, preventing unauthorized access, and maintaining the continuity of the system are criteria of great importance for activating this system.  In line with FSR standarts which is determined by Mobile Assets Protection Association (TAPA), Ekol Logistics has obtained A level security document for space and facilities which are used for storage and carriage.  Ekol started to stage theater performances with an Occupational Health and Safety theme for its colleagues to enjoy and learn in 2015. A total of 469 people have received the Health and Safety at Work training through theater in five groups at the Sakura Facility, and 130 people did so in two groups at the Orkide Facility.  As required by the HSE legislation, Ekol started to receive services from OSGB at Ekol as of June 2013 and appointed 37 Health and Safety personnel, 28 physicians, and seven health care personnel across Turkey in 2016. Most valuable entities which are not shown in our financial statements; OUR EMPLOYEES Responsibility towards Employees: Ekol Logistics believes that its most important asset omitted from the balance sheet is its employees . In this respect, it realizes sustainable projects to improve the working conditions, to ensure compliance with certain standards with respect to such conditions, to protect social benefits of employees, and to create more efficient communication platforms through various social activities. Ekol, as part of its vision to become a preferred multi-national employer, brought its complete employee network from Turkey to Poland, under a single umbrella, through the ONE EKOL project to set the employee value proposition with reference to a shared corporate culture and values analysis. Human Resources Strategy: Ekol, as part of its vision to become a preferred multi-national employer in 2015, has gathered with ONE EKOL project where it determined a shared corporate culture, values' analysis and employees' value proposition, his employees' network from Turkey throughout Czech Republic under one umbrella. Ekol Logistics, with its One Ekol project, realized an innovative project in its communications policy. One Ekol will help all Ekol Employees feel themselves as part of a greater whole, by developing a Shared Corporate Culture and Shared Values , hence building an employer brand strategy in line with the corporate brand. The aim is to provide positive employee experiences for all Ekol staff, from Turkey to Poland, with a view to reinforcing their loyalty and to rendering the firm a center of attraction for new prospects. Ekol Logistics has sites in 11 countries, and employs more than 6000 employees of all nations and languages, with various skills and experience levels. Once the supplier staff are added into the count, Ekol consists of a huge family of 8,000 families, touching the lives of 30,000. In order to reach out to all its employees, and to make them feel the same terms and value, Ekol named Value Ambassadors from among its staff. Having built a communications network with its value ambassadors, on the basis of its vision to become the most preferred employer, Ekol thus will be able to set a single corporate culture and language, extending to each and every member of the organization. The Dialog for the Future process, overseen by the senior management of Ekol, helped defining the desired corporate identity. Ekol employees were given the Employee Views, Loyalty, and Corporate Culture Assessment Survey , in order to have a clearer picture of areas where there is room for development. Ekol, indeed was the first Turkish name to take part in the Great Place to Work survey which reviews the most successful and innovative firms worldwide. The results of the Workplace Culture Analysis and Employee Confidence Index Survey carried out in this context helped defining the road map for the project. The project executed by the Human Resources, Corporate Communications, and Internal Communications Agency, embraces all employees with One Ekol One Team Spirit. In line with this strategy, objectives of Ekol are;  Establishing international strategic human resources mentality, increasing employees' satisfaction and loyalty.  Employing and maintaining correct employees with the objective of becoming best place to work for.  Determining and organizing training needs in line with targeted competencies, ensuring improvement of employees' knowledge and skills and increasing their performances.  Making possible that objectives which are expected from employees are stated openly and clearly, that individual achievements are measured objectively and rewarded duly, in order to increase corporations performance and make is sustainable.  The establishment of career and back-up system serves to assign correct individuals in the corporation to the correct positions, at the correct time.  Ensuring that employees working with salary system are rewarded in a realistic and fair way so that employees performing work at requested quality level are kept in the organization.  Monitoring Employee's Satisfaction and Loyalty as an indicator, determining strong and open to improvement areas, taking right steps to maintain strong ones and improve other ones. Helping to adopt corporate change culture by managing human resources within Ekol ideally, in order to realize organizational objectives and critical success factors. Ekol respects its employees' union and collective contract rights. Ekol believes that rational solutions as key to sustainable success and effective resource utilization can only be produced with qualified and happy human resources and therefore investing in employees in a sustainable sense. Each employee has an employment contract containing the terms of service and job descriptions are defined in the contacts. Specifying the conditions regarding the termination of employment in the Operational Procedure for Discipline Regulation , Ekol clearly states that purchases, receiving gifts, goods, or cash, or any benefits from legal or natural persons with which the company deals with would constitute grounds for termination of employment, within the framework of the efforts to fight against corruption. In order to create a more transparent and fair working order, Ekol has founded Ethic Board which is a full entitled organization. In order to adopt ethical values that is practiced during business processes, Ekol has published Ekol Regulation on Corporate Principles in 2012. The regulation emphasizes the main topics of Protecting Social Benefits, Compliance to Laws and Other Regulations, Protecting Worker Rights and Working Conditions, Efficiency of Business Partners and Social Stakeholder Communication, Protecting Company Rights, and Transparency. Ekol has never been accused of forced labor or named with this issue. Besides this, compliance with the legal requirements concerning employee rights, confidentiality principle, equal benefits for employees, safety, security, and health had always been important parts of its Human Resources Policies. Ekol stands against any discrimination based on race, color, gender, religion, political view, nationality, marital status etc., and acts in line with established procedures. In March 2009, Ekol signed the Declaration for Management as a Women's Right sponsored by KalDer, underlining the importance it attaches to gender equality. Employee distribution in years 2009 – 2010 – 2011 – 2012-2013: Female Staff / Total Staff Count 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of Male Employees 2480 2888 4229 5366 4231 Number of Female Employees 389 431 798 1425 1314 Rate of Female Employees 13.55% 12.98% 15.87% 20.98% 23.69% Employee distribution in years 2014-2015: Female Staff / Total 2014 2015 Staff Count Medium Medium Number of Male 3463 4205 Employees Number of Female 719 835 Employees Rate of Female 17.2% 16.6% Employees Number of Foreign 963 1.170 Employees Total 5145 6.210 Recruitment Process: In line with One Ekol corporate culture and values, 4 main core competences are looked for during recruitment process; These are:  Customer Focus  Passion  Confidence  Human Oriented Purpose of recruitment process in Ekol is; recruiting people who are needed according to human resources planing at the beginning of each year; who are willing to adapt Ekol's corporate strategy, objectives, corporate culture and values, who are ready to provide added value, owning correct knowledge, skills, qualifications and competences for the position. The skills and qualifications required for each position are determined for hiring and assignment process comprising the sub-processes of determination of necessity, application management, preliminary screening, selection, approval, assignment, and monitoring. The candidates are required to meet these skills and qualifications. Ekol, continuing his objective being a preferred employer brand, uses recruiting tools like competence based interview in line with needs of job position, personality inventory, general aptitude test, assessment center applications, foreign language examination and reference checks for recruitment processes. Ekol believes that human rights are an absolute and universal standard. Company acknowledges the Human Rights of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Children's Rights Convention. Ekol doesn't employ child worker and doesn't support employment of children. Organization remains committed to equal opportunity in the workplace; stands against any kind of racist / discriminatory approach based on fundamentals like religion, language, race, ethnicity, disability, gender, marital status, relationship and age. Performance Management System: Purpose of Ekol Performance Management is, increasing organization's performance and supporting employee development by making (increase in organization's performance) sustainable and distinguishing between individual contributions and achievements. Performance Management System; consists of people index objectives like goal setting and dissemination of corporate goals, department goals, individual business goals, employee satisfaction and loyalty, turn-over, a career backup. SMART approach is used by setting goals. Ekol also performs annual performance assessments with interim monitoring on the basis of 6-months periods. Interim monitoring processes comprise the individual interviews of the employee with the supervisor, and also revision of targets that are required on the face of changing circumstances. The actual performance assessment is carried out at the end of the year, and is based on the end-of-year figures. The work performance targets of each Ekol employee is connected with the Balanced Scorecard of the department and the company. The data obtained in the conclusion of the Performance Management System are used as the input data for Wage Management, Career Management, and formulation of Training and Development Plans. Individual development targets, in turn, are based on the results of annual performance assessments and the results of Qualification Assessment System. Qualification Assessment System: Within the scope of Performance Assessment Process, Qualifications of employees are evaluated on the quintet evaluation scale. With qualification assessment, strong and open to improvement areas of employees are determined. In line with these, training and development plans are carried out. Scholarships and Charity Facilities: Ekol Logistics provides employees' children studying in primary and secondary degree schools with scholarship and charity facilities. In addition to providing scholarships to students successful in OKS, all students are provided school supplies and clothing assistance. Education Aid Year Number of Total Figure Persons 2007 500 63,000 2008 550 70,000 2009 550 70,126 2010 745 95,433 2011 800 120,000 2012 1,504 225,600 2013 1,760 264,000 2014 2,003 300,450 2015 2,070 300,450 Carrier Management: The output of the performance assessment system helps draw the career track of the person, taking into consideration the training requirements, training results and the factor of meeting the requirements of the position. The employees who achieve high scores with respect to all these criteria are included in the skill pool. These employees are trained for and progress toward becoming the future directors of Ekol. Training and Improvement: Training and Improvement activities are carried out in line with our corporate strategy, objectives, priorities and values and performance goals and improvement activities of Ekol employees. By determining training requirements, training plans are prepared and necessary organizations are made to conduct trainings. Training and Improvement are aiming at the ability of all Ekol employees that they are doing their job correct, that they can think multi directional, innovative, and becoming best persons in their jobs creating added value, developing their professions and competency in line with their responsibilities and personal skills. So, it is provided that employee satisfaction/loyalty is increased, quality awareness is made perfect, employees' performance, operational efficiency and productivity are increased. Training programs, subjects and contents are determined in line with educational and development needs, also surveys carried out in line with company's corporate strategy, goals and values, workshops, negotiations with employees and managers, improvement fields set by employees by themselves, and recommendations of managers are considered, too. In Ekol, beside educations for white collar workers, also a great importance is given to trainings for blue-collar workers and financial resources are allocated tor these. The trainings received by our blue collar workers throughout the year can be categorized under the titles personal development, quality management systems, occupational health and safety, environment management systems, and technical and professional trainings. Training programs approved by Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training Center with the aim of certifying professional development of warehouse employees are continuing. Within the scope of orientation program, all new drivers starting to work for Ekol receive trainings from driving instructors, Occupational Health and Safety Specialists and Occupational Workplace Physician. Besides Ekol' s sensibility to environment, ensuring that drivers take necessary information on consuming minimum amounts of fuel in order to use resources efficiently and reduce costs, contribution to drivers' professional developments are among most important objectives. In addition to this, Defensive Driving and Fatigue Fighting training for drivers continue. Driver Trainings per Year:  2007: 378 hours training / 90 drivers / 2802 man-hours  2008: 280 hours training / 110 drivers / 2,792 man-hours  2009: 440 hours training / 572 drivers / 3,288 man-hours  2010: 416 hours training / 160 drivers / 1,728 man-hours  2011: 150 hours training / 260 drivers / 1,620 man-hours  2012: 218 hours training / 307 drivers / 2,077 man-hours  2013: 519 hours training / 781 drivers / 4,115 man-hours  2014: 529 hours training / 940 drivers / 4,970 man-hours  2015: 528 hours training / 475 drivers / 4.582 man-hours In line with Training and Development Plans, Ekol employees join many programs in the field of orientation, adaptation to work, personal, technical, professional, and leadership development. In addition to trainings in classrooms, e-learning, on-the-job training, seminars, conferences, and panels are offered as distinct training solutions, to contribute to the professional and personal development of our employees, with a view to raising their knowledge levels higher, to come up with individuals to create value and increase performance each day. With the necessity of contribution to society and social responsibility approach, Training and Development activities continue also outside of Ekol. A logistics class was opened in cooperation with Harmandere Vocational and Technical High School. With this project, where Ekol provides its support in the means of content and technical possibilities, high school students are provided with education and profession. As a continuation of the project, Ekol Staff College Completion Project began. With this project, Ekol employees providing necessary competencies are supported to complete the high school. Total Training Hours:  2007: 1,254 hours training / 1,165 employees / 10,462 man-hours  2008: 1,858 hours training / 7,871 employees / 20,917 man-hours  2009: 2,450 hours training / 5,211 employees / 15,623 man-hours  2010: 2,900 hours training / 5,909 employees / 19,264 man-hours  2011: 3,573 hours training / 13,682 employees / 34,515 man-hours  2012: 6,547 hours training / 16,189 employees / 36,468 man-hours  2013: 3,586 hours training / 7,184 employees / 43,800 man-hours  2014: 5,525 hours training / 7,536 employees / 54,306 man-hours  2015: 9.364 hours training / 8.205 employees / 57.441 man-hours Ekol and Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: Positively contribute to the future of the community Since its foundation in 1990, Ekol Logistics always aimed to fulfil its responsibilities towards the society, the environment, and employees. In this framework, it tried to support Social Responsibility Projects to the extent of its capabilities. Ekol underlines its efforts in this respect with the frequently used slogan logistics for a better world , and pays the due of its principles with countless projects it carried out through the years. 1) Achieve sustainable growth by developing environmentally-sustainable projects and business processes Natural resources are being exhausted with pace. Habitats are getting restricted. Each day harm done by humans on the environment increases logarithmically. Believing that the companies need to play their part on leaving a better world to future generations, Ekol strives to organize its processes with environment-awareness, to inform its employees, and to support non-governmental organizations working to protect wild life... 2) Ensure that new generations grow to be more socially conscious and wellequipped individuals With its service network providing in different sectors, Ekol Logistics is working within a structure present at all fields of life. With a view to fulfilling its part in achieving a better society, Ekol engages in numerous education projects to raise modern and contemporary new generations according to the cultural, social values of the society. 3) Ekol Voluntary Day 5th December World Voluntary Day is celebrated as Ekol Voluntary Day by employees in every year. Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. Achieve sustainable growth by developing environmentally-sustainable projects and business processes Fleet Replacement Project: EURO 5 norms aim to achieve gradual reductions in NO (Nitrogen oxide), CO (Carbon monoxide), HC (Hydrocarbons) and particle emissions. Within the framework of the project to minimize the environmental footprint of the vehicles which ensure seamless flow of trade throughout the Europe, Ekol Logistics replaced all the trucks in its fleet as of the end of 2011, and made the fleet fully compliant with EURO 5 standards. With a fleet exceeding by a wide margin the EURO 1 standards currently in force in Turkey, Ekol adopted European norms by added Euro-6 vehicles as of 2015, and proved its environmentalawareness with over 3000 Euro-5 and Euro-6 compliant vehicles. Intermodal Transportation: Logistics processes are indispensable for global trade. With its services reaching each day to every corner of the globe, Ekol strives to develop a more sustainable business model, making optimal use of natural resources. In this respect, the Intermodal transportation project implemented by Ekol in 2008 entails the transportation of a cargo to various destinations through more than one transportation mode, without further processing of the cargo during the change of modes. Within the framework of intermodal transportation, special containers, trailers, or semi-trailers allowing direct transfers from one mode of transportation to another without necessitating re-packaging of products, are used. When providing intermodal services to its customers, Ekol makes use of transportation models employed in intermodal transportation, such as trucks, road vehicles, cargo / roro ships, steam ships and planes, trains. The advantages Ekol offers to its clients with Intermodal transportation:  Premium and guaranteed intermodal services for time-sensitive cargoes.  For commodities with lower value, value pricing on the basis of various equipment types and service options.  Flexibility of equipments allows customers to choose the most suitable option for the cargo: Numerous options are on offer including 20', 40', 45' containers and mega semi-trailers, and high-cube containers.  Contracts with select Drayage providers ensure on-time picking and delivery.  Thanks to reduced fuel consumption, hence reduced CO 2 emission for transportation, intermodal transportation offers prestige and political advantages for customers which adopt environment-conscious policies.  Ekol customers can easily follow up their shipment through the robust Ekol quadro™ software which reports automatically the location and situation of a freight.  Ekol’s experienced staff handles each parcel carefully so that a trustable and consistent performance is ensured that its customers require within a dispatch program.  Ekol offers intermodal services to a substantial majority of the best known global companies and brands by carrying thousands of containers full of materials, finished products, industrial and consumer goods each day.  Weekly with 40 bilateral navigations, forest as big as 477 football fields are saved each month. EU CREAM CONSORTIUM and EKOL Ekol is an active member of the CREAM Consortium (Customer-driven Rail-freight services on an European mega-corridor based on Advanced business and operating Models) established within the 6th Framework Program of the European Commission. The CREAM project is a research and development project financed under the coordination of European Commission. The objective of the project is to improve railway and intermodal transportation ever more on the transportation corridors between Europe and Turkey. One of the activities within the framework of the CREAM Project is the development of trimodal transportation chain through RoRo-Train-Road integration. One of the activities within the framework of the Project is the development of trimodal transportation chain through RoRo-Train-Road integration. Embodying the innovative business models of Ekol, the Worms Trieste block train service and the subsequent cargo flow and transportation concept was found fully compliant with the project's purpose, and was found eligible for support. Ekol's solution based on the shipment of cargo in containers and semi-trailers compatible with intermodal operation, from Turkey to the port of Trieste in Italy, via Ro-Ro, and transportation therefrom to Worms in Germany on block trains, and thereafter delivery to all over Europe on trucks with German license plates; aims to reduce the road trip from 7,000 km to 2,000. In this way, 1600 lt fuel are saved by each bilateral navigations, and 5520 kg CO2, 25.86 kg NOx, 3.98 kg NMHC, 0.70 kg particle reduction is achieved. More efficient, sustainable and competitive services from Ekol... Ekol aims to offer more productive and high quality services with these new Ro-Ro trips, started as of January 2013, in order to enhance the competitiveness of its customers. 4 round trips per week take place between Haydarpaşa – Trieste ports with 4 modern vessels, named as HATCHE, PAQIZE, QEZBAN, FADIQ and 1 round trip per week take place between İzmirAlsancak/ Sete named as AYSHE. WWF Green Office Program: Ekol Logistics is proud to become the first logistics company in Turkey to participate in WWF Green Office program. There are improvements being planned and implemented with respect to Waste Management, Electricity Consumption and Paper Consumption savings indicators chosen within the framework of the program. The activities in this respect focus on improving the awareness of employees. Within the scope of the Green Office Program, an awarenessraising presentation was held for employees in two facilities of Ekol in 2012. The presentation was made by WWF-Turkey representatives and the issues such as WWF, Green Office, system/ecosystem, ecological footprint, water footprint and climate change were included in the presentation. Informative announcements emphasizing consumption of natural resources and recycling were created and hang on the relative fields in the facility in 2013. In the year 2014, Ekol Logistics accomplished to be the first logistics company in Turkey to have been granted with Green Office Diploma after the final assessment carried out by WWF. Waste Management: Ekol is well aware that wastes which were not disposed of appropriately remain to pollute the nature for years, continuing to have harmful effects on the environment. In this respect, Ekol Logistics focusing also on Waste Management within the framework of WWF Green Office Program, took steps to ensure any waste created during its operations is disposed of appropriately. Aiming to reduce trash volumes through sorted collection of wastes, Ekol Logistics aims to reduce the use of raw materials, energy, and other natural resources through the application of suitable sorting methods. The sorted waste are disposed of or recycled appropriately by the licensed firms with which Ekol made contracts for this purpose. Collection of Food Waste: The waste food collected in cafeterias is taken to animal shelters in the vicinity, with an aim to provide food for our animal friends. Sorting of Food Waste: Through sorting out recyclable wastes among the waste produced in the cafeteria, recycling efforts are supported. Campaign for the Recovery of Scrap Waste: The scrap waste created in the facilities within year 2011 were sorted and delivered to relevant recycling firms. The revenue derived from this operation was used to support the adoption campaign of World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Turkey. Paper Consumption: In order to protect the nature's oxygen factory, the forests, Ekol included savings in paper consumption and recycling of paper among the main indicators chosen within the framework of WWF Green Office Program. Ekol determines paper consumption rates per department, and produces special solutions to reduce consumption. Each ton of paper recycled thanks to efforts of Ekol saves 17 trees, which in turn provide for the oxygen needs of 144 human beings. Moreover, through the use of recycled paper, Ekol helps achieve significant savings in water and energy consumption for the production of paper. Electricity Consumption: With the awareness that anyone can create a substantial difference in terms of electricity savings, Ekol aims to support a collective movement rather than instances of individual efforts to reduce electricity consumption. Furthermore, Ekol is in the process of coming up with improvements in line with the results of analyses performed using different measurement devices for each office. In Turkey, lighting accounts for 20% of the electricity consumption. A 20% improvement towards energy-efficient lighting systems would allow savings equal to the annual generation capacity of Keban Dam. That is why Ekol opts to use energy-efficient light bulbs in its facilities. Through the Virtual Server Project implemented in year 2011, existing set of 55 servers were replaced with 4 virtual servers, to achieve 20% savings in electricity consumption. Number of Power Supplies Total Consumption / kwh 55 servers at various locations 70 28 4 virtual servers 8 5.4 Energy Saving 22.6 WWF-Earth Hour Activity Ekol Logistics, as the Earth Hour activity envoy of World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which is one of the biggest environment movements in the world, supports to the activity in its facilities in order to draw attention to global climate change. Environment Management System (2009-2015): In 2010, Ekol completed the Environment Management System Project, of which infrastructure began to be laid down in 2009. Within the framework of the project, documentation was created as per ISO 14001 Environment Management Standards, and applied later on pre-determined environment-related targets. Then trainings of Ekol personnel and the students of the schools close-by began.  With reference the targets, the disposal of the wastes produced in the facilities began in accordance with Environment Regulations. 1. Packaging Wastes: Collected and sorted within the facility, and recycled by licensed firms. 2. Domestic Wastes: Disposed of by the municipality. 3. Waste Vegetable Oils: Given to licensed recycling firms by our kitchens operated by contractor firms. 4. Waste Mineral Oils: Disposed of by licensed firms. 5. Hazardous Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. 6. Used Batteries and Accumulators: Collected in battery boxes provided by TAP Association, and disposed of again by TAP Association. 7. Worn Tires: Delivered to producers. 8. Medical Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. 9. Electronic Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms.  Potable water and drinking water analyses, chimney emission measurements, ambient noise measurements are performed as per the periods specified in relevant regulations, and checked for compliance.  In year 2010, in line with the established targets, EnvironmentAwareness and Recycling trainings were provided at 3 high schools in the vicinity of Lilyum Facility.  The employees who received the highest scores in the exam following the Environment-Awareness, Recycling and Hazardous Waste Management Trainings carried out at the Lilyum Facility were awarded with environment-friendly products.  A Battery Collection contest was organized to increase employees' awareness regarding batteries, which constitute a major hazard for the environment.  Designs to increase the employees' awareness were created, and sent to all employees via e-mail.  As a result of these activities, Lilyum Facility was granted ISO 14001 Environment Management System Certificate.  In year 2011, 3 additional facilities were included in the ISO 14001 Environment Management System for which certification was received previously. The efforts to expand the system are on track.  A storage area is established to minimize the harm of hazardous wastes on environment, and these wastes are now disposed of using appropriate methods, at disposal facilities licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning.  All white-collar workers took e-learning courses on Environmental and Recycling Training and Hazardous Waste Training in 2013 under the scope of Environmental Awareness training.  In 2014, the five facilities Yasemin, Orkide, Lavanta, Lilyum, and Kardelen were certified under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard. Ekol’s efforts in this area have been continued with the 2016 certification of its Begonvil Facility.  Calculation and verification of greenhouse gas emissions within the scope of ISO 14064-1 continues.  Begun in 2015, the construction of the Doğa warehouse is expected to be completed with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certification.  The Kozmoz Facility also started its operations after being awarded LEED Gold accreditation.  Ekol took its place among the finalists of the 2015 European Business Awards for the Environment (EBAE).  It was also a finalist in the Sustainable Development Association of Turkey (SKD) Innovative Sustainability Application awards.  It is anticipated that with the Yalova International Ro-Ro Terminal currently under construction: Inner city traffic from operations at Haydarpaşa Port will be reduced, Exporters and manufacturers will be provided with more sustainable services through the minimization of operational inefficiencies caused by prohibitions on traffic at certain times, Shorter distances will be traveled thanks to its closer proximity to production centers such as Gebze, Bursa, Izmit, and Eskişehir, Transfer times from the Istanbul Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge and the Izmit Istanbul TEM Highway will be lessened. According to 2015 figures, 4 million kilometers of road and 1.5 million liters of diesel oil will be saved. There will also be a decrease in traffic as 100,000 vehicles will avoid main arterial roads and bridges. The project aims in particular to increase the environment-awareness of blue collar workers. By supporting recycling, the protection of natural resources and reduction of energy consumption is aimed for. By increasing the awareness level of the employees for wastes which are potentially very hazardous for the environment (hazardous wastes, waste oils etc.), support was provided to the efforts to prevent pollution. In year 2011, in the warehouse operations of Ekol, a total of;  7.631.000 kwh energy was consumed.  50,934 m3 water was consumer.  1940 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  150 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal.  1,600 kg packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2012, in Ekol's facilities which are the environment management system practice of Ekol, a total of;  10,770,022.22 kWh energy was consumed.  36,737 m3 water was consumed.  455 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  10 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal.  1,165,545 tons packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  1531 kg hazardous waste, 5700 kg scrap waste was delivered to licensed firms. Consumption has risen due to the increase in data collection quality and the number of facilities. Throughout 2014, in Ekol's facilities which are the environment management system practice of Ekol, a total of;  7,836,668 kwh energy was consumed.  117,140 m3 water is consumed.  124,391 m3 natural gas is consumed.  4740 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  1.189,520 tones of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2015, in Ekol's facilities which are the environment management system practice of Ekol, a total of;  9.530.884 kwh energy was consumed.  134.295 m3 water is consumed.  154.425 m3 natural gas is consumed.  300 kg hazardous waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  1.524.600 tones of packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Ekol Memory Forests: Ekol Logistics concluded the year 2012-201320142015 with an important social responsibility activity which is also in compliance with green logistics. Between the years 20122015 , Ekol believed that the best New Year gift to business partners would be to bring in a new forest to Turkey, and established cooperation with TEMA Foundation in this regard. Within the scope of this cooperation, recycled certificates containing information on memorial forest projects of 5,000 plants, in 2012 in Izmir-Urla, in 2013 in Manisa-Salihli, in 2014 in Izmir Urla Kadıovacık and in 2015 Burdur Tefenni Beyköy are sent to business partners. Turkey’s Life Project (2010): In the aftermath of the Green Office Program realized with WWF, Ekol began to support the projects by World Wide Fund for Nature, and became a supporter of most important efforts of the Fund to protect natural resources and sustain wild life. In this respect, Ekol became a sponsor of the campaign Turkey's Life launched by WWF Turkey aiming to receive donations from 1001 donors, each providing TRY 1001, in order to create a fund for projects trying to achieve a better understanding of the importance of bio-diversity on human life, protect the natural wealth well integrated with the traditional lifestyle in Anatolia, yet on the verge of extinction, and improve life standards by adopting sustainable means of utilizing nature. Ensure that new generations grow to be more socially conscious and wellequipped individuals Harmandere Technical and Industrial Vocational High School (2013): In 2013, Ekol Logistics has set an example for the industry by establishing an Application Depot and a Computer Lab for Harmandere Technical and Industrial Vocational High School. Ekol, as part of its active support for education since day one, had set up a modern computer lab for 40 students of Ekol Class at Harmandere Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School, as well as applied education depots, to meet the needs of the industry. In order to gain students reading habit and improve their self expressions habit, in 2014, a library was founded, facilities are visited, specialists and experienced unit managers came together with students within the scope of on-site trainings, and seminars are organized, as well. Booklets on warehouse management, distribution, and customs procedures were drawn up to support education curriculum, in order to help raise well-equipped graduates for the industry. Within this project, internships in Ekol facilities is offered to the students to do internships in Ekol facility. Ekol won a Special Jury award at the first TEGEP Learning and Development Awards in Social Responsibility category thanks to Harmandere Vocational and Technical High School project. Before After Ekol Employees–High School Education Project Ekol supports its bluecollar employees with The High School Education Project organized in cooperation with Harmandere Vocational and Technical High School. While the first pilot group of “Ekol Employees High School Education Project” are continuing their education, in the academic period 2014/15, 30 employees from Contract Logistics participated in the project and passed to the 11th grade after finishing the term successfully. Ekol is aiming to make sure that all our eligible employees benefit from this project. Accordingly, Ekol reached out to 104 employees from its facilities in Istanbul who indicated their willingness to finish their high school education in the academic year of 2015/16. Both face-to-face and e-learning methods are used in the program. At the weekends, students receive training on logistics at Harmandere Vocational and Technical School while they receive their general culture courses through e-learning. When they have collected enough credits, the blue-collar workers of Ekol will be awarded with their diplomas as the graduates of the Vocational High School Logistics Department. ''Ekol Employees High School Education Project , which is essentially a social responsibility project, offers many social and economic advantages to its employees. ‘’Don’t Wait, Donate’’ Campain Ekol organized Don't Wait, Donate Campain in 2016, started to collect books with the support of its employees for filling the Harmandere Vocational and Technical School Logistics department library. Aiming to increase the reading habits of students, contribute to raise them as efficacious people for the society, Ekol voluntary employees gave support to the campaign at the book collection points which were placed to the facilities. DarüşşafakaKitapcan Parent To give to fresh grade 5 students, of Darüşşafaka, Ekol, in 2014-2015 education period; became Book Parent of 5d class with 25 students making a cooperation for ''Kitapcan Book Gift Card'' project prepared by Book Everywhere for Anyone Foundation. Ekol supported this project by fulfilling needs for books of the class for 1 year. Ekol's Cooperation with Universities Aware that the youth comprises the most important individuals of the society, Ekol Logistics acts in cooperation with universities. Opportunities to visit the facilities, internship agreements with important educational institutions, career days participated, and panels, as activities organized for or with universities, provide, on the one hand, university students a chance to prepare themselves better for the professional life, and fulfil, on the other, the role of the firm in supporting training of quality workforce, as part of its industrial responsibility. Ekol reached an important success in 2012 as the first brand to establish the only R&D Centre in its sector in Turkey. Employing a young staff of more than 120 full-time personnel – 95% holding graduate degrees, Ekol R&D Center implemented more than 100 projects to date, with the purpose of increasing productivity and developing new business models. 3 of 7 projects of R&D department supported by TUBİTAK are approved in 2014, for 4 R&D projects patent application are carried out. Ekol R&D Center will crate a ground for realization projects of SAN-TEZs (Thesis Studies Supported by Industry) and give opportunity of implementation to masters and doctorate students during which the ongoing cooperation of Ekol with academics will increase and publications of sector specific studies and case studies will have vast chances. Visits to Facilities: Ekol provides tours of the highly-automated facilities equipped with advanced technology, for logistics clubs of universities, allowing the students to have a on-site glimpse on the processes. The students obtain a chance to get detailed information regarding the industry they intend to work in, in addition to an opportunity to see the wide range of services covered by the logistics industry. Facility visits in year 2008: İzmir University of Economics Beykent University Avcılar Mehmet Emin Horoz Vocational School of Logistics İstanbul University Facility visits in year 2009: Bilgi University Okan University İzmir University of Economics Bahçeşehir University Facility visits in year 2010: Boğaziçi University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2011: İstanbul Kültür University Bahçeşehir University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2012: Okan University Arel University Yıldız Teknik University Bilkent University Kayseri Erciyes University Facility visits in year 2013: Bilkent University Uludağ University Nişantaşı University Okan University Facility visits in year 2014: Bahçeşehir University Fransa Sorbonne University Okan University Işık University İstanbul Ticaret University TOBB Ekonomi ve Teknoloji University Türk Hava Kurumu University Facility visits in year 2015: Bilgi University İstanbul Technic University İstanbul Kültür University Seminars and Panels: The executives of Ekol Logistics offer numerous seminars and participate in panels each year, in order to share their experiences accumulated in long years in the industry, with the logistics specialists of the future. Seminars and Panels in 2007: İzmir University of Economics – Seminars by Guest Speakers Seminars and Panels in 2008: Yeditepe University – Career Days Celal Bayar University – International Trade and Logistics Seminar Seminars and Panels in 2009: Istanbul Technical University – 8th Industry Days Erciyes University – Logistics Day Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Seminars and Panels in 2010: Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Uludağ University – Career Days 2010 Muğla University Seminars and Panels in 2011: Uludağ University Istanbul Kültür University Marmara University Seminars and Panels in 2012: Boğaziçi University Istanbul Kültür University Uludağ University Yıldız Teknik University Seminars and Panels in 2013: Uludağ University İstanbul University Yeditepe University Seminars and Panels in 2014: Okan University Işık University Çağ University Bahçeşehir University İstanbul Ticaret University Yıldız Teknik University Sakarya University Eylül University Seminars and Panels in 2015: İstanbul Technic University Uşak University Yıldız Technic University Balıkesir University Niğde University Bahçeşehir University Koç University Yaşar University Süleyman Şah University Sponsorships: In order to support the students in getting a complete education, Ekol sponsors various events organized for university students, the future of Turkey, to fulfill its responsibility for university students. Sponsorships in year 2007: Logistics Training Camp ‘07 Sponsorships in year 2008: Istanbul University – Graduation Ceremony 2008 Sakarya University – Shell Eco-marathon (logistics support) Sponsorships in year 2011: Mersin University – TUBİTAK Formula G Solar-Powered Car Races Sponsorship for the team racing with the vehicle named Scarpion. Sponsorships in year 2012: Uludağ University gift a conference room to the Vocational School of Social Sciences. İstanbul Kültür University –2012 Logistics Panel Bilkent University – Supply Chain Summit Sponsorships in year 2013: Bilkent University-National Academy of Young Student Symposium TOBB Economics and Technology University -The Election Analysis Working Group (EWGL A) Conference Sponsorships in year 2014: Istanbul University of Purchasing and Supply Chain Conference Dokuz Eylul University European Solar Challenge (European Solar Vehicles Race) Logistic support Istanbul Commerce University-Production Research Club, support for the project called Dreams Libraries Middle East Technical University, 2014 Shell Eco-Marathon race in Valencia Logistic support Bilkent University junior National Academy Student Symposium Sponsorships in year 2015: ODTÜE-commerce ve Logistics Summit Internship Opportunities: As one of the most important logistics firms of Turkey, Ekol offers university students various internship opportunities. Each year, an average of 30 students are provided internship opportunities in Ekol's facilities. Through agreements with the most successful universities of Turkey, such as Boğaziçi, ITU, and METU, students of Industrial and Business Administration Engineering departments are offered internship opportunities. Ekol Voluntary Day 5th December World Voluntary Day is celebrated as Ekol Voluntary Day.by employees in every year. Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. Ekol and NGO Cooperations Ekol Logistics enters into joint projects with non-governmental organizations working to achieve higher life standards and a more egalitarian society, and provides any assistance it may be of, with various grants. Ekol's Cooperation with LÖSEV: Ekol Logistics is aware that just financial assistance for a non-governmental organization would not suffice. In this respect, services within the framework of the industry are offered to NGOs as assistance. Since 2007, logistical support is provided to LÖSEV when required. In particular, the warehouses in Ankara and İzmir are used to store support packages received by LÖSEV. This helps problem-free storage of support packages for timely delivery to persons who need them. In addition to storage organizations, the materials for the Village for Children with Leukemia constructed by LÖSEV were also carried free of charge on vehicles of Ekol Logistics. In 2014 and 2015, a cooperation again with LÖSEV was established to enable Ekol employees individual support, LOSEV Happy Shop stand was opened in various facilities of Ekol, hand made products prepared for new year by LOSEV was exhibited and revenues coming from this were used for children with leukemia, by the association. Awareness Raising for ALS Disease In order to draw attention and create awareness, Ekol Health Group challenged its customers with ‘’ Ice Bucket Challenge’’ and by sharing a video showing pouring a bucket full of ice and water over themselves which was filmed to reach as many people as possible, was shared in social media and ALS Foundation was supported. That village is not too far project: Ekol Logistics makes utmost use of its capabilities and efforts to support education and youth. In this respect, logistics support was provided for the That Village Is Not Too Far Education Project organized by Merter Platform. Founded in 31st March 2011 by textile industrialists and businessmen from Merter, the Merter Platform took the road to build libraries for 3 thousand village schools all over Turkey. A fund of approximately 2 million Liras is gathered for this purpose. The project launched with the slogan That village is not too far then moved to contact with village schools and learn what they needed. Headed by the Honorary Chairman, Governor of Istanbul, Hüseyin Avni Mutlu, and supported also by the Ministry of Education, the education project That village is not too far by Merter Platform sent assistance to 2058 schools to date. Providing transportation services for assistance sent by Merter Platform to 10 provinces, Ekol helped provide aid to 783 schools. Blood Donations to Kızılay: Ekol considers blood donations as a matter above and beyond other social responsibility projects. It is a duty before humanity. In this respect, joint projects are held with Kızılay on every occasion. Ekol Logistics supported Kızılay's campaign Seeking 1,000,000 Good Persons in year 2008. Within the framework of the project, the employees were provided education on blood donations. Then, at the Ekol Family Picnic organized later on, volunteers were given an opportunity to donate blood at the mobile donation unit. Furthermore, Kızılay's mobile donation units visit Ekol Logistics's various facilities, offering the employees do donate blood. Ekol's Cooperation with BİKEV: Established in 1995 by 107 volunteers from various professions including poets, professors, shopkeepers, civil servants, former members of parliament, architects, engineers, workers, doctors, fishermen, nurses, industrialists, lawyers, pharmacists, housewives, teachers and so on, BİKEV founded a dormitory for girls attending primary school in Balıkesir. Upon becoming aware of the activities of the foundation, Ekol Logistics began contemplating ways to be of assistance, and then proceeded to make the largest grant the foundation received up to date. The Project Your Children Are Ours As Well (2007 – 2011): Ekol Logistics invests in the future of the world, the children. The aim is to provide them suitable living environment, healthy development and good education opportunities. In this respect, each year 500 primary and secondary school students are supported with books, notebooks, pens, and clothes. The aim is to help the students complete the education year without any problems. Moreover, again within the framework of the campaign Your Children Are Ours As Well, each year 600 students who are successful in OKS are offered scholarships. Ekol and Children of Hope Foundation Through organizations with Children of Hope Foundation, which works to provide salvation for homeless children and to ensure their rehabilitation into the society, Ekol Logistics aims to bring joys to homeless children, joys which cannot be purchased, with concerts organized and gifts given, in an effort to touch the heart of the children. In the campaign Save a Child, Save the Future organized jointly with the Children of Hope Foundation, a nice concert was organized for the children, in addition to bringing the light on this foundation, to help it secure more support. There is a village far away Bolluca Children's Village is an organization established in 1992, to support young children who lost a warm home, and to ensure that they grow up in much better environments than streets, with an ultimate aim of raising good members of the society, and is kept going with the support of philanthropists. Ekol Logistics eventually included the project, which was brought first to its attention as an object of efforts by its employees, in its Corporate Social Responsibility umbrella. Within the framework of the project, the children living in the Children's Village were hosted at Ekol's facilities, and various donations were made. Individual Practices Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. The visits to retirement homes and donation campaigns organized by the employees are among the best examples of such efforts. 10 Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Work and Labor Standards:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour.  Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment:  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption:  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI Indicators' Content Global Compact's 10 Principles Reference Pages Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 5-6;13-25 ;30-33 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5-6;13-25 ;30-33 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 19 Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 20 Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. 21-22 Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18-20 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 23; 25 -36 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 23; 25 -36 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 23; 25 -36 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 21-22
