2016 comunication on Progress Participant • Tecnostamp Triulzi Group Ltd. Edition • 2016/03/30 Format • Stand-alone document template COP base Differentiation Level • The COP would qualify for the Global Compact active layer Self-assessment • Explicit support Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of the actions or policies relevant to Human Rights • Description of the actions or policies relating to the relevant job • Description of the actions or policies relevant environmental • Description of the actions or policies relevant to the fight against corruption • Measurement of outcomes Statement of support to Global Compact It’ a pleasure to confirm that Tecnostamp Triulzi Group Ltd., will support the Global Compact and its ten principles in the areas of: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights • The assessment, policy, objectives • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company. (Risk Assessment). Description of policy, public commitments and business goals on Human Rights Tecnostamp Triulzi Group Ltd. (TTG) complies fully supports and implements the principles of universal human rights, including the right to equal opportunities and non-discrimination, the right to safety, workers' rights, respect for existing national legislation and obligations consumer and environmental protections. The Company shall establish, with annual update, the document Risk Assessment. Depending on the finding of this analysis has provided its workers with DPI and has put in place all possible measures to minimize the risks present. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement the policies, take risks and respond to violations of Human Rights TTG shall comply strictly with the rules mentioned in the CCNL force in Italy, and warrants, as such, equal employment opportunities. Also in relation to current Italian laws on Human Rights the TTG has an obligation to employ a percentage of total employed workers, from lists of protected groups (refugees, the handicapped, invalids, etc..) Employees, employed in TTG, have the right to raise objections or complaints of violations of human rights against any of their colleagues. All management of TTG is responsible for human rights in all Plants Group. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance During the reporting period TTG did not have to deal with cases of violation of human rights. Work • The assessment, policy, objectives • description of the importance of labor rights for society. Description policies and objectives relating to labor rights TTG respects, supports and implements the principles of universal rights of workers, including the use of any form of child labor. Ensures a safe workplace and healthy and free association and collective bargaining. All this is in accordance with the National Collective Bargaining Agreement and the laws in force in Italy, and the spirit of the International Labor Organization. The respect of national labor agreements concluded between trade unions and industry representatives, provides: equal treatment of all employees regarding their working conditions, training and career opportunities. The prohibition of discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, race or ethnic origin, nationality, language, disability, age religion or belief, political opinion or otherwise. The possibility of aggregation and to join a union worker. The possibility of complaints of abuse or noncompliance with the rules mentioned in the CCNL Risk assessment in the workplace, as the existing legislative decrees. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement the policies, take risks and respond to violations of workers' rights Each year, in conjunction of Christmas, the Directorate has established a day dedicated to a cultural exchange with the workers. The focus of this day is to raise awareness on human rights and commitment of our nation in the international arena in defense of human rights and get what we all do every day to fight even the smallest discrimination affecting this primary law. This initiative was highly appreciated by the staff who has acknowledged participating in the theme and motivated. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance The TTG has always given to all employees to report even the smallest incident of lack of respect for human rights, over the years without any warning. The management itself has always been able to find a great respect for the person and the absence of discrimination within the company. Environment • The assessment, policy, objectives • Description of the importance of environmental protection for society. (Environmental Risk Assessment). Description of policy, public commitments and objectives in regard to its Environmental Protection In the area of environmental protection TTG is a really careful and meticulous. In Italy there is a legal system to protect the environment that forces companies to conduct well-defined at the control of emissions to the outside. May they be released into waters. TTG has gone a step further giving itself the policy of searching for sources of possible pollution at source rather than removing them and choose to stop the potential pollution or other filters. In line with this policy, TTG performs analysis of air emissions which confirm that there are no harmful substances emitted. These analyzes are repeated annually. The system allows to keep the particles near the processing area is a system for reducing water film. The water once saturated is disposed of by a company licensed and certified. As regards water TTG does not download any type of liquid having been provided with closed-circuit systems. The only discharges to the sewer system and municipal wastewater are below current standards. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement the policies, in regard to its Environmental Protection For the future it is expected that TTG construct a system that knows how to divide the rainwater into two types. The storm water, presumably laden with particles washed from the surface covered by buildings, which will be held in special settling tanks for the precipitation of particles and send only clean water drains. The deposit will then be disposed of by special companies authorized. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance TTG performs instrumental measurements quarterly, semiannual and annual basis to obtain feedback of the impact of its production activities on the environment. From reading and evaluation of these measurements we can draw the conclusion that TTG can boast a great environmental impact. It 'also certain that the target remains and will always be the factory to Zero impact Anti-Corruption • The assessment, policy, objectives • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption of the Company TTG will adhere rigidly to the Italian law on the subject and is careful to ensure that its staff has an integrity suited to their roles. The Company shall, furthermore, to certify its financial statements by independent auditors as well as perform all accounting transactions through banks and provide for complete transparency and traceability of transactions. For activities that expose somehow the clerk to perform the same at the risk of corruption, TTG follows a strict procedure which provides among other things that the process of the practice is verified by the Director of the Plant which in turn has to deal with the property. To ensure that external companies, which temporarily are called for activities of maintenance, repairs or other TTG applies, as prescribed by Italian law, the protocol DUVRI which requires a careful analysis both in terms of security and human rights for workers, but also and especially for the external position of the Company must provide proof of payment of social security contributions, regular registration with the chamber of commerce and a clean criminal record to demonstrate a moral absolute. The purchasing department, which has historically been a point for every company attacked by any bribe, is monitored directly by the Director of Plant and Property. In addition, the purchasing staff is allocated to other assignments every two years. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance To measure the outcomes of the above, the TTG was keen to establish a direct line, strictly confidential, between any employee and the direction of the Plant through which to report any suspected cases. To date, there have never been incidents of known and / or suspected corruption in the history of Tecnostamp Triulzi Group Ltd.
