19 August 2016 For personal use only Annual Report for Lendlease Group Lendlease Group today announced its results for the full year ended 30 June 2016. Attached is the 2016 Annual Report, including: § Directors’ Report § Remuneration Report § FY16 Financial Statements ENDS For further information, please contact: Investors: Media: Justin McCarthy Natalie Campbell Tel: 02 9236 6464 Tel: 02 9236 6865 Mob: 0422 800 321 Mob: 0410 838 914 Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 and Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney Telephone +61 2 9236 6111 Exchange Place, 300 Barangaroo Avenue Facsimile +61 2 9252 2192 Barangaroo NSW 2000 Australia lendlease.com For personal use only 20 16 Annual Report 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 3 DIRECTORS' REPORT OUR BUSINESS For personal use only Who We Are 8 Our Values 9 Operational Highlights 10 Financial Highlights 11 A Year in Review 12 Chairman’s Report 14 Group CEO and Managing Director's Report 16 OUR STRATEGY Our Competitive Advantage 20 Global Trends Influencing Our Strategy 22 Our Strategy 24 PILLARS OF VALUE The Pillars of Value 28 How the Pillars Drive Value 29 Financial 30 Health & Safety 32 Our Customers 34 Our People 36 Sustainability 40 RISK Risk Governance & Management 46 Key Risks and Mitigation 48 PERFORMANCE & OUTLOOK Group Highlights 52 Development Performance 54 Apartment Settlement Profile 56 Construction Performance 58 Investments Performance 60 Performance by Segment and Region 62 Financial Position and Cash Flow Movements 63 Group Funding and Debt Facilities 64 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors' Information 68 Remuneration Report 82 Directors' Report 115 Lead Auditor's Independence Declaration 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120–179 OTHER INFORMATION Five Year Profile 184 Portfolio Report 186 Securityholder Information 206 Glossary 209 Corporate Directory 210 All financial amounts within this report are in Australian dollars unless otherwise specified. Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust New York Skyline – Artist impression as at 2016 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 5 Annual Report For personal use only About this Report 2. Our Strategy 4. Risk Directors’ Report and OFR This is Lendlease’s first integrated annual report and we An outline of the three elements that drive our competitive An explanation of Lendlease’s approach to risk governance and The required elements of the Directors’ Report, including the OFR, expect this report to evolve over time. Through this report we advantage: our integrated model, track record and financial management including an assessment of key risks and mitigation. which is part of the Directors' Report, are included on pages 8 to 117 aim to communicate how we create long term value for our strength, with a specific focus on the integrated model through the of this report and include the sections: Our Business, Our Strategy, securityholders through five value pillars. The report is divided into lens of Barangaroo South, Sydney. This is followed by a description 5. Performance & Outlook Pillars of Value, Risk, Performance & Outlook and Governance. The several sections with all required elements of the Directors' Report, of the global trends that will influence our business over the long Commentary on Lendlease’s financial and non financial pillars OFR is contained specifically on pages 8 to 65. including the Operating and Financial Review (OFR) being covered term and the opportunities that these trends present for our including a performance overview for our three operating All non financial metrics included in the Directors' Report on on pages 8 to 117. strategy. This section concludes with a snapshot of our strategy. segments: Development, Construction and Investments, as well as pages 8 to 49 have been verified through our internal verification a summary of our financial position and cash flow information. process. The Financial Statements on pages 120 to 179 have been 1. Our Business 3. Pillars of Value audited by KPMG. The report begins with an overview of who we are, what we do and 6. Governance A description of Lendlease’s five pillars of value that drive the our values. This is followed by a summary of our key financial and long term value of our business. Icons will be used throughout the An overview of Lendlease’s governance and decision making Future Reporting operating highlights for the current reporting period, including a report to link our business activities to these pillars. An update of structures and remuneration information. This section includes all This Annual Report sets out our competitive advantage and our snapshot of our global urban regeneration portfolio, and a review the performance in line with identified measures is provided on compliance reporting requirements. commitment to creating long term value for our stakeholders, of our key events throughout the 2016 financial year. Lendlease's pages 28 to 43, with further information on financial performance realised through our pillars. In future reports we will enhance our Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer conclude this section Integrated Reporting included in the Performance & Outlook section on pages 52 to 65. measurement of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for each pillar. with their reviews of performance for the year. A description of each pillar is provided below: This report has been prepared with reference to the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework. This framework encourages businesses to consider what creates value for them and how this value contributes long term sustainable returns for securityholders. Materiality A matter is considered material if Lendlease’s Senior Management and those charged with governance believe it could significantly Health & Safety impact the value created and delivered by the relevant pillar in the Every person who engages short, medium and long term. Lendlease identifies material matters with Lendlease has the right to through periodic discussions during the financial year at Project be safe and well. This means Control Group (PCG) meetings that represent the governance we focus on the mental health structure for completing the Annual Report. The Board has been and physical wellbeing of all engaged throughout this process and has endorsed the progress of people on our projects and within our offices. the Annual Report at periodic intervals. Financial A strong balance sheet and access to capital enables Lendlease to continue to expand its pipeline and deliver quality earnings. A description of material issues and value creation in line with the value pillars: Our Customers Satisfied customers drive Financial Health & Safety Our Customers Our People Sustainability long term value. We adopt Pillars of Value a collaborative approach to managing our relationships, Delivering securityholder returns. Ability to operate safely across our Understanding our customers and Ability to attract and retain the best people. Ability to continuously identify and deliver delivering high quality Material Issue service and responding to Maintaining strong operations and responding to changes Ensuring we have the economically, socially our customers’ needs. capital management to projects. in the market. right capability across and environmentally enable investment in Maintaining the health Ability to deliver the organisation. sustainable outcomes. our future pipeline. and wellbeing of our customer driven employees and those solutions. Sustainability who engage with our Sustainability is about assets. creating places for people Value Creation and meeting their needs Sustainable returns for Eliminating incidents Customer loyalty and An engaged, diverse Enhanced urban for the future. Globally, securityholders. and injuries across the satisfaction. and capable workforce. precincts and engaged governments and Our People business. communities. communities are seeking Lendlease’s people are the greatest trusted partners who can contributors to our success and Keeping people safe enhance urban areas with underpin our ability to deliver our and well, physically and efficient, healthy and vision to create the best places. mentally. resilient outcomes. For personal use only Victoria and Albert Museum, London 01 Our Business 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 9 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Who We Are Our Values For personal use only Lendlease is committed to creating and delivering innovative and sustainable Our core values guide our behaviours and underpin our Code of Conduct. These are the values property and infrastructure solutions for future generations. we live by every day. Founded in Sydney in 1958 by Dutch immigrant and innovator Dick Dusseldorp, Lendlease was born out of a vision to create Headquartered in Sydney, Australia, Lendlease has approximately 12,000 employees internationally. Our regional head offices are RESPECT COLLABORATION a company that could successfully combine the disciplines of located in New York, Singapore and London. financing, development and investment. Our core capabilities are reflected in our operating segments of BE DEDICATED TO RELATIONSHIPS BE ONE TEAM Lendlease is a leading international property and infrastructure Development, Construction and Investments. Combining these We respect all people, their ideas We work together to achieve more through group with operations in Australia, Asia, Europe and the Americas. capabilities across the property and infrastructure value chain Our vision is to create the best places; places that inspire and has allowed Lendlease to offer innovative integrated solutions for and cultures. our unified culture and shared knowledge. enrich the lives of people around the world. our clients. Through those solutions Lendlease has secured major urban regeneration projects such as: Barangaroo South, Darling INTEGRITY EXCELLENCE We create places that leave a positive legacy by setting world leading standards for safety, innovation and sustainability, Square, Victoria Harbour and Brisbane Showgrounds in Australia; delivered by people who are respected for who they are and what Elephant & Castle and International Quarter London in the United Kingdom; Paya Lebar Quarter and Tun Razak Exchange in Asia; they do. and Riverline in the United States. BE TRUE TO OUR WORD BE EXCEPTIONAL IN EVERYTHING WE DO Integrity is non-negotiable. We leave We seek, and are committed, to operating a positive impact through our actions safely, achieving outstanding performance and behaviours. and the best outcomes. INNOVATION TRUST Our Vision: BE CHALLENGING IN OUR APPROACH BE OPEN AND TRANSPARENT We strive to find the best solution. We earn and instil trust by being TO CREATE We think outside the box and dare to do things differently. accountable at every level and in all of our interactions. THE BEST PLACES 432 Park Avenue, New York 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 11 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Operational Highlights Financial Highlights For personal use only Health & Safety Group Lost Time Injury Earnings before 86% 83% FY16 Frequency Rate interest tax 1,055 FY15 2.2 depreciation and amortisation 967 Profit after Tax 698 1.8 619 1,054.9 698.2 Percentage of operations without a critical incident.1 $ $ MILLION FY15 FY16 MILLION FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 Our People Return Market on Equity 12.4% 13.0% Capitalisation1 13.0 % $ 7.9 Senior Executive positions BILLION held by women 85% 84% FY15 FY16 19% Employee engagement 17% FY15 FY16 score. 2 120.1 61,957 FY15 FY16 Earnings per Security 106.8 1 Sustainability 91% FY15 In FY16 six of our 120.1 CENTS FY15 FY16 SECURITYHOLDERS 98% funds4 were ranked first in their categories in FY16 the Global Real Estate Total development Sustainability Benchmark. pipeline achieved or This included the Australian targeting green Prime Property Fund 60 certification.3 Commercial, which ranked first overall out of 707 Distribution per Security 54 participants. 60.0 Credit rating (Fitch/Moody's/Standard and Poor's) 1. A critical incident is an event that had the potential to cause death or permanent disability. This is an indicator unique to Lendlease. of BBB-/Baa3/BBB2. In 2016 a employee engagement progress survey was completed. Full surveys are conducted every two years. – Stable Outlook 3. 4. Value stated in FY15 Securityholder Review of 100 per cent included major urban development projects only. 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund ) Commercial – All global participants. 1st Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust – Global Development. CENTS FY15 FY16 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund) Retail – Oceania Retail. 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund) Industrial – Oceania Industrial. 1st Asian Retail Investment Fund 1 – Asia Retail. 1st Lendlease Retail LP – UK Retail. 1. As at market close on 1 August 2016. 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 13 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements A Year in Review For personal use only Development Construction Investments Organisation Achieved operational and financial close Lendlease selected as the preferred The Global Real Estate Sustainability Lendlease launched manufacturing on the final phase of the Department of consortium with alliance partners, by the Benchmark (GRESB) recognised business, DesignMake, which combines the Army’s Privatization of Army Lodging Level Crossing Removal Authority (LXRA) Lendlease managed Australian Prime smart design and advanced (PAL) program, operated by the to design and construct the Caulfield to Property Fund Commercial as the world’s manufacturing processes to make Intercontinental Hotels Group (IHG). This Dandenong Level Crossing Removal most sustainable real estate fund, customised building components to latest closing includes 2,058 hotel rooms Project, Victoria. outperforming 707 companies and funds service Lendlease’s growing property located on Fort Lee, Virginia and Fort for the second year running. development pipeline. Barangaroo South, Sydney Benning, Georgia. Our 56 Leonard Street project in New York City, a vertical construction of the uniquely Introduction of a new international Lendlease received the 2016 Project of the Unveiling of Springfield Rise community, cantilevered 60-storey, 146-unit, residential co-investor to the Barangaroo South Year Award from Infrastructure which will be home to more than 12,000 structure reached it highest point. precinct. One of Asia’s largest institutional Partnerships Australia for Sydney’s newest people in South-East Queensland’s fastest investors acquired a 25 per cent harbour foreshore park, Barangaroo growing region, Greater Springfield. Co-Investment stake in Lend Lease Reserve, constructed by Lendlease’s Margaret Court Arena became the first One International Tower Sydney Trust Engineering business, on behalf of the sport and entertainment arena in Australia (LLOneITST) from Lendlease. Barangaroo Delivery Authority. Lendlease achieved forward sale of two to receive a Leadership in Energy and commercial buildings to Deutsche Bank Environmental Design Gold Certification. International Convention Centre, Sydney Asset Management and Legal & General Two Lendlease managed malls, Issue of US$400 million of senior at International Quarter London. 313@somerset and Jem, receive the unsecured notes, maturing in May 2026, Structural completion reached on the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) via Lendlease’s recently established Euro third and final building of ICC Sydney at Council bizSAFE Partner award1 the first Medium Term Note Program. The Prime Minister of Australia, the Hon Darling Harbour, which is targeted to malls in Singapore to receive this award. Malcolm Turnbull MP presented open in December 2016. Barangaroo South with a 6 Star Green Library at The Dock, Melbourne, designed Star Communities award, the first for an and built by Lendlease awarded the Property inner urban development. Opening of Candlewood Suites® on Council of Australia, Victoria's prestigious Redstone Arsenal, the first hotel in the ‘Development of the Year’ award, and a United States to be constructed using finalist for: Innovation, Best Public Building 391 apartments in the third and final Cross Laminated Timber, highlighting the and Best New Sustainable Development.  Library at The Dock, Melbourne Jem, Singapore stage of Darling Square sold at the innovative partnership between the launch in Sydney. United States Army, Lendlease and IHG Army Hotels. Establishment of a $400 million managed investment vehicle, Lendlease Public Lendlease’s Engineering business was Infrastructure Investment Company, to selected by the South Australian invest in three equity positions in social Government as the preferred contractor infrastructure Public Private Partnership to design and construct the Northern assets: Sunshine Coast University Connector road project. This new six lane Sunshine Coast University Hospital, Kawana Hospital, New Bendigo Hospital 15.5 kilometre road links the Northern For the third consecutive year there were no corporate Island Palms Community, Hawaii Melbourne and International Convention Expressway with the South Road Centre, Sydney (ICC Sydney). Superway and Port River Expressway. reportable work related fatalities on Lendlease controlled operations. This significant milestone was supported by a Lendlease selected as the preferred 37 per cent reduction in the critical incident frequency design and construction contractor for Brisbane City Council’s $650 million rate against the prior financial year. Kingsford Smith Drive upgrade. 56 Leonard Street, New York 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 15 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Chairman’s Report For personal use only Lendlease delivered a solid financial result for the 2016 financial year with $698.2 million in Profit after Tax and a Distribution per Security of 60.0 cents. Our strong development pipeline, accelerating construction backlog and growing funds management platform positions the Group well to deliver solid returns for securityholders. Inaugural Integrated Report and undrawn capacity of $2,172.6 million. This approach also empowers people to Our People key ingredient in becoming a more believes the Lendlease Board has the right The resilience of the Lendlease balance identify and manage health and safety attractive and inclusive place to work. composition of individuals that bring a mix We are pleased to present our inaugural sheet, including high levels of liquidity, risks, promotes moving beyond People are our greatest asset at of expertise, skills, experience and integrated Annual Report. This report is Lendlease, underpinning our ability to Inclusive leadership encourages our combined with access to third party minimum statutory and organisational leaders to eliminate potential biases, and diversity to contribute to the oversight and a consolidation of the Annual Report, capital, provides the financial flexibility to requirements and leads to continual achieve our vision and deliver on our effective corporate governance at Directors' Report & Financial Statements strategy. Investing in our people through is aimed at ensuring everyone’s voice is fund our development pipeline and improvement. Our aim continues to be heard and valued in order to make the Lendlease. This Committee ensures that a and the Securityholder Review. This capitalise on potential growth that we operate incident and injury free. learning and development opportunities, comprehensive succession plan is in place. integrated report provides a simple and promoting wellbeing and diversity and best decisions. All of our senior leaders opportunities. have undertaken training on the impact of clear way for us to share the value inclusion is critical for our people to reach Sustainability conscious and unconscious bias. Outlook creation story of Lendlease. their potential. Safety Sustainability is central to Lendlease’s This year we introduced two new talent Lendlease is well placed to maintain its Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy Financial Strength For the third consecutive year there were business strategy. Environmental, social focuses on: flexible work, inclusive programs. First, the Distinguished leadership position in the sectors in which no corporate reportable work related and economic factors are integral to Executives Program to recognise and it operates. Both our Development and Lendlease delivered a solid performance leadership and gender equity. fatalities on Lendlease controlled creating and sustaining value and to reward significant contribution to our Construction pipelines continue to grow, for the financial year ended 30 June 2016, operations. This significant milestone was manage risk. In relation to gender equity, Lendlease is and combined with the Investments business. Second, the Project Director with Profit after Tax of $698.2 million, up supported by a 37 per cent reduction in committed to a level playing field, giving platform provide strong earnings Around the world governments and Program that aims to further build and from $618.6 million in the financial year the critical incident1 frequency rate men and women the same chance to visibility. communities are seeking trusted partners differentiate the Project Director ended 30 June 2015. The Development against the prior financial year. succeed. This means addressing any who can enhance urban areas with capability. These sit alongside our suite of My thanks to my fellow Board members, segment was the clear standout with imbalances in benefits and remuneration. We are committed to constantly efficient, healthy and resilient outcomes. leadership development programs and as well as our Lendlease leadership team residential and commercial development challenging our health and safety We deliver green certified products to For the year ended 30 June 2016, support our growing strategic focus on and all employees, whose commitment performing strongly. performance so that it aligns with the meet customer and investor needs today, 31 per cent of our employees are urban regeneration. and dedication have ensured we deliver Securityholders will receive a final Lendlease strategy and remains effective as well as the future needs of the women, up from 29 per cent in the on our vision and continue to improve distribution of 30.0 cents per security, across the sectors and markets in which communities we serve. preceding year; and 19 per cent of Our Board returns for our securityholders. taking the full year distribution to we operate. Senior Executive positions are held by 60.0 cents per security. The payout ratio This is evidenced by our commitment to This year we welcomed David Craig to women, up from 17 per cent in the for the year was 50 per cent, within the Our enhanced Global Minimum achieving or targeting green certification the Board in March 2016. We also made preceding year. Currently, we have two Board’s target range of 40 to 60 per cent Requirements Framework sets for our total development pipeline. changes to the composition of the Risk female Board members while female of earnings. parameters on the control of key health Management and Audit Committee via direct reports to the Group CEO have and safety risk events faced by our the addition of David Craig, Nicola Lendlease enters FY17 in a very strong risen from two to three. business and has placed a focus on front Wakefield Evans and Steve Dobbs. financial position. As at 30 June 2016, we end planning so that safety begins well During FY16 a significant number of had cash and cash equivalents of The Board Nomination Committee met David Crawford AO before a project commences, irrespective Lendlease people embraced some form $1,008.4 million, gearing of 6.5 per cent eight times this year. This Committee Chairman of the working environment. of flexible work arrangement. This is a 1. A critical incident is an event that had the potential to have caused death or permanent disability. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 17 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Chief Executive Officer’s Report For personal use only Lendlease’s vision is to create the best places. We celebrated a number of major milestones this year with the partial completion of several large urban regeneration projects. We grew our global pipeline of development projects and recorded strong growth in both funds under management and construction backlog. Our focus remains on successfully delivering our substantial pipeline of projects, continuing to secure new work and investment mandates and generating solid earnings growth in the short and long term. Our Strategy aligns our external reporting with our The Group finished the year in a strong We will continue to look for ways to support Our People Outlook internal management reporting and the financial position with low gearing and the health and wellbeing of our people. In Since 2009, Lendlease has delivered on its At Lendlease we believe high performing The current international geopolitical manner in which we communicate our ample liquidity. 2015, we undertook our second strategy to become a leading international employees drive business success. We and economic outlook are somewhat business to the market. comprehensive Work Health Insights property and infrastructure group in the support our people through ongoing uncertain, contributing to volatility in The Development segment delivered a very Our Competitive Advantage assessment1 which evaluated the health and financial markets. Lendlease will core markets in which we operate. wellbeing of our people. This demonstrated engagement, by providing learning and Lendlease’s strategy has evolved to take strong result in FY16 across the residential Lendlease distinguishes itself from its peers development opportunities for future continue to monitor lead indicators and and commercial sectors. Our residential significant improvements against all key advantage of our strong position and a through our integrated model, financial career progression and recognising and take a disciplined approach to the business settled 4,790 land lots, up areas since the initial 2013 survey. changing global market. Our strategic strength and strong track record. rewarding exceptional achievements. management of risks that may emerge. framework, called ‘Focus & Grow’, follows 7 per cent, including the completion of Lendlease has the capability and scale to buildings that form part of our urban Sustainability Every two years, Lendlease conducts an Despite these conditions, Lendlease is well on from our ‘Restore, Build, Lead’ strategy, deliver large, long term and complex positioned to deliver on our development regeneration projects at Barangaroo South employee engagement survey, with a which was in place from 2009 until 2014. projects that leverage our integrated In the past year, the Global Real Estate pipeline and construction backlog and to in Sydney, Victoria Harbour in Melbourne, progress survey conducted by Willis model, where more than one of our Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) grow funds under management, positioning A significant proportion of our Brisbane Showgrounds in Brisbane, and at Towers Watson across a sample of businesses work across a single project. recognised the Lendlease managed the Group for continued success. development pipeline is transitioning from the Elephant & Castle regeneration project employees in alternate years. The results of Lendlease has the financial capacity to Australian Prime Property Fund planning into production and delivery. Our in London. these surveys inform and guide our action Lendlease has a diversified earnings base deliver through certainty of funding, the Commercial as the world's most investment in delivering this pipeline has plans for all businesses and regions. by both segment and geography. While In commercial development, construction strength of our balance sheet and access to sustainable real estate fund, outperforming increased from $2.3 billion to $3.7 billion Australia will continue to account for the reached its highest point at the 50th floor 707 companies and funds for our second Lendlease has continued to adopt a over the last five years and will require an investment management partners. We also majority of earnings in the near term, a of the third and final commercial building at year running. A number of our other funds sustainable engagement metric.2 This year ongoing focus on operational excellence, have a strong track record of high quality greater proportion of earnings is likely to be Barangaroo South. The commercial won their respective sector or regional we achieved an 84 per cent sustainable while maintaining an efficient approach to design, with sustainable outcomes and a driven from off shore operations in the building at Darling Square in Sydney was awards. engagement score, reinforcing that our capital management. leading approach to safety. coming years. This is reflected in the sold to capital partners and fully leased to a people are proud to work at Lendlease and We have secured major urban regeneration Proudly, Lendlease was also awarded growth of our international pipeline and our major tenant, while the first two believe strongly in our values. This is one Strong Financials sites across our four main geographies in 6 Star Green Star Community ratings for per cent below the Global High Performing refined development strategy targeting commercial buildings at the International our Barangaroo South and Darling Square The Group expanded its development Australia, Asia, Europe and the Americas. Companies benchmark.3 gateway cities. Quarter London were also sold. projects, which represent world’s best pipeline to $48.8 billion, increased More than two thirds of our development Our strong balance sheet and access to Our Construction segment continues to practice for inner urban sustainable This year we made some changes to our construction backlog revenue to pipeline consists of major urban third party capital provides the flexibility to expand its pipeline with significant new development. Global Leadership Team. Tarun Gupta was $20.7 billion and grew funds under regeneration projects. pursue future growth opportunities. projects including the $2.6 billion joint appointed Group Chief Financial Officer, management to $23.6 billion. We are focused on our twelve material venture ‘NorthConnex’ twin tunnel replacing Tony Lombardo who was Health & Safety environmental, social and governance appointed CEO, Asia. We also welcomed Lendlease generated strong financial motorway project in north western Sydney, elements of the Lendlease Sustainability returns in FY16. Earnings per security grew which is being undertaken by our The health and safety of our people Kylie Rampa as CEO of our Property, Framework, and have made good progress by 12 per cent and we delivered a return on Engineering business. continues to be our number one priority. Australia business replacing Tarun. These on our 20 per cent reduction targets for equity of 13.0 per cent, within the target We recently evolved our approach to appointments are evidence of our Across our Investments segment, our energy, water and waste by 2020. range of 11 to 15 per cent. health and safety towards raising exceptional leadership talent which allows Retirement Living and Military Housing We remain committed to the United us to promote from within. awareness and encouraging people to take From FY16, Lendlease will report businesses continued to provide reliable Nations Global Compact, aligning and Steve McCann a proactive approach by using informed performance via three operating recurring earnings. Our funds under focusing our approach on human rights, judgement and sound risk management. Group Chief Executive Officer segments: Development, Construction management grew by 11 per cent to labour, the environment and antiand Investments. This adjustment now $23.6 billion. and Managing Director corruption. 1. Work Health Insights Global Management Report 2015 in partnership with Bupa. 2. Sustainable engagement extends the engagement concept by adding how the working environment supports productivity through employees' ability to maintain personal wellbeing. 3. Global High Performing Companies as defined by Willis Towers Watson. For personal use only International Convention Centre Sydney, Darling Harbour 02 Our Strategy 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 21 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Competitive Advantage For personal use only Lendlease distinguishes itself from its peers through our integrated model, financial strength and strong track record. Lendlease has the capability and scale to deliver large, long term complex projects that leverage more than one of our segments on a single project (integrated model). This is combined with our financial capacity to deliver through balance sheet strength and access to third party capital as well as a strong track record of quality design, sustainable outcomes and a leading approach to safety. Our Integrated Model in Action Case Study Key Projects Barangaroo South, Sydney Our Approach Key Outcomes Commercial development Lendlease and our third party Business Model margin, development capital partners committed to management fees, residential launch the first three major development profits, project office buildings at Barangaroo. management and construction Development management fees and fund fees and co-investment income. In 2009, selected as the preferred developer to build a mixed use precinct. International Quarter The Wharves Deptford, Brisbane Showgrounds, Victoria Harbour, Created the Barangaroo Safety London, London London Brisbane Melbourne Leaders Program to train front 150 front line supervisors line supervisors on trained and 18,000 safety management and leadership observations. skills that are vital to safety performance improvement. Construction In line with our integrated model, Lendlease was appointed as contractor to build the precinct. Lendlease received Engaged key tenants To date, approximately pre-commitments from anchor early to understand the $4 billion of construction work tenants on approximately changing needs of secured and approximately 146,000 square metres of Australian workplaces. $1.3 billion to complete. commercial space prior to construction. Riverline, Chicago Trafalgar Place, London Darling Square, Sydney Melbourne Quarter, Melbourne Site workers were upskilled with 37,0001 learning Introduced the Barangaroo outcomes achieved; Skills Exchange in partnership approximately 18,0002 of with TAFE New South Wales. Investments these were accredited learning outcomes. Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust (LLOneITST) and Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Targeted to become Australia’s Our leadership in Trust (LLITST) raised first carbon neutral precinct, sustainability provided approximately $4 billion of enhancing our reputation as a competitive differentiation equity for the development and global leader in sustainability for our bid. ongoing ownership of the and helping to attract our initial commercial buildings at tenants. Tun Razak Exchange, Paya Lebar Quarter, Barangaroo South, Sydney Waterbank, Perth Barangaroo. Kuala Lumpur Singapore 1. The number of learning programs (courses) provided to participants, both accredited and non accredited. 2. Structured, competency-based, courses delivered by specialist skilled teachers and industry trainers for which there is a certificate, or nationally recognised accreditation to confirm that a student/trainee has achieved training outcomes, in accordance with the Australian Qualifications Framework. 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 23 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Global Trends Influencing Our Strategy For personal use only GLOBAL TREND THE OPPORTUNITY WHERE WE ARE TODAY VALUE PILLARS URBANISATION Grow our globally recognised In FY16 our urbanisation pipeline grew urban regeneration business in 14 per cent to $37.3 billion. Urbanisation creates increasing pressure to plan for, and gateway cities. accommodate, a more dense population. By 2030, over 60 per cent of the world’s population will live in urban areas.1 INFRASTRUCTURE Work with governments to meet We have a strong domestic capability in urban the growing needs of cities and infrastructure solutions with $3.9 billion of Urbanisation and population growth are driving the need for regional areas. engineering backlog. Public Private Partnerships improved productivity, creating strong demand for infrastructure are initiated through the Capella business. at both the social and economic levels. Worldwide, infrastructure spending will grow from USD$4 trillion per year in 2012 to more than USD$9 trillion per year by 2025.2 AGEING POPULATION Expand our leading position We have the leading retirement living business in in the Australian retirement Australia with approximately 16,000 residents and The ageing population requires different housing solutions and living sector and grow offshore 13,384 retirement units. greater healthcare support services in all of our major markets. in measured steps by providing Internationally, people aged 60+ will grow the most in number innovative products and between 2015 and 2050.3 living solutions. FUNDS GROWTH Grow funds under management We have established investment platforms in Asia, globally to provide our investors Australia and the United Kingdom with $23.6 billion Continuing growth in funds under management, consolidation with increasing options for in funds under management (FUM). Our FUM has of large pension funds and emergence of sovereign wealth investment. grown at an average of 18 per cent per annum over funds as dominant investors. Global assets under management the past five years.5 are forecast to rise to USD$102 trillion by 2020, up from USD$64 trillion in 2012.4 SUSTAINABILITY Globally, governments and In FY16 98 per cent of our total development pipeline, communities are seeking trusted with an end value of approximately $48.8 billion, Sustainability remains an imperative for many governments, partners who can enhance urban achieved or was targeting green certification. investors and consumers who demand defined standards to areas with efficient, healthy and During the year our Australian Prime Property Fund improve environmental and social outcomes. Governments, resilient outcomes. Commercial ranked first of 707 participants in the investors, tenants and other end-users demand more sustainable, Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, with a productive and energy efficient buildings because of the direct number of our other funds also receiving awards in economic and social benefits they deliver. their respective categories or regions. TECHNOLOGY Potential for new revenue streams We are working to embed innovative technology and more efficient outcomes. solutions across our business. Innovation is a key Technology is rapidly changing the operating environment of part of the Focus & Grow strategic framework. business and will impact property and infrastructure, ownership, utilisation and services. For example, our DesignMake manufacturing business is creating cost effective and sustainable forms of construction for our Australian business. 1. ‘World Urbanization Prospects: The 2014 Revision’ – File 21: Annual percentage of population at mid-year residing in urban areas by major area, region and 3. ‘World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision’, United Nations, 2015, pages 1 and 27 (See tables on both pages to imply number of people 60+ in 2015 vs 2050). country, 1950-2050 (see row 18). 4. PwC Report, ‘Asset Management 2020: A Brave New World’, page 8. 2. PwC report, ‘Capital project and infrastructure spending outlook to 2025’, released 2015, page 2. 5. Compound annual growth rate from FY12 to FY16. 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 25 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Strategy For personal use only Since 2009, Lendlease has delivered on its strategy to become a leading international property and infrastructure group in the core markets in which we operate. To take advantage of our strong position and a changing global market, Lendlease’s strategy has evolved. Our strategic framework, called ‘Focus & Grow', initiated in 2015, follows on from our ‘Restore, Build, Lead’ strategy, which was in place from 2009 until 2014. 01 02 03 To achieve our vision, we define OUR VISION: our strategic direction: to be a To create the best places leading international property and infrastructure company. The pillars of value drive our approach to business. (see pages 28 to 43) 04 Our strategic framework of 'Focus & Grow' defines our priorities. 05 Our business model is how we generate earnings. The model is integrated when more than one segment is engaged on a single project. FOCUS We focus on delivering optimal performance safely at our target margins. We achieve this by DEVELOPMENT The Development segment operates in all four geographic regions. It is involved in the development of communities, inner city mixed use developments, apartments, retirement, retail, Core Financial Returns: • Development margins • Development management fees received from external co-investors • Origination fees for facilitation of commercial assets and social and economic infrastructure. investing in our people, maximising opportunities around our integrated model and by practising infrastructure PPP transactions strong risk management. (For more information on risk management see pages 46 to 49). What we have today: billion billion $48.8 $20.7 $23.6 billion development pipeline construction backlog funds under management CONSTRUCTION Core Financial Returns: • Project management and The Construction segment operates across all four geographic construction management fees regions, to provide a project management, design, and construction • Construction margin GROW service, predominantly in the infrastructure, defence, mixed-use, commercial, and residential sectors. We target disciplined growth in sectors aligned with the six global trends, where we already have deep skills as a developer, contractor and investment manager. The opportunity lies INVESTMENTS Core Financial Returns: • Fund and property management fees in either taking these skills into new markets or bringing them together to create innovative Lendlease owns and/or manages investments across all four • Investment yields and capital growth solutions that are agile and that respond to the changing market place. geographic regions. The Investments segment includes a leading on co-investments including returns wholesale investment management platform and also includes the from the Group's retirement portfolio Group’s ownership interests in property and infrastructure and US Military Housing business Our target growth areas: co-investments, Retirement Living and US Military Housing. Urban Regeneration Infrastructure Telecommunications Healthcare Senior Living For personal use only Time Warner Centre, New York Pillars of Value 03 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 29 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements The Pillars of Value How the Pillars Drive Value For personal use only These pillars, supported by disciplined governance and risk management, drive our approach to business and contribute to our performance. Innovation is embedded in our approach to business through each of these pillars. How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar Pillar Reference We deliver returns to our Margins, fees and ownership Pages 30 to 31 securityholders and adopt a returns across Development, Financial prudent approach to capital Construction and Investments. Financial management with a view to We target a capital efficient maintaining a strong balance approach when we develop and sheet position throughout invest. market cycles. We are committed to the safety Every person who engages with Pages 32 to 33 of our people. Through our Lendlease has the right to be Global Minimum Requirements safe and well. Operating safely (GMRs) we operate to a ensures people feel valued and Health & Safety Health & Safety consistent standard across all cared for, but fundamentally Every person who engages of our operations. These GMRs makes us more consistent, more with Lendlease has the right to extend not only to physical safety reliable and more efficient in be safe and well. This means but also to people's health and everything we do. we focus on the mental health wellbeing. and physical wellbeing of all people on our projects and within our offices. Financial A strong balance sheet and access Our customers are a key Satisfied customers build Pages 34 to 35 to capital enables Lendlease to contributor to the long term our reputation for new work continue to expand its pipeline and success and growth of Lendlease. and repeat business enabling deliver quality earnings. We are currently creating a us to grow our pipeline of customer framework to enable a opportunities and to maintain Our Customers consistent customer experience occupancy across our assets. Governance Our Customers to be delivered across all of Non Financial Our disciplined approach to governance Satisfied customers drive our operations, leveraging the long term value. We adopt aligns decision-making to strategy. This significant amount of work a collaborative approach to includes strong risk management to undertaken at a regional and managing our relationships, proactively manage and address risks. delivering high quality business unit level. service and responding to our customers’ needs. Lendlease attracts, nurtures Engaged, capable and motivated Pages 36 to 39 and retains the best people by people are more productive and building a culture of collaboration more committed to the long term Sustainability Our People and continuous learning, where success of our business. Sustainability is about successes are recognised and creating places for people people are rewarded. and meeting their needs for the future. Globally, governments and Our People communities are seeking Lendlease’s people are the greatest contributors to our success and Environmental, social and Recognised leadership in Pages 40 to 43 trusted partners who can enhance urban areas with underpin our ability to deliver our economic outcomes are sustainability enhances our brand efficient, healthy and vision to create the best places. delivered through our portfolio of and is a competitive differentiator. resilient outcomes. international urban development, Being sustainable means we win Sustainability construction and investment work and we attract capital from activities and projects. investors with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) mandates. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 31 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Financial For personal use only A strong balance sheet and access to capital enables Lendlease to continue to expand its pipeline and deliver quality earnings. Pillar Summary Pillar Overview Our Approach to Financial Performance How We Measure Financial Performance How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar How We Measure Value Lendlease has leading businesses across Development, When measuring financial perfomance we focus on return on We deliver returns to our securityholders Margins, fees and ownership returns Return on Equity: The annual Profit after Construction and Investments, supported by a disciplined equity and earnings per security to measure the returns we and adopt a prudent approach to capital across Development, Construction and Tax divided by the arithmetic average governance framework. Through these businesses Lendlease achieve for our securityholders. management with a view to maintaining Investments. of beginning, half year and year end generates earnings for our securityholders. Each of these a strong balance sheet position We target a capital efficient approach securityholder equity. businesses originates and delivers value in its own right for Return on Equity throughout market cycles. when we develop and invest. Earnings per Security: Profit after Tax our customers. When combined on large scale, long term Capital is deployed across Lendlease by adopting a disciplined divided by the weighted average number integrated projects, value can be enhanced for our approach to portfolio allocation. Portfolio parameters guide the of securities on issue during the year. securityholders, delivery partners and the community. This location, quantum and timing of capital deployment. By optimising value can be delivered in the form of superior environmental the mix of our capital we target a Return on Equity of 11 to 15 outcomes and the creation of better public places through per cent. In FY16 the Group's return on equity was 13.0 per cent consistency of design excellence and integrated transport for the year. outcomes over large areas of urban regeneration. Earnings per Security Financial Strategy Lendlease creates value for our securityholders through long term A clear financial strategy sits at the core of our business. This sustainable growth in earnings per security. A portion of earnings Riverline, Chicago – Artist impression as at 2016 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) financial strategy links to our strategic framework of ‘Focus & is returned to securityholders via distributions (approximately Grow’, and governs decisions about how to allocate financial 40 to 60 per cent of net Profit after Tax), with the remaining capital to support the strategic goals of Lendlease. Key inputs earnings reinvested into future growth opportunities within the to this financial strategy include: business. In FY16 the Group's earnings per security was • Decisions related to balancing the use of capital; 120.1 cents, up 12 per cent on the prior year. The Group will distribute 60.0 cents per security, consistent with its target • Portfolio allocation to support targeted growth; 40 to 60 per cent payout ratio. • Our investment grade credit rating; and • Our distribution policy. Detailed Performance For more detailed information on FY16 performance refer to the Performance & Outlook section on pages 52 to 65 and the Financial Statements on pages 120 to 179. Key Performance Highlights Return on Equity Earnings per Security 120.1 12.4% 13.0% 106.8 cents cents FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 33 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Health & Safety For personal use only Every person who engages with Lendlease has the right to be safe and well. This means we focus on the mental health and physical wellbeing of all people on our projects and within our offices. Pillar Summary Pillar Overview Our Approach to Health and Safety learning related to the new GMRs. Mobility applications will be used How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by The Pillar How We Measure Value to support access to information and reporting of incidents, via We aim to eliminate incidents and injuries across all of our mobile devices. Disruptive technology is also rapidly changing our We are committed to the safety of our Every person who engages with Lendlease Percentage of projects with no critical operations. Our focus on Health & Safety is underpinned by a operating environment so we will continue exploring and using people. Through our Global Minimum has the right to be safe and well. Operating incidents: genuine care for our people, which results in them feeling more innovative safety technology to proactively identify and manage Requirements (GMRs) we operate to safely ensures people feel valued and A critical incident is an event that had the empowered and better equipped to effectively manage safety issues to ensure positive environment, health and safety a consistent standard across all of our cared for, but fundamentally makes us potential to cause death or permanent Lendlease’s critical health and safety risks. (EH&S) outcomes in everything that we do. operations. These GMRs extend not only more consistent, more reliable and more disability. This is an indicator unique to to physical safety but also to people's efficient in everything we do. Lendlease. Global Minimum Requirements Health and Wellbeing health and wellbeing. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: An indicator and industry standard Lendlease’s Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs) set the measuring a workplace injury which benchmark for risk management with key focus areas including: prevents a worker from returning to • Identifying and managing risk to people at the earliest possible duties the next day. phase of the operational lifecycle; • Clarity on Lendlease’s exposure to critical risk events across its SUPPORTING HEALTHIER MINDS DEVELOPING HEALTHIER BODIES BUILDING HEALTHIER PLACES CREATING HEALTHIER CULTURES operations and the preventative controls required; and Our health and wellbeing approach assists the organisation to • Expanding health and safety risk management to be inclusive of support peoples’ physical and mental wellbeing through a focus working conditions, fatigue and impacts to physical and mental on four key areas: healthier minds, bodies, places and cultures. health and wellbeing. We are proud to report that during the year, there were no During the year we continued to identify ways to support our corporate reportable work related fatalities across any Lendlease people, undertaking our second comprehensive Work Health operations. This is the third consecutive year where this Insights assessment to evaluate the health and wellbeing of our significant milestone has been achieved. We also achieved a people. This demonstrated significant improvements against all reduction of 37 per cent to the critical incident frequency rate key areas since the internal 2013 survey. Initiatives to date against the prior financial year. This positive outcome can be include wellbeing leave, preventative medical check-ups and a attributed to a range of actions throughout the year including suite of health programs designed to raise awareness and visible leadership through engagement with our operations teams, promote healthy, more active lifestyles. improved application of line of sight supervision and improved For our customers, we are focused on harnessing the built supervisor to worker ratios. We also maintained a strong focus on environment to support human health and wellbeing. key risk event types such as, the fall of materials and people and plant interactions. We believe by raising awareness and encouraging people to take a proactive approach to health and wellbeing, the places We increased our focus on providing support to frontline workers we create will be more productive and will improve the lives of through the release of a new GMRs passport to provide online people and communities. Key Performance Highlights Group Lost Time Injury Group Fatalities Trending Frequency Rate FY07 – FY16 86% 83% FY16 2.2 10 FY15 1.8 9 8 Number of Fatalities 7 Percentage of 6 operations 5 without a 4 critical incident. 3 2 1 0 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 35 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Customers For personal use only Satisfied customers drive long term value. We adopt a collaborative approach to managing our relationships, delivering high quality service and responding to our customers’ needs. Pillar Summary Pillar Overview How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar How We Measure Value Our Approach to Our Customers Value of Our Customers Lendlease is an international business with a broad and We work closely with governments at all levels across our Our customers are a key contributor to the Satisfied customers build our reputation We measure customer satisfaction at diversified customer base. We are committed to international business, which provide us long term property and long term success and growth of Lendlease. for new work and repeat business the regional and business unit level. understanding our customers' needs through ongoing infrastructure projects. We are currently creating a customer enabling us to grow our pipeline of A project is underway to establish engagement and collaboration. When we understand our framework to enable a consistent customer opportunities and to maintain occupancy consistent metrics to measure customer With approximately 150 global institutional partners we are customers we can deliver high quality outcomes that meet able to raise the capital we need to continue to grow our experience to be delivered across all of across our assets. satisfaction across all of our businesses their needs, creating a strong value proposition for our pipeline. In FY16 we raised new equity of $1.3 billion through our operations, leveraging the significant internationally. securityholders. our Investments business. amount of work undertaken at a regional and business unit level. When we engage commercial tenants early in the construction Customer Snapshot1 phase we can create solutions to meet their needs enabling us Our current customer base includes governments, large to secure anchor tenants. This de-risks our projects for our institutional investors, building tenants, residents in our capital partners. Across Barangaroo we pre-leased communities and retirement villages and visitors to our assets. approximately 146,000 square metres of commercial space to Our strong customer base delivers value for our business and anchor tenants such as KPMG, PwC and Westpac prior to International Towers Sydney, Barangaroo ultimately for our securityholders. practical completion. By understanding our customers’ needs we have developed residential solutions for approximately 384,000 residents across 250 125,000 MILITARY HOUSING FOR APPROXIMATELY our current apartments and communities portfolio and pipeline. MILLION “To succeed in a world that’s changing faster than ever, today’s International Towers Sydney, Barangaroo In FY16 our strong apartment presales result was evidence of businesses need offices that support collaborative, flexible and our continued focus on residential customers. Part of our strategy to deliver Barangaroo was to engage key mobile working. A state of the art development like Barangaroo Our international retail assets continue to enjoy high levels of foot tenants early in the planning and construction phase. Some of traffic, with more 250 million visitors in FY16. Our ability to create is the perfect platform for our workforce of the future.” these tenants included KPMG, PwC and Westpac. RETAIL VISITORS attractive retail destinations provides a strong value proposition ANNUALLY RESIDENTS IN THE US2 for our retail tenants and investors in our retail funds. Luke Sayers, Chief Executive Officer, PwC Australia PwC Case Study APPROXIMATELY Moving Toward a Standard International Framework 150 384,000 The Brief: We have always recognised that customers drive value for our In 2009 Lendlease and PwC began collaborating on PwC’s new business. For this reason we have maintained a strong tenancy at Barangaroo. PwC had a clear vision that it wanted a international focus on customer engagement which has been dynamic work space for its people to enable even greater managed at the regional and business unit level. collaboration between teams and to create a better experience GLOBAL RESIDENTS ACROSS APARTMENTS INSTITUTIONAL AND COMMUNITIES3 As our business continues to grow we are developing a for its clients. This vision required a building that offered larger PARTNERS2 consistent customer experience framework across all of our floorplates and that could support the higher density floors operations to allow us to maintain high levels of customer required for agile work environments through innovative APPROXIMATELY engagement and satisfaction. 16,000 building and technology solutions. Our Solution: At International Towers Sydney, the three commercial buildings at Barangaroo South, we delivered workplaces with the capability, RETIREMENT LIVING RESIDENTS2 efficiency and technology required to enable PwC to achieve its vision. Through early engagement and benchmarking against the best offices around the world, we designed three office buildings with large flexible floor plates for greater collaboration and tailored mechanical services and energy efficiency solutions for the higher density of agile workspace. PwC will relocate its 2,800 Sydney based workforce to Tower One in early 2017, joining other 1. Internal data capture, not audited. forward thinking businesses who have taken the opportunity to 2. As at 30 June 2016. move to the more collaborative and efficient office space. 3. An estimate of our current and future residents based on our current portfolio and pipeline. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 37 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our People For personal use only Lendlease’s people are the greatest contributors to our success and underpin our ability to deliver our vision to create the best places. Pillar Summary Pillar Overview Our Approach to People Reward & Recognition How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar How We Measure Value At Lendlease we believe high performing employees drive business We benchmark our remuneration to provide competitive total growth. We support our people through ongoing engagement by performance rewards. We also recognise our people who demonstrate Lendlease attracts, nurtures and retains Engaged, capable and motivated people Employee engagement score: providing learning and development opportunities for future career our values and principles in exceptional ways, through our annual the best people by building a culture of are more productive and more committed Demonstrates overall employee progression and by recognising and rewarding exceptional Employee Excellence Awards and our internal recognition programs. collaboration and continuous learning, to the long term success of our business. satisfaction across our business. Full where successes are recognised and employee engagement surveys are achievements. Diversity & Inclusion people are rewarded. conducted every two years. Employee Engagement Diversity and inclusion is at its best when people encourage Percentage of women in senior difference, but work together. We embrace this by sourcing talent executive positions: Demonstrates our Every two years, Lendlease conducts an employee engagement survey, with a progress survey conducted by Willis Towers Watson from diverse backgrounds, skills and experiences which creates ongoing commitment to increasing female across a sample of employees in alternate years. The results of these diversity of thought and innovative solutions for our customers. representation across our business. surveys inform and guide our action plans for all businesses and Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy focuses on: flexible work, inclusive regions. In the 2016 progress survey we achieved an 84 per cent leadership and gender equity. sustainable engagement score,1 broadly in line with global high We encourage flexible working at Lendlease. It’s a key enabler for performing companies.1 diverse talent and provides an attractive and inclusive place to work. As part of our commitment to inclusive leadership, all senior Understanding our Workforce leaders have undertaken training on the impact of conscious and Lendlease reviews its workforce as part of the strategic business unconscious bias. planning and review process. Capability investment decisions and In relation to gender equity, Lendlease is committed to a level playing workforce projections are embedded into the planning process to field, giving men and women the same chance to succeed. It means provide a continuous view of our talent requirements internationally. we address any potential imbalances in benefits available to men and This year, we introduced two new programs: the Distinguished women. For the year ended 30 June 2016: Executives Program to recognise and reward significant contribution • Two out of our nine Non-Executive Directors are female; to our business, and the Project Director Program to further build our • At a senior management level, three direct reports out of nine in total Project Director capabilities. report to the Group CEO and Managing Director are female; and We recognise that the availability of professional development • 31 per cent of our employees are women, up from 29 per cent the opportunities significantly enhances employee engagement and preceding year. retention, and provides appropriate talent pools for management For the fifth year running, we have been recognised as a top employer and executive management succcession planning. in the Australian Workplace Equality Index for Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, We have progressed a number of initiatives to grow our pipeline of Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion, the only property and successors into key roles and have increased the number of females construction organisation in the top 20. in our succession pool. Key Performance Highlights Senior Executive positions held by women.3 85% FY15 84% FY16 19% Employee 17% engagement score. 2 FY15 FY16 1. Global high performing companies as defined by Willis Towers Watson. 2. In 2016 a employee engagement progress survey was completed. Full surveys are conducted every two years. 3. Employees who hold a position at Executive level according to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. This generally includes Regional Business Unit Heads, Regional Function Heads and in some cases, direct reports to Global Function Heads. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 39 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Reconciliation Action Plan For personal use only Our vision for reconciliation drives all of our employees to acknowledge and celebrate the proud heritage of Australia’s First Peoples and promotes opportunities for career development, sustainable business growth and economic participation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. Australia is home to the oldest continuing cultures in the world; rich Our Goals 2016 to 2018 Our National Partnerships Partnership Highlights Indigenous cultures that are more than 50,000 years old. This is something to be proud of and to celebrate. At Lendlease, we Our new RAP will feature a clear set of goals which will apply to Our national partnerships are critical to the delivery of our RAP CareerTrackers celebrate this through our commitment to a Reconciliation Action our Australian businesses: goals.As a result of these partnerships, development of the Indigenous business sector in growing strongly and more young We have had 60 CareerTrackers interns working with Lendlease Plan (RAP). 1. All Lendlease employees in Australia will participate in cultural Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are finishing Year 12 businesses since 2011. In 2014 we signed a 10 year partnership Since 2011, when we first introduced our RAP, we have encouraged all awareness and engagement learning. with CareerTrackers, along with 10 other corporate organisations, and going to university than ever before. Through this of our employees to acknowledge and celebrate the proud heritage of 2. We will increase the number of Aboriginal and Torres Strait engagement our employees can feel a sense of pride for committing to the development of young Indigenous business Australia’s First Peoples and to promote opportunities for career Islander employees in our Australian business. what has been achieved. leaders in professional roles in corporate Australia. Lendlease development, sustainable business growth and the economic businesses will host a minimum of 25 interns each year. participation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians within 3. We will increase procurement from, and support the Our partners include: development of, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses • Reconciliation Australia our sector. Galuwa in Australia. Soon we will release our second RAP with Reconciliation Australia • Recognise We have supported and funded the Galuwa program at University entitled ‘Building Respect: Past, Present, Future’, expanding our Progress against the goals will be reported each year in • AIME of Technology Sydney since 2013, providing the opportunity for commitment to Indigenous participation. Our RAP acknowledges that Reconciliation Australia’s RAP Impact Measurement Survey and • Yalari 78 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students to visit live we must learn from our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander sisters the Business Council of Australia’s Indigenous Engagement Survey. • CareerTrackers construction and urban regeneration projects in Sydney and to and brothers and truly value the fundamental place their culture and learn about a career in civil engineering as well as about history have in building an equitable future for all Australians. • Supply Nation university life during their winter break. • NASCA • Bangarra AIME Nunukul Yuggera Aboriginal Dance Troupe – photo by Gilimbaa AIME is a dynamic educational program that is proven to support Indigenous students from high school through to further education and employment at the same rate as non-Indigenous students. Lendlease first partnered with AIME in 2011 and has renewed its commitment as a national partner in AIME’s goal to reach 10,000 students enrolled by 2018. Since 2012 over 60 of our employees have joined AIME mentors and mentees to work with Year 11 and 12 students on their career goals, job skills and exposure to different thinking through 'Windows to the Future' sessions. Yalari Since 2012 Lendlease has supported Yalari, an organisation providing quality, secondary education scholarships for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children from 185 regional, rural and remote communities at leading Australian schools. Through these scholarships Yalari has supported 137 students to graduate from Year 12. Further information is available at: www.lendlease.com/au/company/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/reconciliation-action-plan 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 41 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Sustainability Our Sustainability Framework In 2014 Lendlease developed a Sustainability For personal use only Sustainability is about creating places for people and meeting their needs for the future. Framework of twelve material elements to focus our efforts and measure our performance against. Globally, governments and communities are seeking trusted partners who can enhance urban To provide additional near term focus, we have established 2020 targets for energy, water and areas with efficient, healthy and resilient outcomes. waste. Further information is available at: www.lendlease.com/company/sustainability. Pillar Summary Pillar Overview Our Approach to Sustainability These outcomes provide brand and reputational benefits for our How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar How We Measure Value customers, investors and for Lendlease. Sustainability puts people at the heart of our vision to create the best places. We have a long and proud history of giving Through our leadership in green certified product we produce Environmental, social and economic Recognised leadership in sustainability Total development pipeline targeting more efficient assets and healthier places; places that are outcomes are delivered through enhances our brand and is a competitive green certification: Demonstrates our equal emphasis to environmental, social and economic increasingly more valued.2 These places are also in more demand our portfolio of international urban differentiator. Being sustainable means commitment to green building across our outcomes to deliver places that respond to the complex from capital partners with mandates for Environmental, Social and development, construction and we win work and we attract capital from total development pipeline.1 global forces shaping our future, including rapid urbanisation, Governance (ESG) investment as well as businesses seeking to investment activities and projects. investors with Environmental, Social and climate change, inequality and resource stress. provide healthier, more productive environments for their people. Governance (ESG) mandates. We are Creating Places Valued by Our In March 2016 approximately 68 per cent of the equity invested in our Investments business internationally was from investors with Customers and Investors public commitments to ESG and responsible investment practices. In a world of rapid urbanisation, where the built environment contributes approximately 30 per cent of the world’s greenhouse We are Engaging with Suppliers on gas emissions and consumes around one third of the world’s natural Responsible Sourcing resources, sustainable urban regeneration is the benchmark for the future of development. At Lendlease, we recognise that the benefits We understand that our environmental, social and governance West Grove, London Artist impression as at 2016 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) of sustainable development must extend beyond a reduction in the goals and targets extend beyond our direct business operations environmental footprint to deliver places that: to our supply chain. We work with suppliers on initiatives such as reducing the embodied carbon associated with concrete and • Are more operationally efficient, resulting in lower operating transport and waste reduction, as well as initiatives relating to costs through more efficient energy and water consumption labour practices and health and safety. and better strategies for dealing with waste; As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are • Focus on human health and wellness through aspects such as committed to continuous improvement in human rights, the better air quality and connection with nature in order to environment, anti-corruption and responsible labour practices. enhance productivity; and • Are designed and built to be more resilient to maintain value over the longer term. Key Performance Highlights Development Pipeline End Value 91% In FY16 six of our funds3 were ranked first in their FY15 categories in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark. This included the Australian Prime 98% Property Fund Commercial, which ranked first FY16 overall out of 707 participants. Total development pipeline achieved or targeting green Our 2020 targets (against FY14 baseline) certification.1 Listed on the RobecoSAM Dow Jones Sustainability Index (World) for the 14th year. A global investment classification for the top 10 per cent of sustainable companies in the Real Estate sector. Be powered by clean energy Eliminate waste Create more useable A 20 per cent reduction in the A 20 per cent reduction in water than we consume emissions intensity of our operations. waste to landfill. A 20 per cent reduction in 1. Value stated in FY15 Securityholder Review of 100 per cent included major urban development projects only. A 20 per cent reduction in the energy potable water intensity of 2. MSCI IPD Australian Property Investment Digest, quarter ending March 2016. intensity of our operations. our operations. 3. 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund ) Commercial – All global participants. 1st Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust – Global Development. 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund) Retail – Oceania Retail. 1st APPF (Australian Prime Property Fund) Industrial – Oceania Industrial. 1st Asian Retail Investment Fund 1 – Asian Retail. 1st Lendlease Retail LP – UK Retail. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 43 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Community Engagement For personal use only Lendlease Foundation Springboard Habitat for Humanity – Americas Be Onsite – Europe At Lendlease, community engagement is Each year over 300 employees from In our Americas business we support Be Onsite works with Lendlease to ensure central to informing what is valued by the around the world have the chance to Habitat for Humanity through a number of that regeneration does not simply change people in the places we create. It allows participate in this five day personal programs such as ‘Pink Squad – Women physical structures but delivers on the us to identify core needs for progressive development program that supports them Moving the World’, a program that opportunity to transform lives. The award community partnerships. to reach their full potential. Currently held supports women in vulnerable situations winning not for profit organisation in Tasmania, Australia, the program to build their own adequate housing and identifies jobs, provides tailored support, We are passionate about working with provides our people with focused help them realise their full potential. We industry led training and then, directly the communities we are part of from the activities and participation with local also participate in their annual Building employs local people in our supply chain. earliest possible opportunity, recognising community groups. Freedom Day, a day honouring the victims Over the eight years of their operation, Community Day our accountability for what we create and and heroes of September 11. Be Onsite has employed 511 people, an leave behind. We do this through Each year participants provide feedback average of one person per week. They Lendlease Foundation which was set up in post their experience which informs the Minami Sanriku – Asia come from the hardest to reach groups, 1983 to contribute to the wellbeing of program design for future years. including third generation unemployed employees and their families and to assist Lendlease Foundation in Japan has been In FY16, 92 per cent1 of delegates felt people. Ex offenders and offenders their involvement in charitable and supporting the community of Minami proud of the Springboard legacy and its currently serving sentences make up 25 community affairs. Sanriku, one of the most devastated long term benefit to the community and per cent of the participants. The re Two of Lendlease Foundation’s flagship 84 per cent1 believe they will be able to towns struck by the Great Eastern Japan offending rate of these participants is 4.5 programs are Community Day and apply what they learned at Springboard in Earthquake and Tsunami of March 11, 2011. per cent, compared to a 25.7 per cent Springboard. their professional life. Immediately after the quake and tsunami, overall proven re offending rate across our team in Japan was one of the first England and Wales.2 Springboard Community Day Starlight Foundation – Australia responders to the disaster site utilising its Since Be Onsite started work in 2008 it has Sendai office as a base for the Australian, employed a number of people including Lendlease Community Day, held We have a relationship spanning more New Zealand and Canadian governments' approximately 76 offenders and internationally each year, is an than 15 years with the Starlight emergency and consular aid program. The ex offenders, 52 people over 50, 9 people opportunity for our employees to work Foundation in Australia. In FY16 Lendlease Lendlease team worked with the with disabilities and 86 people over 25 who alongside their colleagues, community supported its fundraising efforts to help government officials to facilitate the have been unemployed for over six months.3 partners, family and suppliers on a project sick children through the construction of rescue and evacuation of Australian, New identified as important to the community. an attraction during the 2016 Vivid Working in partnership with Lendlease, Zealand and Canadian nationals from the In 2015 approximately 7,500 employees Festival, Sydney. contractors, local authorities, referral disaster area. The Lendlease team was participated in our 20th annual partners and local residents has helped The idea was to create a spectacular Light also responsible for restoring the mobile Community Day. Be Onsite to deliver marked transformation Rocket standing 15 metres which was to be phone network along the entire coast, a As a group we’re proud of the great work displayed during the Vivid Festival. Over 20 task it completed in six weeks together in the boroughs in which it operates. we have undertaken. We have helped of our suppliers joined us. Lendlease with the operator, Softbank. Habitat for Humanity Vivid Festival – Starlight Foundation support people struggling with provided project management, Today our team continues to support the homelessness, aided disaster recovery co-ordination of the design, prefabrication rebuilding of the region through regular efforts, renovated buildings for those in and facilitated pro bono supplier assistance volunteer trips to Minami Sanriku every need, restored important green spaces through the Lendlease supply chain. two to three months. The Lendlease and assisted children with special needs. Foundation led program includes interaction activities with local elderly. The team also participates in various volunteering programs, most recently the sustainable regeneration programs of local fishing and forestry industries – the town’s two major sources of income – that are Minami Sanriku currently suffering from lack of manpower. 1. Springboard Delegate Survey Report FY16 – 8 Programs, Impact International. Be Onsite 2. Overall re offending rate for the period October 2013 to September 2014 across England and Wales, UK Ministry of Justice. 3. Data provided by Be Onsite for the period February 2008 to 8 August 2016. For personal use only 313@somerset, Singapore 04 Risk 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 47 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Risk Governance and Management For personal use only Effective risk management anticipates and evaluates uncertainties that could impact Lendlease’s business today and tomorrow. By recognising and managing risk, we are able to make the most out of opportunities to create securityholder value and deliver on our commitments to our customers, our people, the environment and the community. Risk Governance Our Approach to Risk Management Lendlease is committed to excellence in corporate governance Lendlease recognises that risk taking is a necessary activity to to help deliver sustainable value to all stakeholders. Sound risk deliver securityholder returns and risk management is the management helps the business to anticipate and respond to process and capability to anticipate, understand and manage uncertainty, addressing risks and capitalising on opportunities uncertainty effectively. in order to achieve results. To achieve our strategic direction to A strong risk management framework supports our business to be the leading international property and infrastructure group, achieve excellence in corporate governance and to foster a it is crucial that we equip our people with the capabilities and culture that encourages transparency and robust dialogue. leadership skills to manage risk. Our approach to risk management applies the principles of good Accountability for risk governance and management is held at governance to the identification, assessment, management, and various levels across the business including the Board, Group communication of risk. Our approach is to: Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Global Leadership Team, and Regional Chief Executive Officers (CEOs). 1. I dentify and evaluate: The way we think about risk in the context of business decisions and designing risk response plans to manage, mitigate, transfer, or insure identified risks. 2. T  ake action, review, communicate: The way we design risk management processes to efficiently and effectively execute risk response plans. 3. P  lan and act: The way we integrate sustainable solutions throughout the organisation to prevent, balance, or limit risk. Our risk management approach is supported by: Structure Board Risk Management & Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management system and seeks assurances that Audit Committee material risks are identified and appropriate risk management processes are in place. Liaises with regional CEOs and risk specialists on both business-specific and enterprise-wide risks in Group Risk Function order to assist the Group’s businesses to further develop their risk management processes. Internal Audit Formal processes provide supplementary assurance to operational businesses. Policy and Procedure The Board has matters which are reserved for their determination under the Risk Appetite of Lendlease, and further, under the Limits of Authority. The Board Approval Process is set up so Board Approval Process decisions and commitments of a pre-determined magnitude require express Board approval, thereby supporting sound governance and continued alignment with strategy. Investment Committees are in place at Regional and Group levels in order to assess and approve the Investment Committees feasibility of potential projects. Limits of Authority are in place to outline matters that are specifically reserved for determination by the Board Limits of Authority and those matters that are delegated to Board Committees, Global Leadership Team or other management. Risk Tools Lendlease uses a proprietary risk management platform throughout all our regions to allow consistent Risk Management Platform Epping to Thornleigh Third Track Alliance, Sydney risk identification and assessment. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 49 DIRECTORS' REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Key Risks and Mitigation For personal use only Our risk approach is supported by our in-house research team, which provides an assessment of the macro trends impacting our business over the short to medium term. Through our strategy we consider the risk environment and aim to achieve the right mix of business and investment diversification, regionally and by sector, in order to mitigate risk. External Environment Explanation Mitigation Pillar Internal Environment Explanation Mitigation Pillar Macro Conditions There are changes in the broader We have a strong pipeline of long dated Delivery of Earnings Our ability to continue to deliver earnings Across our residential pre sales we maintain a economic environment. The Australian integrated projects and a solid base of across Development, Construction and focus on buyer type and geography of buyer to economy is transitioning from a mining recurring earnings through our global Investments. mitigate settlement risk and we forward fund our boom while the United Kingdom is likely to Investments platform. We are focused on non-residential developments. Our disciplined see a period of adjustment post the further diversifying the business through approach to safety through our Global Minimum referendum to exit the European Union. targeted growth opportunities in gateway Requirements helps to enhance productivity on The outlook for the Americas is positive cities where we can achieve our target returns site whilst approximately 37 per cent of our and there are some supply induced and are able to implement our GMRs. operating EBITDA is recurring in nature. challenges in Asia in the near term. Infrastructure spending is helping to drive Maintaining Strong Customer and stakeholder engagement is We are building a consistent international growth in many markets. Relationships critical to delivering resilient products framework for consistent customer relationship efficiently and on-cost. management to enhance our strong Capital Markets Market volatility and quantitative easing We manage our capital prudently across debt, engagement with customers. has seen record low long term interest equity and third party capital partners and rates in many markets. In contrast, short remain focused on maintaining our credit rating. Training, Skills, and The skills and capabilities of our people We continue to invest in the learning and term rates may rise in the US. Employment influence our ability to deliver complex development of our people. projects as well as to deliver the Group’s Political Environment In each of our operating regions we work We have dedicated resources for government strategy. with governments as a major customer relations proactively liaising with all sides of and stakeholder and as such, our politics to gain support for long term property Eliminating Incidents The safety of our people is paramount. We empower our people to use informed business is susceptible to changes in the and infrastructure projects. and Injuries As we undertake larger, more complex judgement to manage their health and safety political environment. projects we must continue to evolve our risks and have introduced a health and wellbeing approach to health and safety. framework to place more emphasis on the risks associated with mental health issues. Competitive Dynamics The extent to which we are facing We are one of a few companies globally which is competition in our existing markets and offering an end-to-end property and sectors, and the threat of new infrastructure solution with a strong urban competition. regeneration delivery capability. We have a strong reputation for delivering our projects safely and we are a trusted partner. Our strong track record and access to capital along with our extensive integrated capabilities are also difficult to replicate. Climate Change and The world is experiencing the impacts of We are committed to reducing our Resilience climate change. These impacts are likely contribution to human induced climate to increase in the future and pose an change. We continually assess the impact of increased risk to the safety of climate change on our operations and create communities as well as the potential to mitigation plans for our communities and damage real estate and infrastructure. business generally. Our capability in this space is a source of competitive advantage for our business. Materials and Supply We understand that our environmental, The environmental performance of any supplier Chain social and governance goals and targets and the sustainability of products and services extend beyond our direct business is considered in the Group’s selection process. operations to our supply chain. We work with suppliers to maintain continuous improvement and compliance with environmental, social and ethical considerations. Technology The emergence of digital business will Innovation and disruption is a core element of disrupt current ways of working and our Focus & Grow strategy. offer opportunities for Lendlease to Growth in this area encourages our people to innovate. adopt leading edge technologies to deliver innovative solutions for our customers and also provides avenues to new revenue streams in our target growth areas. 313 @somerset, Singapore For personal use only Victoria Harbour, Melbourne Performance & Outlook 05 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 53 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Group Highlights Performance Update Group Highlights For personal use only Lendlease delivered a strong result for the FY16 year, with Profit after Tax of $698.2 million, up 13 per cent on the prior year, and Percentage EBITDA of $1,054.9 million, up 9 per cent on the prior year. Financial FY15 FY16 Movement Earnings growth was driven by improved performance across the Profit after Tax Key Metrics Development and Construction segments, offset by a reduced Development pipeline 698.2 698 Up 9% year on year $ contribution from the Investments segment. The recurring 48.8 Revenue1 $m 13,298.6 15,105.3 14% income streams through the Investments segment continued 619 $ BILLION EBITDA $m 967.0 1,054.9 9% to make a significant contribution, representing 37 per cent of operating business EBITDA. Profit after Tax (PAT) $m 618.6 698.2 13% The Group’s Return on Equity was 13.0 per cent for the year, within Operating its 11 to 15 per cent target range. Earnings per Security was 120.1 $m (166.6) 853.0 large cash flow cents per security, up 12 per cent on the prior year, and the Group's distribution is 60 cents per security, consistent with its target 40 to MILLION FY15 FY16 Net assets $m 5,168.2 5,614.7 9% 60 per cent payout ratio. Net debt $m 1,758.5 1,052.4 (40%) Operating cash flow increased substantially during the year to an Key Ratios inflow of $853.0 million. The improvement in the operating cash flow position was supported by achieving settlement on the first Effective tax rate2 % 19.4 19.1 (2%) wave of apartment project completions and also proceeds received on Tower Two and Tower Three at Barangaroo South in Sydney Return on Equity Gearing % 10.5 6.5 (38%) 13.0 % following completion. The Group also completed another PLLACes Key Returns transaction in its Australian Apartment business which contributed 13 Return on Equity % 12.4 13.0 5% to operating cash flow. Other key areas of cash generation during the year, captured in the investing cash flow, included the Group's divestment of a 25 per cent interest in Lend Lease One International 12 Earnings per Security cents 106.8 120.1 12% Towers Sydney Trust and the sell down of the Group’s equity position Construction backlog revenue Payout ratio % 50.6 50.0 (1%) in a number of public private partnerships (PPP) projects in Australia. Up 20% year on year $ 20.7 FY15 FY16 BILLION Distribution per The Group finished the year with a strong balance sheet position, cents 54.0 60.0 11% including cash and cash equivalents of $1,008.4 million and net Security debt of $1,052.4 million. The Group reduced its gearing position to Weighted avg no. 579.4 581.4 6.5 per cent during the year and closed with available liquidity of Securities $3,181.0 million. Outlook Profit after Tax Movements ($m) Earnings per Security Lendlease continued to achieve strong growth across all segments 120.1 32 of its operating platform in the FY16 year. 120.1 619 89 (38) (4) 698 The remaining end development pipeline grew to $48.8 billion, up 9 per cent on the prior year. This included $37.3 billion of urbanisation projects. The Development segment also continued 106.8 to grow its residential presales book during the year, closing the year at $5.9 billion, up 13 per cent on the prior year. The Group’s construction backlog revenue grew to $20.7 billion, up 20 per cent on the prior year. This included $14.6 billion of new CENTS FY15 FY16 work secured. Within Australia, engineering backlog revenue increased by $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion, including a number of large Funds under management projects in the transport sector. Lendlease is also the preferred Up 11% year on year 23.6 FY15 Development Construction Investments Other FY16 bidder on approximately $7 billion of work globally. $ BILLION Funds under management (FUM) grew to $23.6 billion, up 11 per cent Distribution 94 (38) 39 (12) (4) 698 on the prior year. New equity raised during the year was $1.3 billion. per Security 60.0 54 60 619 Lendlease’s strong network of capital partners delivers additional capacity for the Group to develop its pipeline of opportunities and provides a solid base of recurring income and fees. Lendlease is well positioned to deliver on its development pipeline and construction backlog, while continuing to grow its funds under management. The established operating platform, including a record development pipeline and presales position, provides strong earnings visibility. The Group’s strong balance sheet CENTS FY15 FY16 FY15 Australia Asia Europe Americas Other FY16 position and access to third party capital provides flexibility to explore future growth opportunities. 1. Includes finance revenue. 2. Lendlease’s approach to tax and its policies are contained on the website: http://www.lendlease.com/investor-centre/taxation/tax-disclosure. Details on tax balances are included within the Financial Statements. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 55 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Development Performance Development Drivers 40+60 For personal use only 85+15 Segment Snapshot Settlement Profile (Units) FY16 Regional Settlements (Units) Revenue ($m) 2,544 327 2,034 4,790 40% 1,508 1,875 4,489 185 of EBITDA 1 440 227 3,822 1,203 3,402 4,790 318 432 60 1 18 48 4,463 Australia2 Asia Europe Americas Total FY15 FY16 Performance The Development segment delivered Profit after Tax of $366.4 FY15 FY16 Land 1 Built-form2 Retirement3 Australia Europe million, up 32 per cent on the prior year. EBITDA for the year was $500.2 million, up 30 per cent on the prior year. This result was EBITDA ($m) 80+20 Movement in Residential Presales ($b) FY16 Regional Residential Presales4 ($b) 386 500 driven by improved performance in Australia and the UK, with a strong residential settlement result, the completion of a number of 337 392 commercial building transactions and the sale of equity positions (12) (19) 66 139 (5) (12) within the PPP portfolio. (0.8) 1.0 1.7 5.9 Settlements in FY16 included the first phase of completions from 5.2 (1.2) 1.4 the Group’s substantial investment in the apartment production Australia Asia Europe2 Americas Total pipeline, with settlement of 1,203 apartments across Australia and the UK. Total settlements continue the momentum over recent years, rising to 4,790 units, up 7 per cent on the prior year. During the year the Group forward sold three major commercial FY15 FY16 4.7 5.2 $5.9b 0.5 0.7 72+28 76+24 buildings. In the UK, the first two commercial office buildings at FY15 FY16 4.5 International Quarter London were forward sold and in Australia, FY15 Settlements Settlements Sales Sales FY16 the commercial office building at Darling Square in Sydney was presales4 land1 built-form2 land built-form presales4 also forward sold. Land Built-form Australia5 Europe In June 2016 the Group established a new managed investment 27% 24% vehicle seeded by the sale of its equity positions in a number of Australian PPP projects that are nearing completion. Commercial Building Completion Profile Outlook $44.9b Pipeline $48.8b Pipeline Project Capital Model sqm ('000) Building FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 The growth outlook for Development remains positive. The remaining end development pipeline grew to $48.8 billion, up 9 73% 76% International Quarter London6 Fund through 73 Stage 1 Commercial per cent on the prior year with 10 major commercial buildings and (2 buildings) 21 major apartment buildings in delivery across $37.3 billion of Paya Lebar Quarter Commercial urbanisation projects. Over 50 per cent of the urbanisation pipeline Urbanisation3 Communities 93 Joint venture (3 buildings) is located in markets outside Australia. 44 Retail Total residential presold revenue increased to $5.9 billion, driven 60+13+216 59+12+227 by new apartment releases during the year including the final FY15 FY16 Darling Square6 Fund through 26 Commercial phase at Darling Square in Sydney and West Grove at Elephant & 37 Hotel Castle in London. The majority of presold residential revenue will Brisbane Showgrounds Sold 17 Kings Gate building • be recognised between FY17 and FY19 as underlying projects in 6% 7% conversion and delivery are completed. Barangaroo South Tower One During the year the Paya Lebar Quarter project in Singapore 21% 22% Fund through 200 Tower Three • commenced production. The project comprises 137,000 sqm of commercial and retail space. $44.9b Pipeline $48.8b Pipeline International House Sydney Despite some emerging market challenges, Lendlease is well placed to deliver on its development pipeline. The record pipeline 13% 60% 12% 59% • Indicates buildings completed during the year. and presales position provides solid earnings visibility and • Indicates expected building completion date. diversification across the platform by both geography and sector which supports the management of market risk across the portfolio. Australia Asia Europe Americas 1. Land represents communities lots settled during the year. 2. Built-form represents apartment units settled during the year. 3. Retirement settlements exclude resales. 1. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from Operating Businesses. 4. Includes 100 per cent of joint venture projects and therefore will not necessarily correlate with the Group's Profit after Tax. 2. Values have been rounded down to the nearest million. 5. Values have been rounded down to the nearest tenth of a billion. 3. The Group's total secured Development pipeline excluding Communities. 6. Commercial buildings were presold during the year. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 57 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Apartment Settlement Profile For personal use only Presold Presales1 Delivery2 Project Building Units (%) ($m) FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Barangaroo South Anadara and Alexander – Completed in FY16 159 • Darling Square Wirth House, St Leon 539 100% ~585 and Darling One Darling North, Harbour Place 577 100% ~810 and Trinity House Darling Rise, Barker House 391 100% ~490 and Arena Victoria Harbour Concavo – Completed in FY16 238 • 888 Collins 578 99% ~2803 • 889 Collins 536 98% ~360 883 Collins 528 96% ~350 Collins Wharf 1 321 77% ~225 Brisbane The Green – Showgrounds Completed in FY16 356 • North Yard and South Yard 401 98% ~210 Toorak Park Park, East, North 468 87% ~385 and Terrace Homes Wandsworth Cobalt Place – Completed in FY16 103 • Elephant & Castle One The Elephant – Completed in FY16 284 • Trafalgar Place – Completed in FY16 235 • South Gardens 360 86% ~270 West Grove (Buildings 1 and 2) 593 69% ~435 International Glasshouse Gardens 333 100% ~310 Quarter London (Buildings 1 and 2) • = Indicates profit earned on buildings completed during the financial year. • = Indicates profit expected to be earned in financial year. 1. Closing presales balance as at 30 June 2016. 2. Based on expected completion date of underlying buildings, subject to change in delivery program. 3. Stage one: 133 units completed in FY16. Anadara, Barangaroo South. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 59 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Construction Performance Construction Drivers 23+77 For personal use only Segment Snapshot EBITDA Margin (%) FY16 New Work Secured by Product ($b) 74+19+7 Revenue ($m) 10,937 12,032 2.6% 23% 5,913 6,271 3,541 4,086 2.4% 7% of EBITDA1 19% 225 334 1,258 1,341 $14.6b New Work Secured Australia Asia Europe Americas Total Revenue FY15 FY16 74% Performance The Construction segment delivered a Profit after Tax of $190.9 FY15 FY16 Building Engineering Services million, up 20 per cent on the prior year. EBITDA for the year was EBITDA ($m) 279 288 $288.1 million, up 3 per cent on the prior year. 232 The global EBITDA margin was lower compared to the prior year, with improvements in the Australian margin offset by a reduction 153 Major Projects by Client1 Major Projects by Sector1 117 23+44+33 35+21+161495 in Americas due to a change in the mix of earnings from higher margin military housing work to traditional residential and commercial construction work. 56 (14) (6) 23 6 The performance of the Asia and Europe Construction businesses was impacted by challenging market conditions in each case over 23% 9% 6% recent years. In each region the internal development pipeline will provide support to the business outlook, with the delivery of major Australia Asia Europe Americas Total 33% 34% urban regeneration projects commencing during the year. FY15 FY16 Major Project 14% Major Project Backlog Revenue Backlog Revenue 57+2+932 58+3+732 Outlook Backlog revenue increased to $20.7 billion, up 20 per cent on the FY15 FY16 16% prior year. This comprised $15.1 billion of building work, $3.9 billion 44% 21% of engineering work and $1.7 billion of services work. In addition, the Group is preferred bidder on approximately $7 billion of work Lendlease2 Government Corporate Transport Residential Hotel/Entertainment globally which it expects to convert over the next 12 months. 32% 32% Defence Commercial Other The Group recorded new work secured of $14.6 billion up 24 per cent for the year. This included a number of new projects secured $17.3b Backlog Revenue $20.7b Backlog Revenue by the Engineering business in Australia in the transport sector, where backlog revenue increased by $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion. New Engineering wins included the Gateway Upgrade North 9% 57% 7% 58% Backlog Revenue Roll-forward ($b) FY16 Backlog Realisation 51+29+20 Project and Kingsford Smith Highway upgrade in Queensland, Caulfield to Dandenong and CityLink Tulla Widening in Victoria 2% 3% and Northern Connector in South Australia. Australia Asia Europe Americas 14.6 (12.0) Lendlease is well positioned to deliver on its strong backlog 55+4+1427 58+3+732 position in the Construction segment. While market conditions 20% across the Group’s traditional building business remain mixed, FY15 FY16 0.8 20.7 the Group’s global internal development pipeline and a strong 17.3 emerging Australian infrastructure pipeline provide a solid backdrop. The existing backlog position underpins earnings $20.7b Backlog Revenue 51% visibility over the next three years with strong diversification 27% 29% 31% across clients and sectors. $11.8b $14.6b New Work Secured Revenue 55% New Work Secured Revenue 57% FY15 New work Revenue Other3 FY16 FY17 FY18 Post FY18 14% 9% secured realised 4% 3% Australia Asia Europe Americas 1. Includes all major Construction projects disclosed in the Portfolio Report as at 30 June 2016, which represents 51 per cent ($10.6 billion) of secured backlog. 2. Includes PPP projects secured by the Group's infrastructure advisory business. 1. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from Operating Businesses. 3. Relates to foreign exchange movement on opening balance. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 61 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Investments Performance Lendlease Investments 37+63 For personal use only Segment Snapshot Investments by Product ($b) Investments EBITDA by Activity ($m) Revenue ($m) 53+5+42 47+4+49 468 511 FY15 FY16 364 350 37% 322 360 of EBITDA1 71 46 55 48 25 52 Australia Asia Europe Americas Total 42% $3.0b Investments 46% $3.0b Investments 50% 114 108 FY15 FY16 by Product 54% by Product Performance 4% 4% The Investments segment delivered Profit after Tax of $370.7 million, down 9 per cent on the prior year. EBITDA for EBITDA ($m) Retirement ownership Infrastructure Co-Investments Ownership Operating the year was $457.7 million, down 4 per cent on the prior year. 478 458 interests earnings The recurring income streams through the Investments segment continued to make a significant contribution to the overall Group 330 349 FY15 FY16 result, representing 37 per cent of operating business EBITDA. In Australia, the Group divested a 25 per cent interest in Lend Lease 64 14 40 35 44 60 One International Towers Sydney Trust to a large Asian based investor. In the Retirement Living business, the Group divested Co-Investments ($m) Funds Under Management ($b) five villages in New Zealand during the year, with cash settlement Australia Asia Europe Americas Total occurring post balance date. FY15 FY16 The Asia Investments segment was impacted by a reduction in the value of the Group’s 25 per cent direct investment in 313@somerset 230 (160) 49 9 1,380 65+25+10 69+24+7 in Singapore, following softer trading conditions on Orchard Road. 1,252 2.3 (0.8) 1.0 (0.2) 23.6 In Europe, the Group divested its interest in the Lendlease PFI/PPP FY15 FY16 21.3 Infrastructure Fund LP. New equity of $1.3 billion was raised during the year. This included 10% 6% a major equity raising completed by APPF Commercial, the establishment of a new managed investment mandate with First 24% State Super and APPF Commercial to fund the purchase of a commercial office building at Darling Square in Sydney, and the 25% $21.3b FUM by Region $23.6b FUM by Region establishment of a new managed investment vehicle seeded by FY15 Acquisitions/ Divestments/ Revaluations Other1 FY16 FY15 New FUM FUM Revaluations Other1 FY16 the sale of a number of the Group’s PPP interests in Australia. capital capital acquired divested Outlook 65% 70% contributions redemptions Funds under management grew to $23.6 billion, up 11 per cent on the prior year, with approximately $3 billion of additional secured Australia Asia Europe FUM across urbanisation projects in delivery. Investments managed FY16 Retirement Living by State (Units) FY16 US Military Housing by Product (Units) 30+30+241231 23+77 on behalf of the Group were steady at $3.0 billion, including the Group’s Co-Investments in funds, Retirement Living business and US FY15 FY16 Military Housing operations. 3% 1% The existing investments platform ensures the segment remains well placed to continue to deliver a solid base of recurring income streams to underpin the Group’s future earnings. The Group’s internal development pipeline and strong access to third party capital will provide future opportunities to continue to grow FUM. 83+11+24 81+12+34 Investments by 81% $3.0b Region 12% 3% 4% 83% $3.0b Investments by Region 11% 2% 4% 24% 12% 13,384 30% 30% 77% 53,055 23% Australia Asia Europe Americas VIC QLD NSW WA SA ACT Residential Hotels 1. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from Operating Businesses. 1. Relates to foreign exchange movement on opening balance. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 63 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Performance by Segment and Region 1 Financial Position and Cash Flow Movements For personal use only The table below presents Revenue, EBITDA and Profit after Tax by operating segment for the current and prior year. FY15 FY16 Percentage Financial Position $m $m movement Revenue EBITDA Profit after Tax FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 Cash and cash equivalents 750.1 1,008.4 34% $m $m $m $m $m $m Inventories 4,104.2 4,602.9 12% Development Equity accounted investments 1,235.8 1,152.6 (7%) Australia 1,508.6 2,034.4 336.8 391.5 241.4 275.6 Investment properties 5,994.9 5,940.7 (1%) Asia 1.0 17.5 (11.7) (19.1) (10.4) (18.7) Other assets (including financial) 6,874.2 5,888.3 (14%) Europe 317.6 431.7 66.3 139.5 48.8 116.4 Total assets 18,959.2 18,592.9 (2%) Americas 48.2 60.3 (5.3) (11.7) (2.6) (6.9) Borrowings and financing arrangements 2,450.3 2,031.3 (17%) Total Development 1,875.4 2,543.9 386.1 500.2 277.2 366.4 Other liabilities (including financial) 11,340.7 10,946.9 (3%) Total liabilities 13,791.0 12,978.2 (6%) Construction Net assets 5,168.2 5,614.7 9% Australia 5,912.7 6,271.0 152.6 231.8 89.3 146.1 Asia 225.0 334.2 (13.5) (5.6) (15.8) (6.4) Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash Flow Movements ($m) Europe 1,258.0 1,341.3 23.0 5.5 18.5 4.1 Cash and cash equivalents increased by 34 per cent on the prior year, primarily due to the significant operating cash flows Americas 3,541.2 4,085.9 116.9 56.4 67.0 47.1 generated from the Group’s urban regeneration projects, offset by 853 1 (620) Total Construction 10,936.9 12,032.4 279.0 288.1 159.0 190.9 the repayments on the US Private Placement, Multi-Option Facility and Club Revolving Facility during the year. Investments 24 1,008 Inventories Australia 322.3 359.7 329.5 348.5 294.4 297.4 Inventories increased by $498.7 million to $4,602.9 million, largely 750 Asia 45.5 54.9 64.3 14.3 43.5 4.8 due to continued work on Development properties increasing Europe 48.0 25.1 40.2 35.1 45.0 30.3 inventories across key projects. Americas 52.2 70.8 43.8 59.8 25.7 38.2 Equity Accounted Investments Equity accounted investments decreased by $83.2 million to Total Investments 468.0 510.5 477.8 457.7 408.6 370.7 $1,152.6 million mainly due to the sale of the Group’s equity FY15 Operating Investing Financing Foreign FY16 Total Operating Businesses 13,280.3 15,086.8 1,142.9 1,246.0 844.8 928.0 positions in the Sunshine Coast University Hospital, New Bendigo exchange Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live) and the impact1 Corporate Group's divestment of a 25 per cent interest in the Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust (LLOneITST), which were offset Operating Group Services 6.9 9.8 (156.8) (168.7) (124.6) (127.4) by the increased capital contribution towards the Lend Lease Positive operating cash flow of $853.0 million was primarily due to the Group Treasury 11.4 8.7 (19.1) (22.4) (101.6) (102.4) International Towers Sydney Trust and LLOneITST during the year. cash proceeds received on Tower Two and Tower Three at Barangaroo South in Sydney following completion, combined with settlements Total Corporate 18.3 18.5 (175.9) (191.1) (226.2) (229.8) Other Assets received on a number of apartment project completions and a Total 13,298.6 15,105.3 967.0 1,054.9 618.6 698.2 Other assets decreased by $985.9 million, mainly due to the PLLACes transaction in the Australian Apartment business. reduced receivable balances following receipt of cash proceeds on Tower One and completion of Tower Two and Tower Three at Investing Barangaroo South. Net cash inflow of $0.6 million from investing activities during the year was due to proceeds on sale of the Group’s equity positions in the Sunshine Coast University Hospital, New Bendigo Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live), which were offset by the capital contributions for the Group’s investments in Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust and Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust. Financing The $620.4 million cash outflow from financing activities during the year was primarily driven by repayments on the US Private Placement, Multi-Option Facility and Club Revolving Facility, which were financed by the higher operating cash and proceeds from the US$ Reg. S notes. 1. The segments have been restated in the prior year to reflect the move from four segments to three segments in the current year. Refer to Note 1 of the Financial Statements for further details on the restatement. 1. Values have been rounded down to the nearest million. 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 65 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Group Funding and Debt Facilities For personal use only Percentage FY15 FY16 Movement Net debt $m 1,758.5 1,052.4 (40%) Borrowings to total equity plus borrowings % 32.2 26.6 (17%) Net debt to total tangible assets, less cash % 10.5 6.5 (38%) Interest coverage times 6.6 8.0 21% Average cost of debt including margins % 5.2 4.6 (12%) Average debt duration years 3.9 5.3 36% Debt mix fixed: floating ratio 67:33 91:9 Undrawn facilities $m 1,423.5 2,172.6 53% The Group’s net debt and gearing position has reduced significantly from the prior year, driven by high positive operational cash flow which has been used for repayments on the US Private Placement, Multi-Option Facility and Club Revolving Facility. During the year the Group issued US$400.0 million of US$ Reg. S notes for 10 years with a 4.5 per cent coupon. As at the end of the year, the available liquidity for the Group was $3,181.0 million. Debt Facilities ($m)1 1,500 714 531 531 529 529 476 476 179 275 275 0 33 33 Syndicated UK Bond Issue Club Revolving US$ Reg. S US Private Singapore Australian Multi-Option Credit Facility notes Placement Bond medium term Facility notes Facility Drawn Debt Maturity Profile ($m)2 225 250 900 535 275 600 536 533 0 33 179 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY26 Syndicated Multi-Option Facility UK Bond Issue Club Revolving Credit Facility US$ Reg. S notes US Private Placement Singapore Bond Australian medium term notes Undrawn 1. Values are shown at amortised cost. 2. Values are shown at gross facility value. Darling Square and International Convention Centre Sydney Hotel, Darling Harbour For personal use only Governance 06 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 69 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Board of Directors Information Board Skills and Experience For personal use only Lendlease is committed to exceptional corporate governance policies and practices which are fundamental to the long term success The Directors have a range of local and international experience and expertise, as well as specialised skills to assist with decision making and prosperity of Lendlease Group. In 2016 the Board reviewed its corporate governance and reporting practices and the Corporate and leading the Group for the benefit of securityholders. The table below sets out the skills and experience considered by the Board to Governance Statement is available on the Lendlease website this year at: www.lendlease.com/au/company/governance. Membership be important for its Directors to collectively have. of the Board as at 19 August 2016 is set out below. For detailed information on the skills, experience and qualifications of each of the Directors refer to pages 74 to 78 of the Annual Report. SKILLS/ GENDER DIVERSITY EXPERIENCE1 COMMENTS COMBINED A commitment to and experience in setting Female directors Target of GOVERNANCE exceptional corporate governance policies, 10 20 30 % % practices and standards. Possesses industry knowledge, exposure and experience gained in the core Lendlease INDUSTRY at August 2016 by end 2018 EXPERIENCE operating segments of Development, Construction and Investments. 7 This includes advisory roles for these industries. Exposure to international regions either through The Lendlease Board has adopted the Australian INTERNATIONAL Institute of Company Directors initiative to improve gender diversity on the Board by committing to a OPERATIONS experience gained directly in the region or through management of regional client and other stakeholder relationships. 9 target of 30 per cent female Board members by the end of 2018. Experience in programs implementing safety, mental health and physical wellbeing, on site HEALTH & 3 6 7 5 4 10 SAFETY and within businesss. Monitoring the proactive management of workplace health and safety 7 practices. Ability to identify economically, socially and 9 1 2 8 SUSTAINABILITY environmentally sustainable developments. Ability to set and monitor sustainability 7 100 DIRECTORS’ EXPERIENCE IN GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT % STRATEGY aspirations. Developing, setting and executing strategic direction. Experience in driving growth and executing against a clear strategy. 10 AND STRATEGY experience Experience in anticipating and evaluating risks RISK MANAGEMENT that could impact business. Recognising and managing these risks by developing sound risk governance policies and frameworks. 10 Experience in the identification and resolution LEGAL of legal and regulatory issues and having the ability to assist the Board on these matters. 5 Experience in building workforce capability, DIRECTORS’ AVERAGE TENURE 1 D A Crawford AO 4 P M Colebatch 7 J S Hemstritch 1–3 3–6 6–9 9+ HUMAN RESOURCES setting a remuneration framework which attracts and retains a high calibre of executives, promotion of diversity and inclusion. 10 Chairman (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS Skills gained whilst performing at a Senior 5 D P Craig 8 D J Ryan AO EXECUTIVE Executive level for a considerable length of time 2 S B McCann Group Chief Executive Officer (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) LEADERSHIP including delivering superior results, dealing with complex business models, projects and 10 and Managing Director 6 S B Dobbs 9 M J Ullmer issues. (Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Understands the financial drivers of a business. 3 C B Carter AM 10 N M Wakefield Evans 3 3 1 3 FINANCIAL ACUMEN Experience in financial reporting and corporate financial management. 10 (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) The Board considers that it has an appropriate Strong technology background. Online mix of new, mid and longer tenured directors. The average term of the Board is six years. TECHNOLOGY communications. Change management. IT workplace knowledge, security and data analysis skills. 6 1. In facilitating the skills matrix, each Director undertook a self assessment of their skills and experience. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 71 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Focus Areas for the Board in FY16 The Board recognises the essential role of Committees in guiding the Board on specific issues. For personal use only In addition to the specific responsibilities delegated to the Board Committees, a selection of activities for one key focus in FY16 is set out below. PEOPLE AND CULTURE SUSTAINABILITY Assists the Board in establishing appropriate policies for people management and Assists the Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of remuneration across the Group. management in delivering environmental, social and economic value. VALUE PILLAR VALUE PILLAR KEY FOCUS IN FY16 KEY FOCUS IN FY16 Endorsed the introduction of talent programs focusing on high Engaged with key stakeholders on how to embed performers and diversity. An additional focus was the importance sustainability across all operational activities. of culture for the performance of Lendlease ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES • Reviewed the progress of business units in integrating sustainability • Introduced two new talent programs; the Distinguished Executive Program in their business strategies. to recognise and reward significant contribution to our business and the • Endorsed and monitored near term targets focusing on water, Project Director Program to build and differentiate Project Director capability. waste, and energy reduction across specific projects and assets • Met with program candidates to discuss their experiences working (20 per cent reduction by 2020). at Lendlease with a view to improving culture, access to programs, • Endorsed the strategic partnership developed with Delos and and career development. the International WELL Building Institute and continued to monitor • Offered mentoring opportunities between candidates and the implementation of our Health & Wellbeing Framework. Board members. • Monitored the rollout of Lendlease's updated GMRs. • Reviewed and monitored a number of engagement metrics including employee completion rates of conduct guide training and other measures to inform engagement strategies over time. RISK MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT NOMINATION Assists the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance and Considers nominations to the Board to ensure that there is an oversight responsibilities in relation to the Group’s risk appropriate mix of expertise, skills, experience and diversity management and internal control systems. on the Board. VALUE PILLAR VALUE PILLAR KEY FOCUS IN FY16 KEY FOCUS IN FY16 Conducted resilience and security planning for the company Monitored Board composition focusing on Board skills, with a focus on Cyber Security. An additional focus areas experience and diversity and enhancing reporting was supporting the transition to integrated reporting. of the Board skills matrix. ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES • Commissioned ‘gap analysis’ report and ascertained areas • Significantly enhanced reporting associated with the of focus for security planning. Board skills matrix compared to prior reporting periods. • Worked with the business to enhance operational ownership and manage • Reviewed composition of Board Committees response plans in relation to Cyber Security. focusing on succession planning. • Endorsed investment in relevant technology to further protect and enhance • Integrated the Lendlease Diversity & Inclusion strategy into our Cyber Security approach. Nomination Committee processes. • Endorsed the production of the integrated report including periodic reviews. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 73 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Lendlease Board Regional Program 2015 – 2016 For personal use only The Board program is formulated to reflect the geographic spread EUROPE of the Lendlease businesses with Board meetings scheduled in Australia and each of the regions where Lendlease operates. • International Quarter London, Stratford (January 2016) Generally, the program runs over two or three days and comprises • Elephant & Castle, London (July 2015 and July 2016) formal meetings, business briefings, presentations from external • Rathbone Square, London (July 2016) sources, project site visits and networking events with employees and key stakeholders. The varied program enables directors to • Board networking forum supporting employee diversity obtain a deeper understanding of the activities and operations and regional top talent (July 2015 and 2016) within each region. This covers the program from 1 January 2015 to 31 July 2016. ASIA • Paya Lebar Quarter Site, Singapore (April 2015) • 313@somerset, Singapore (April 2015) • American International School, Singapore (April 2015) • Tun Razak Exchange (February 2015) • Board networking forum supporting employee diversity and AMERICAS regional top talent (April 2015) • 201 Folsom Street, San Francisco (January 2015) • 432 Park Avenue, New York (October 2015) • 56 Leonard Street, New York (April 2016) • Columbia Manhattanville, New York (April 2016) • Riverline, Chicago (April 2016) • Clippership Wharf, Boston (April 2016) • Regional reviews of Chicago and Boston businesses (April 2016) • Board networking forum supporting employee diversity and regional top talent (January 2015, October 2015 and April 2016) AUSTRALIA • Barangaroo, Sydney (August 2015) • The Library at the Dock, Melbourne (May 2015) • 888 Collins Street, Melbourne (May 2015) • 889 Collins Street, Melbourne (May 2015) • Darling Square and International Convention Centre Sydney, Darling Harbour (May 2016) • Board networking forum (May 2015 and November 2015) 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 75 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Board of Directors The names, skills, experience and qualifications of each person holding the position of Director of For personal use only the Company at the date of this Report are outlined below: D A Crawford AO S B McCann C B Carter AM P M Colebatch Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Executive Director) Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Mr Carter joined the Board in April 2012. Mr Colebatch joined the Board in December 2005. Mr Crawford joined the Board in July 2001 and was appointed Mr McCann was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer in Chairman in May 2003. December 2008 and joined the Board as Managing Director Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications in March 2009. Mr Carter is one of the founding partners of The Boston Consulting Mr Colebatch has held senior management positions in insurance Skills, Experience and Qualifications Group in Australia, retiring as a Senior Partner in 2001, and continues and investment banking, and was formerly on the Executive Board Mr Crawford has extensive experience in risk management and Skills, Experience and Qualifications as an advisor with that company. He has over 30 years of experience of Swiss Reinsurance Company, Zurich. He was previously on the business reorganisation. He has acted as a consultant, scheme Mr McCann joined Lendlease in 2005. Prior to his current role, in management consulting advising on organisational, strategy and Executive Board of Credit Suisse Group, Zurich, where he was Chief receiver and manager, and liquidator to many large and complex Mr McCann was Group Finance Director, appointed in March governance issues. His career has included major projects in Australia Financial Officer, and was subsequently Chief Executive Officer of corporations. Mr Crawford was previously Australian National 2007 and Chief Executive Officer for Lendlease’s Investment and overseas. Mr Carter has wide industry knowledge on corporate Credit Suisse Asset Management. Chairman of KPMG. He was appointed an Officer of the Order of Management business from September 2005 to December 2007. governance issues and has carried out Board performance reviews Mr Colebatch has a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Engineering Australia (AO) in June 2009 in recognition for service in various Mr McCann has more than 25 years’ experience in real estate, for a number of companies. He has co-authored a book on Boards, from the University of Adelaide, a Master of Science from Massachusetts fields including to business as a Director of public companies, to funds management, investment banking and capital markets ‘Back to the Drawing Board’. Institute of Technology and a Doctorate in Business Administration sport particularly through the review and restructure of national transactions. Prior to joining Lendlease, Mr McCann spent six Mr Carter holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from Melbourne from Harvard University. sporting bodies, and to the community through contributions to years at ABN AMRO, where his roles included Head of Property, University and a Master of Business Administration from Harvard arts and educational organisations. Head of Industrial Mergers & Acquisitions and Head of Equity Business School, where he graduated with Distinction and as a Baker Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) Mr Crawford holds a Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Capital Markets for Australia and New Zealand. Previous roles Scholar. He is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. • Non Executive Director of Man Group plc Laws from the University of Melbourne and is a Fellow of the also include Head of Property at Bankers’ Trust, four years as a (appointed September 2007) Institute of Chartered Accountants. mergers and acquisitions lawyer at Freehills and four years in Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) taxation accounting. Other Current Appointments • Non Executive Director of SEEK Limited (appointed March 2005) Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) Mr McCann holds a Bachelor of Economics (Finance major) • Non Executive Director of Wesfarmers Limited • Board of Trustees for the Prince of Liechtenstein Foundation and • Inaugural Chairman and Non Executive Director of the LGT Group Foundation and a Bachelor of Laws from Monash University in (appointed October 2002, retired November 2014) South32 Limited (appointed May 2015) Melbourne, Australia. Board Committee Memberships Other Current Appointments • Former Non Executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited • Member of the Nomination Committee (appointed May 1994, retired November 2014) Other Directorships and Positions • President of Geelong Football Club • Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee • Nil • Director of World Vision Australia Other Current Appointments • Director of The Ladder Project • Chairman of Australia Pacific Airports Corporation Limited Board Committee Memberships Board Committee Memberships • Chairman of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the People and Culture Committee • Member of the Sustainability Committee 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 77 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Board of Directors continued For personal use only D P Craig S B Dobbs J S Hemstritch D J Ryan AO (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Mr Craig joined the Board in March 2016. Mr Dobbs joined the Board in January 2015. Ms Hemstritch joined the Board in September 2011. Mr Ryan joined the Board in December 2004. Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Mr Craig is currently the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Mr Dobbs was Senior Group President, Industrial and Ms Hemstritch has extensive senior executive experience in Mr Ryan has a background in commercial banking, investment Commonwealth Bank of Australia, one of the world’s largest banks Infrastructure at Fluor Corporation until his retirement in June information technology, communications, change management banking and operational business management. He has previously by market capitalisation. He is a business leader with a successful 2014. Since joining Fluor in 1980, Mr Dobbs was responsible and accounting. She also has broad experience across the held senior executive management positions in investment international career spanning over 35 years developed in finance, for a wide diversity of markets including infrastructure, mining, financial services, telecommunications, government, energy and banking, as well as being the Chairman or a Non Executive accounting, audit, risk management, strategy and mergers and telecommunications, transportation, heavy manufacturing, health manufacturing sectors and in business expansion in Asia. During Director of a number of listed public companies. acquisitions. As the Commonwealth Bank CFO, he is responsible for care, water and alternative power. He served the company in a 25 year career with Accenture and Andersen Consulting, Ms Mr Ryan has been immersed in all aspects of corporate life. From a leading the finance, treasury, property, security, audit and investor numerous locations including the United States, China, Europe and Hemstritch worked with clients across Australia, Asia and the US. corporate activity viewpoint he has been actively engaged in mergers, relations teams, and liaises with a wide range of external stakeholders Southern Africa. She held a number of leadership positions within the company acquisitions, divetments, initial public offerings, equity and debt including equity and debt investors, regulators, government, media Mr Dobbs is an industry expert in public private partnerships and and was Managing Director Asia Pacific for Accenture from 2004 financing and raising including heavily structured recourse and non and customers. private finance initiatives and has served as an advisor on these until her retirement in 2007. Ms Hemstritch was a member of recourse transactions. In many cases he has been the Chair of the Mr Craig’s previous leadership roles have included Chief Financial issues to a number of Government ministries. He was a Governor Accenture’s global Executive Leadership Team and oversaw the Due Diligence Committees that were formed to provide assurance Officer at Australand, Global Transition Finance Leader for IBM of industry forums related to engineering and construction at the management of Accenture’s business in the Asia Pacific region and verifications to the stakeholders of these processes. Business Consulting Service and the Global CFO for PwC Consulting. World Economic Forum from 2008 to 2014 and served as Vicewhich spanned 12 countries and included 30,000 personnel. Mr Ryan has a Bachelor of Business from the University of Mr Craig holds a Bachelor of Economics degree from the University Chair of the Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Infrastructure in Ms Hemstritch has a Bachelor of Science degree in Biochemistry Technology in Sydney, Australia, and is a Fellow of the Australian of Sydney, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, 2013 and 2014. and Physiology from the University of London and is a Fellow of Institute of Company Directors and CPA Australia. Australia and a member of the Australian Institute of Company Mr Dobbs holds a Doctorate in Engineering from Texas A&M the Institutes of Chartered Accountants in Australia and in England Directors. University and is a registered professional engineer (retired). and Wales. She is a Member of the Council of the National Library Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) of Australia and Chief Executive Women Inc. • Non Executive Director of GTN Ltd Other Current Appointments Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) (appointed June 2016) Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) • Non Executive Director of the Financial Executives • Non Executive Director of Cummins Inc • Non Executive Director of Telstra Corporation Limited Other Current Appointments Institute of Australia (appointed October 2010) • Non Executive Director of the Victor Chang (appointed August 2016) • Director of First American Title Insurance Company Board Committee Memberships • Non Executive Director of Tabcorp Holdings Ltd of Australia Pty Ltd Cardiac Research Institute • Member of the Nomination Committee (appointed November 2008) • Director of First Mortgage Services Pty Ltd Board Committee Memberships • Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee • Non Executive Director of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia • Director of Sunshine Coast Destination Limited • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Sustainability Committee (appointed October 2006, retired March 2016) Board Committee Memberships • Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee • Non Executive Director of Santos Limited • Chairman of the Risk Management and Audit Committee (appointed February 2010, retired May 2016) • Member of the Nomination Committee Other Current Appointments • Member of the People and Culture Committee • Member of the Advisory Board of Herbert Smith Freehills Global LLP • Chairman of Victoria Opera Company Ltd • Council of the National Library of Australia Board Committee Memberships • Chairman of the People and Culture Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 79 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Board of Directors continued For personal use only General Counsel and Company Secretary There are four permanent Committees of the Board. Qualifications and Experience Risk Management and Audit Committee K Pedersen The Risk Management and Audit Committee consists entirely of Ms Pedersen was appointed as Group General Counsel in Non Executive Directors. The principal purpose of the Committee January 2013. Before that she was Deputy General Counsel and is to assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance and Company Secretary for several large property and construction oversight responsibilities in relation to the Group’s risk management companies. Ms Pedersen has a Masters of Law from the University and internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, of Technology, Sydney and a Bachelor of Commerce/Bachelor of internal and external audit functions and corporate reporting. Laws from the University of New South Wales. During the financial year ended 30 June 2016, four meetings of the W Lee Risk Management and Audit Committee were held. Ms Lee joined Lendlease in September 2009 and was appointed People and Culture Committee as a Company Secretary of Lendlease in January 2010. Prior to her appointment, Ms Lee was a Company Secretary for several The People and Culture Committee was formerly known as the subsidiaries of a large financial institution listed on the ASX. She Personnel and Organisation Committee and consists entirely has over 10 years of company secretarial experience. Ms Lee has of Non Executive Directors. The name of the Committee was M J Ullmer N M Wakefield Evans a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Laws from the University of changed in July 2016 to reflect the broader people and culture (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Sydney, a Graduate Diploma in Applied Corporate Governance responsibility of the Committee. The Committee’s agenda and is a Fellow of the Governance Institute Australia. reflects the importance of human capital to the Group’s strategic Term of Office Term of Office and business planning and it assists the Board in establishing Mr Ullmer joined the Board in December 2011. Ms Wakefield Evans joined the Board in September 2013. Officers Who Were Previously Partners appropriate policies for people management and remuneration of the Audit Firm across the Group. During the financial year ended 30 June 2016, Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications five meetings of the People and Culture Committee were held. Full KPMG or its predecessors was appointed as the Company’s Mr Ullmer brings to the Board extensive strategic, financial Ms Wakefield Evans was an M&A lawyer for 29 years at King & Wood details of the Committee’s work on behalf of the Board are set out auditor at its first Annual General Meeting in 1958. and management experience accumulated over his career in Mallesons where she was a partner for nearly 20 years. She has in the Remuneration Report. international banking and finance. He was the Deputy Group extensive experience as an equity capital markets and M&A lawyer, Mr Crawford was a Partner and Australian National Chair of KPMG. Chief Executive Officer of the National Australia Bank (NAB) from has been involved in a number of significant and ground-breaking He resigned from this position on 28 June 2001 prior to his appointment Sustainability Committee 2007 until he retired from the Bank in August 2011. He joined NAB M&A transactions and has advised some of the largest companies as a Director of the Company on 19 July 2001. Mr Ullmer was also The Sustainability Committee consists entirely of Non Executive in 2004 as Finance Director and held a number of key positions in Australia, Asia and globally. She is well known in Asia where she a Partner at KPMG from 1982 until October 1992. Directors. The Committee assists the Board in monitoring the including Chairman of the subsidiaries Great Western Bank (US) was the Managing Partner, International at King & Wood Mallesons, decisions and actions of management in achieving Lendlease’s and JB Were. Prior to NAB, Mr Ullmer was at Commonwealth Bank Hong Kong and is rated by a number of publications as one of the Directors’ Meetings aspiration to be a sustainable organisation. During the financial of Australia, initially as Group Chief Financial Officer and then Asian region’s leading M&A, corporate governance, communications Board Meetings year ended 30 June 2016, five meetings of the Sustainability Group Executive with responsibility for Institutional and Business and resources and energy lawyers. Ms Wakefield Evans was also a Committee were held. Banking. Before that he was a Partner at accounting firms KPMG key member of King & Wood Malleson’s corporate governance group The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role. Directors (1982 to 1992) and Coopers & Lybrand (1992 to 1997). and has deep experience providing strategic advice to a number of are required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform Nomination Committee company boards. In October 2012, Ms Wakefield Evans was included their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to Mr Ullmer has a degree in mathematics from the University of The Nomination Committee consists entirely of Non Executive in the Australian Financial Review and Westpac Group’s inaugural prepare for Board meetings. During the financial year ended Sussex. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Directors. The Committee assists the Board by considering list of ‘Australia’s 100 Women of Influence.’ She is a member of 30 June 2016, ten Board meetings were held. Four of these and a Senior Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australia. nominations to the Board to ensure that there is an appropriate Chief Executive Women Inc. meetings were held in Australia, and two each in the UK and Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) mix of expertise, skills and experience on the Board. During the Americas reflecting the geographic spread of the Lendlease Ms Wakefield Evans holds a Bachelor of Jurisprudence and Bachelor financial year ended 30 June 2016, all eight meetings of the • Non Executive Director of Woolworths Limited business. These meetings run over two or three days. In addition, of Laws degree from the University of New South Wales and is a Nomination Committee were held in conjunction with scheduled (appointed January 2012) two meetings were held via teleconference to discuss specific qualified lawyer in Australia, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom. Board meetings and all Non Executive Directors routinely attended. Other Current Appointments matters, and matters were dealt with as required by circular Listed Company Directorships (held within the last three years) resolution. Three Board subcommittee meetings were also • Chairman of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra • Non Executive Director of Macquarie Group Limited constituted to deal with specific matters. • Trustee of the National Gallery of Victoria (appointed February 2014) The Board recognises the essential role of Committees in Board Committee Memberships • Non Executive Director of Toll Holdings Limited guiding the Company on specific issues. Committees address • Chairman of the Sustainability Committee important corporate issues, calling on senior management and (appointed May 2011) • Member of the Nomination Committee external advisers prior to making a final decision or making a • Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee Other Current Appointments recommendation to the full Board. • Director of Bupa Australia • Director of O’Connell St & Associates • Director of Asialink (University of Melbourne) • Member of the Law Advisory Council of the University of New South Wales Law School Board Committee Memberships • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee • Member of the Sustainability Committee 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 81 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Board of Directors continued For personal use only Attendance at Meetings of Directors 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 Interests in Capital The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held, and the number of meetings attended by each Director during the 2016 Financial The interests of each of the Directors (in office at the date of this report) in the stapled securities of the Group at 19 August 2016 is set out Year are set out in the tables below. below. Number of Number of Securities held Securities held Membership Meetings Held1 Meetings Attended Securities held beneficially/ Total Securities held beneficially/ Total Director directly 2016 indirectly 20161 2016 directly 2015 indirectly 20151 2015 Board D A Crawford (Chairman) 10 10 S B McCann (CEO) 10 10 D A Crawford 887 78,501 79,388 850 77,008 77,858 C B Carter 10 10 S B McCann 480,849 346,345 827,194 481,864 230,623 712,487 P M Colebatch 10 10 D P Craig2 4 4 C B Carter 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 S B Dobbs 10 10 P M Colebatch 5,144 13,179 18,323 5,023 13,300 18,323 J S Hemstritch 10 83 D P Craig2 14,870 14,870 – D J Ryan 10 10 M J Ullmer 10 10 S B Dobbs 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 N M Wakefield Evans 10 10 J S Hemstritch 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 Board Subcommittee Meetings4 D A Crawford (Chairman) 2 2 D J Ryan 36,172 36,172 35,312 35,312 S B McCann (CEO) 3 3 C B Carter 1 1 M J Ullmer 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 P M Colebatch 2 2 N M Wakefield Evans 12,517 12,517 4,000 4,000 D P Craig 1 1 S B Dobbs 1 1 1. Includes securities in the Retirement Plan beneficially held by D A Crawford, P M Colebatch and D J Ryan. J S Hemstritch 1 1 2. D P Craig joined the Board in March 2016. D J Ryan 1 1 M J Ullmer 1 1 N M Wakefield Evans 1 1 Risk Management and Audit Committee Meetings D J Ryan (Chairman) 4 4 P M Colebatch 4 4 D P Craig2 1 1 S B Dobbs 4 4 M J Ullmer 4 4 N M Wakefield Evans 4 4 Standing Invitees: D A Crawford 4 4 S B McCann 4 4 People and Culture Committee J S Hemstritch (Chairman) 5 5 C B Carter 5 5 D J Ryan 5 5 Standing Invitees: D A Crawford 5 5 S B McCann 5 5 Sustainability Committee M J Ullmer (Chairman) 5 5 C B Carter 5 5 S B Dobbs 5 5 N M Wakefield Evans 5 5 Standing Invitees: D A Crawford 5 5 S B McCann 5 5 Nomination Committee C B Carter (Chairman) 8 8 D A Crawford 8 8 P M Colebatch 8 8 D P Craig 2 2 S B Dobbs 8 8 J S Hemstritch 8 8 D J Ryan 8 8 M J Ullmer 8 8 N M Wakefield Evans 8 8 1. Reflects the number of meetings held during the time the Director held office during the year. Two of the 10 meetings were out of schedule board teleconferences constituted to address specific issues. 2. Prior to his appointment, D P Craig attended meetings of the Board and Risk Management and Audit Committee as an observer. 3. J S Hemstritch was unable to attend the Board teleconferences as these were called at short notice to address specific issues. 4. Three subcommittees of the Board were convened during the reporting period to address specific issues. 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 83 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report For personal use only Message from the Board This Remuneration Report explains how our reward strategy supports the achievement of Lendlease’s strategy and reports on the Welcome to the 2016 Remuneration Report where we explain how performance has been linked to reward outcomes at Lendlease remuneration for Lendlease’s Key Management Personnel (KMP). this year. Contents Sustained Strong Financial Performance Lendlease has continued to deliever strong financial performance in 2016 as we strive to be the leading international property Executives and Non Executive Directors Covered in this Report 84 and infrastructure group in the core markets in which we operate. Our ‘Focus and Grow’ strategy is now fully operational and has a. Remuneration Overview 85 delivered the following results in 2016. • Revenue was A$15.1 billion Lendlease’s Executive Reward Strategy on a Page 85 • Profit after Tax was A$698.2 million (up 13 per cent from 2015) 2016 Performance 86 • Return on Equity was 13.0 per cent Five Year Performance Summary 87 • Operating cash flow increased substantially during the year to an inflow of A$853.0 million Performance and Funding for Short Term Incentives 87 In addition, the development pipeline is now worth A$48.8 billion, up 9 per cent from 2015, construction backlog revenue CEO Scorecard and Performance 87 increased by 20 per cent to A$20.7 billion and funds under management increased by 11 per cent to A$23.6 billion. b. Remuneration Disclosures 90 We continue to be conscious of our portfolio drivers: earnings visibility, geographic and sector diversification and growth in our target areas. Comparison of Remuneration Tables 90 The Link Between Lendlease’s Strategy and Executive Reward Strategy Remuneration Awarded by the Board for the Year Ended 30 June 2016 92 Our Executive Reward Strategy, which consists of a framework and policy that governs how the key senior employees in the Actual Remuneration Received in 2016 93 organisation are remunerated, supports the achievement of Lendlease’s strategy. Statutory Disclosures – Remuneration of the CEO and Senior Executives for the Years Ended 2016 and 2015 94 Our Executive Reward Strategy considers the interests of both internal and external stakeholders and aims to drive strong individual and team performance. The Executive Reward Strategy is implemented through four guiding principles: Simplicity, Reconciliation of 2016 Statutory Remuneration with Remuneration Received for the CEO 95 Responsiveness, Balance, and Governance and Risk Management. We seek long term outperformance through the execution of c. Remuneration Governance 96 business strategy while managing business risk. Setting Remuneration Levels 97 A key element of our Executive Reward Strategy is forging clear alignment between Senior Executives and securityholders. We believe that the medium-to-long term emphasis of remuneration at Lendlease appropriately recognises the investment cycle of a Remuneration Mix 98 group such as ours. Mandatory Securityholding 99 This is delivered through: d. How Rewards are Linked to Performance 100 • A significant portion of remuneration being ‘at risk’ and tied to clear metrics; • Extensive use of deferred and Long Term Incentives (with vesting over a period of up to four years); and Short Term Incentives (STI) 100 • Mandatory securityholdings by Senior Executives in Lendlease securities (enforced through disposal restrictions on vested Long Term Incentives (LTI) (current year) 102 equity until the required levels are achieved). Prior Year LTI Awards (2012 plan and 2013 plan) 104 We believe that our approach to executive reward has been a key factor in driving our success. In order to have the right people to LTI Performance 105 lead the Group over the long term, Lendlease has developed and embedded a competitive Executive Reward Strategy to deliver long term outperformance. For securityholders, this performance has been illustrated in Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return How Risk Management is Incorporated into Executive Reward 106 of 75.3 per cent over the past 5 years, compared to 45.3 per cent for the ASX 100 accumulation index over the same period. This e. Executive Contracts 107 has been supported by the design of incentives for the CEO and Senior Executives. CEO Contract 107 We are also pleased to report that we received 98.34% of votes cast in favour of our Remuneration Report at the 2015 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Senior Executives' Contracts 107 Changes in 2016 Securities Trading Policy 107 There were no major changes introduced in 2016, however further progress was made in reweighting the mix of Senior f. Non Executive Directors’ Fees 108 Executives’ pay towards Long Term Incentives, creating further alignment with securityholders. Our focus on building internal capability has also delivered successful results as recent key executive appointments have been made from within the Group. Board and Committee Fees 108 We will continue to review the Executive Reward Strategy to see if enhancements can be made to further support the ‘Focus & Remuneration of Non Executive Directors for the Years Ended 2016 and 2015 108 Grow’ Strategy. We look forward to your comments on both our remuneration arrangements and the Remuneration Report. g. Equity Based Remuneration 109 Deferred Securities 109 LTI Awards 111 Equity Holdings and Transactions for the Year Ended 30 June 2016 113 h. Appendix 114 David Crawford, AO Jane Hemstritch Terms Used in this Remuneration Report 114 Chairman Chairman, People and Culture Committee This report forms part of the Directors’ Report and has been audited in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 85 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only Executives and Non Executive Directors Covered in this Report a. Remuneration Overview The following Executives and Non Executive Directors were considered Key Management Personnel for the year ended 30 June 2016 and are Lendlease’s Executive Reward Strategy on a Page covered by this report. The following provides a high level overview of the key aspects of Lendlease’s Executive Reward Strategy, guiding principles and remuneration components. CEO and Senior Executives Current Executives Vision To create the best places. Stephen McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO) Strategy Lendlease is committed to becoming the leading international property and Tarun Gupta Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia until 30 April 2016, Group Chief Financial Officer since 1 May 2016 infrastructure group in the core markets in which we operate. Denis Hickey Chief Executive Officer, Americas Underpinned by Daniel Labbad Chief Executive Officer, International Operations and Chief Executive Officer, Europe Our Executive A remuneration framework which attracts and retains the high calibre of executives needed to Reward Strategy deliver on the strategy and aligns rewards with a focus on sustainable performance. Anthony Lombardo Group Chief Financial Officer until 30 April 2016, Chief Executive Officer, Asia since 1 May 2016 Robert McNamara Group Chief Risk Officer Applying principles of Kylie Rampa Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia since 1 May 2016 Our Simplicity Responsiveness Balance Governance and Risk Management Executive Simple, transparent and Consider and, as A significant portion of remuneration Clear governance and risk Former Executives Reward easy to communicate. appropriate, respond to is at risk, but can be earned through management practices minimise Strategy the interests of internal achieving outstanding short and potential conflicts of interest and Rod Leaver Chief Executive Officer, Asia until 30 April 2016 and external stakeholders. long term performance. enable effective decision making by the Board and management. David Saxelby Chief Executive Officer, Construction and Infrastructure – Australia until 17 March 2015 and ceased employment with the Group on 4 September 2015 Delivered through remuneration components of Note: the term Senior Executives when used throughout this report refers to all the Executives listed above, unless specifically stated otherwise. Key Fixed remuneration. Short Term Incentives Short Term Incentives delivered as Long Term Incentives. Remuneration delivered as cash. deferred securities. Components Non Executive Directors With business and operational risks managed by Current Non Executive Directors Business and Performance Robust Substantial Significant KPIs that Qualitative Board discretion David Crawford Independent Chairman Operational Risk hurdles that forfeiture and mandatory deferral of specifically overlay built into encouraged to appropriately malus securityholding incentives for include focus performance reward good Colin Carter Independent Non Executive Director reflect the ‘long provisions. for the CEO up to four years on key assessment to decisions, tail’ of risk and and Senior post award. operational ensure account for Phillip Colebatch Independent Non Executive Director profitability in Executives. risks including assessment is unforeseen our business. safety. balanced and circumstances David Craig Independent Non Executive Director (appointed 1 March 2016) holistic. and limit Steve Dobbs Independent Non Executive Director windfall gains. Jane Hemstritch Independent Non Executive Director While aligning management and securityholders through David Ryan Independent Non Executive Director Alignment with Substantial mandatory securityholding Use of Total Shareholder Return and Return Significant deferral of incentives in to Securityholders for the CEO and Senior Executives. on Equity as the LTI performance hurdles. Lendlease securities for up to four years. Michael Ullmer Independent Non Executive Director Nicola Wakefield Evans Independent Non Executive Director Driving performance through Short Term Incentives Short Term Industry specific measures Financial measures Strategic, operational and Incentives That ensure a healthy development That measure both the quality and people measures pipeline and backlog are built growth in earnings and have a qualitative To ensure management is focused on (which are key to long term overlay that reviews the overall a balance of measures that underpin sustainable value creation). financial health of the business. the growth and sustainability of the Group including operational efficiency, safety and leadership. And Long Term securityholder value creation through Long Term Incentives Long Term Performance period of three Relative Total Shareholder Return Return on Equity Incentives to four years Only rewards the CEO and Senior Is an important long term measure of Reflects an appropriate balance Executives for delivering returns how well the management team between reward that motivates superior to what a securityholder could generates acceptable earnings from executives while reflecting the long achieve in the market and ensures capital invested and rewards for term ‘tail’ of profitability and risk management maintains a strong focus decisions in respect of developing, associated with ‘today’s decisions’. on securityholder outcomes. managing, acquiring and disposing of assets. While maintaining the highest standards of governance Governance The Board holds ultimate discretion. Strict protocols in place for interactions with the Board’s remuneration advisor. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 87 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only a. Remuneration Overview continued Segment Performance and Outlook Five Year Performance Summary In line with the Annual Integrated Report, Segment descriptions The table below outlines some key indicators of Group performance over the past five years for the year ended 30 June 2016. 2016 Performance have changed since 2015 to better reflect key activities in our Lendlease delivered a strong performance for the year against 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 business. Comparative data from prior years has been restated to both financial and non-financial measures. For the third successive reflect these changes. Statutory Profit after Tax A$m 698.2 618.6 822.9 549.0 1 501.4 year there have been zero fatalities and at the same time there has Development Operating Profit after Tax A$m 698 619 823 550 1 507 been a 37 per cent improvement in the Critical Incident Frequency Rate. The Group’s employee engagement levels are above industry Delivered a Profit after Tax of A$366.4 million, up 32 per cent on the EPSS on statutory Profit after Tax 2 cents 126.3 112.4 150.8 101.21 92.7 norms. At the same time, Profit after Tax of A$698.2 million was prior year. Total dividends/distributions3 A$m 349.1 313.2 409.8 241.5 217.5 up 13 per cent on the prior year and EBITDA of A$1,054.9 million Residential settlement momentum continued, rising to 4,790 was up 9 per cent. Earnings growth was driven by improved Increase/(decrease) in closing price 4 A$ (2.43) 1.92 4.76 1.15 (1.77) settlements, up 7 per cent compared to the prior year. performance across the Development and Construction segments. Annual Total Securityholder Return5 % (13) 20 62 22 (16) Forward sale of three commercial buildings during the year. The Group’s Return on Equity was 13.0 per cent for the year, within Two in delivery at The International Quarter in London and the Return on Equity6 % 13.0 12.4 18.2 13.61 13.4 its 11 to 15 per cent target range. Earnings per Security was 120.1 commercial office building at Darling Square in Sydney. cents per security, up 12 per cent on the prior year. 1. 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the impact of first time adoption of the revised AASB 119 Employee Benefits standard and the new AASB 11 Joint New managed investment vehicle established seeded by the Arrangements standard in 2014, with retrospective adjustment from 1 July 2012. Operating cash flow increased substantially during the year to an sale of equity positions in Australian PPP projects including 2. EPSS (Earnings per Stapled Security) is calculated using the weighted average number of securities on issue excluding treasury securities. In the 2016 inflow of A$853.0 million. The improvement in the operating cash investments in the Sunshine Coast University Hospital, New Performance section of this report EPSS including treasury securities has been reported. flow position was supported by achieving settlement on the first 3. A$132.7 million Company dividend component franked to 25 per cent was declared subsequent to the reporting date for June 2015. Bendigo Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live). 4. Represents the movement in the security price over the year calculated using the closing security price at 30 June 2016. wave of apartment project completions and also proceeds received Positive growth outlook as end development pipeline grew 9 per 5. Represents the movement in the Group’s security price, distribution yield and any return on capital over the financial year. on Tower Two and Tower Three at Barangaroo South in Sydney. 6. ROE is calculated as the annual statutory Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year and year end securityholders’ equity. cent to A$48.8 billion and presold residential revenue increased to The Group also completed another PLLACes transaction in its A$5.9 billion. Australian Apartment business which contributed to operating Construction Performance and Funding for Short Term Incentives In this way, the STI outcome rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well cashflow. Other key areas of cash generation during the year as ‘how’ it is achieved. Lendlease is committed to the safety and included the Group’s divestment of a 25 per cent interest in Delivered a Profit after Tax of A$190.9 million, up 20 per cent Incentives are funded by an incentive pool which represents a wellbeing of all of its employees. The Board’s view is that safety is Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust and the sell compared to the prior year. maximum that can be spent on incentives. Using an incentive part of the DNA of how Lendlease does business – it is embedded down of the Group’s equity position in a number of public private pool ensures that there is a fair sharing of profits between 24 per cent increase in new work secured, A$14.6 billion for as part of the culture and the behaviours required of all Executives partnerships (PPP) projects in Australia. securityholders and employees by capping the amount of profits the year. This included a number of new projects secured by at all times. The Board considers these behaviours and outcomes The Group finished the year with a strong balance sheet position, that can be paid to employees. It also forges a strong link between Engineering in Australia in the transport sector. in assessing the overall performance of the CEO and each Senior including cash and cash equivalents of A$1,008.4 million and net Group performance and STI outcomes because STI outcomes are Backlog secured revenue increased 20 per cent on the prior year Executive. While the assessment is not structured formulaically or debt of A$1,052.4 million. The Group reduced its gearing position influenced (up or down) by the available pool. to A$20.7 billion, comprising A$15.1 billion of building work, A$3.9 as a ‘gateway’ measure, expectations are clearly communicated to 6.5 per cent during the year and closed with available liquidity Group Profit After Tax (PAT) is one factor that determines the to the CEO and Senior Executives that poor health and safety billion of engineering work and A$1.7 billion of services work. of A$3,181.0 million. overall size of the STI pool. An assessment of overall profit outcomes may lead to reduction in STI outcomes for the year. New Engineering wins included the Gateway Upgrade North make-up, the quality and sustainability of earnings and other Outlook Project and Kingsford Smith Highway upgrade in Queensland, The Board has assessed the CEO’s 2016 scorecard and made an financial and non financial factors are also considered. Group PAT D9 Level Crossings Removal and Tullamarine Road Widening in overall judgement as to whether the scorecard results fully reflect Lendlease continued to achieve strong growth across all segments was above target for 2016. Following an overall assessment of Victoria and Northern Connector in South Australia. performance and appropriate management of risk. Following the of its operating platform in the FY16 year. The remaining end performance, the Board approved an STI pool, 10 per cent higher Board’s assessment, the CEO’s STI awarded for the year ended development pipeline grew to A$48.8 billion, up 9 per cent on the Investments than in 2015 whilst PAT increased by 13 per cent. 30 June 2016 was A$2,187,500 (being the combined cash and prior year. This included A$37.3 billion of urbanisation projects. deferred components of his STI), which equated to 125 per cent Delivered Profit after Tax of A$370.7 million, down 9 per cent on CEO Scorecard and Performance The Development segment also continued to grow its residential of the CEO’s target STI award. Refer to the table Remuneration the prior year. Results were impacted by a reduction in the value of presales book during the year, closing the year at A$5.9 billion, up STI outcomes are based on both the individual’s performance Awarded by the Board on page 92 to see the total remuneration the Group’s investment in 313@Somerset in Singapore, following 13 per cent on the prior year. The Group’s construction backlog against their personal KPIs and based on the performance of the awarded to the CEO for 2016. softer trading conditions on Orchard Road. However the following revenue grew to $20.7 billion, up 20 per cent on the prior year. Group (and the respective Region for executives with regional highlights are noted for FY16: This included A$14.6 billion of new work secured. Within responsibility). The personal KPIs for the CEO and Senior Australia, engineering backlog revenue increased by A$1.5 billion Investments managed on behalf of the Group were steady Executives are contained in a scorecard. The Board has a rigorous to A$3.9 billion, including a number of large projects in the at A$3.0 billion including the Group’s co-investments in funds, process for the setting of scorecards at the start of the year and transport sector. Lendlease is also the preferred bidder on retirement living business and US Military Housing operations. the evaluation of scorecards at the end of the year. approximately A$7 billion of work globally. Funds under management (FUM) grew by 11 per cent during the Scorecards for the CEO and Senior Executives generally reflect Funds under management grew to A$23.6 billion, up 11 per cent on year to A$23.6 billion, with approximately A$3 billion of additional short and medium term goals and long term strategic initiatives. the prior year. New equity raised during the year was A$1.3 billion. secured FUM across urbanisation projects in delivery. They include items such as the financial performance, health and Lendlease’s strong network of capital partners delivers additional New equity of A$1.3 billion was raised during the year. safety, delivery of key projects, sale of key assets, embedding capacity for the Group to develop its pipeline of opportunities and Five retirement villages sold in New Zealand to Blackstone during operational excellence and investing in people. provides a solid base of recurring income and fees. the year, with cash settlement occuring after 30 June 2016. The Board also assesses the CEO and Senior Executives against Lendlease is well positioned to deliver on its development pipeline 25 per cent stake sold in Lend Lease One International Towers Lendlease’s defined: and construction backlog, while continuing to grow its funds Sydney Trust to a large Asian based investor. • leadership capabilities (including health and safety, under management. The established operating platform, including sustainability and diversity); a record development pipeline and presales position, provides • values; and strong earnings visibility. The Group’s strong balance sheet • leadership behaviours. position and access to third party capital provides flexibility to explore future growth opportunities. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 89 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only a. Remuneration Overview continued CEO Scorecard and Performance continued PERFORMANCE MEASURES for year ended 30 June 2016 REASON CHOSEN PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT RESULT Financial performance • A range of financial metrics including targets for: The Board believes the combination of the financial Targets included significant financial stretch Cash flow from operating and investment activities was Exceeded – PAT; measures and the assessment of the overall financial (with PAT target being 13% higher than the FY15 target). significantly ahead of targets. Target – EBITDA; health of the business ensures that the CEO is PAT of A$698.2 million was above target and significantly The Board’s view is that the performance of the Group – EBITDA margin; rewarded for decisions and outcomes that deliver ahead of FY15 (up 13%). continues to be strong and there has been improvement in Financial – ROE; and results in the short term but that are also sustainable parts of the business that have been underperforming, apart and in the long term interests of securityholders. EBITDA of A$1,054.9 million and EBITDA margin at 7.0% – Cash flow from operating and investing. were both slightly below target. from a decline in profitability in Asia for FY16. • An assessment not only of the actual result on the stated metrics but also the ROE was ahead of target at 13.0% and within the target overall financial health of the business including, amongst other things, an range of 11–15%. assessment of the components and quality of the actual result in comparison with the budget and an assessment of each business unit’s performance. Non financial performance A range of strategic initiatives largely focused on embedding the Focus & Grow Ensuring employees and investors understand the Embedding the strategy Developing customer insights and innovation At Target strategy, developing customer insights and a framework to support innovation strategic priorities and focus for the business over the The CEO has focused on communicating the Focus & Grow Customer focus is now a key operating principle and has in the business. next 5 years is a critical part of delivering the strategy. strategy to leadership and external stakeholders, which has become a part of each business strategy and operational plan. resulted in improved levels of understanding and engagement. Customer insight has been positioned as a driver of innovation Investors have continued to provide positive feedback on the and the cultural shift to support innovation has begun with strategy. over 130 ideas being generated across the business. Strategic Transitioning leadership in the Engineering business Other key achievements A new CEO has been appointed to the Engineering business. Demonstrating the integrated model in the Healthcare sector Good progress is being made demonstrated by the backlog where value was created through each of the Investment, being significantly boosted to A$3.9 billion. Development and Build stages of the Sunshine Coast Continued shift to Development activity in the Americas University and New Bendigo Hospitals. The Americas region continues to move towards an origination Establishing a cross-laminated-timber production unit in led business with urbanisation opportunities growing Western Sydney to support the production of this sustainable by 21 per cent in FY16. and economical material for use in projects going forward. A range of metrics focused on health and safety, developing leadership Having the right people in management and senior Leadership in Safety and Wellbeing Building Project Director Capability Exceeded capability and identifying and retaining key talent, including specific metrics leadership roles is critical to our long term success. There were zero fatalities for a third year in a row. The Group introduced a tailored talent development program Target for: The CEO plays an important role in this process and for integrated Project Directors which supports the transition he is assessed on his ability to manage talent and The Critical Incidents Frequency Rate (a measure which helps • Leadership in Safety and Wellbeing us to assess how proactive we are in taking steps to eliminate of knowledge from our most experienced project-based succession risks at senior management levels. executives to a pipeline of top talent. • Broadening and deepening succession pools potentially life threatening incidents) has improved by 37% • Increasing the female leadership pipeline from FY15 – reflecting outstanding leadership from the CEO Employee engagement • Building Project Director capability through regular site visits and leader calls on the topic of Attrition rates amongst our talent pools and high potential safety. People • Increasing employee engagement scores in focus areas individuals are less than 10% and lower than general attrition Succession and leadership pipeline rates across the Group. The CEO has exceeded the targets set in respect of succession In the latest employee engagement progress survey plans for key group and regional leadership roles as well conducted by Willis Towers Watson we achieved an 84 per increasing the number of female successors for regional cent sustainable engagement score, reinforcing that our leadership roles (up 55% from last year). people are proud to work at Lendlease. The CEO is a member of the Male Champions of Change for the Property sector and has taken deliberate steps to address the matter of gender pay equity in the business positioning Lendlease as an industry leader. Specific operational targets focused on flagship projects, sustainability, Delivery on key projects, transforming the business Flagship projects Progress ahead of plan against 2020 targets of 20% reduction At Target operational efficiencies and managing underperforming parts of the portfolio. through managing underperformance and generating Key milestones reached on the Barangaroo South project. in energy, water and waste usage and further initiatives are efficiency savings not only delivers short term return, being put in place. but builds a foundation for long term success. Very Substantial progress made on the Payar Lebar Quarter & Operational efficiencies Operational Excellence specific measures and initiatives are identified to Lifestyle Quarter at Tun Razak Exchange projects including ensure Lendlease manages such things to enable establishment of leadership teams on both projects. Workforce planning has been used to support planning for FY delivery of long term objectives. The Riverline project in Chicago was converted to 17, with savings built into forward plans by reviewing workforce development stage during the year. composition and improving spans of control. Accountability for realising value driven via Quarterly Business Reviews. Lendlease has been shortlisted on a number of new projects in London and Australia and secured a new project in Italy. Targets for overhead reductions have been exceeded. Progress has been made on optimal capital allocation strategy. Managing underperforming parts of the portfolio Sustainability A new CEO has been appointed to the Engineering business Global and regional Investment Committee papers are which had been performing below expectations. The business required to include a complete plan for Sustainability (e.g. has doubled its backlog to $3.9 billion including a number of environmental, community and economic factors). projects in the transport sector. No new problem projects have been identified. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 91 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only b. Remuneration Disclosures Comparison of Remuneration Tables In this section, the value of remuneration for the CEO and each Senior Executive is outlined. In addition to the required statutory table (based on the accounting disclosures), we have set out the Remuneration Awarded by the Board and the Actual Remuneration Received as we understand the information contained in these tables is valued by stakeholders. The additional tables provide a more complete illustration of our approach to executive remuneration. An explanation of the differences between the tables is set out below. Disclosure Period covered Fixed remuneration STI STI deferral LTI Awarded Remuneration disclosed will relate to both Fixed remuneration includes the contractually The cash portion of the STI award that will be The deferred securities portion of the STI The estimated fair value of 2016 LTI grants Illustrates what the Board awarded in relation the time in their current role (as KMP) and any awarded amount of Total Package Value/Base made in September 2016 for year ended 30 earned in respect of the year ended 30 June made in September 2015. to performance for this financial year other role they have held at Lendlease during Salary from 1 September 2015 or later. It June 2016. (That is, the cash STI paid after 2016 but deferred until September 2017 and As described on page 102, these vest in the financial year. excludes annual leave and long service leave year end but in respect of the 2016 financial September 2018. September 2018 and September 2019 and are accruals. year.) subject to relative TSR and ROE hurdles (as Note: this only covers the cash portion. Refer explained in detail on page 103). ‘STI deferral’ column for the treatment of the Deferred STI. Actual Received As above. Represents the sum of the Statutory As above. The value of any Deferred STI awards which The value of any LTI Illustrates the actual fixed remuneration disclosures (below) for cash salary, non vested during this financial year. The value which vested during this financial year. received this year as well as the value of any monetary benefits and superannuation but shown represents the value at the grant date. The value shown represents the value at the deferred awards (including Deferred STI and/ excludes the movement in annual leave accrual The Deferred STI awards which vested in this grant date. or LTI) that vested in this year (which is included as a non monetary benefit in year were granted in September 2013 and The LTI which vested in this year were the Statutory table). September 2014 and vested in September awarded in September 2011 and September 2015. 2012. The value of security price growth between The value of security price growth between the grant date and the vesting date and the the grant date and the vesting date and the value of distributions for these awards is value of distributions for these awards is included in the security price growth & included in the security price growth & distributions column. distributions column. Statutory Only shows remuneration for the time the The Statutory disclosures include a value for As above. Represents the accounting expense in The accounting expense attributed to this Statutory Remuneration is prepared in executive was KMP. cash salary, non monetary benefits, respect of any Deferred STI from 2014 and financial year for LTI awards made in the 2012, accordance with the Australian Accounting superannuation and other long term benefits in 2015, less an adjustment for any amounts 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 financial years. Standards line with statutory remuneration disclosure forfeited. requirements. Non monetary benefits also includes the movement in annual leave accrual. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 93 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only Remuneration Awarded by the Board for the Year Ended 30 June 2016 Actual Remuneration Received in 2016 The Remuneration Awarded by the Board to the CEO and Senior Executives in relation to performance this year is set out in the table The table below outlines the Actual Remuneration Received by the CEO and by Senior Executives during the performance year. It is below. The total STI awarded (being the sum of the Cash STI and deferred STI) reflects the result of the assessment of Group and individual divided into two parts – 2016 Current Year Remuneration and Prior Year Remuneration. performance from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. The table also shows the STI outcome for each Senior Executive as a percentage of both 2016 Current Year Remuneration represents fixed remuneration as well as the cash portion of the 2016 STI due to be paid in September target and maximum STI opportunity. 2016. Prior Year Remuneration represents deferred remuneration that was awarded in prior years that was paid or vested this year. The Deferred STI issued as part of the overall STI award may vest after a further one and two years. The value of deferred STI will depend on the table shows the value of the deferred remuneration at the time it was awarded and separately shows the growth in the value of the price of Lendlease securities at the date of vesting. remuneration received that is attributable to security price growth and distributions paid. The amount actually received as a result of these combined awards will not be known until September 2019 when the testing of the LTI Actual Remuneration received is different from: performance hurdle is completed, the vesting of STI deferred awards is completed and the value of Lendlease securities is known. • The Remuneration Awarded by the Board in relation to 2016 performance (which is set out on page 92). Actual Remuneration includes remuneration for this and previous years, whereas the Remuneration Awarded is wholly in respect of the current year; and • The Statutory Remuneration disclosures (on page 94) which are prepared in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and represent a blend of actual amounts and accounting accruals. ‘AT RISK’ – TOTAL POTENTIAL LTI FACE 2016 CURRENT YEAR A$000's1 SHORT TERM DEFERRED TO FUTURE PERIODS REMUNERATION STI OPPORTUNITY VALUE7 A$000's1 REMUNERATION PRIOR YEAR REMUNERATION STI DEFERRED Value of STI Total including SECURITIES TO VEST IN 2016 LTI (Actual value is awards dependent upon deferred Security price security price Fixed (conditional future service % of % of Fixed 2016 securities at Value of LTI at growth & growth and remunerSTI Sept Sept on future and future target STI maximum Face Name remuneration2 STI cash3 award date4 award date5 Total distributions6 distributions Name ation2 cash3 2017 2018 performance)4 performance) paid STI paid Value Stephen McCann 2,060 1,021 1,325 1,345 5,751 1,736 7,487 Stephen McCann 2,034 1,021 583 583 2,150 6,371 125% 83% 3,087 Tarun Gupta 1,089 611 553 287 2,540 431 2,971 Tarun Gupta 1,100 611 363 363 500 2,937 135% 90% 718 Denis Hickey 1,816 654 614 3,084 177 3,261 Denis Hickey 1,507 654 338 338 350 3,187 105% 70% 503 Daniel Labbad 1,528 573 586 313 3,000 482 3,482 Daniel Labbad 1,280 573 305 305 400 2,863 110% 73% 574 Rod Leaver7 1,482 424 350 2,256 496 2,752 Rod Leaver5 1,386 300 1,686 0% 0% 431 Anthony Lombardo 1,358 506 580 295 2,739 466 3,205 Anthony Lombardo 1,040 506 283 283 500 2,612 120% 80% 718 Robert McNamara 1,770 688 905 276 3,639 603 4,242 Robert McNamara 1,389 688 375 375 425 3,252 115% 77% 610 Kylie Rampa 8 830 492 301 128 1,751 173 1,924 Kylie Rampa6 920 492 304 304 200 2,220 147% 98% 287 1. All executives are paid in local currency but reported in the above table in AUD based on the following 12 month average historic foreign 1. All executives are paid in local currency but reported in the above table in AUD based on the following 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates: GBP 0.50 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 1.01 (applied to Rod Leaver and Anthony Lombardo), USD 0.73 (applied to exchange rates: GBP 0.50 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 1.01 (applied to Rod Leaver and Anthony Lombardo), USD 0.73 (applied to Robert McNamara and Denis Hickey). Robert McNamara and Denis Hickey). 2. Fixed remuneration includes salary, allowances, non monetary benefits (excluding accrued annual leave expense) and superannuation. The 2. Fixed remuneration includes the contractually awarded amount of Total Package Value (including the value of any benefits salary difference between Fixed Remuneration in the Awarded and Actual Received tables for Denis Hickey, Rod Leaver, Anthony Lombardo and sacrificed) but excluding any allowances or non monetary benefits. Robert McNamara is due to non monetary benefits, and allowances paid as a result of their relocation. 3. The STI cash refers to the portion of the STI award for the year ended 30 June 2016 that will be paid in cash in September 2016. As outlined 3. The STI cash refers to the portion of the STI award for the year ended 30 June 2016 that will be paid in cash in September 2016. As outlined on page 101, the STI cash portion reflects 50% of the STI awarded up to an executive’s target STI and one-third of the STI awarded above on page 101, the STI cash portion reflects 50% of the STI awarded up to an executive’s target STI and one-third of the STI awarded above their target. their target. 4. LTI awards were granted on 1 September 2015. The value in the table above reflects the estimated fair value as distinct from the accounting 4. STI deferred securities refers to the amounts deferred in prior years that vested in the current year. This is calculated using the security fair value used in the Statutory Disclosures on page 94. The allocation is made on a fair value basis to provide a value per performance price at the date of grant. The value for Robert McNamara includes A$259k in deferred incentives awarded to Mr McNamara in 2012 security reflective of the target value in the hands of the executives based on an estimate of the impact of the performance hurdles. Further specifically to support the significant turnaround required in the Americas business. For further information, refer to page 110. explanation is provided on page 102. 5. LTI refers to the LTI awards granted in prior years that vested in the current year. This is calculated using the security price at the time of grant. 5. Rod Leaver was KMP up until 30 April 2016 when he ceased to be Chief Executive Officer, Asia, though he was an employee for the full 6. This is calculated as the difference between the face value of the award at date of vesting less the face value at the time of grant plus the year. The amounts in the table above represent his total remuneration awarded and are not pro rated for his time as KMP. value of distributions during the grant to vest period. 6. Kylie Rampa became KMP on 1 May 2016 when she was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia. The amounts in the Awarded 7. Rod Leaver was KMP up until 30 April 2016 when he ceased to be Chief Executive Officer, Asia, though he was an employee for the full table represent the total remuneration awarded upon her appointment to the role and are not pro rated for her time as KMP. year. The amounts in the table above represent his total remuneration received and are not pro rated for his time as KMP. 7. LTI allocation is made on a fair value basis refer page 102 for a detailed explanation of the rationale and allocation methodology. Face 8. Kylie Rampa became KMP on 1 May 2016 when she was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia. The amounts in the table value is calculated using the security price at the date of grant (A$15.16). represent the total remuneration received and are not pro-rated for her time as KMP. 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 95 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only b. Remuneration Disclosures continued Reconciliation of 2016 Statutory Remuneration with Actual Remuneration Received for the CEO The following table shows the difference between the CEO’s Actual Remuneration Received (page 93) and the Statutory Remuneration Statutory Disclosures – Remuneration of the CEO and Senior Executives for the Years Ended 2016 and 2015 disclosure (page 94). POST-EMPLOYMENT A$000's1 SHORT TERM BENEFITS BENEFITS SECURITY BASED PAYMENTS 6 Non Other Description A$000’s Vesting year1 Cash monetary LTI equity STI equity long term 2016 Total Actual Remuneration Received 7,487 Name Year salary2 STI cash3 benefits4 Superannuation5 settled settled benefits7 Total Less 2012 LTI vesting (1,270) 2016 Executive Director Less 2013 LTI vesting (1,364) 2016 Stephen McCann 2016 2,015 1,021 26 19 2,006 1,423 30 6,540 Less Deferred STI vesting (1,772) 2016 2015 2,015 1,021 131 19 1,643 1,532 30 6,391 Accrued annual leave and long service leave expense 30 Senior Executives 2014 & 2015 STI award – deferred securities component 1,423 2017 and 2018 Tarun Gupta 2016 1,064 611 6 19 411 708 16 2,835 LTI awards – Accounting expense: 2015 968 585 90 325 613 15 2,596 • 2010/2011 LTI 19 2016 Denis Hickey 2016 1,648 654 177 11 296 739 3,525 • 2011/2012 LTI 145 2016 and 2017 2015 1,382 515 148 14 161 509 2,729 • 2012/2013 LTI 633 2017 and 2018 Daniel Labbad 2016 1,306 573 65 179 373 717 3,213 • 2013/2014 LTI 693 2018 and 2019 2015 1,382 575 194 169 319 616 16 3,271 • 2014/2015 LTI 516 2019 and 2020 Anthony Lombardo 2016 1,288 506 54 16 413 559 15 2,851 Total remuneration (statutory disclosures) 6,540 2015 981 495 49 19 328 598 15 2,485 1. Based on the financial year ending 30 June of the relevant year. Robert McNamara 2016 1,389 688 420 8 372 745 3,622 2015 1,334 564 132 7 311 820 3,168 Kylie Rampa 8 2016 135 82 3 33 78 2 333 Former Executives Rod Leaver9 2016 1,236 70 668 (83) 1,891 2015 1,448 409 23 307 379 2,566 David Saxelby 10 2015 767 554 38 13 582 307 11 2,272 1. All executives are paid in local currency but reported in the above table in AUD based on the following 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates: GBP 0.50 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 1.01 (applied to Rod Leaver and Anthony Lombardo), USD 0.73 (applied to Robert McNamara and Denis Hickey). 2. Cash salary includes the payment of cash allowances such as housing and motor vehicle allowance and holiday pay on termination. 3. STI cash refers to the portion of the STI award for the year ended 30 June 2016 that will be paid in cash in September 2016. As outlined on page 101, the STI cash portion reflects 50% of the STI awarded up to an executive’s target STI and one-third of the STI awarded above their target. 4. Non monetary benefits may include items such as car parking, relocation and expatriate benefits (such as house rental, health insurance, shipping of goods and tax return preparation) motor vehicle costs, travel benefits and annual leave. 5. Superannuation includes the value of pension contributions for non Australian based executives (previously disclosed as non monetary benefits). 6. The amounts for security based payments reflect the accounting expense on a fair value basis. The LTI is based on the accounting fair value at the date of grant. 7. Other long term benefits represent the accrual of long term leave entitlements (e.g. long service leave). 8. Kylie Rampa became KMP on 1 May 2016 when she was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia. The information for the current year reflects her remuneration for the time she was KMP being the period 1 May 2016 to 30 June 2016. 9. Rod Leaver was KMP up until 30 April 2016 when he ceased to be Chief Executive Officer, Asia. The information for the current year reflects his remuneration for the time he was KMP being the period 1 July 2015 to 30 April 2016. The security based payments expense for the current period has been recalculated, in line with accounting standards, to reflect full entitlement to the unvested securities (but still subject to the original vesting conditions) through to the anticipated date on which Rod Leaver ceases to provide services to the Group. 10. David Saxelby was KMP until 17 March 2015 and ceased employment with the Group on 4 September 2015. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 97 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only c. Remuneration Governance Setting Remuneration Levels Robust governance is a critical part of Lendlease's approach to executive remuneration. Board We benchmark our remuneration mix and levels to ensure we provide market competitive total rewards for on target performance, and total rewards above the market median if outstanding performance is achieved The Board has overall responsibility for executive remuneration at Lendlease. The Board assesses the performance of, and determines the remuneration outcome for, the CEO. Remuneration is reviewed annually by the P&C Committee for the CEO and Senior Executives (or during the year if there are any role People and Culture (P&C) Committee changes or new executive appointments). Strict governance guidelines are followed, as outlined on page 96. The Committee’s agenda reflects the importance of human capital to the Group’s strategic and business planning and it assists the Board in establishing appropriate policies for people management and remuneration across the Group. The Committee’s scope is as follows; Peer group and The P&C Committee typically uses a number of sources for benchmarking CEO and Senior Executive remuneration • The P&C Committee assists the Board in determining executive remuneration at Lendlease. In making recommendations to the Board, primary sources including: the P&C Committee has unrestricted access to Senior Management and Company records and obtains independent advice from of data • Data provided by the Board’s remuneration advisor, PwC, about remuneration delivered to similar type roles in outside experts. companies of a similar size. • The P&C Committee consults with securityholders and other stakeholders. • The P&C Committee approves the assessment of performance against KPIs and the final STI outcomes for Senior Executives (after – for Australian based executives, we refer to companies listed on the ASX that are ranked between 26 and 75 considering the recommendations of the CEO). by market capitalisation (excluding companies domiciled overseas and property trusts where management is not typically employed by the trust). Consideration is also given to comparable roles in ASX listed companies • The P&C Committee met five times in 2016 and consists only of independent Non Executive Directors: with similar revenues. J S Hemstritch – Chairman C B Carter – Member – relevant local comparator groups for executives based in other countries. D J Ryan – Member • Publicly available data for comparable roles at peer organisations in Australia (including CIMIC (formerly • In addition, the Risk Management and Audit Committee provides expertise in ensuring that Lendlease’s remuneration arrangements Leighton), Mirvac and Stockland); and appropriately incorporate risk within the context of Lendlease’s broader risk management framework. • Published remuneration surveys, remuneration trends and other data sourced from Mercer, Aon Hewitt, FIRG, Management Hay Group, Ernst & Young, Avdiev and others. Management makes recommendations to the P&C Committee in relation to developing and implementing the Executive Reward Strategy and structure. The CEO also provides his recommendations on fixed pay and STI performance outcomes for his direct reports. Market positioning Fixed remuneration is set with reference to the market median and 75th percentile. The positioning will depend upon the specific nature of the role, the individual’s performance and the overall remuneration mix. Independent Remuneration Advisor (PwC)  he Board has appointed PwC as its independent remuneration advisor. Strict governance protocols were observed to ensure PwC’s T The remuneration outcomes for each Senior Executive will also take into consideration the target remuneration mix advice to the P&C Committee was made free from undue influence by KMP. During the year, PwC did not provide a remuneration under the Executive Reward Strategy (as set out on page 98). recommendation as defined in section 9B of the Corporations Act 2001. PwC provided advice on aspects of the remuneration of the KMP including commentary on positioning of the CEO, Senior Executives’ Application of The P&C Committee has applied a number of principles when applying remuneration benchmarks to Lendlease and Non Executive Director remuneration against the market. data to Lendlease roles. These principles include: CEO and Senior PwC’s advice was made free from undue influence by any of the KMP. Although a remuneration recommendation was not provided, Executives • Understanding the relative size, scale and complexity of the organisations in the data set (to ensure a fair consistent with good governance, the following arrangements were made to ensure that PwC’s advice was free of undue influence: comparison is made to organisations with similar global breadth and operational complexities as Lendlease); • PwC was engaged by, and reported directly to, the Chair of the P&C Committee; • Understanding the relative size, scale and complexity of the roles in the data set; • The agreement for the provision of remuneration consulting services was executed by the Chair of the P&C Committee on behalf • Recognising an individual’s tenure, position, experience and performance; of the Board; • Differentiating risk profiles between roles when reviewing pay mix; • Reports delivered by PwC were provided by PwC directly to the Chair of the P&C Committee; and • PwC was permitted, where approved by the P&C Committee Chair, to speak to management to understand Company processes, • Considering key talent including an emphasis on where we source talent from and where we lose talent to; and practices and other business issues and obtain management’s perspectives. PwC has declared that they have not been unduly • Considering internal relativities, role and/or person criticality and key talent and succession risk. influenced by the KMP in carrying out their duties. In addition to the above, when setting remuneration levels, the P&C Committee takes into account Group and As a consequence, the Board is satisfied that advice and market data provided by PwC was made free from undue influence from any of regional performance and the positioning of the Lendlease Executive relative to the market. the KMP. 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 99 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only c. Remuneration Governance continued CEO Remuneration Mix The charts below illustrate the percentage of the CEO’s total remuneration awarded that is made up of fixed remuneration, Remuneration Mix STI (both cash and deferred) and LTI, for 2015 and 2016. Securityholder alignment and longer term focus through significant incentive deferral 2016 2015 The remuneration mix is structured so that a substantial portion of remuneration is delivered as Lendlease securities through either 32% 33% Deferred STI or LTI. This, along with the Mandatory Securityholding requirement (set out on page 99), ensures that the interests of executives are aligned with securityholders. In the case of the CEO in 2016, more than half of his remuneration is delivered as Lendlease securities over a period of up to four years. As shown below, the Remuneration Awarded (refer page 92) to Senior Executives is delivered 34% LTI FIXED REMUNERATION 32% LTI FIXED REMUNERATION over a period of up to four years, over which time the Senior Executive is exposed to movements in the security price on any deferred amounts. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 and beyond Fixed remuneration Cash STI Deferred STI for 1 year The CEO and Senior Executives must 18% 19% 16% 16% maintain a holding of Lendlease STI DEFERRED STI DEFERRED Deferred STI for 2 years securities until the Mandatory LTI 3 year performance period Securityholding requirement is achieved STI CASH STI CASH LTI 4 year performance period Mandatory Securityholding The Mandatory Securityholding requires the CEO and Senior Executives to hold a minimum amount of Lendlease securities so that they have a significant personal investment in Lendlease. Along with the Deferred STI and LTI, the Mandatory Securityholding provides The remuneration mix has been specifically designed to align to the execution of Lendlease’s business strategy additional alignment with securityholders and encourages the CEO and Senior Executives to consider long term securityholder value when making decisions. The remuneration framework consists of three different components – fixed remuneration, Short Term Incentives and Long Term Since the 2013 financial year, the CEO and other Senior Executives are required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Lendlease securities Incentives. The relative weighting of each component is referred to as the ‘remuneration mix’. calculated with reference to their fixed remuneration (divided by the security price to determine a number of securities that must be held). In The Executive Reward Strategy provides for a target remuneration mix which links remuneration outcomes to the execution of business the case of: strategy over the short (one year), medium (two to three years) and long (three to four years) term. The target remuneration mix for FY16 • The CEO – the requirement is 150% of Total Package Value (TPV); and for the Group CEO is shown below, as well as an indicative range for Senior Executives. • Senior Executives – the requirement is 100% of TPV or 100% of base salary for Senior Executives outside of Australia. Percentage of Total Target Remuneration The mandatory holding for each Senior Executive is outlined below. The number of securities decreased in 2016 as a result of the Deferred STI increased security price when the mandatory holding was last reviewed in August 2015. (Delivered as deferred LTI Fixed Remuneration securities vesting one and (vesting three and Total number of securities held by the Number of securities required under the (annual) STI cash two years from grant) four years from grant) Executive Senior Executive as at 30 June 2016 Mandatory Securityholding as at 30 June 2016 Group CEO 34% 15% 15% 36% Stephen McCann 827,194 195,000 Senior Executives 40% – 55% 20% – 25% 20% – 25% 20% Tarun Gupta 116,850 70,000 Denis Hickey 26,271 87,000 The remuneration mix percentages above reflect the desired remuneration mix for the CEO and Senior Executives. To the extent that any Senior Executive is not currently paid in line with this preferred remuneration mix, it is intended that future adjustments to remuneration Daniel Labbad 161,139 79,000 will be made so as to, over a period of time, move the Senior Executive toward the desired remuneration mix (while taking into account Anthony Lombardo 247,308 67,000 the market benchmarking outlined on page 97). Market adjustments in 2016 have been focused on moving Senior Executives towards this Robert McNamara 340,749 80,000 desired remuneration mix and substantial progress has been made in this area. The Board has continued to shift the mix of total target remuneration towards LTI, and for the CEO, LTI has increased from 35% in FY15 to Kylie Rampa – N/A1 36% in FY16. 1. Mandatory Securityholding requirements are reviewed in August each year. Mandatory Securityholding requirements for Kylie Rampa will be set for the first Further, the remuneration mix based on Remuneration Awarded (set out on page 92) may be different to the target remuneration mix time in August 2016. (shown above) based on performance in the current year. Personally held securities may be counted towards the requirement. Importantly, unvested deferred securities and unvested LTI awards do not count toward this mandatory holding. To ensure Senior Executives meet the required minimum, Lendlease imposes a disposal restriction on 50% of any Senior Executives’ Deferred STI or LTI that vest until such time as the Senior Executive meets the mandatory securityholding requirements (for Senior Executives in Australia). This disposal restriction means that the Senior Executive will not be able to sell these securities until such time as Lendlease agrees to lift the disposal restriction. For Senior Executives who are based outside of Australia it is required that they should achieve the mandatory holding requirement within six years of their appointment as KMP. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 101 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only d. How Rewards are Linked to Performance STI design How the STI works Short Term Incentives (STI) How the STI is • The actual STI award is delivered as a mix of cash and Deferred STI. The Deferred STI may be settled in Lendlease delivered securities or in cash as determined by the Board. The significant portion (at least 50%) delivered as Deferred STI encourages executives to deliver sustainable performance. STIs are based on performance against a scorecard of financial, strategic and non financial KPIs and Group and Regional performance • For STI awards up to ‘target’, 50% of the STI awarded is paid in cash in September following the performance year. The remaining 50% is deferred. 50% of the deferred portion (i.e. 25% of the total award) vests one year after the grant and the other half of the deferred portion vests after two years. STI design How the STI works • For ‘above target’ STI awards, the above target portion is delivered one-third as cash and two-thirds deferred on the Overview • STI awards are only provided where executives perform well against their individual scorecard of Key Performance same basis as set out above. Indicators (KPIs), leadership capabilities, values and leadership behaviors. The KPIs include financial, strategic and • Distributions are not paid on any unvested Deferred STI for the CEO and Senior Executives. operational goals. The Lendlease leadership capabilities include health and safety, sustainability and diversity. • In calculating the value of the amount of Lendlease securities or cash provided on vesting of any Deferred STI, the Combined, the STI rewards both ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. value of any distributions made during the vesting period is taken into consideration. • The funding model ensures a robust link between individual outcomes and Group performance to encourage all • The Board's current intention is to deliver Deferred STI as Lendlease securities and Lendlease intends to purchase executives to think about both Group and individual goals. securities on market around September each year to satisfy these awards. Deferred STI awards are held in an • A significant portion of a Senior executive’s STI is delivered as deferred securities. This encourages Senior employee share plan trust until vesting. Executives to deliver sustainable performance and aligns the interests of executives and securityholders. Malus • The Board has the discretion to forfeit part or all of any unvested Deferred STI awards prior to their vesting where it STI funding • The pool of funds available to reward executives under the STI plan is determined by direct reference to Group transpires that the award(s) would provide a participant with a benefit that was unwarranted, or inappropriate. financial performance and, where relevant, regional financial performance. • It is anticipated that this will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances, including where the Board, acting • Pool funding levels are set by the Board and correspond to threshold, target and stretch levels of PAT achievement. reasonably, determines that: In determining the pool of funds available, the Board also considers the overall financial health of Lendlease − There has been a material misstatement in the Group’s consolidated financial statements or those of any including the sustainability of earnings. company in the Group including any misstatement which may be required to be disclosed to the ASX or any • Typically, if profit performance is above target, sufficient funds will be available to pay awards above target. relevant regulator or other authority; or Payments to individual executives are generally limited to 150% of their STI target, however a payment above 150% − The participant has engaged in misconduct, or other dereliction of duty (whether or not that misconduct or of target may be made if the Group has performed at a level in excess of target and the executive has made a dereliction of duty would warrant summary dismissal), which the Board reasonably considers either has had, or significant contribution to the result. may have, a serious impact for the Group or the relevant Group entity, whether financial, reputational, • Conversely, if PAT performance is below target, average STI awards will be below target. The CEO’s and Senior operational or otherwise. Executives’ awards will be determined based on their overall performance rating and contribution, relative to other • The Board will be entitled to consider whether it is appropriate to exercise this discretion in respect of awards for all executives. participants in a particular plan, in a region, in a business, in a team or for specified participants only. • In considering the best interests of the Group, the Board would be required to take into account relevant information STI targets • STI is based on ‘target opportunities’ which are set using the remuneration mix outlined on page 98. including: • The CEO and Senior Executives receive notification of a target STI opportunity annually. − The individual’s level of responsibility, accountability and influence for the incident or event; •  The minimum possible STI outcome is zero and the maximum STI outcome is generally limited to 150% of the CEO’s − The quantum of any actual loss or damage; and Senior Executives’ target STI opportunity. However, a payment above 150% of target may be made if the Group has performed at a level in excess of target and the Senior Executive has made a significant contribution to the result. − Whether the Group’s directions, policies or practices have been breached; For a Senior Executive to earn a bonus at 150% of target or above, outstanding individual performance must be − Whether any known information at the time of the action or inaction was deliberately withheld; and coupled with above target financial performance by the Group and relevant region. − Any other circumstances the Board considers relevant to an assessment of the participant’s conduct and the seriousness of its impact for the Group. STI Key • STI outcomes are based on performance during the financial year, primarily measured through the use of the CEO • The Board may delay vesting of any unvested Deferred STI in the event it is reviewing whether to exercise discretion Performance and Senior Executive scorecards. to reduce or forfeit unvested awards: Indicators • The CEO and Senior Executive scorecards consist of measures relating to financial performance, people, strategy − The CEO may exercise discretion under this policy in lieu of the Board for participants who are not Senior formulation and execution, and management and operational excellence. These KPIs flow from Lendlease’s short, Executives. Where such discretion is exercised by the CEO, the CEO will notify the Board. medium and long term strategic and business goals. • The CEO 2016 scorecard (approved by the Board) and performance against the scorecard is set out in summary on Termination • Malus provisions work alongside the existing provisions in the Deferred STI terms that allow the Board to adjust pages 88 and 89. unvested awards on termination of employment. In particular: • Senior Executives are subject to a similar scorecard reflecting Group or regional goals as appropriate. − If an employee is terminated for fraud or other serious misconduct, unvested deferred securities will lapse; • Financial measures focus on PAT, cash flow and capital management. Non financial measures include achievement − Where an employee is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust the number of unvested deferred of strategic and operational excellence objectives as well as the successful implementation of safety and people securities at the time of termination; and leadership goals. − Deferred STI awards are forfeited by the individual if they resign or are terminated for cause during the vesting • Lendlease is committed to the safety and wellbeing of all of its employees. Rather than have a specific safety period. objective (with a specific weighting), safety is a specific outcome that the Board takes into account in assessing the overall performance of the CEO and each Senior Executive. While it is not structured formulaically or as a ‘gateway’ • For ‘good leavers’, the Deferred STI grant may remain on foot until the original vesting date, subject to the original measure, expectations are clearly communicated to the CEO and Senior Executives that poor safety outcomes may terms. lead to reduction in STI outcomes for the year. • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion • The P&C Committee also assesses each Senior Executive against Lendlease’s defined leadership capabilities and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. (including safety, sustainability and diversity), values and behaviours. In this way, the STI rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. Mandatory • Mandatory Securityholdings for the CEO and other Senior Executives will be accumulated as grants of Deferred STI Securityholding awarded from September 2012 begin to vest. Hedging • Deferred STI awards are subject to the Securities Trading Policy, which prohibits executives from entering into any type of ‘protection arrangements’ (including hedging, derivatives and warrants). 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 103 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only d. How Rewards are Linked to Performance continued LTI design How the LTI works Long Term Incentives (LTI) (current year) Performance • For performance securities granted after 1 September 2013 (the 2014 plan), the award is 50% subject to Lendlease’s hurdle Total Securityholder Return (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX 100 Index and 50% subject to Return on Equity (ROE). LTI is designed to reward our Senior Executives for achievement of long term value creation for securityholders Relative TSR The vesting schedule is Percentage of performance securities The LTI plan was reviewed in 2013 as part of the comprehensive review of the Executive Reward Strategy. In this section, we summarise Relative TSR percentile ranking that vest if the Relative TSR hurdle is met the key features of the 2016 LTI plan (granted September 2015). The same features applied to the 2015 plan (granted September 2014) Below the 50th percentile No vesting and the 2014 plan (granted September 2013). Following this table, we have also included a summary of the key features of the 2012 and 2013 LTI plans. At the 50th percentile 50% vesting The key features of the 2016 plan (granted September 2015) are: At or above the 51st percentile but Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 52% and 98% below the 75th percentile LTI design How the LTI works At the 75th percentile or greater 100% vesting • Relative TSR was selected as the performance measure to link LTI awards to the delivery of superior (i.e. above median) Overview •  LTI awards are designed to reward executives for delivering on Lendlease’s long term strategy and for delivering securityholder returns relative to the S&P/ASX 100 companies over the performance period. This method was chosen after sustained long term securityholder value. consultation with securityholders. The S&P/ASX 100 companies are determined at the start of the performance period. •  LTI awards align the interests of Senior Executives and securityholders because of the Senior Executives’ exposure to the Return on Equity This is an absolute measure. The vesting schedule is Lendlease security price and through performance measures strongly tied to securityholder value. Average Return on Equity over the Percentage of performance securities performance period that vest if the ROE hurdle is met •  This year’s LTI will vest half against a relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) hurdle and half against a Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. Less than 11% No vesting •  Half of the LTI for each performance measure is tested after three years and half after four. 11% 25% vesting •  Relative TSR is measured against the S&P/ASX 100 companies. Above 11% but below 15% Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% •  ROE is measured against an absolute measure with progressive vesting when average ROE over the performance period is between 11% and 15%. 15% or greater 100% vesting • The above performance hurdles were chosen for the LTI after a detailed review in 2013, including extensive Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. consultation with securityholders and other stakeholders. The Board believes that these measures, when combined securities with the STI scorecards, the vesting periods for Deferred STI and LTI and the Mandatory Securityholding • The allocation is made on a fair value basis to provide a value per performance security more reflective of the target requirements provides the most suitable link to long term securityholder value creation because: value in the hands of the executives. The fair value is based on an estimate of the impact of the performance − The use of Relative Total Shareholder Return ensures that the CEO and Senior Executives are motiviated to deliver hurdles. For the TSR portion of the LTI, a discount of 35% is applied. 25% is applied to the ROE portion. This returns that are superior to what a securityholder could achieve in the market and ensures management maintain a discount was determined to be appropriate after the Board took extensive advice by external valuation experts. strong focus on securityholder outcomes; and − Return on Equity reflects the capital intensive nature of Lendlease’s activities and is an important long term measure of Importantly, when Lendlease introduced the fair value allocation methodology in 2014, the dollar value into which how well the management team generates acceptable earnings from capital invested and rewards for decisions in respect the fair value was divided was reduced by a similar discount to ensure there was no windfall gain to the Senior of developing, managing, acquiring and disposing of assets. The ROE measure was chosen after extensive analysis of our Executives. business strategy, business mix, market conditions, internal forecasts, market consensus and the costs of capital. • The Group’s currently stated ROE target is 11-15%. The Board is comfortable that the vesting range provides a • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or realistic goal at the lower end (in the context of generally lower risk-free rates of return and bearing in mind that other means at the Board’s discretion. only 25% vests on achievement at the low end of the range) and a realistic stretch at the upper end. • The hurdles are reviewed annually by the Board and the Board continues to believe that the ROE range will drive outperformance without incentivising excessive risk taking. The Board also has governance protocols in place to Performance • 50% of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the hurdle is not fully achieved at this monitor levels of net debt and is conscious of the impact that debt can have on the ROE result. period time, those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. • While the Board appreciates that there are at times different views held by different stakeholders, we believe that • The remaining 50% of the performance securities are assessed after four years. these measures provide the appropriate balance between market and non market measures. • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. If the performance hurdle is not met at the time of testing, Distributions • Distributions are not paid on unvested performance securities. the awards are forfeited. • In calculating the value of the awards which vest, the value of any distributions made during the vesting period is • This performance period was chosen as the Board believes that the time frame appropriately reflects a balance taken into consideration. between reward that motivates executives while reflecting the long term ‘tail’ of profitability and risk associated Malus • The Board may adjust the number of performance securities downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a with ‘today’s decisions’. material misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts. • The Board may adjust the number of LTI awards downwards where the Board reasonably determines that delivery of part or all of an LTI award would result in the Senior Executive receiving an inappropriate or unwarranted benefit (having regard to their personal performance, the performance of the Group and all other benefits they have received). Termination of • If the executive resigns or is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. • For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may remain on foot subject to the original performance hurdle. • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. Mandatory • Mandatory Securityholdings for the CEO and Senior Executives will be accumulated when LTI awards begin to vest. Securityholding Hedging • Pre-vesting hedging is prohibited. • Unvested LTI grants will also be forfeited if an executive enters into a prohibited pre-vesting hedging arrangement in relation to their LTI awards. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 105 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only d. How Rewards are Linked to Performance continued LTI Performance During the current year, two LTI awards were subject to performance testing: Prior Year LTI Awards (2012 plan and 2013 plan) The key features of the the 2012 plan (granted 1 September 2011) and the 2013 plan (granted 1 September 2012) are summarised below. 2012 Award The 2012 LTI award vested subject to Relative TSR performance over a three and four year period (50% each). LTI design How the LTI works The three year tranche (ie. 50% of the 2012 LTI award) was tested in the prior year (in September 2014). 98% vested Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. (i.e. 49% of the total 2012 LTI award). securities • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or The four year tranche (ie. 50% of the 2012 LTI award) was testing during this year (in September 2015). 100% vested other means at the Board’s discretion. (ie. 50% of the total 2012 LTI award). • On vesting, each performance security entitles executives to one Lendlease security, or at the Board’s discretion, 2013 Award cash or other instruments of equivalent value. The 2013 LTI award vests subject to Relative TSR performance over a three and four year period (50% each). Performance • The performance hurdle is Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX The three year tranche (ie. 50% of the 2013 LTI award) was tested during this year (in September 2015). 100% vested hurdle 100 Index. (i.e. 50% of the total 2013 LTI award). • The S&P/ASX 100 companies are determined at the start of the performance period. The four year tranche (ie. 50% of the 2013 LTI award) will be tested in September 2016. • The vesting schedule is: The charts below outline the total hurdle achievement for the 2012 and 2013 LTI awards as at 30 June 2016. Percentage of performance securities that vest if the Relative TSR percentile ranking Relative TSR hurdle is met Below the 50th percentile No vesting At the 50th percentile 50% vesting At or above the 51st percentile but below the Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 2013 Award 2012 Award 75th percentile At the 75th percentile or greater 52% and 98% 100% vesting 1% • Relative TSR was selected as the performance measure to link LTI awards to the delivery of superior (i.e. above median) securityholder returns relative to the S&P/ASX 100 companies over the performance period. This method was chosen after consultation with securityholders. 50% 4 YEAR TSR NOT YET TESTED 50% 4 YEAR TSR VESTED 3 YEAR TSR FORFEITED Performance • 50% of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the hurdle is not fully achieved at this time, period those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. • The remaining 50% of the performance securities are assessed after four years. • There is no opportunity to retest any portion of the LTI grant. If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards are forfeited. Distributions • Distributions are not paid on unvested performance securities. • In calculating the value of the awards which vest, the value of any distributions made during the vesting period is taken into consideration. Malus • For performance securities allocated after 1 July 2012, the Board may adjust the number of performance securities Termination of employment downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts. • If the executive resigns or is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. 50% 3 YEAR TSR VESTED 49% 3 YEAR TSR VESTED • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. • For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may be pro rated upon termination of employment and remain on foot subject to the original performance hurdle. • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. Mandatory • Mandatory Securityholdings for the CEO and Senior Executives will be accumulated when LTI awards granted from Securityholding September 2012 begin to vest. Hedging • Unvested LTI grants will also be forfeited if an executive enters into a prohibited pre vesting hedging arrangement in relation to their LTI awards. 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 107 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only d. How Rewards are Linked to Performance continued e. Executive Contracts How Risk Management is Incorporated into Executive Reward CEO Contract The Board has placed a significant focus on incorporating risk management into the reward framework. The Board and the CEO entered into a new employment contract effective from 1 September 2013. The key terms are summarised below: Remuneration How risk management is incorporated into the remuneration component Fixed The contract provides for fixed remuneration of A$2,034,000, which includes superannuation. remuneration There has been no change to the CEO’s fixed remuneration since this contract was agreed on 1 September 2013. STI • The total value of STI awards is strongly linked to PAT and there are limits on the total incentive pool and individual STI payments. • In determining the total incentive pool amount, the Board also considers the overall financial health of Lendlease Incentives STI and LTI plan participation is at the Board’s discretion. The CEO’s target STI for 2016 was A$1,750,000 and target LTI and the sustainability of earnings. for 2016 was A$2,150,000 (with the number of awards determined on a fair value basis). This results in a target 2016 • STI outcomes are based on performance and are determined based on a scorecard of financial and non financial remuneration package of A$5,934,000. KPIs. These KPIs are structured as ‘building blocks’ to achieve Lendlease’s short, medium and long term strategic and business goals. Notice periods The contract has no fixed term. The notice periods under the contract are as follows: • STI outcomes are modified based upon an assessment of the executive against Lendlease’s defined leadership Notice by CEO 6 months capabilities (including safety, sustainability and diversity), values and behaviours. In this way, the STI rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. Notice by Lendlease 12 months • A significant portion (at least 50%) of the actual STI award is retained and deferred into securities. In this way, executives Payment in lieu of notice Where the CEO is not employed for the full period of notice, a payment in lieu of continue to be incentivised to drive performance and are exposed to movements in the Lendlease security price. notice may be made. The payment in lieu of notice includes pro rata fixed • STI awards are subject to a malus clause which enables the Board to adjust downwards the Deferred STI that vests remuneration and the cash value of statutory entitlements and benefits. to an individual in certain circumstances. This provision operates alongside existing provisions in the Deferred STI terms that allow the Board to adjust unvested awards on termination of employment. In particular: Non compete period 12 months – If an employee is terminated for fraud or other serious misconduct, unvested deferred securities will lapse; and Non solicitation period 12 months – Where an employee is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust the Deferred STI at the time of Treatment of incentives The CEO may continue to receive an STI award for the latest financial year based on termination. assessment of his performance by the Board. LTI awards will be treated in accordance with the plan rules at that time. Deferred STI awards will remain on foot in certain LTI • 50% of the LTI is assessed over a three year period and 50% is assessed over a four year period. There is no retesting. mutually agreed termination circumstances. • As performance is assessed based on a combination of Relative TSR and ROE, any adverse financial, reputational or other events that could occur over the vesting period should be reflected in the number and value of LTI Senior Executives’ Contracts performance securities that ultimately vest. Senior Executives are typically employed on contracts that have no fixed term. Benefits may include health/life insurance, car allowances, • Malus provisions apply to unvested LTI awards from 1 July 2012, with broader discretions applying on awards issued from July 2013 (see pages 103 to 104). motor vehicle leases and salary. All Senior Executives now have termination benefits that are within the limit allowed by the Corporations Act without securityholder approval. Mandatory • Executives are subject to a Mandatory Securityholding Policy that requires the CEO and Senior Executives to Termination clauses are specified in each contract describing treatment on termination based on the reason for termination (e.g. resignation, Securityholding accumulate and maintain a holding of Lendlease securities. This encourages the CEO and Senior Executives to take with notice, due to illness, or immediate termination for cause). a long term perspective when making decisions and strengthens alignment with securityholders. The Group may make payment in lieu of notice. The notice period for each Senior Executive is shown below: Notice by Notice by Senior Senior Executives Lendlease Executive Treatment on termination with notice by Lendlease Current Executives Tarun Gupta 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on Total Package Value. Payment for accrued leave is based on Total Package Value less superannuation. Denis Hickey 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on base salary and other minimum benefits as required by applicable US legislation. Daniel Labbad 9 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary. Anthony Lombardo 12 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary. Robert McNamara 3 months 3 months Notice payment is based on base salary and other minimum benefits as required by applicable US legislation. Kylie Rampa 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on Total Package Value. Payment for accrued leave is based on Total Package Value less superannuation. Former Executives Rod Leaver 6 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary. Securities Trading Policy The Lendlease Securities Trading Policy applies to all employees of the Lendlease Group. In accordance with the policy, Directors and Executives may only deal in Lendlease securities during designated periods. Directors and Executives must not enter into transactions or arrangements that operate to limit the economic risk of unvested entitlements to Lendlease securities. No Director or Executive may enter into a margin loan arrangement in respect of Lendlease securities. 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 109 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only f. Non Executive Directors’ Fees g. Equity Based Remuneration Non Executive Directors receive a Board fee and fees for chairing or participating on Board Committees. The Chairman does not receive Deferred Securities extra fees for participating in or chairing Committees. In 2016, deferred STI awards were granted to the CEO and Senior Executives based on the value of the 2015 STI award that was deferred. The maximum aggregate remuneration payable to Non Executive Directors is A$3.5 million per year, as approved at the 2015 Annual Half of the deferred STI awarded will vest after one year and half after two years (or over years one, two and three in the case of the General Meeting. CEO’s award in 2013), subject to the CEO and Senior Executives continuing in employment to the date of vesting. Board and Committee Fees Details of deferred STI awards are set out in the following table: Nomination People and Culture Risk Management and Sustainability Total fair Expense Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Committee Fair value value at for the year Chair fee A$ 640,000 36,000 48,000 48,000 36,000 STI award per deferred grant ended 30 performance Grant Vesting Number security1 date1,2 June 2016 % % Member fee A$ 160,000 Nil 36,000 36,000 20,000 Name Plan year date date granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited During the year the Board reviewed the fees payable to Non Executive Directors having regard to commentary on market positioning Stephen McCann Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 76,180 8.97 683,335 100% provided by PwC. The Board determined that the fees payable to the Chair and Members of the Sustainability Committee should Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2016 76,180 8.97 683,335 227,778 be aligned with those paid to the Chair and Members of the People and Culture Committee and the Risk Management and Audit Committee. This change recognises the similar workload requirements, complexity and importance of each Committee to Lendlease. Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 47,414 13.53 641,511 100% The change will be effective from 1 July 2016. Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 47,414 13.53 641,511 320,756 As an international company, all Directors are required to travel to Board meetings and site visits at Lendlease locations around the world Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 43,304 13.47 583,171 583,171 and it is important that the Board is not limited to only Australian based Directors. Due to the significant additional time commitment, fees are paid to compensate Directors for the time spent travelling to overseas meetings. Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 43,304 13.47 583,171 291,585 Fee (each way) A$ Total 333,796 3,816,034 1,423,290 Travel less than 4 hours Nil Tarun Gupta Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 24,236 8.97 217,397 100% Travel between 4 and 10 hours 2,800 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 24,834 13.53 336,004 100% Travel over 10 hours 6,000 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 24,834 13.53 336,004 168,002 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 26,733 13.47 360,011 360,011 Board and Committee fees are paid as cash. Non Executive Directors are no longer entitled to retirement benefits. However, some Directors have retirement benefits or securities accrued previously. Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 26,733 13.47 360,011 180,005 Total 127,370 1,609,427 708,018 Remuneration of Non Executive Directors for the Years Ended 2016 and 2015 SHORT TERM BENEFITS POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Denis Hickey Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 35,257 8.97 316,255 100% Committee Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 22,018 13.53 297,904 100% Committee membership Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 22,018 13.53 297,904 148,952 A$000s Year Base fees chair fees fees Travel fees Superannuation1 Total Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 29,193 13.47 393,139 393,139 D A Crawford 2016 640 48 19 707 2015 640 41 19 700 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 29,193 13.47 393,139 196,570 C B Carter 2016 160 36 56 48 19 319 Total 137,679 1,698,341 738,661 2015 160 36 56 35 19 306 Daniel Labbad Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 29,348 8.97 263,252 100% P M Colebatch 2016 160 36 59 19 274 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 23,862 13.53 322,853 100% 2015 160 36 84 19 299 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 23,862 13.53 322,853 161,426 S B Dobbs 2016 160 56 66 19 301 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 27,521 13.47 370,623 370,623 2015 80 39 119 J S Hemstritch 2016 160 48 48 19 275 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 27,521 13.47 370,623 185,311 2015 160 48 35 19 262 Total 132,114 1,650,204 717,360 D J Ryan 2016 160 48 36 48 19 311 Anthony Lombardo Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 30,327 8.97 272,033 100% 2015 160 48 36 41 19 304 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 22,765 13.53 308,010 100% M J Ullmer 2016 160 36 36 48 19 299 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 22,765 13.53 308,010 154,005 2015 160 36 36 41 19 292 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 20,050 13.47 270,011 270,011 N M Wakefield Evans 2016 160 56 48 19 283 2015 160 20 41 21 242 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 20,050 13.47 270,011 135,006 D P Craig2 2016 53 12 12 7 84 Total 115,957 1,428,075 559,022 1 . Directors have superannuation contributions paid on their behalf in accordance with superannuation legislation. 2. D P Craig was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee in March 2016. 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 111 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only g. Equity Based Remuneration continued LTI Awards Fair value Expense Deferred Securities continued per Total fair for the year Fair Total fair Expense performance value at ended 30 value per value at for the year Plan Grant Vesting Number security2 grant date2 June 2016 % % STI award deferred grant ended 30 Name (for the year ended) date date1 granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited performance Grant Vesting Number security1 date1,2 June 2016 % % Name Plan year date date granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited CEO Stephen McCann June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 78,515 5.90 463,238 19,301 100% Robert McNamara Other Incentive3 2012 1/09/2012 1/09/2015 31,784 8.11 258,922 14,385 100% June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 85,964 5.38 462,489 25,694 100% Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 30,500 8.97 273,585 100% June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 85,965 5.53 475,384 118,846 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 27,600 13.53 373,428 100% June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 140,067 7.71 1,079,924 359,975 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 27,600 13.53 373,428 186,714 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 140,069 7.80 1,092,530 273,133 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 26,911 13.47 362,408 362,408 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 106,128 11.14 1,182,266 394,089 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 26,911 13.47 362,408 181,204 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 106,128 11.27 1,195,532 298,883 Total 171,306 2,004,179 744,711 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 101,818 10.34 1,052,289 292,303 Kylie Rampa Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 16,445 13.53 222,501 18,542 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 101,818 10.56 1,074,689 223,894 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 17,636 13.47 237,502 39,584 Total 946,472 8,078,341 2,006,118 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 17,636 13.47 237,502 19,792 Current Senior Executives Total 51,717 697,505 77,918 Tarun Gupta June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 16,468 5.90 97,161 4,048 100% Former Executive June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 18,596 5.38 100,046 5,558 100% Rod Leaver Deferred STI 2013 1/09/2013 1/09/2015 28,761 8.97 257,986 100% June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 18,596 5.53 102,836 25,709 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2015 12,302 13.53 166,446 100% June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 66,792 Deferred STI 2014 1/09/2014 1/09/2016 12,302 13.53 166,446 (83,223) 100% June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2016 16,621 13.47 223,833 100% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 21,226 11.14 236,458 78,819 Deferred STI 2015 1/09/2015 1/09/2017 16,621 13.47 223,833 100% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 21,226 11.27 239,111 59,778 Total 86,607 1,038,544 (83,223) June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 23,679 10.34 244,722 67,978 1. The fair value at grant date is the value of the Deferred STI award (as advised to the Executive). 2. At vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 249,932 52,069 3. Mr McNamara participated in an additional incentive plan that operated for 2012, related to the performance of the Americas. The plan was created in order to support the significant turnaround required in the Americas business. Total 195,448 1,673,355 411,430 Denis Hickey June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 20,009 7.71 154,273 51,424 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 20,010 7.80 156,074 39,019 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 18,573 11.14 206,903 68,968 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 18,573 11.27 209,225 52,306 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 16,576 10.34 171,313 47,587 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 16,576 10.56 174,960 36,450 Total 110,317 1,072,748 295,754 Daniel Labbad June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 18,119 5.90 106,902 4,454 100% June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 20,146 5.38 108,383 6,021 100% June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 20,146 5.53 111,405 27,851 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 66,792 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 18,573 11.14 206,903 68,968 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 18,573 11.27 209,225 52,306 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 18,943 10.34 195,776 54,382 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 18,943 10.56 199,943 41,655 Total 185,421 1,541,626 373,108 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 113 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued For personal use only g. Equity Based Remuneration continued Equity Holdings and Transactions for the Year Ended 30 June 2016 Securities held Securities Other net Securities held LTI Awards continued at beginning of received during change to at end of Fair value Expense Year financial year the year1 securities financial year per Total fair for the year performance value at ended 30 Non Executive Directors Plan Grant Vesting Number security2 grant date2 June 2016 % % D A Crawford 2016 77,858 1,530 79,388 Name (for the year ended) date date1 granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited 2015 76,459 1,399 77,858 Anthony Lombardo June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 16,807 5.90 99,164 4,132 100% C B Carter 2016 15,000 15,000 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 19,216 5.38 103,379 5,743 100% 2015 15,000 15,000 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 19,216 5.53 106,262 26,565 P M Colebatch 2016 18,323 18,323 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 66,792 2015 18,323 18,323 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 D P Craig2 2016 14,870 14,870 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 21,226 11.14 236,458 78,819 S B Dobbs 2016 2,000 2,000 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 21,226 11.27 239,111 59,778 2015 2,000 2,000 J S Hemstritch 2016 20,000 20,000 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 23,679 10.34 244,722 67,978 2015 20,000 20,000 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 249,932 52,069 D J Ryan 2016 35,312 860 36,172 Total 197,027 1,682,117 412,555 2015 31,273 4,039 35,312 Robert McNamara June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 16,370 5.90 96,583 4,024 100% M J Ullmer 2016 50,000 50,000 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 17,412 5.38 93,674 5,204 100% 2015 25,000 25,000 50,000 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 17,412 5.53 96,286 24,071 N M Wakefield Evans 2016 4,000 8,517 12,517 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 24,011 7.71 185,133 61,711 2015 4,000 4,000 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 24,013 7.80 187,294 46,823 Executive Director June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 19,634 11.14 218,723 72,908 S B McCann 2016 712,487 315,625 (200,918) 827,194 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 19,634 11.27 221,177 55,294 2015 680,227 382,260 (350,000) 712,487 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 20,128 10.34 208,023 57,784 Executives June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 20,128 10.56 212,451 44,261 T Gupta 2016 75,760 91,090 (50,000) 116,850 Total 178,742 1,519,344 372,080 2015 34,134 91,626 (50,000) 75,760 Kylie Rampa June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 17,412 5.53 87,410 3,642 D Hickey3 2016 22,250 26,021 (22,000) 26,271 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 24,011 7.71 110,450 6,136 2015 22,250 22,250 D Labbad3 2016 100,415 60,724 161,139 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 24,013 7.80 111,739 4,656 2015 130,499 81,539 (111,623) 100,415 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 19,634 11.14 106,409 5,912 A Lombardo 2016 173,251 96,057 (22,000) 247,308 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 19,634 11.27 107,603 4,484 2015 205,420 98,962 (131,131) 173,251 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 20,128 10.34 97,893 4,532 R McNamara3 2016 267,185 73,564 340,749 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 20,128 10.56 99,977 3,472 2015 155,980 111,205 267,185 Total 144,960 721,481 32,834 K Rampa4 2016 – Former Executive Former Executive Rod Leaver June 2012 LTI (50%) Sept 2011 Sept 2015 21,245 5.90 125,346 5,223 100% R Leaver5 2015 175,534 114,582 (180,582) 109,534 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2015 21,502 5.38 115,681 6,427 100% Total 2016 1,573,841 663,081 (269,141) 1,967,781 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 21,502 5.53 118,906 (84,225) 100% Total 2015 1,573,849 902,424 (792,898) 1,683,375 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 24,011 7.71 185,133 71,996 1. For the Executive Director and Executives, securities received relate to security entitlements under employee benefit vehicles. June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 24,013 7.80 187,294 101,451 2. D P Craig joined the Board in March 2016. 3. Securities received during the period were after withholding tax obligations. June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 15,920 11.14 177,349 128,085 4. K Rampa became a KMP from 1 May 2016. June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 15,920 11.27 179,339 141,977 5. R Leaver was a KMP until 30 April 2016. June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 14,208 10.34 146,840 146,840 Loans to Key Management Personnel June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 14,208 10.56 149,965 149,965 No loans were made to Key Management Personnel or their related parties during the current year or prior year. Total 172,529 1,385,853 667,739 Other Transactions with Key Management Personnel 1. At vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. 2. The fair value at grant date represents an actuarial valuation of the award using assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes methodology to produce a MonteFrom time to time, Directors and executives of Lendlease or its consolidated entities, or parties related to them, may purchase goods from Carlo simulation model in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards rounded to two decimal places. the Consolidated Entity. These purchases are on terms and conditions no more favourable than those entered into by unrelated customers. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 115 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Remuneration Report continued Directors’ Report For personal use only h. Appendix The Directors’ Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2016 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The information below forms part of this Directors’ Report: Terms Used in this Remuneration Report • Principal activities on page 8 • Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 65 incorporating the Performance and Outlook on pages 52 to 65 Term What it means • Biographical information for the Directors and Company Secretary on pages 74 to 79 Face value of a security The value of a Lendlease security at the applicable time. • Officers who were previously partners of the Audit Firm on page 79 • Board and Committee meetings and attendance on page 80 Fair value of a security The value of a Lendlease security, derived by applying a discount rate determined by the • Director’s interests in capital on page 81 Board, designed to reflect the likelihood of vesting (in cases where there are performance • Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 114 hurdles to be met before vesting can occur). • Auditor’s Independence Declaration on page 117 Good leaver A Senior Executive who is leaving Lendlease for a reason such as retirement, redundancy, or a. Dividends/Distributions resignation where the Senior Executive is not joining a competitor, and who may remain The 2015 final dividend/distribution of A$156.7 million (27.0 cents per security, 25% franked) referred to in the Directors’ Report dated eligible for part or all of an incentive opportunity. 24 August 2015, was paid on 18 September 2015. Details of dividends/distributions in respect of the current year are as follows: A$m Key Management Personnel (KMP) Those executives who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly (as per Accounting Standard Interim dividends/distributions of 30.0 cents per security (unfranked) paid on 15 March 20161 174.4 AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures). Final dividends/distributions of 30.0 cents per security (unfranked) declared by Directors to be paid on 14 September 20162 174.7 KPIs Key Performance Indicators. Total dividends/distributions 349.1 1. Comprised of an unfranked dividend of 21.350462 cents per share paid by the Company and a trust distribution of 8.649538 cents per unit paid by LLT. Long Term Incentive (LTI) An incentive scheme which provides Lendlease equity (or cash, in some circumstances) to 2. Comprised of an unfranked dividend of 27.475110 cents per share payable by the Company and a trust distribution of 2.524890 cents per unit payable by LLT. participating executives that may vest, in whole or part, if specified performance measures are met over a three or four year period. b. Significant Changes in State of Affairs There have been no significant changes in the Group’s state of affairs. LTI (face value) Refers to the number of LTI performance securities granted multiplied by the Lendlease security price at the applicable time. c. Events Subsequent to Balance Date There were no material events subsequent to the end of the financial year. PAT Statutory Profit after Tax. d. Security Options People and Culture (P&C) Committee The Board subcommittee that helps the Board fulfil its responsibilities in people No security options were issued during the year by the Company or any of its controlled entities, and there are no such options on issue. management and reward policies. It is made up entirely of independent Non Executive Directors. e. Indemnification and Insurance of Directors and Officers Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution provides for indemnification in favour of each of the Directors named on pages 74 to 78 of this report; Return on Equity (ROE) ROE is calculated as the annual statutory Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average the officers of the Company or of wholly owned subsidiaries or related entities of the Company (Officers) to the extent permitted by the of beginning, half year and year end securityholders’ equity. Corporations Act 2001. Rule 12 does not indemnify a Director, Company Secretary or Officer for any liability involving a lack of good faith. In conformity with Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution, the Company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access with Senior Executives Executives who are KMP. each of the Directors named on pages 74 to 78 of this Report. The indemnities operate to the full extent permitted by law and are not subject to a monetary limit. The Company is not aware of any liability having arisen, and no claims have been made, during or since the Short Term Incentive (STI) Incentives awarded with direct reference to the achievement of Group, regional and financial year under the Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access. individual performance. The measures are selected annually and align to our long term For related entities, the indemnification is provided under Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution unless the Directors determine otherwise. strategic priorities. For unrelated entities in which the Group has an interest, Deeds of Indemnity may be entered into between Lendlease Corporation Limited and the Director or Officer. Since the date of the last report, the Company has not entered into any separate Deeds of Indemnity with a Total Package Value (TPV) Salary plus the value of salary package items such as motor vehicles and parking and Director or Officer of an unrelated entity. compulsory superannuation contributions paid on behalf of an employee. No indemnity has been granted to an auditor of the Company in their capacity as auditor of the Company. In accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, Rule 12 of the Constitution also permits the Company to purchase and maintain insurance Total Shareholder Return/ Total The movement in a company’s share/security price, dividend yield and any return of capital or pay or agree to pay a premium for insurance for Officers against any liability incurred as an Officer of the Company or of a related body Securityholder Return (TSR) over a specific period. It is often expressed as a percentage. corporate. This may include a liability for reasonable costs and expenses incurred in defending proceedings, whether civil or criminal, and whatever their outcome. Due to confidentiality obligations and undertakings of the policy, no further details in respect of the premium or policy can be disclosed. f. Environmental Regulation The Group is subject to various state and federal environmental regulations in Australia. The Directors are not aware of any material non compliance with environmental regulations pertaining to the operations or activities during the period covered by this Report. In addition, the Lendlease Group is registered and publicly reports the annual performance of its Australian operations under the requirements of the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007 and Energy Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act 2006. All Lendlease businesses continue to operate an integrated Environment, Health and Safety Management System, ensuring that non compliance risks and opportunities for environmental improvement are identified, managed and reported accordingly. 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 117 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 Directors’ Report continued To: the directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit for the financial For personal use only g. Non Audit Services year ended 30 June 2016 there have been: During the year, KPMG, the Company’s auditor, performed certain other services in addition to its statutory duties. (i) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the The Board has considered the other services provided during the year by the auditor and, in accordance with written advice provided by Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and resolution of the Risk Management and Audit Committee, is satisfied that the provision of those services during the year by the auditor is compatible with, and did not compromise, the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following (ii) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the reasons: audit. • All other services were subject to the corporate governance procedures adopted by the Group and have been reviewed by the Risk Management and Audit Committee to ensure they do not impact the integrity and objectivity of the auditor; and • The other services provided do not undermine the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, as they did not involve reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management or Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 decision making capacity for the Group, acting as an advocate for the Group or jointly sharing risks and rewards. A copy of the Lead Auditors’ Independence Declaration, as required under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001, is included at the To: the directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited end of the Directors’ Report. I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit for the financial Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of the Company, KPMG, and its related practices for audit and other services provided during KPMG year ended 30 June 2016 there have been: the year are set out below. CONSOLIDATED (i) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the June 2016 June 2015 Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and A$000s A$000s (ii) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the Audit and Other Assurance Services audit. Audit services 5,536 5,5921 Other assurance services 683 464 Total audit and other assurance services 6,219 6,056 S J Marshall Non audit services Partner Total audit, non audit and other assurance services 6,219 6,056 Sydney 1. Prior year Audit services has been restated by $57,000 to include additional fees incurred related to the 30 June 2015 financial year. KPMG 19 August 2016 h. Rounding Off Lendlease Corporation Limited is a company of the kind referred to in the ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors' Reports) Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016 and, in accordance with that Instrument, amounts in the consolidated financial statements and this report have been rounded off to the nearest tenth of a million dollars or, where the amount is A$50,000 or less, zero, unless specifically stated to be otherwise. This report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors and is signed for and on behalf of the Directors. S J Marshall Partner Sydney D A Crawford, AO 19 August 2016 Chairman S B McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Sydney, 19 August 2016 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG Liability limited by a scheme approved under International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Profession Standards Legislation. 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 119 For personal use only Sunshine Plaza, Maroochydore 07 Financial Statements 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 121 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Financial Statements Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements Income Statement For personal use only Consolidated Financial Statements Year Ended 30 June 2016 Income Statement 121 Statement of Comprehensive Income 122 June 2016 June 2015 Note A$m A$m Statement of Financial Position 123 Statement of Changes in Equity 124 Revenue 4 15,088.5 13,280.9 Statement of Cash Flows 126 Cost of sales (13,388.5) (11,613.3) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 127 Gross profit 1,700.0 1,667.6 Notes Index Other income 5 256.9 251.8 Section A: Performance Other expenses (1,136.3) (1,051.8) 1. Segment Reporting 128 Results from operating activities 820.6 867.6 2. Dividends/Distributions 130 3. Earnings per Share/Stapled Security 130 Finance revenue 7 16.8 17.7 4. Revenue 131 Finance costs 7 (126.2) (137.2) 5. Other Income 132 Net finance costs (109.4) (119.5) 6. Other Expenses 133 7. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs 135 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 8 151.6 19.9 8. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments 136 Profit before Tax 862.8 768.0 9. Taxation 139 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date 142 Income tax expense 9 (164.7) (149.1) Section B: Investment Profit after Tax 698.1 618.9 11. Inventories 143 Profit after Tax attributable to: 12. Equity Accounted Investments 144 13. Investment Properties 148 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 557.8 530.2 14. Other Financial Assets 150 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 140.4 88.4 Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders 698.2 618.6 15. Cash and Cash Equivalents 152 External non controlling interests (0.1) 0.3 16. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows 152 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements 153 Profit after Tax 698.1 618.9 18. Issued Capital 154 Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Corporation Limited Share (EPS) 19. Capital Management 155 Shares excluding treasury shares (cents) 3 100.9 96.4 20. Liquidity Risk Exposure 155 21. Commitments 156 Shares on issue (cents) 3 95.9 91.5 22. Loans and Receivables 157 Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Group Stapled Security (EPSS) 23. Trade and Other Payables 158 Securities excluding treasury securities (cents) 3 126.3 112.4 Section D: Risk Management Securities on issue (cents) 3 120.1 106.8 24. Financial Risk Management 159 25. Hedging 161 Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company) is incorporated 26. Fair Value Measurement 162 and domiciled in Australia. The consolidated financial report of 27. Contingent Liabilities 164 the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2016 comprises the Company and its controlled entities including Lendlease Trust Section E: Basis of Consolidation (LLT) (together referred to as the consolidated entity or the Group). 28. Consolidated Entities 165 The Group is a for-profit entity and is an international property 29. Employee Benefit Vehicles 166 and infrastructure group. Further information about the Group’s 30. Parent Entity Disclosures 167 primary activities is included in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. 31. Related Party Information 168 Shares in the Company and units in LLT are traded as one security under the name of Lendlease Group on the Australian Securities Section F: Other Notes Exchange (ASX). The Company is deemed to control LLT for 32. Intangible Assets 170 accounting purposes and therefore LLT is consolidated into the 33. Defined Benefit Plans 172 Group’s financial report. The issued units of LLT, however, are not 34. Employee Benefits 174 owned by the Company and are therefore presented separately 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards 176 in the consolidated entity Statement of Financial Position within equity, notwithstanding that the unitholders of LLT are also the 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies 177 shareholders of the Company. The consolidated financial report Directors’ Declaration 178 was authorised for issue by the Directors on 19 August 2016. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 123 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements continued Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Financial Position For personal use only Year Ended 30 June 2016 As at 30 June 2016 June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Note A$m A$m Note A$m A$m Profit after Tax 698.1 618.9 Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 15 1,008.4 750.1 Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense) After Tax Loans and receivables 22 2,785.0 3,631.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Inventories 11 1,923.0 1,980.0 Movements in fair value revaluation reserve 9b (1.7) 5.9 Other financial assets 14 50.7 42.7 Movements in hedging reserve 9b 8.9 (17.8) Current tax assets 21.6 8.6 Movements in foreign currency translation reserve 9b 16.0 1 56.6 1 Other assets 69.2 83.2 Total current assets 5,857.9 6,495.6 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 23.2 44.7 Non Current Assets Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Loans and receivables 22 285.4 320.1 Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve 9b 0.5 (14.0) Inventories 11 2,679.9 2,124.2 Defined benefit plan remeasurements 9b 38.3 (56.3) Equity accounted investments 12 1,152.6 1,235.8 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 38.8 (70.3) Investment properties 13a 5,940.7 5,994.9 Other financial assets 14 628.8 625.7 Total comprehensive income after tax 760.1 593.3 Deferred tax assets 9c 109.5 305.5 Total comprehensive income after tax attributable to: Property, plant and equipment 432.3 348.8 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 619.5 503.6 Intangible assets 32 1,446.8 1,444.7 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 140.4 88.4 Defined benefit plan asset 7.5 9.2 Total comprehensive income after tax attributable to securityholders 759.9 592.0 Other assets 51.5 54.7 Total non current assets 12,735.0 12,463.6 External non controlling interests 0.2 1.3 Total assets 18,592.9 18,959.2 Total comprehensive income after tax 760.1 593.3 Current Liabilities 1. Includes A$0.3 million relating to external non controlling interests (June 2015: A$1.0 million). Trade and other payables 23 4,328.8 5,036.1 Resident liabilities 13b 4,119.5 4,080.4 Provisions 292.4 328.8 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 227.3 Other financial liabilities 83.6 33.7 Total current liabilities 8,824.3 9,706.3 Non Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 23 1,909.4 1,586.0 Provisions 70.6 46.0 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 2,031.3 2,223.0 Defined benefit plan liability 33 3.4 68.8 Other financial liabilities 9.7 32.3 Deferred tax liabilities 9c 129.5 128.6 Total non current liabilities 4,153.9 4,084.7 Total liabilities 12,978.2 13,791.0 Net assets 5,614.7 5,168.2 Equity Issued capital 18 1,276.3 1,256.3 Treasury securities (99.5) (89.9) Reserves 98.0 91.7 Retained earnings 3,289.6 2,936.0 Total equity attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 4,564.4 4,194.1 Total equity attributable to unitholders of Lendlease Trust 1,048.6 968.0 Total equity attributable to securityholders 5,613.0 5,162.1 External non controlling interests 1.7 6.1 Total equity 5,614.7 5,168.2 The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 125 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements continued RESERVES For personal use only Statement of Changes in Equity Foreign Non Controlling Members of External Fair Value Currency Interest Equity Other Lendlease Unitholders Non Year Ended 30 June 2016 Issued Treasury Revaluation Hedging Translation Acquisition Other Compensation Compensation Retained Corporation of Lendlease Controlling Total Capital Securities1 Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Limited Trust Interests Equity A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Balance as at 1 July 2014 1,618.2 (116.1) 48.9 (91.0) (98.4) (75.4) 111.7 74.2 54.4 2,824.0 4,350.5 513.3 5.0 4,868.8 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the period 530.2 530.2 88.4 0.3 618.9 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) 5.9 (17.8) 55.6 (14.0) (56.3) (26.6) 1.0 (25.6) Total Comprehensive Income – – 5.9 (17.8) 55.6 (14.0) – – – 473.9 503.6 88.4 1.3 593.3 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) Fair value gains 8.9 8.9 8.9 Fair value hedging (7.2) (7.2) (7.2) Net investment hedging (22.2) (22.2) (22.2) Effect of foreign exchange movements 2.1 (1.3) 79.9 (14.1) 66.6 1.0 67.6 Effective cash flow hedges (16.5) (16.5) (16.5) Asset disposals and transfers 2.1 (2.1) Defined benefit plans remeasurements (56.3) (56.3) (56.3) Other movements 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) – – 5.9 (17.8) 55.6 (14.0) – – – (56.3) (26.6) – 1.0 (25.6) Transactions with Owners of the Company Recapitalisation of Lendlease Trust (400.5) (400.5) 400.5 Distribution reinvestment plan (DRP) 38.6 38.6 6.0 44.6 Dividends and distributions (361.5) (361.5) (40.2) (401.7) Treasury securities acquired (7.7) (7.7) (7.7) Treasury securities vested 33.9 33.9 33.9 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 4.5 4.5 4.5 Asset disposals and transfers (23.3)2 53.52 2.92 33.1 (0.2) 32.9 Other movements (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) Total other movements through reserves (361.9) 26.2 (23.3) 53.5 2.9 – – 4.5 – (361.9) (660.0) 366.3 (0.2) (293.9) Balance as at 30 June 2015 1,256.3 (89.9) 31.5 (55.3) (39.9) (89.4) 111.7 78.7 54.4 2,936.0 4,194.1 968.0 6.1 5,168.2 Balance as at 1 July 2015 1,256.3 (89.9) 31.5 (55.3) (39.9) (89.4) 111.7 78.7 54.4 2,936.0 4,194.1 968.0 6.1 5,168.2 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the period 557.8 557.8 140.4 (0.1) 698.1 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 38.3 61.7 0.3 62.0 Total Comprehensive Income – – (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 – – – 596.1 619.5 140.4 0.2 760.1 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) Fair value gains 2.0 2.0 2.0 Fair value hedging (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) Net investment hedging (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) Effect of foreign exchange movements (2.7) (0.1) 25.3 0.6 23.1 0.3 23.4 Effective cash flow hedges 9.0 9.0 9.0 Defined benefit plans remeasurements 38.3 38.3 38.3 Other movements (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) – – (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 – – – 38.3 61.7 – 0.3 62.0 Transactions with owners of the Company Distribution reinvestment plan (DRP) 20.0 20.0 4.6 24.6 Dividends and distributions (242.5) (242.5) (64.4) (306.9) Treasury securities acquired (49.7) (49.7) (49.7) Treasury securities vested 40.1 40.1 40.1 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 2.9 2.9 2.9 Asset disposal and transfers 10.82 (30.2)2 (19.4) (19.4) Other movements (0.6) (0.6) (4.6) (5.2) Total other movements through reserves 20.0 (9.6) – 10.8 (30.2) – – 2.9 (0.6) (242.5) (249.2) (59.8) (4.6) (313.6) Balance as at 30 June 2016 1,276.3 (99.5) 29.8 (35.6) (54.4) (88.9) 111.7 81.6 53.8 3,289.6 4,564.4 1,048.6 1.7 5,614.7 1. Opening balance for number of treasury securities 1 July 2015 was 28.8 million (1 July 2014: 32.1 million) and closing balance at 30 June 2016 was 29.2 million. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 2. These movements in reserves were transferred to profit and loss in the year. 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 127 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements continued Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Cash Flows For personal use only Year Ended 30 June 2016 Basis of Preparation June 2016 June 2015 Note A$m A$m The consolidated financial report is a general purpose financial report which: • has been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AASBs) adopted by the Australian Accounting Standards Cash Flows from Operating Activities Board, and the Corporations Act 2001; Cash receipts in the course of operations 16,028.4 11,896.7 • complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board; Cash payments in the course of operations (15,154.9) (11,866.7) • is presented in Australian dollars, with all values rounded off to the nearest tenth of a million dollars unless otherwise indicated, in accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191; and Interest received 12.8 15.2 • is prepared under the historical cost basis except for the following assets and liabilities, which are stated at their fair value: derivative Interest paid (134.8) (151.2) financial instruments, fair value through profit or loss investments, available for sale investments, investment properties, resident Dividends/distributions received 90.0 61.4 liabilities and liabilities for cash settled share based compensation plans. Recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are stated at fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged. Refer to the specific accounting policies within the notes to the financial statements for Income tax received/(paid) in respect of operations 11.5 (122.0) the basis of valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 16 853.0 (166.6) Significant accounting policies have been: • included in the relevant notes to which the policies relate, and other significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 36; and Cash Flows from Investing Activities • consistently applied to all financial years presented in the consolidated financial statements and by all entities in the Group, except as Sale/redemption of investments 330.5 615.0 explained in Note 35 ‘Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards’. Acquisition of investments (563.2) (653.0) The preparation of a financial report that complies with AASBs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. Acquisition of/capital expenditure on investment properties (25.7) (209.2) • This can affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Net loans from/(to) associates and joint ventures 38.6 (22.5) • Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively. Acquisition of consolidated entities (net of cash acquired and acquisition costs) (5.7) • The significant accounting policies highlight information about accounting judgements in applying accounting policies that have Disposal of consolidated entities (net of cash disposed and transaction costs) 382.5 7.0 the most significant effects on reported amounts and further information about estimated uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustments within the next financial year. Disposal of property, plant and equipment 16.7 11.7 The Group presents assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position as current or non current. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (132.7) (57.4) • Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or Acquisition of intangible assets (46.1) (67.3) intended for sale or use in, the course of the Group’s operating cycle. All other assets are classified as non current. • Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Group’s Other investing activities (2.0) operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date. All other liabilities are classified as non current. Refer Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 0.6 (383.4) to Note 13 ‘Investment Properties’, for further detail on classification of resident liabilities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from borrowings 5,327.6 2,276.6 Repayment of borrowings (5,626.0) (2,333.4) Dividends/distributions paid (293.2) (374.2) Other financing activities (28.8) (34.2) Net cash used in financing activities (620.4) (465.2) Other Cash Flow Items Effect of foreign exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents 25.1 49.5 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 258.3 (965.7) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 750.1 1,715.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 15 1,008.4 750.1 The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 129 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance The following tables set out other financial information by reportable segment. For personal use only Depreciation Non current Profit after Tax (PAT) is the key measure used to assess the Group’s performance. This section of the Financial Report focuses on disclosure Segment Finance Finance Share of and Material non segment Group total that enhances a user’s understanding of PAT. Segment reporting provides a breakdown of profit and revenue by the operational activity. revenue1 revenue expense results EAI2 amortisation cash items3 assets4 assets The key line items of the Income Statement along with their components provide detail behind the reported balances. Group performance A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m will also impact the earnings per stapled security and dividend payout, therefore disclosure on these items has been included in this Year Ended June 2016 section. Further information and analysis on performance can be found in the Performance & Outlook section of the Directors’ Report. Development 2,543.9 3.3 (0.2) 91.3 (4.0) (22.4) 3,314.8 5,667.8 Construction 12,032.4 1.1 (0.1) 3.1 (37.9) (99.0) 1,641.3 4,499.1 1. Segment Reporting Investments 510.5 4.1 (0.1) 58.3 (6.9) (21.3) 6,786.0 7,959.4 Accounting Policies Total segment 15,086.8 8.5 (0.4) 152.7 (48.8) (142.7) 11,742.1 18,126.3 The Group has re-evaluated its segments to better reflect the operational focus and underlying revenue generating activities in Corporate activities 18.5 8.3 (125.8) (1.1) (33.9) 25.6 247.1 466.6 each segment. The revised segments are based on the operational activity of each segment and not the geographical region of the operations. The three revised segments are Development, Construction and Investments. The Group has identified these operating Statutory result 15,105.3 16.8 (126.2) 151.6 (82.7) (117.1) 11,989.2 18,592.9 segments based on internal reports that are reviewed and used by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (the chief operating decision maker) in assessing performance and in determining the allocation of resources. The prior year amounts in Year Ended June 20155 the disclosures below have been restated to reflect the revised segmentation. Development 1,875.4 0.2 3.1 (4.1) (14.6) 2,748.8 6,547.1 Segment performance is based on PAT. PAT is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the Construction 10,936.9 1.4 (0.1) 3.3 (46.0) (86.8) 1,596.6 4,431.6 most relevant in evaluating the results of certain reportable segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. The Group does not consider corporate activities to be an operating segment. Investments 468.0 4.7 (0.5) 14.3 (7.1) (24.6) 6,993.7 7,868.5 Total segment 13,280.3 6.3 (0.6) 20.7 (57.2) (126.0) 11,339.1 18,847.2 The operating segments are as follows: Corporate activities 18.3 11.4 (136.6) (0.8) (22.3) (75.4) 184.1 112.0 Development Statutory result 13,298.6 17.7 (137.2) 19.9 (79.5) (201.4) 11,523.2 18,959.2 Operates in all four major geographic regions. It is involved in the development of communities, inner-city mixed-use developments, 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance & Outlook is comprised of Revenue and Finance Revenue. apartments, retirement, retail, commercial assets and social and economic infrastructure. 2. Equity accounted investments. 3. The material non cash items relate to impairments and provisions raised or written back, unrealised foreign exchange movements and investment property Construction fair value gains or losses. Operates across all four geographic regions, to provide a project management, design, and construction service, predominantly in the 4. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and pension assets. 5. June 2015 has been restated to reflect the change in reporting segments as noted below: infrastructure, defence, mixed-use, commercial, and residential sectors. • Segment Revenue for Infrastructure Development of A$204.2 million has been restated to Investments A$86.4 million and Development A$117.8 million. Development A$169.4 million has been restated to Investments. Investments • Finance Revenue for Infrastructure Development of A$3.1 million has been restated to Investments. Own and/or manage investments across all four geographic regions. The Investments segment includes a leading wholesale investment • Finance Expense for Infrastructure Development of A$0.5 million has been restated to Investments. • Share of results EAI for Infrastructure Development of A$(31.2) million has been restated to Investments A$(33.9) million and Development A$2.7 million. management platform and also includes the Group’s ownership interests in property and infrastructure Co-Investments, Retirement • Depreciation and amortisation for Infrastructure Development of A$1.4 million has been restated to Investments A$1.3 million and Development Living and US Military Housing. A$0.1 million. Development A$2.6 million has been restated to Investments. Financial information regarding the performance of each reportable segment and a reconciliation of these reportable segments to the • Material non cash items for Development of A$14.2 million and Infrastructure Development A$4.7 million has been restated to Investments. • Non current segment assets for Infrastructure Development of A$297.2 million has been restated to Development and Development A$5,995.6 million has financial statements is included below. been restated to Investments. PROFIT INCOME TAX PROFIT • Group total assets for Infrastructure Development of A$563.4 million has been restated to Investments A$176.7 million and Development A$386.7 million. Financial Disclosure BEFORE TAX BENEFIT/(EXPENSE) AFTER TAX Development A$6,071.4 million has been restated to Investments. June 2016 June 20151 June 2016 June 20152 June 2016 June 20153 The operating segments generate earnings in the following regions. A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Development 499.3 382.1 (132.9) (104.9) 366.4 277.2 REVENUE1 NON CURRENT ASSETS2 Construction 251.3 234.3 (60.4) (75.3) 190.9 159.0 June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m A$m A$m Investments 454.8 475.0 (84.1) (66.4) 370.7 408.6 Australia 8,665.1 7,743.6 9,600.4 9,580.2 Total segment 1,205.4 1,091.4 (277.4) (246.6) 928.0 844.8 Asia3 406.6 271.5 517.6 472.3 Reconciling items Europe 4 1,798.1 1,623.6 1,047.0 813.6 Corporate activities (342.5) (323.4) 112.7 97.2 (229.8) (226.2) Americas 4,217.0 3,641.6 577.1 473.0 Statutory result attributable to securityholders 862.9 768.0 (164.7) (149.4) 698.2 618.6 Total segment 15,086.8 13,280.3 11,742.1 11,339.1 External non controlling interests (0.1) 0.3 (0.1) 0.3 Corporate activities 18.5 18.3 247.1 184.1 Statutory result 862.8 768.0 (164.7) (149.1) 698.1 618.9 Statutory result 15,105.3 13,298.6 11,989.2 11,523.2 1. June 2015 has been restated to reflect the change in reporting segments as noted above. Profit Before Tax for Infrastructure Development of A$132.2 million 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance & Outlook is comprised of Revenue and Finance Revenue. has been restated to Investments A$70.3 million and Development A$61.9 million. Development A$175.5 million has been restated to Investments. 2. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and pension assets and are based on the geographical location of assets. 2. June 2015 has been restated to reflect the change in reporting segments as noted above. Income Tax Expense for Infrastructure Development of A$29.2 3. The majority of revenue and non current segment assets from Asia are attributable to Singapore. million has been restated to Investments A$14.2 million and Development A$15.0 million. Development A$16.1 million has been restated to Investments. 4. The majority of revenue and non current segment assets from Europe are attributable to the UK. 3. June 2015 has been restated to reflect the change in reporting segments as noted above. Profit After Tax for Infrastructure Development of A$103.0 million has been restated to Investments A$56.1 million and Development A$46.9 million. Development A$159.4 million has been restated to Investments. No revenue from transactions with a single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 131 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 4. Revenue For personal use only 2. Dividends/Distributions1 Accounting Policies COMPANY/TRUST Revenue from the provision of services is recognised in the Income Statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the Cents Franked Amount June 2016 June 2015 transactions at the balance sheet date. Per Share/Unit Per Share % A$m A$m • For construction and development: the value of work performed using the percentage complete method, which is measured Parent Company Interim Dividend by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs for each contract. This measurement is an December 2015 – paid 15 March 2016 21.4 124.1 accounting judgement as management uses judgement to estimate expenses incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated December 2014 – paid 18 March 2015 24.0 139.0 costs. Also includes origination fees for infrastructure services rendered. Lendlease Trust Interim Distribution • For investments: funds, origination, and asset management fee entitlements are recognised for services rendered. Investments also includes retirement living Deferred Management Fees (DMF). A typical DMF contract provides for an annual fee for a fixed December 2015 – paid 15 March 2016 8.6 50.3 period on the property occupied by a resident (e.g. 3% per annum of purchase or resale price for a period up to 10 – 12 years, or December 2014 – paid 18 March 2015 3.0 17.5 30% – 36% in total) plus a share of the capital gain realised on turnover. For both owned retirement villages (investment property) Parent Company Final Dividend and managed retirement villages, DMF income is recognised on an annual accrual basis based upon the expected term of the June 2016 – declared subsequent to reporting date2 27.5 160.0 resident’s licence and estimates of capital growth since the resident first occupied the unit. June 2015 – paid 18 September 2015 22.9 25 132.7 Revenue from the sale of development properties is recognised in the Income Statement when: Lendlease Trust Final Distribution • the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer; June 2016 – provided for (payable 14 September 2016) 2.5 14.7 • the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective June 2015 – paid 18 September 2015 4.1 24.0 control over the development properties sold; 349.1 313.2 • the revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the Group will receive the consideration due; and • the Group can reliably measure the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction. 1. Interim dividends/distributions were not franked in the current and prior year. The June 2015 final dividend component was franked to 25%. 2. No provision for this dividend has been recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at 30 June 2016, as it was declared after the end of the financial year. The measurement of revenue from the sale of development properties is another accounting judgement as it requires management to exercise its judgement in valuing the individual components of a development property sale, given the due consideration to cost Dividend Franking inputs, market conditions and commercial factors. The amount of franking credits available for use in subsequent reporting periods as at 30 June 2016 is A$4.8 million, based on a 30% tax Rental revenue, including lease incentives granted, is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the rate (30 June 2015: A$17.3 million). This is calculated after adjusting for franking credits which will arise from the payment of income tax term of the lease. provided in the financial statements and tax losses utilised in the current financial year. Other revenue primarily includes dividends/distributions and miscellaneous items. Dividend/distribution income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established, usually on declaration of the dividend/distribution. 3. Earnings Per Share/Stapled Security (EPS/EPSS) Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Accounting Policies A$m A$m The Group presents basic and diluted EPS/EPSS in the Income Statement. Basic EPS/EPSS is determined by dividing Profit/(loss) after Tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, excluding Revenue from the provision of services any costs of servicing equity other than ordinary shares/securities, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities Construction 12,029.8 10,934.8 outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares/securities issued during the financial year. Development 1 325.3 263.1 Diluted EPS/EPSS is determined by adjusting the Profit/(loss) after Tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, and the weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. Investments 1 460.0 401.7 The Group currently does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. Dilution occurs when treasury shares and Total revenue from the provision of services 12,815.1 11,599.6 employee share options are included in outstanding shares. Revenue from the sale of development properties 2,202.5 1,616.7 The issued units of LLT are presented separately within equity, and therefore the profit attributable to LLT is excluded from the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per Company share presented in the Income Statement. Rental revenue 11.4 9.7 Other revenue 59.5 54.9 Total revenue 15,088.5 13,280.9 JUNE 2016 JUNE 2015 Financial Disclosure Shares/Securities Shares/Securities 1. June 2015 has been restated to reflect the change in reporting segments as noted in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. Revenue from the provision of services for excluding Shares/ excluding Shares/ Infrastructure Development A$197.8 million has been restated to Investments A$89.4 million and Development A$108.4 million. Development revenues of A$147.8 million has been restated to Investments. Treasury Securities on Treasury Securities Securities Issue Securities on Issue Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) Profit attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (Company) used in calculating basic/diluted EPS A$m 557.8 557.8 530.2 530.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 552.6 581.4 550.2 579.4 Basic/Diluted EPS cents 100.9 95.9 96.4 91.5 Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Stapled Security (EPSS) Profit attributable to securityholders of Lendlease Group used in calculating basic/diluted EPSS A$m 698.2 698.2 618.6 618.6 Weighted average number of stapled securities m 552.6 581.4 550.2 579.4 Basic/Diluted EPSS cents 126.3 120.1 112.4 106.8 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 133 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 6. Other Expenses For personal use only 5. Other Income Accounting Policies Other expenses in general are recognised as incurred. Accounting Policies Employee Benefit Expenses Other Income Employee benefits are expensed as the related service by the employee is provided and includes both equity and cash based Net gains or losses on sale of investments, including equity accounted investments, available for sale financial assets and payment transactions. Employee benefits recognised in the Income Statement are net of recoveries. consolidated entities are recognised when an unconditional contract is in place. For cash bonuses, the Group recognises an accrued liability for the amount expected to be paid. This is based on a formula that takes Net gains or losses on fair value remeasurements are recognised in accordance with the policies stated in Note 13 ‘Investment into consideration the profit attributable to the Group’s securityholders after certain adjustments. Refer to Note 34a ‘Short Term Properties’ and Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’. Incentives’ for further detail. Share Based Compensation Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans that are linked to Lendlease’s security price. The fair value A$m A$m of the equity received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense and a corresponding increase in equity, in the Equity Compensation Reserve. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the Net gain on sale/transfer of investments equity granted. Equity accounted investments 36.8 29.2 The fair value is primarily determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Refer to Note 34c ‘Amounts Recognised in the Financial Other assets and liabilities 21.5 23.6 Statements’ for further detail. Management consider the fair value assigned to be an area of estimation uncertainty as it requires judgements on Lendlease’s security price and whether vesting conditions will be satisfied. Consolidated entities 163.31 48.0 At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the entitlement due. It recognises the impact of revision of original Available for sale financial assets 15.8 31.9 estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. Changes in Total net gain on sale/transfer of investments 237.4 132.7 entitlement for equity settled plans are not recognised if they fail to vest due to market conditions not being met. Superannuation Accumulation Plan Expense Net gain on fair value measurement All employees in the Australia region are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death from the Group’s superannuation Derivative contracts held for trading 3.5 accumulation plan. The majority of these employees are party to a defined contribution plan and receive fixed contributions from the Group. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an Fair value through profit or loss assets 11.9 21.4 employee benefit expense when they are due. The Group also operates a defined benefit superannuation plan, membership of which Total net gain on fair value measurement 11.9 24.9 is now closed. Refer to Note 33 ‘Defined Benefit Plans’ for further detail. Other 7.6 94.2 Impairment Total other income 256.9 251.8 The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, subject to impairment tests are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The calculation of this 1. Includes gain on sale of Australian PPP entities and New Zealand Retirement Living business. recoverable amount is dependent on the type of asset. The material assets’ accounting policies will contain further information on these calculations. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement unless an asset has been previously revalued through reserves. Reversals of Impairment Impairment losses on assets can be reversed (other than goodwill) when there is a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount. The increase could be due to a specific event, the indication of impairment may no longer exist or there is a change in estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Operating Lease Expense Payments made under operating leases, including lease incentives, are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately. Amortisation is provided on leasehold improvements over the remaining term of the lease. Most plant is depreciated over a period not exceeding 20 years, furniture and fittings over three – 15 years, motor vehicles over four – eight years and computer equipment over three years. 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 135 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 7. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs For personal use only 6. Other Expenses continued Accounting Policies Finance revenue is recognised as it is earned using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument. The discount is then recognised as finance revenue over the remaining life of the financial instrument. Profit before income tax includes the following other expense items: Finance costs include interest, amortisation of discounts or premiums relating to borrowings and amortisation of costs incurred in Employee benefit expenses1 2,079.2 2,259.1 connection with the arrangement of new borrowings facilities. Costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings Superannuation accumulation plan expense 54.2 43.5 are capitalised and amortised over the life of the borrowings. Finance costs are expensed immediately as incurred unless they relate to acquisition and development of qualifying assets. Qualifying assets are assets that take more than six months to prepare for their Net defined benefit plans expense 6.5 4.5 intended use or sale. Finance costs related to qualifying assets are capitalised. Expenses include impairments raised/(reversals) relating to: Loans and receivables (0.2) (9.9) Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Property inventories (7.4) 4.3 A$m A$m Property, plant and equipment 7.8 Finance Revenue Equity accounted investments (3.3) (4.2) Related parties 1.1 0.2 Other financial assets 3.4 3.7 Other corporations 10.6 13.6 Net fair value loss on investment properties 2.2 12.1 Total interest finance revenue 11.7 13.8 Operating lease expense 84.9 84.3 Interest discounting 5.1 3.9 Depreciation and amortisation 82.7 79.5 Total finance revenue 16.8 17.7 Net foreign exchange loss 2.7 14.3 Finance Costs 1. Total expense before recoveries through projects. Other corporations 133.8 149.0 Auditors’ Remuneration June 2016 June 2015 Less: Capitalised interest finance costs1 (23.2) (26.4) A$000s A$000s Total interest finance costs 110.6 122.6 Amounts received or due and receivable by the auditors of Lendlease Group for: Non interest finance costs 15.6 14.6 Audit and Other Assurance Services Total finance costs 126.2 137.2 Audit services 5,536 5,5921 Net finance costs (109.4) (119.5) Other assurance services 683 464 1. The weighted average interest rate used to determine the amount of interest finance costs eligible for capitalisation was 4.5% (30 June 2015: 5.4%), Total audit and other assurance services 6,219 6,056 which is the effective interest rate. Non audit services – – Total audit, other assurance and non audit services 6,219 6,056 1. Prior year Audit services has been restated by $57,000 to include additional fees incurred related to the 30 June 2015 financial year. 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 137 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued b. Joint Ventures1 June 2016 June 2015 For personal use only A$m A$m 8. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments Australia Accounting Policies Development Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The share of profit recognised under Sunshine Coast University Hospital 7.2 4.5 the equity method is the Group’s share of the investment’s profit or loss based on ownership interest held. Associates (including partnerships) are entities in which the Group, as a result of its voting rights, has significant influence, but not control or joint control, ICC Sydney (Darling Harbour Live) 6.5 0.4 over the financial and operating policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the Other 7.8 0.8 arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Investments For associates, this is from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases, and for joint ventures, this is from the date joint control commences until the date joint control ceases. Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust 53.3 31.7 Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust 6.2 Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Total Australia 81.0 37.4 A$m A$m Asia Associates Development Share of profit 13.8 24.8 Other (4.5) Joint Ventures Investments Share of profit/(loss) 137.8 (4.9) CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) (16.5) (6.8) Total share of profit of equity accounted investments 151.6 19.9 Total Asia (21.0) (6.8) Europe a. Associates1 June 2016 June 2015 Development A$m A$m Stratford City Business District Limited2 69.4 Australia Investments Development Majadahonda Hospital 0.5 1.3 Lendlease Communities Fund 1 0.1 0.7 Global Renewables Lancashire Holdings Limited (40.7) Investments Other 7.8 3.7 Lendlease Real Estate Partners 3 8.1 Total Europe 77.7 (35.7) Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 3.8 3.3 Americas Total Australia 3.9 12.1 Development Asia Other 0.1 0.2 Investments Total Americas 0.1 0.2 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 2 (0.8) 3.1 Total share of profit from joint ventures 137.8 (4.9) Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 5.0 7.3 Total share of profit from equity accounted investments 151.6 19.9 Total Asia 4.2 10.4 1. Reflects the contribution to the Group’s profit, and is after tax paid by the equity accounted investment vehicles themselves, where relevant. However, Europe for various equity accounted investments, the share of tax is paid by the Group and is included in the Group’s current tax expense. 2. A material profit was recognised in the current year relating to the sale of commercial buildings owned by the joint venture. With the exception of this Development transaction, the Stratford City Business District Limited joint venture is not a material joint venture for the Group. Other 3.3 Total Europe 3.3 – Americas Investments Other 2.4 2.3 Total Americas 2.4 2.3 Total share of profit from associates 13.8 24.8 1. Reflects the contribution to the Group’s profit, and is after tax paid by the equity accounted investment vehicles themselves, where relevant. However, for various equity accounted investments, the share of tax is paid by the Group and is included in the Group’s current tax expense. 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 139 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 9. Taxation For personal use only 8. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments continued Accounting Policies c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information1 Income Taxes The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are material to the Group. Refer to Income tax on the profit or loss for the financial year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the Income Note 12c ‘Equity Accounted Investments’ for determination of material associates and joint ventures. The information disclosed reflects Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Under the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates and, where indicated, the Group’s share of current Australian income tax law LLT is not liable for income tax, including capital gains tax, to the extent that unitholders are those amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group when using the equity method, including fair value presently entitled to the income of LLT. adjustments and differences in accounting policies. The nature and principal activities of the material associates and joint ventures is Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year, using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the investing in property assets. balance sheet date in each jurisdiction, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years. LEND LEASE LEND LEASE ONE Deferred tax is the expected tax payable in future periods as a result of past transactions or events and is calculated by comparing INTERNATIONAL TOWERS INTERNATIONAL TOWERS the accounting balance sheet to the tax balance sheet. Temporary differences are provided for any differences in the carrying SYDNEY TRUST SYDNEY TRUST amounts of assets and liabilities between the accounting and tax balance sheets. The following temporary differences are not Income Statement June 2016 June 2015 June 20162 June 2015 provided for: A$m A$m A$m A$m • The initial recognition of goodwill; • The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and Revenue from provision of services 96.9 • Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are not likely to reverse in the foreseeable future. Interest income 0.4 0.1 0.2 Measurement of deferred tax is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and Fair value revaluations 306.5 217.5 59.3 liabilities, using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the balance sheet date. Interest expense (20.5) Recognition of deferred tax assets is only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available so as the related tax asset will be realised. Deferred tax assets may include the following: Other expenses (28.0) (6.2) (5.0) • Deductible temporary differences; Income tax expense • Unused tax losses; and Profit/(loss) for the year3 355.3 211.4 54.5 – • Unused tax credits. Other comprehensive income Management consider the estimation of future taxable profits to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a change in any of the assumptions used in budgeting and forecasting would have an impact on the future profitability of the Group. The Group prepares Total comprehensive income 355.3 211.4 54.5 – financial budgets and forecasts, covering a five year period, which are reviewed on a regular basis. These forecasts and budgets Group’s ownership interest 15.0% 15.0% 12.5% 37.5% form the basis of future profitability to support the carrying value of the deferred tax assets. The performance of the Group is influenced by a variety of general economic and business conditions, which are outside the control of the Group, including the level Group’s total share of: of inflation, interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, ability to access funding, oversupply and demand conditions and Profit/(loss) 53.3 31.7 6.2 2 – government fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies. Other comprehensive income Presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity or on different tax entities, but are Total comprehensive income 53.3 31.7 6.2 – intended to be settled on a net basis or to be realised simultaneously. Dividends received from joint ventures (4.0) – – – Tax Consolidation 1. Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 and CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) are no longer considered to be material equity accounted investments for the The Company is the head entity of the Australian Tax Consolidated Group comprising all the Australian wholly owned subsidiaries, Group. which excludes LLT. As a consequence, all members of the Australian Tax Consolidation Group are taxed as a single entity. 2. Lendlease Trust disposed of a 25% interest in Lend Lease One International Sydney Trust, reducing its ownership from 37.5% to 12.5%. Under the terms of the unit transfer agreement that was executed on 22 December 2015, Lendlease Trust has recognised a 37.5% share of comprehensive income for the period 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015. 3. There was no depreciation and amortisation expense in the current or prior year in the profit/(loss). The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial to the Group. ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES Income Statement June 2016 June 2015 1 June 2016 June 20151 A$m A$m A$m A$m Aggregate amounts of the Group’s share of: Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 13.8 24.8 78.3 (36.6) Other comprehensive income/(expense) 5.0 12.9 10.2 10.7 Aggregate amounts of Group’s share of total comprehensive income/ (expense) of individually immaterial equity accounted investments 18.8 37.7 88.5 (25.9) 1. June 2015 comparatives have been revised to include Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 and CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) as they are no longer considered material to the Group. 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 141 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued c. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities JUNE 2016 JUNE 2015 For personal use only Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 9. Taxation continued A$m A$m A$m A$m a. Income Tax Expense Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Recognised in the Income Statement Loans and receivables 2.6 (143.6) 7.6 (425.4) Current Tax Expense Inventories 66.8 (311.6) 240.7 (271.2) Current year 172.3 (29.1) Other financial assets 21.5 (69.6) 2.1 (68.4) Adjustments for prior years (1.1) (17.7) Other assets 4.4 (5.6) 12.7 (5.5) Benefits of tax losses recognised (11.9) (18.6) Equity accounted investments 8.1 (42.8) 5.9 (64.0) 159.3 (65.4) Investment properties 0.3 (189.5) 0.7 (140.2) Deferred Tax Expense Property, plant and equipment 27.8 (25.6) 22.1 (17.2) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 19.7 218.9 Intangible assets (14.0) (9.3) Temporary differences recognised/recovered (38.8) (10.5) Net defined benefit plans 28.4 (24.2) 42.7 (25.9) Net tax losses written off 24.6 4.5 Trade and other payables 193.9 (5.0) 153.9 (0.1) Change in tax rate (4.6) 3.3 Resident liabilities 107.4 150.0 Adjustments for prior years 4.5 (1.7) 5.4 214.5 Provisions 97.8 134.9 Total income tax expense 164.7 149.1 Borrowings and financing arrangements 0.6 0.6 (0.4) Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate Other financial and non financial liabilities 6.6 (1.3) Profit before Tax 862.8 768.0 Unused revenue tax losses recognised 237.9 420.61 Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 30% 258.8 230.4 Unused capital tax losses recognised 12.6 6.9 Adjustments for prior year tax claim (1.1) (17.7) Items with a tax base but no carrying value 22.9 (26.8) 24.8 (21.7) Non assessable and exempt income1 (70.1) (70.3) Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 839.6 (859.6) 1,226.2 (1,049.3) Non allowable expenses2 9.1 8.9 Deferred tax set off (730.1) 730.1 (920.7) 920.7 Net writeoff/recognition of tax losses through income tax expense 13.3 13.8 Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 109.5 (129.5) 305.5 (128.6) Temporary differences recognised through income tax expense3 (11.4) (18.2) Utilisation of capital losses on disposal of assets (11.9) (7.4) Other/ Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions4 (15.7) 17.1 1 July Recognised Recognised Foreign 30 June Other (6.3) (7.5) 2015 in Income in Equity Exchange 2016 Income tax expense 164.7 149.1 June 2016 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Deferred Tax Recognised Directly in Equity Movement in temporary differences during the financial year: Relating to: Loans and receivables (417.8) 278.7 (1.9) (141.0) Equity issue costs 0.1 Inventories (30.5) (219.3) 5.0 (244.8) Fair value revaluation reserve (0.7) (5.7) Other financial assets (66.3) 18.7 0.7 (1.2) (48.1) Defined benefit plans remeasurements 9.7 (12.9) Other assets 7.2 (8.6) 0.2 (1.2) Foreign currency translation reserve on equity accounted investments 4.9 9.3 Hedging reserve 0.8 0.1 Equity accounted investments (58.1) 28.1 (4.5) (0.2) (34.7) Non controlling interest acquisition reserve 3.0 3.0 Investment properties (139.5) (51.6) 1.9 (189.2) Total deferred tax expense/(benefit) recognised directly in equity 17.7 (6.1) Property, plant and equipment 4.9 (3.1) 0.4 2.2 Intangible assets (9.3) (4.7) (14.0) 1. Includes LLT profit and tax exemptions obtained for major asset sales in the year. 2. Includes accounting expenses for which a tax deduction is not allowed permanently. Net defined benefit plans 16.8 (1.4) (9.7) (1.5) 4.2 3. Includes temporary differences recognised in a previous year but are subsequently written off to the income tax expense in the current year and temporary Trade and other payables 153.8 34.2 0.9 188.9 differences that arose in a previous year but were not recognised until the current year. 4. The Group operates in a number of foreign jurisdictions for trading purposes which have significantly lower tax rates than Australia such as the United Resident liabilities 150.0 (42.6) 107.4 Kingdom and Singapore and higher tax rates such as the United States of America and Japan. Also includes the effect of change in tax rates. Provisions 134.9 (39.6) 2.5 97.8 Borrowings and financing arrangements 0.2 0.8 (0.4) 0.6 b. Tax Effect Relating to Other Comprehensive Income JUNE 2016 JUNE 2015 Other financial and non financial liabilities 6.6 (1.2) (0.1) 5.3 Tax Tax Before (Expense)/ Net Before (Expense)/ Net Unused revenue tax losses recognised 420.6 (182.7) 237.9 Tax Benefit of Tax Tax Benefit of Tax Unused capital tax losses recognised 6.9 5.7 12.6 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Items with a tax base but no carrying value 3.1 (7.3) (3.0) 3.3 (3.9) Movements in fair value revaluation reserve (2.4) 0.7 (1.7) 0.2 5.7 5.9 Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 176.9 (5.4) (17.7) (173.8) (20.0) Movements in hedging reserve 9.7 (0.8) 8.9 (17.7) (0.1) (17.8) Movements in foreign currency translation reserve 20.9 (4.9) 16.01 64.9 (9.3) 55.61 1. Includes research and development tax credits carried forward. Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve 0.5 0.5 (14.0) (14.0) Movements in defined benefit plan remeasurements in retained earnings 48.0 (9.7) 38.3 (69.2) 12.9 (56.3) Total other comprehensive income net of tax 76.7 (14.7) 62.0 (35.8) 9.2 (26.6) 1. Includes A$0.3 million relating to external non controlling interests (June 2015: A$1.0 million). 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 143 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued Section B: Investment For personal use only 9. Taxation continued Investment in the development pipeline, joint ventures in property projects, the retirement sector, and more passive assets, such as property funds, drives the current and future performance of the Group. This section includes disclosures for property such as c. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities continued Inventories and Investment Properties and indirect property assets such as Equity Accounted Investments and Other Financial 1 July Recognised Recognised Other/Foreign 30 June Assets contained within the Statement of Financial Position. 2014 in Income in Equity Exchange 2015 June 2015 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m 11. Inventories Loans and receivables (142.7) (274.0) (1.1) (417.8) Inventories (95.6) 117.3 (52.2) (30.5) Accounting Policies Development Properties Other financial assets (69.9) 6.2 5.7 (8.3) (66.3) Property acquired for development and sale in the ordinary course of business is carried at the lower of cost and Net Realisable Value (NRV). Other assets (2.6) 5.8 4.0 7.2 The cost of development properties includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the property, preparing it for sale and borrowing Equity accounted investments (37.4) (18.7) (9.4) 7.4 (58.1) costs incurred. Investment properties (109.8) (29.7) (139.5) The NRV is the estimated selling price, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. Management consider the estimation of both selling prices and costs of completion to be an area of estimation uncertainty, as these estimations take into Property, plant and equipment 8.9 (6.6) 2.6 4.9 consideration market conditions affecting each property and the underlying strategy for selling the property. Intangible assets (1.8) (2.8) (4.7) (9.3) The recoverable amount of each property is assessed at each balance date and accounting judgement is required to assess whether Net defined benefit plans 11.9 (9.3) 12.9 1.3 16.8 a provision is raised where cost (including costs to complete) exceeds NRV. Trade and other payables 127.7 17.1 9.0 153.8 Inventories are expensed as cost of sales in the Income Statement. Management uses accounting judgement in determining the following: Resident liabilities 138.9 (63.3) 74.4 150.0 • The apportionment of cost of sales through either land area or sales revenue; Provisions 93.1 11.7 30.1 134.9 • The amount of cost of sales, which includes costs incurred to date and final forecast costs; and Borrowings and financing arrangements (0.2) 0.4 0.2 • The nature of the expenditure, which may include acquisition costs, development costs, borrowing costs and those costs incurred Other financial liabilities 1.7 (1.6) (0.1) in preparing the property for sale. Construction Work in Progress Unused revenue tax losses recognised 242.9 46.4 131.3 420.6 The gross amount of construction and development work in progress consists of costs attributable to work performed, including Unused capital tax losses recognised 12.9 (3.7) (2.3) 6.9 recoverable pre contract and project bidding costs and emerging profit after providing for any foreseeable losses. In applying the Items with a tax base but no carrying value 16.6 (9.7) (3.1) (0.7) 3.1 accounting policies on providing for these losses accounting judgement is required. Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 194.6 (214.5) 6.1 190.7 176.9 Work in progress is presented as part of inventories for all contracts in which costs incurred plus recognised profits exceed progress billings. If progress billings and recognised losses exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits, then the difference is presented in trade and other payables. June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets A$m A$m Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Current Capital losses 9.8 27.5 Development properties 1,020.1 1,115.2 Revenue losses 56.9 57.3 Construction work in progress 894.0 857.9 Deductible temporary differences 54.0 65.5 Other 8.9 6.9 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 120.7 150.3 Total current 1,923.0 1,980.0 Of the unrecognised deferred tax asset of A$120.7 million, only A$15.1 million expires by 2036. The remainder of the unrecognised Non Current deferred tax assets have no expiry date. Development properties 2,679.9 2,124.2 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date Total non current 2,679.9 2,124.2 There were no material events subsequent to the end of the financial year. Total inventories 4,602.9 4,104.2 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 145 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued a. Associates For personal use only INTEREST NET BOOK VALUE 12. Equity Accounted Investments June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 % % A$m A$m Accounting Policies Equity Accounted Investments (Associates and Joint Ventures) Australia As discussed in Note 8 ‘Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments’, investments in Associates and Joint Ventures are equity Development accounted. The share of investment recognised under the equity method is the Group’s share of the investment’s net assets based on Lendlease Communities Fund 1 20.8 20.8 4.3 9.9 ownership interest held. Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried at the lower of the equity accounted carrying amount and the recoverable Investments amount. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the equity accounted investment (including assets that Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund1 10.0 10.0 38.0 36.7 form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture entity), the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of Other 0.5 further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has obligations in respect of the associate or joint venture. Dividends from associates and joint ventures represent a return on the Group’s investment and as such are applied as a reduction to Total Australia 42.3 47.1 the carrying value of the investment. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated Asia against the investment in the associate or joint venture to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate or joint venture. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Investments Other movements in associates’ and joint ventures’ reserves are recognised directly in the Group’s consolidated reserves. Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 2 35.9 35.9 24.0 28.7 Service Concession Arrangements (SCAs) Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 20.1 20.1 156.4 154.7 The Group equity accounts its investment in project companies with SCAs through public private partnerships (PPPs). These arrangements provide facilities management and maintenance services with terms generally of 25 to 30 years. They also incorporate Total Asia 180.4 183.4 contractual obligations to make available the individual assets for their prescribed use and, where necessary, overhaul or replace Europe major items of plant and equipment related to the assets with payment obtained through periodic draw-downs from the relevant government authorities. Development Joint Operations Other 4.0 4.6 A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and Total Europe 4.0 4.6 obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Investments in joint operations are accounted for by recognising amounts on a line by line basis in accordance with the accounting Americas standards applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in relation to the Group’s interest in the joint operation. Investments Other 1.4 1.7 Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Total Americas 1.4 1.7 A$m A$m Total 228.1 236.8 Associates Less: Impairment (5.9) (6.3) Investment in associates 228.1 236.8 Total associates 222.2 230.5 Less: Impairment (5.9) (6.3) 1. Although the Group has a 10% ownership interest in Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund, it holds 20% of the voting rights over the fund and has significant Total associates 222.2 230.5 influence over the investment. As a result, the Group applies equity accounting for its ownership interest. Joint Ventures Investment in joint ventures 946.9 1,012.4 Less: Impairment (16.5) (7.1) Total joint ventures 930.4 1,005.3 Total equity accounted investments 1,152.6 1,235.8 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 147 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information1 The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are material to the Group. Material associates and joint ventures have been determined by comparing individual investment net book value with the total equity Section B: Investment continued accounted investment carrying value and share of profit, along with consideration of relevant qualitative factors. The information For personal use only 12. Equity Accounted Investments continued disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates and, where indicated, the Group’s share of those amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group when using the equity method, b. Joint Ventures INTEREST NET BOOK VALUE including fair value adjustments and differences in accounting policies. The nature and principal activities of the material associates and joint ventures is investing in property assets. June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 % % A$m A$m LEND LEASE LEND LEASE ONE INTERNATIONAL TOWERS INTERNATIONAL TOWERS Australia1 SYDNEY TRUST SYDNEY TRUST Investments Statement of Financial Position June 2016 June 2015 June 20162 June 2015 A$m A$m A$m A$m Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust 15.0 15.0 380.3 181.5 Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust 2 12.5 37.5 107.5 191.3 Current assets Development Cash and cash equivalents 20.2 4.2 4.3 ICC Sydney (Darling Harbour Live) 3 50.0 116.2 Other current assets 24.8 10.3 598.9 Sunshine Coast University Hospital3 50.0 89.2 Total current assets 45.0 14.5 4.3 598.9 New Bendigo Hospital3 50.0 18.2 Total non current assets 3,141.5 2,236.2 1,286.0 883.9 Eastern Goldfields Regional Prison 50.0 50.0 3.3 Current liabilities Other 19.9 8.2 Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) (9.5) (458.5) (186.0) (150.0) Total Australia 507.7 607.9 Other current liabilities (40.9) (275.4) (233.6) (650.2) Asia Total current liabilities (50.4) (733.9) (419.6) (800.2) Investments Non current liabilities CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) 25.0 25.0 90.6 105.7 Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) (600.5) (306.9) (6.2) (172.6) Development Total non current liabilities (600.5) (306.9) (6.2) (172.6) Paya Lebar Quarter 30.0 30.0 177.3 158.7 Net assets 2,535.6 1,209.9 864.5 510.0 Other 0.7 Total Asia 267.9 265.1 Reconciliation to Carrying Amounts Europe1 Opening net assets 1 July 1,209.9 539.5 510.0 Development Total comprehensive income for the year 355.3 211.4 54.5 Stratford City Business District Limited 50.0 50.0 45.8 26.5 Dividends paid (26.5) Hungate (York) Regeneration Limited 50.0 50.0 4.8 6.0 Acquisition/contributions 996.9 459.0 300.0 510.0 Investments Closing net assets 2,535.6 1,209.9 864.5 510.0 Majadahonda Hospital 25.0 9.0 % ownership 15.0% 15.0% 12.5% 37.5% Treviso 50.0 49.0 7.6 0.5 Group’s share of net assets 380.3 181.5 108.1 191.3 Other 5.0 9.8 Other adjustments (0.6) 2 Total Europe 63.2 51.8 Carrying amount at end of year 380.3 181.5 107.5 191.3 Americas 1 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 and CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) are no longer considered to be material equity accounted investments for the Group. 2 Lendlease Trust disposed of a 25% interest in Lend Lease One International Sydney Trust, reducing its ownership from 37.5% to 12.5%. Under the terms of the Development unit transfer agreement that was executed on 22 December 2015, Lendlease Trust has recognised a 37.5% share of comprehensive income for the period 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015. 281 Fifth Avenue 40.0 40.0 53.3 51.9 Riverline 60.0 60.0 48.9 30.9 There were no capital expenditure or lease commitments contracted but not provided for during the current or prior year for the Other 5.9 4.8 material associates and joint ventures. The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial Total Americas 108.1 87.6 to the Group. Total 946.9 1,012.4 ASSOCIATES1 JOINT VENTURES1 Less: Impairment (16.5) (7.1) June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Total joint ventures 930.4 1,005.3 A$m A$m A$m A$m Total equity accounted investments 1,152.6 1,235.8 Aggregate carrying value of individually immaterial equity 1. Equity accounted profit in Note 8 ‘Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments’ for certain investments has been aggregated into ‘Other’ as not material. accounted investments 222.2 230.5 442.6 632.5 2. Disposal of 25% interest in Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust did not change the assessment of joint control. Although the Group has a 12.5% ownership interest in Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust, it holds joint voting rights and has joint control over the investment. As a result the 1. June 2015 comparatives have been revised to include Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 and CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) as they are no longer Group applies equity accounting for its ownership interest. considered material to the Group. 3. Joint ventures sold as part of the Australian PPP entities sale in June 2016. 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 149 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued c. Valuation Technique For personal use only The key assumptions used in the fair value assessments, including those classified as assets under construction, have been derived from 13. Investment Properties market evidence and are summarised as follows. Retirement Living Properties Accounting Policies For retirement living properties, the key long term assumptions adopted in the basis of valuation at the reporting date included: Investment properties on initial recognition are measured at cost, including transaction costs and subsequently stated at fair value. • Weighted average discount rate of 13.3% (June 2015: 13.3%); The fair value for all properties, except those under construction and those valued at less than A$10.0 million, is based on periodic, but at least triennial, valuations by qualified external independent valuers. It is the policy of the Group to review the fair value of each • Weighted average future growth rate of 3.7% (June 2015: 3.7%); property every six months. • Average length of stay: 11 years for independent living units (June 2015: 11 years) and six years for serviced apartments Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar properties in the same location and condition. If this information is (June 2015: six years); and not available, the Group uses alternative calculation methods such as discounted cash flow projections, recent prices on less active • A discounted cash flow valuation model using a 50 year terminal yield. markets or capitalised income projections. Capitalised income projections are based on perpetuity of net operating income and deferred management fees using a capitalisation rate derived from market evidence. For retirement living properties included in assets under construction, the assumptions adopted in determining the fair values at 30 June 2016 included: Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the Income Statement. Management consider the calculation of the fair value to be an area of estimation uncertainty. While this represents the best estimation of fair value at the reporting date, • Discount rates between 14.0% and 17.0% (June 2015: 14.0% and 17.0%) based on the stage of development and the assessed project actual sale prices achieved (should the investment properties be sold) may be higher or lower than the most recent valuation. This is risk; and particularly relevant in periods of market illiquidity or uncertainty. • Growth rates are generally between 2.0% and 4.0% (June 2015: between 2.0% and 4.0%) based on price and cost escalation Rental revenue and deferred management fees from investment properties are accounted for as described in Note 4 ‘Revenue’. assumptions determined by individual property factors. Expenses capitalised to properties may include the cost of acquisition, additions, refurbishments, redevelopments, borrowing costs and certain fees incurred. d. Fair Value Measurement Retirement living investment properties principally comprises retirement villages (both operating villages and villages under There are different levels of fair value measurements, refer to Note 26b ‘Fair Value Measurements’ for definitions. The fair value development) held for long term income yields, which are not occupied by the Group. measurement for net investment properties of A$1,705.7 million (June 2015: A$1,779.0 million) has been categorised as a Level 3 based on the inputs to the valuation technique used as noted above. Resident liabilities are initially recognised as the amount paid by residents of retirement living investment properties to occupy the apartments and units. Subsequently they are measured at face value being the principal paid, plus the resident’s share of capital Net investment properties includes net retirement living properties after deducting resident liabilities and related deferred revenue, gains based on market values of the underlying property at balance date, less deferred management fees earned to date. A$1,508.1 million (June 2015: A$1,587.7 million), retail properties A$71.9 million (June 2015: A$74.9 million) and assets under construction A$125.7 million (June 2015: A$116.4 million). Resident liabilities are non interest bearing and are classified as current liabilities because any resident may choose to depart within 12 months. The Group’s actual commercial history has shown residents stay for an average period of 11 years in independent living There were no investment properties that were considered Levels 1 or 2. units (ILUs) and six years in serviced apartments (SAs). Therefore the portion of the resident liabilities that could be considered e. Fair Value Reconciliation current represents 5%–10% of the total balance and non current represents 90%-95% of the total balance. This current and non current split of resident liabilities provides more useful and meaningful information as it better reflects the commercial substance of Reconciliation of carrying value for Level 3 net investment properties: the Group’s liabilities. June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Deferred management fees receivable on owned sites (DMF) represent amounts owed to the Group in connection with resident occupancy at retirement villages subject to long term management agreements. The DMF is calculated in accordance with resident Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,779.0 1,545.0 contracts, refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue’ for further detail. (Disposals)/additions and capital expenditure (108.4) 307.8 Gains/(losses) recognised in: Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Income Statement – other expenses (2.2) (12.1) A$m A$m Other comprehensive income – foreign currency translation (12.0) a. Investment Properties – Non Current Other movements 37.3 (49.7) Retirement living properties 5,743.1 5,803.6 Carrying amount at end of financial year 1,705.7 1,779.0 Retail properties 71.9 74.9 Assets under construction 125.7 116.4 Total investment properties 5,940.7 5,994.9 The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for valuation inputs would not have a material impact on the Group. Reconciliations Reconciliations of the carrying amount for investment properties are as follows: Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 5,994.9 4,832.0 (Disposal)/acquisition of investment properties1 (523.7) 933.5 Capital expenditure 112.8 102.9 Fair value loss recognised through the Income Statement (2.2) (12.1) Increase attributable to capital gain 328.3 130.8 Foreign exchange rate/other movements 30.6 7.8 Carrying amount at end of financial year 5,940.7 5,994.9 b. Resident Liabilities Gross resident liabilities 4,796.9 4,742.8 Deferred management fees receivable on owned sites (677.4) (662.4) Total resident liabilities 4,119.5 4,080.4 1 Primarily relates to disposal of the New Zealand Retirement Living business. 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 151 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 For personal use only A$m A$m 14. Other Financial Assets Current Measured at Fair Value Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition Accounting Policies Negotiable instruments 36.1 37.9 The following table summarises the accounting policies of investments the Group classifies as material financial assets, the classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired. Derivatives 14.6 4.8 Investment Classification Initial Total current 50.7 42.7 Category Criteria Recognition Subsequent Measurement Impairment Non Current Measured at Fair Value Financial assets at Held for Trading if it is At fair value (generally Fair value, any changes in Fair value losses are Available for Sale fair value through acquired principally for the transaction price). fair value are reflected in reflected in the Income profit or loss purpose of selling in the the Income Statement. Statement. Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail 44.8 43.5 Transaction costs are short term,unless they are recorded as expenses Lendlease Core Plus Fund 0.5 11.4 designated as hedges, when they are incurred. refer to Note 25 ‘Hedging’ Lendlease Retail LP 65.7 71.8 for further detail. Typically this includes derivatives Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 29.1 33.7 such as forward exchange Parkway Parade Partnership Limited 34.9 34.2 contracts and interest rate swaps. Other 129.1 133.7 304.1 328.3 Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition initial recognition either Australian Prime Property Fund – Industrial 73.3 71.3 to eliminate a measurement or Australian Prime Property Fund – Commercial 191.4 173.6 recognition inconsistency, or where a group of Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company 1 40.5 financial assets is Other unlisted investments 10.1 42.3 managed, and its performance is evaluated, Derivatives 0.7 on a fair value basis. 316.0 287.2 Available for Sale Non derivative financial At fair value (generally Fair value, unrealised gains AFS assets are generally Held to Maturity (AFS) assets that are either transaction price) plus or losses arising from impaired when there is a designated in this category transaction costs directly changes in the fair value significant or prolonged Other 8.7 10.2 or not classified in any attributable to the are recognised in equity, in decline in the fair value of 8.7 10.2 other category. Typically acquisition or issue. the Fair Value Revaluation the asset below its cost. include investments the Reserve. Total non current 628.8 625.7 Transaction costs are The cumulative loss, Group do not control or incremental costs that When AFS financial assets measured as the difference Total other financial assets 679.5 668.4 have significant influence would only have been are sold, transferred or between the acquisition over and are not managed incurred in relation to impaired, the accumulated cost and the current fair on a fair value basis. 1. Lendlease acquired a 10.0% interest in the new Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company in June 2016. the transaction. fair value adjustments in value, less any impairment the reserves are included in loss on that financial asset the Income Statement as previously recognised in gains or losses. profit or loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement. Impairment losses previously recognised in the Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Income Statement but are recognised through other comprehensive income. 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 153 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements For personal use only The ability of the Group to fund the continued investment in the property and infrastructure pipeline, invest in new opportunities and Accounting Policies meet current commitments is dependent on available cash and access to third party capital. This section contains disclosure on the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised financial assets, financial liabilities, cash flows and equity that are required to finance the Group’s activities, including existing commitments cost using the effective interest rate method. Under the amortised cost method the difference between the amount initially recognised and the liquidity risk exposure associated with financial liabilities. The section also contains disclosures for the Group’s trading assets, and the redemption value is recorded in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis. excluding inventories, and the trading liabilities incurred as a result of trading activities used to generate the Group’s Performance. Borrowings are referred to in this section using their redemption value when describing the terms and conditions. 15. Cash and Cash Equivalents Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Accounting Policies a. Borrowings – Measured at Amortised Cost Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short term highly liquid Current investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within three months and which are subject to an insignificant risk Commercial notes 227.3 of changes in value. Total current – 227.3 Bank overdrafts (if applicable) are shown as a current liability on the Statement of Financial Position and are shown as a reduction to the cash balance in the Statement of Cash Flows. Non Current Commercial notes 1,843.9 1,378.1 Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Bank credit facilities 187.4 844.9 A$m A$m Total non current 2,031.3 2,223.0 Cash 802.9 462.5 Total borrowings 2,031.3 2,450.3 Short term investments 205.5 287.6 b. Finance Facilities Total cash and cash equivalents 1,008.4 750.1 The Group has access to the following lines of credit: Short term investments earned variable rates of interest which averaged 1.6% per annum during the year (30 June 2015: 2.0%). Commercial Notes Facility available 1,843.9 1,605.4 16. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows June 2016 June 2015 Amount of facility used (1,843.9) (1,605.4) A$m A$m Amount of facility unused – – Reconciliation of Profit after Tax to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Bank Credit Facilities Profit after Tax (Including External Non Controlling Interests) 698.1 618.9 Facility available 2,223.1 2,182.7 Amortisation and depreciation 82.7 79.5 Amount of facility used (187.4) (844.9) Net gain on sale of investments, plant and equipment (237.4) (100.8) Amount of facility unused 2,035.7 1,337.8 Write back of equity accounted investments (3.3) (4.2) Impairment of other financial assets 3.4 3.7 Bank Overdrafts Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7.8 Facility available and amount unused 136.9 85.7 Net unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss and currency hedging costs (25.4) 75.2 Net fair value gain on investments (11.9) (24.9) Commercial notes include: Share of profit of equity accounted investments (151.6) (19.9) • £300.0 million of guaranteed unsecured notes issued in October 2006 in the UK bond market with a 6.125% p.a. coupon maturing in Dividends/distributions from equity accounted investments 59.9 17.7 October 2021; Fair value loss on investment properties 2.2 12.1 • US$200.0 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes issued in October 2005 in the US private placement market comprising Other (107.5) (109.1) US$175.0 million that matured in October 2015 and US$25.0 million with a 5.8% coupon maturing in October 2017; US$400.0 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes issued in May 2016 in the US Reg. S market under Lendlease’s Euro Medium Term Note programme Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 309.2 556.0 with a coupon of 4.5% maturing in May 2026; Changes in Assets and Liabilities Adjusted for Effects of Purchase and • S$275.0 million of senior unsecured notes issued in July 2012 in the Singapore bond market with a 4.625% p.a. coupon maturing in Disposal of Consolidated Entities and Operations During the Financial Year July 2017; and Decrease/(increase) in receivables 992.4 (1,340.9) • A$475.0 million of unsecured medium term notes issued in May 2013 (A$375.0 million) and June 2014 (A$100.0 million) in the Australian Increase in inventories (573.6) (754.3) bond market comprising A$250.0 million with a 5.5% p.a. coupon maturing in November 2018 and A$225.0 million with a 6.0% p.a. coupon maturing in May 2020. Decrease/(increase) in other assets 9.1 (9.4) Increase in net defined benefit plans (18.9) (48.1) Bank credit facilities include: (Decrease)/increase in payables (123.0) 1,343.2 • £400.0 million club bank facility maturing in March 2021 drawn to £100.0 million at 30 June 2016. This is a refinancing of the previous Increase in operating derivatives assets/liabilities 49.4 8.6 £330.0 million club bank facility; and • A$1,500.0 million syndicated multi-option facility maturing in June 2019 (A$600.0 million) and June 2020 (A$900.0 million) undrawn Decrease in deferred tax items 274.9 200.9 as at 30 June 2016. Decrease in current tax (10.5) (173.1) The bank overdraft facilities may be drawn at any time and are repayable on demand. (Decrease)/increase in other provisions (56.0) 50.5 Consistent with prior years, the Group has not defaulted on any obligations in relation to its borrowings and finance arrangements and Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 853.0 (166.6) other financial liabilities. 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 155 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued 19. Capital Management For personal use only The Group assesses capital management as part of its broader strategic plan. The Group focuses on interrelated financial parameters, 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements continued including return on equity, earnings growth and borrowing capacity. The Group also monitors its gearing ratio, leverage ratio, interest coverage ratio and weighted average cost of debt. These are all taken into account when the Group makes decisions on how to invest its INTEREST EXPOSURE CURRENCY capital and evaluate its existing investments. Fixed Floating Total A$ US$ £ S$ Total The Group’s capital includes total equity, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. When investing capital, the Group’s objective A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m is to deliver strong total securityholder returns and to maintain an investment-grade credit rating by maintaining an appropriate financial June 2016 profile. The Fitch/Moody’s/S&P long term credit ratings at 30 June 2016 are BBB-/Baa3/BBBrespectively (June 2015: Not Rated/Baa3/BBB-). Between one and five years 783.5 178.6 962.1 475.6 33.3 178.6 274.6 962.1 The capital structure of the Group can be changed by equity issuance, paying distributions to securityholders, the distribution reinvestment plan and changing the level of debt. More than five years 1,060.4 8.8 1,069.2 529.1 540.1 1,069.2 Total 1,843.9 187.4 2,031.3 475.6 562.4 718.7 274.6 2,031.3 20. Liquidity Risk Exposure June 2015 Further information on Liquidity Risk is disclosed in Note 24 ‘Financial Risk Management’. As disclosed in Note 27 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, in certain circumstances, the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations including Between one and five years 998.9 834.5 1,833.4 1,024.3 259.7 285.7 263.7 1,833.4 bonding and bank guarantees. Issued bank guarantees have cash collateralisation requirements if the bank guarantee facility is not More than five years 606.5 10.4 616.9 616.9 616.9 renewed by the provider. Total 1,605.4 844.9 2,450.3 1,024.3 259.7 902.6 263.7 2,450.3 At 30 June 2016, the Group does not anticipate a significant liquidity risk in relation to these facilities in the next 12 months. The Group has provided collateral of A$nil (June 2015: A$nil) against letter of credit facilities. 18. Issued Capital The following are the contractual cash flow maturities of financial liabilities including estimated interest payments. Carrying Contractual Less than One to two Two to five More than amount cash flows one year years year five years Accounting Policies Note A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Issued Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a June 2016 deduction from equity. Non Derivative Financial Liabilities When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, Trade and other payables1 23 4,597.8 4,754.8 3,675.2 171.7 168.5 739.4 is recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are recognised as a deduction from equity. Resident liabilities2 13b 4,119.5 4,119.5 4,119.5 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 2,031.3 2,622.9 106.1 416.1 891.3 1,209.4 Financial Disclosure Other financial liabilities 29.5 31.2 21.8 9.4 LENDLEASE CORPORATION LIMITED LENDLEASE TRUST Total 10,778.1 11,528.4 7,922.6 597.2 1,059.8 1,948.8 June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Derivative Financial Liabilities No. of No. of No. of No. of Shares Shares Units Units (Outflow) 63.8 (1,498.4) (1,474.0) (17.9) (2.9) (3.6) (m) A$m (m) A$m (m) A$m (m) A$m Inflow 1,434.6 1,414.6 17.3 2.7 Issued capital at beginning of financial year 580.5 1,256.3 577.5 1,618.2 580.5 911.2 577.5 504.7 Total 26b 63.8 (63.8) (59.4) (0.6) (0.2) (3.6) Transactions with owners for the year: June 2015 Recapitalisation of Lendlease Trust (400.5) 400.5 Non Derivative Financial Liabilities Distribution Reinvestment Plan 1.8 20.0 3.0 38.6 1.8 4.6 3.0 6.0 Trade and other payables1 23 4,983.7 5,170.8 3,994.7 212.7 248.4 715.0 Issued capital at end of financial year 582.3 1,276.3 580.5 1,256.3 582.3 915.8 580.5 911.2 Resident liabilities2 13b 4,080.4 4,080.4 4,080.4 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 2,450.3 3,012.1 340.1 397.9 1,576.5 697.6 a. Issuance of Securities As at 30 June 2016, the Group had 582.3 million stapled securities on issue, equivalent to the number of Lendlease Corporation shares and Other financial liabilities 58.3 63.3 29.2 23.7 10.4 Lendlease Trust (LLT) units on issue as at that date. The issued units of LLT are not owned by the Company and are therefore presented Total 11,572.7 12,326.6 8,444.4 634.3 1,835.3 1,412.6 separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position within equity. Derivative Financial Liabilities b. Security Accumulation Plans (Outflow) 7.7 (462.0) (451.0) (7.8) (3.2) The Group’s Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) was reactivated in February 2011. The last date for receipt of an election notice for Inflow 454.3 446.5 7.8 participation in the DRP is 26 August 2016. The issue price is the arithmetic average of the daily volume weighted average price of Lendlease stapled securities traded (on the Australian Securities Exchange) for the period of five consecutive business days immediately Total 26b 7.7 (7.7) (4.5) – – (3.2) following the record date for determining entitlements to distribution. If that price is less than 50 cents, the issue price will be 50 cents. 1. The carrying amount of trade and other payables excludes A$660.0 million of current and A$980.4 million of non current amounts (June 2015: A$1,042.1 million of Stapled securities issued under the DRP rank equally with all other stapled securities on issue. current and A$596.3 million of non current amounts) as they do not meet the definition of a financial liability under Australian Accounting Standards. 2. Resident liabilities are non interest bearing and are classified as current liabilities because any resident may choose to depart within 12 months. The Group’s actual c. Terms and Conditions commercial history has shown residents stay for an average period of 11 years in independent living units (ILUs) and six years in serviced apartments (SAs). Therefore the portion of the resident liabilities that could be considered current represents 5%-10% of the total balance and non current represents 90%-95% of the total balance. Issued capital for Lendlease Corporation Limited comprises ordinary shares fully paid. A stapled security represents one share in This current and non current split of resident liabilities provides more useful and meaningful information as it better reflects the commercial substance of the Group’s the Company stapled to one unit in LLT. Stapled securityholders have the right to receive declared dividends from the Company and liabilities. The balance includes retirement village total resident liabilities of A$4,119.5 million (June 2015: A$4,080.4 million), which is net of deferred management distributions from LLT and are entitled to one vote per stapled security at securityholders’ meetings. Ordinary stapled securityholders fees receivable, and is repayable out of the amounts paid to the Group by incoming retirement village residents for the right to occupy retirement living (refer to Note 13 ‘Investment Properties’). rank after all creditors in repayment of capital. The Group does not have authorised capital or par value in respect of its issued stapled securities. Other contractually committed cash flows the Group is exposed to are detailed in Note 21 ‘Commitments’. 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 157 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued 22. Loans and Receivables For personal use only 21. Commitments1 The Group leases various land and buildings, and plant and equipment under non cancellable operating leases. The leases have varying Accounting Policies terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. Loans and receivables, which include trade and other receivables, are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments June 2016 June 2015 that are not equity securities. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the A$m A$m receivable. Other receivables include receivables related to investment management, property development, and miscellaneous items. Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated a. Operating Lease Commitments future cash receipts over the term of the loans and receivables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other receivables are not discounted The estimated aggregate amount of non cancellable operating lease expenditure agreed or if the effect of discounting is immaterial. The discount, if material, is then recognised as revenue over the remaining term. contracted but not provided for in the financial statements is as follows: A provision for impairment of loans and receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect Land and buildings – self occupied2 535.4 194.1 all amounts due according to the original terms of the loans and receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and its fair value, which is estimated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest Plant and equipment 36.8 8.9 rate where relevant. The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement. 572.2 203.0 Retentions receivable on construction contracts represent deposits held by the Group until the satisfaction of conditions specified in the At balance date, commitments in relation to non cancellable operating leases are payable as contract are rectified. follows: Due within one year 97.6 66.5 Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Due between one and five years 213.6 126.3 Due later than five years 261.0 10.2 Current 572.2 203.0 Trade receivables 1,175.3 1,140.1 Less: Impairment (12.3) (18.0) b. Finance Lease Commitments 1,163.0 1,122.1 At balance date, commitments in relation to the finance leases are payable as follows: Related parties 6.4 41.7 Due within one year 20.3 26.0 Retentions 306.6 335.3 Other receivables 1,316.6 2,137.9 Due between one and five years 9.2 32.3 Less: Impairment (7.6) (6.0) Recognised in other financial liabilities 29.5 58.3 Total current 2,785.0 3,631.0 c. Investments Non Current At balance date, capital commitments existing in respect of interests in equity accounted Related parties 126.8 180.3 investments and other investments contracted but not provided for in the financial statements Less: Impairment (100.4) (116.8) are as follows: Retentions 97.8 57.6 Due within one year 96.5 379.2 Other receivables 161.2 199.0 Due between one and five years 108.4 239.3 Total non current 285.4 320.1 204.9 618.5 Total loans and receivables 3,070.4 3,951.1 1. The commitments outlined in this note do not include the commitments of the material joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 12 ‘Equity Accounted Investments’). As at the reporting date, A$961.8 million of the trade debtors were current (30 June 2015: A$886.9 million) and A$213.5 million were past 2. Increase relates mainly to new office leases executed. due (30 June 2015: A$253.2 million). Of the past due amount, A$201.2 million was not impaired (30 June 2015: A$235.3 million). ‘Past due’ is defined under accounting standards to mean any amount outstanding for one or more days after the contractual due date. Of the total trade debtors, 4.5% (30 June: 5.5%) are aged greater than 90 days. Other than trade debtors, no other loans and receivables are considered past due at 30 June 2016 (30 June 2015: A$nil). June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m Impairment Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 140.8 152.3 Bad and doubtful debts impairment loss net of provisions written back (4.0) (9.9) Other movements (including foreign exchange rate movements) (16.5) (1.6) Carrying amount at end of financial year 120.3 140.8 Total impairment as a percentage of total loans and receivables 3.9% 3.6% The credit quality of all loans and receivables, including those neither past due nor impaired, is assessed and monitored on an ongoing basis. To determine the impairment provision for the financial year, the Group considers how economic and market conditions will affect the creditworthiness of certain entities. The impairment provision relates to specific loans and receivables that have been identified as being impaired, including related party loans where the Group’s interest in a development was via an equity accounted investment. 158 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 159 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued Section D: Risk Management For personal use only 23. Trade and Other Payables The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Group’s overall financial risk management strategy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Group’s performance. Treasury policies have been Accounting Policies approved by the Board for managing this risk. This section contains disclosures of financial risks the Group is exposed to and how the Group Trade Creditors manage these risks. The impact of contingent liabilities is also considered in this section. Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether or not billed to the Group. Trade accounts payable are normally settled within 45 days. Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated future cash outflows over the term of the trade 24. Financial Risk Management and other payables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other payables are not discounted if the effect of discounting is The Group operates across numerous jurisdictions and markets. The Lendlease Asset and Liability Committee oversees the management immaterial. The discount, if material, is then recognised as an expense over the remaining term. of the Group’s Treasury risks, within the parameters of a Board approved Treasury Policy, and maintains a Group-wide framework for Construction Revenue – Amounts Due to Customers financial risk management and reviews issues of material risk exposure within the scope of the Treasury Policy. A summary of key risks Construction contracts where the total progress billings issued to clients (together with foreseeable losses if applicable) on a project identified, exposures and management of exposures is detailed in the table below. exceed the costs incurred to date plus recognised profit on the contract are recognised as a liability. Retentions Risks Identified Definition Exposures Management of Exposures Retentions are amounts payable for the purpose of security and for the provision of defects in accordance with contract terms. Foreign Currency The risk in local currency terms • Foreign currency earnings • Physical financial instruments, including Release of retention amounts are in accordance with contractual terms. that the value of a financial • Net investments in natural hedges from matching foreign Other commitment or a recognised foreign operations assets and liabilities Other primarily relates to unearned income and deposits received in advance on pre sold apartments. These amounts will be asset or liability, will fluctuate • Transactions settled in • Derivative financial instruments, mainly recognised as income in line with the ‘Revenue from the sale of development properties’ accounting policy in Note 4 ‘Revenue’. due to changes in foreign foreign currency foreign exchange contracts currency exchange rates • Contracting out • Further information on exposures is detailed in Note • Speculative trading is not permitted Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 24a ‘Foreign Currency A$m A$m Risk Exposure’ Current Credit The risk that a counterparty will • Recoverability of loans and • Policies in place so that customers and Trade creditors 2,964.6 2,775.2 not be able to meet its obligations receivables suppliers are appropriately credit assessed Construction revenue – amounts due to customers 575.1 743.3 in respect of a financial instrument, • Recoverability of other • Treasury Policy sets out credit limits for each Insurance claim reserve 18.8 17.6 resulting in a financial loss to the financial assets and cash counterparty based on minimum investmentGroup deposits grade ratings Related parties 4.8 254.3 • Further information on Retentions and deferred payments 561.4 710.1 exposures is detailed in Note Other 204.1 535.6 24b ‘Credit Risk Exposure’ Total current 4,328.8 5,036.1 Liquidity The risk of having insufficient • Insufficient levels of • Maintaining sufficient levels of cash Non Current funds to settle financial liabilities committed credit facilities and committed credit facilities to meet as and when they fall due • Settlement of financial financial commitments and working Insurance claim reserve 9.4 15.0 capital requirements liabilities Related parties 13.0 • Further information on • Managing to funding portfolio benchmarks exposures is detailed in Note as outlined in the Treasury Policy Retentions and deferred payments 775.9 756.0 20 ‘Liquidity Risk Exposure’ • Timely review and renewal of credit facilities Other 1 1,124.1 802.0 Total non current 1,909.4 1,586.0 Interest Rate The risk that the value of a • Financial assets, mainly cash • Physical financial instruments Total trade and other payables 6,238.2 6,622.1 financial instrument or cash flow at bank • Derivative financial instruments, associated with the instrument • Financial liabilities, mainly mainly interest rate swaps 1. Includes unearned income liability from PLLACes transactions. will fluctuate due to changes in borrowings and financing • Managing to hedging limits in respect market interest rates arrangements of recourse funding as outlined in the • Further information on Treasury Policy exposures is detailed in • Speculative trading is not permitted Note 24c ‘Interest Rate Risk Exposure’ Equity Price The risk that the fair value of either • All traded and/or non traded • Material investments within the portfolio are a traded or non traded equity financial instruments managed on an individual basis. The Group’s investment, derivative equity measured at fair value portfolio is monitored closely as part of instrument, or a portfolio of such capital recycling initiatives financial instruments, increases or decreases in the future 160 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 161 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management continued c. Interest Rate Risk Exposure For personal use only The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk on its financial assets and liabilities is set out as follows. 24. Financial Risk Management continued CARRYING AMOUNT a. Foreign Currency Risk Exposure June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m The net asset exposure by currency is detailed below. A$m US$m £m S$m €m NZ$m Other m Fixed Rate Financial assets 262.9 261.5 June 2016 Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 5,111.2 (153.0) 39.3 225.1 67.8 243.3 79.4 Financial liabilities (2,541.3) (2,359.0) June 2015 (2,278.4) (2,097.5) Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 4,605.5 61.9 (77.8) 244.3 70.7 273.3 64.0 Variable Rate Financial assets 676.9 327.0 Sensitivity Analysis Financial liabilities (191.0) (848.1) The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s Australian dollar denominated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position to foreign 485.9 (521.1) currency movements is based on a 10% fluctuation (June 2015: 10% fluctuation) on the average rates during the financial year and the spot rate at balance date respectively. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, and exclude the effects of the foreign exchange contracts. Sensitivity Analysis A 10% movement in the average foreign exchange rates would have impacted the Group’s Profit after Tax as follows. At 30 June 2016 it is estimated that an increase of one percentage point in interest rates would have decreased the Group’s Profit after Tax and retained earnings by A$3.8 million (June 2015: A$1.8 million decrease in the Group’s Profit after Tax and retained earnings). A one 10% WEAKENING INCREASE/ 10% STRENGTHENING INCREASE/ percentage point decrease in interest rates would have increased the Group’s Profit after Tax and retained earnings by A$3.8 million (June (DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX (DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX 2015: A$1.8 million increase in the Group’s Profit after Tax and retained earnings). The increase or decrease in interest income/(expense) is June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 proportional to the increase or decrease in interest rates. Interest rate derivatives have been included in this calculation. A$m A$m A$m A$m 25. Hedging USD 7.9 8.6 (6.3) (7.0) GBP 12.8 8.9 (10.4) (7.4) SGD (2.2) 1.9 1.8 (1.5) Accounting Policies EUR 0.1 (0.2) (0.1) 0.2 The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating, 18.6 19.2 (15.0) (15.7) financing and investing activities. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Hedge accounting recognises the offsetting effects on profit or loss of changes in A 10% movement in the foreign exchange spot rates at balance date would have impacted the Group’s net assets as follows. the fair value of the derivative financial instruments and the hedged item. The accounting for hedges that meet the criteria for hedge accounting are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or investment hedges. 10% WEAKENING INCREASE/ 10% STRENGTHENING INCREASE/ (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS The Group currently applies hedge accounting under AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The Group has June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m A$m A$m minimal hedges designated as fair value. The Group primarily uses forward foreign exchange contracts as cash flow hedges for highly probable sale, purchase and dividend transactions. The Group also uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge cross border USD (21.0) 9.3 19.7 (7.6) intercompany loans and transactions which mainly net off in the Income Statement. Interest rate swaps are used to manage the Group’s GBP 8.5 (18.1) (6.7) 14.6 exposure to interest rates arising from borrowings. These are treated as cash flow hedges and are mainly on borrowings within equity accounted investments. SGD 25.0 25.0 (20.5) (20.6) The Group has foreign exchange derivative contracts primarily held in GBP, USD, EUR, SGD, JPY, NZD and MYR at reporting date to EUR 11.8 11.6 (9.6) (9.4) hedge specific foreign currency exposures. The total gross payable exposure is A$713.7 million (June 2015: payable A$636.9 million). NZD 24.4 25.6 (22.0) (21.1) There are 39 foreign currency contracts that will mature in more than one year (June 2015: two foreign currency contracts). 48.7 53.4 (39.1) (44.1) b. Credit Risk Exposure • The maximum exposure to credit risk at balance date on financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (excluding investments of the Group) equals the carrying amount, net of any impairment. • The Group is not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk on either a geographic or industry specific basis. • Credit risk on financial instruments is managed under a Board approved credit policy that determines acceptable counterparties. Derivative counterparties and cash deposits are limited to recognised financial intermediaries with a minimum investment-grade credit rating as determined by a recognised rating agency. • There was A$3.4 million impairment recorded during the year against other financial assets (June 2015: A$3.7 million). • Refer to Note 22 ‘Loans and Receivables’ for information relating to impairment on loans and receivables. • In certain circumstances, the Group will hold either financial or non financial assets as collateral to further mitigate the potential credit risk on selected transactions. During the current and prior year, the Group did not hold financial or non financial assets as collateral. At any point in time, the Group will hold other collateral such as bank guarantees and performance bonds to mitigate potential credit risk as a result of default by a counterparty or otherwise. 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 163 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management continued b. Fair Value Measurements continued For personal use only CONSOLIDATED CARRYING AMOUNT 26. Fair Value Measurement Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total June 2016 Note A$m A$m A$m A$m Accounting Policies Financial Assets The accounting policies for financial instruments held at fair value are included in Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’ and Note 25 ‘Hedging’. Available for sale investments 304.1 304.1 Management consider the valuation of the financial instruments to be an area of estimation uncertainty. While this represents the Fair value through profit or loss – negotiable instruments 36.1 36.1 best estimation of fair value at the reporting date, the fair values may differ if there is volatility in market prices or foreign exchange Fair value through profit or loss – unlisted investments 315.3 315.3 rates in future periods. Held to maturity investments 8.7 8.7 Derivatives 15.3 15.3 14 36.1 15.3 628.1 679.5 All financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position, including those instruments carried at amortised cost, are recognised at amounts that represent a reasonable approximation of fair value, with the exception of the following borrowings. Financial Liabilities JUNE 2016 JUNE 2015 Derivatives – 63.8 – 63.8 Carrying Carrying June 2015 Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value Financial Assets Note A$m A$m A$m A$m Available for sale investments 328.3 328.3 Liabilities Fair value through profit or loss – negotiable instruments 37.9 37.9 Current Fair value through profit or loss – unlisted investments 287.2 287.2 Commercial notes 17a – – 227.3 230.7 Held to maturity investments 10.2 10.2 Non Current Derivatives 4.8 4.8 Commercial notes 17a 1,843.9 2,237.3 1,378.1 1,624.2 14 37.9 4.8 625.7 668.4 Financial Liabilities The fair value of commercial notes has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows by the appropriate government Derivatives – 7.7 – 7.7 bond rates and credit margin applicable to the relevant term of the commercial note. c. Fair Value Reconciliation a. Basis of Determining Fair Value Reconciliation of the carrying amount for Level 3 financial instruments is set out as follows. The determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in the annual financial report are Available for Sale Unlisted Held to Maturity summarised as follows: Investments Investments Investments • The fair value of unlisted investments is determined based on an assessment of the underlying net assets, future maintainable earnings June 2016 Note A$m A$m A$m and any special circumstances pertaining to the particular investment; Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 328.3 287.2 10.2 • The fair value of unlisted investments in property funds has been determined by reference to the fair value of the underlying properties, which are valued by independent appraisers; Additions/(disposals) (16.3) 16.2 • The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with Gains/(losses) recognised in: generally accepted valuation techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other assets that are Income Statement – other income 12.0 substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis; and Income Statement – other expenses (3.4) • The fair value of derivative instruments comprises forward foreign exchange contracts, which are valued using forward rates at balance Other comprehensive income – fair value 1.9 date, and interest rate swap contracts, which are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on Other comprehensive income – foreign currency translation (6.4) (0.1) (1.2) applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and includes consideration of counterparty risk adjustments. Other movements (0.3) b. Fair Value Measurements Carrying amount at end of financial year 14 304.1 315.3 8.7 The table overleaf analyses financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined June 2015 as follows: Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 377.4 586.7 9.2 • Level 1: The fair value is determined using the unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset or liability in an active market for identical Additions/(disposals) (20.3) (320.5) assets or liabilities; Gains/(losses) recognised in: • Level 2: The fair value is calculated using predominantly observable market data other than unadjusted quoted prices for an identical asset or liability; and Income Statement – other income 21.1 • Level 3: The fair value is calculated using inputs that are not based on observable market data. Income Statement – other expenses (3.7) Other comprehensive income – fair value 12.2 During the year there were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3. Other comprehensive income – foreign currency translation 27.6 (0.1) 1.2 Other movements (64.9) (0.2) Carrying amount at end of financial year 14 328.3 287.2 10.2 The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for valuation inputs would not have a material impact on the Group. 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 165 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation For personal use only 27. Contingent Liabilities This section provides information on how the Group structure affects the financial position and performance of the Group as a The Group has the following contingent liabilities: whole. The disclosures detail the types of entities and transactions included in the consolidation and those excluded. • There are a number of legal claims and exposures that arise from the normal course of business. There is significant uncertainty as to whether a future liability will arise in respect to these items. The amount of liability, if any, that may arise, cannot be measured reliably at this time. The Directors are of the opinion that all known liabilities have been brought to account and that adequate provision has 28. Consolidated Entities been made for any anticipated losses. • In certain circumstances, the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. This includes bonding and bank guarantee facilities used primarily by the Construction business as well as performance guarantees for Accounting Policies certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. The Group consolidation comprises all subsidiaries controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company: • A contingent liability exists in relation to the Lend Lease Retirement Benefit Fund. This is disclosed in detail in the 30 June 2016 annual • Has the power to direct the relevant activities such as key operating, financial and investing decisions; consolidated financial report Note 29b ‘Employee Security Ownership Vehicles’. • Has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee such as dividends, loans and fees; and • In September 2004, a class action was filed against a number of parties who responded to the World Trade Center (WTC) emergency and • Has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of returns. debris removal following the events of 9/11. The action was brought against more than 50 defendants, including the City of New York and In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. Management uses Lend Lease (US) Construction LMB Inc. formerly known as Bovis Lend Lease LMB, Inc. (LL LMB) (a subsidiary of Lendlease). LL LMB is one of accounting judgement in determining whether the Group controls an entity by applying the above control criteria and reviewing the the beneficiaries of an insurance policy administered by the WTC Captive Insurance Company (an entity established by the US Congress to substance of its relationship with the entity. protect the City of New York and its contractors from claims that may arise from the clean-up that followed the WTC emergency). As reported at 30 June 2015, there were only three cases remaining against a WTC Captive insured beneficiary, including two cases filed by individuals against LL LMB and 79 other contractors as co-defendants seeking damages for injuries and illnesses allegedly • The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until suffered from their participation in the clean-up efforts. These two claims were the first new claims involving LL LMB in over a year the date that control ceases. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, and a half when filed in 2014, and the WTC Captive defended these claims. In November 2015, the WTC Captive advised that both using consistent accounting policies with adjustments made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist. cases had been settled in principal. The settlements are now finalised and the cases formally dismissed. There are currently no pending • External non controlling interests are allocated their share of total comprehensive income and are presented within equity in the lawsuits against LL LMB related to this matter. LL LMB will need to defend any other claims that may be filed by plaintiffs who bring consolidated Statement of Financial Position, separately from the equity of securityholders. claims against LL LMB. Any such litigation would need to proceed through a number of stages before any liability could attach to LL LMB. It is not possible to quantify the potential for any future claims or any potential liability thereof at this stage. It is also not possible • The material consolidated entities of the Group listed below were wholly owned during the current and prior year with the exception of at this time to ascertain how the limitation of liability in the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 (Zadroga Act) PLT New Zealand Limited which was disposed of in the current year. Refer to the following section for details on the disposal of entities. will apply to any particular claim against LL LMB going forward; but, as to contractors such as LL LMB, the Zadroga Act limits liability to those amounts remaining in the WTC Captive insurance policy, plus any insurance coverage that was available and applicable on 11 PARENT ENTITY September 2001 for the particular contractor. The Zadroga Act also provides for healthcare coverage for 9/11 first responders and the Lendlease Corporation Limited September 11 Victim Compensation Fund (VCF). On 19 December 2015, Congress passed an extension of the Zadroga Act, extending AUSTRALIA EUROPE the healthcare coverage for 9/11 first responders by 75 years (until 2090) and adding $4.6 billion to the VCF through to 2020. More detailed notes on the history of this issue are disclosed in the 30 June 2013 annual consolidated financial report. Capella Capital Lendlease Pty Limited Lendlease Construction (Europe) Limited • Various actions have been commenced in which damages, compensation or contribution is sought from various subsidiaries of the Capella Capital Partnership Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited Company (LLP entities) in respect of transactions entered into in mid 2007 in relation to a number of retirement villages which were at that time part of the Prime Trust portfolio. The liquidator of Australian Property Custodian Holdings Limited (Receivers and Managers Lendlease Building Pty Limited Lendlease Europe Finance plc Appointed) (Controllers Appointed) (In Liquidation) (APCH) has commenced three proceedings in which claims are made against the Lendlease Building Contractors Pty Limited Lendlease Europe Limited LLP entities. One proceeding was permanently stayed on 22 December 2015. On 9 February 2016, the liquidator served an application for leave to appeal against the stay, which the LLP entities are vigorously defending. The appeal has been heard. Judgment remains Lendlease Communities (Australia) Limited Lendlease Residential (CG) plc reserved. In the remaining two proceedings, APCH has made allegations against third parties in relation to the same transactions and Lendlease Development Pty Limited ASIA those third parties have made contribution claims against the LLP entities. The LLP entities are vigorously defending these proceedings. Lendlease Engineering Pty Limited Lendlease Japan Inc. The relevant transactions all occurred prior to the LLP entities becoming subsidiaries of the Company and at the relevant time the LLP entities were controlled by APCH or entities related to William Lewski, a director of the LLP entities at the time. Lendlease Finance Limited Lendlease Singapore Pte. Limited Lendlease Infrastructure Investments Pty Limited AMERICAS Lendlease International Pty Limited Lendlease (US) Capital, Inc. Lendlease (Millers Point) Trust Lendlease (US) Construction, Inc. Lendlease Primelife Limited Lendlease (US) Construction LMB, Inc. Lendlease Real Estate Investments Limited Lendlease (US) Healthcare Development LLC Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited Lendlease (US) Public Partnerships, LLC Lendlease Services Pty Limited Lendlease Trust1 1. Lendlease Trust is a consolidated entity of the Group as the parent entity is deemed to control it. Lendlease Trust is not wholly owned. During the current and prior year, there were no acquisitions of material consolidated entities. 166 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 167 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued b. Employee Security Ownership Vehicles For personal use only In addition to the plans discussed above, Lendlease has established a range of employee security ownership vehicles, including Lend Lease 28. Consolidated Entities continued Retirement Benefit Fund (RBF) and Lend Lease Employee Investment Trust (EIT). The following material disposals of consolidated entities occurred during the current and prior year. • RBF was established in 1984 with shareholder approval for the benefit of employees. The Lendlease securities in RBF are not available for allocation to employees other than in the event of a change of control of the Group and, in accordance with RBF’s trust deed, the capital Ownership Gross Consideration of the trust is not available to the Group. The RBF trustee has discretion as to the distribution of the RBF Funds. In 1992 a deed poll was Interest Disposed Date Received/Receivable executed which allows for the distribution of the income of RBF to the Company to fund employee benefit activities through Lendlease % Disposed A$m Foundation. In the event of a change of control of the Group, the RBF trustee may distribute RBF funds to employees who cease to be employees during the 12 months after a change of control. Any payments that the RBF trustee may make as a result of a change June 2016 of control of the Group are an obligation of RBF and not the Group. Any payments made will need to be funded by RBF and therefore cannot exceed the value of the assets of RBF, which was A$186.4 million at 30 June 2016 (June 2015: A$220.6 million). However, as RBF Australia and New Zealand is consolidated by the Group, this potential obligation is disclosed as a contingent liability. PLT New Zealand Limited1 100% 31 January 2016 222.4 • EIT was established in 1985 as a benefit vehicle to enable employees to invest in the Group. There are no current employee allocations. Australian PPP Entities 2 100% 7 June 2016 386.8 In 1992 a deed poll was executed which allows for distribution of the unallocated income of EIT to the Company to fund employee benefit activities through Lendlease Foundation. On a change of control, the EIT trustee may (but is not required to) terminate the trust Americas and distribute allocated proceeds to employees and unallocated proceeds to other benefit vehicles such as RBF. Any payments out of Mexico Construction Entities 100% 13 June 2016 4.8 EIT are an obligation of EIT and not the Group, and cannot exceed the assets of EIT of A$149.2 million as at 30 June 2016 (June 2015: A$175.6 million). No contingency is recorded in these financial statements for potential payments on a change of control as the potential June 2015 for such payments is considered remote, with any termination of EIT in such circumstances, and the subsequent distribution to other vehicles, entirely at the discretion of the EIT trustee. Europe • The EIT and RBF arrangements are subject to periodic review to assess their ongoing role and operation. Lend Lease Facilities Management (EMEA) Ltd 100% 7 July 2014 62.3 30. Parent Entity Disclosures 1. Relates to sale of New Zealand Retirement Living entities. Assets and liabilities disposed of primarily relate to investment properties and resident liabilities. 2. Represents the disposal of 16 entities relating to the New Bendigo Hospital, Sunshine Coast University Hospital and ICC Sydney (Darling Harbour Live) The following summarises the financial information of the Group’s parent entity, Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company), as at and for the projects. Assets disposed of primarily relate to equity accounted investments (joint ventures). year ended 30 June 2016. COMPANY 29. Employee Benefit Vehicles The Company sponsors a number of employee benefit vehicles, including employee security plans and employee security ownership June 2016 June 2015 A$m A$m vehicles. These vehicles while not legally controlled, are currently required to be consolidated for accounting purposes. Results a. Employee Security Plans As at 30 June 2016 Employees own approximately 5.58% (June 2015: 5.61%) of the issued capital of the Group through various Lendlease Profit after Tax 529.0 253.3 employee security plans and ownership vehicles details of which are outlined below. Other comprehensive income after tax 1.0 0.8 • Australia: Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP): ESAP was established in December 1988 for the purpose of employees acquiring Total comprehensive income after tax 530.0 254.1 securities in the Group and is funded by Lendlease subscriptions. • UK/Europe/Asia: Employee Share Plan: The European (Guernsey-based) Restricted Share Plan (the Restricted Share Plan) was Financial Position established in 1998. The Plan is similar in operation to the Australia-based ESAP. Securities in the Restricted Share Plan may be Current assets 3,918.6 4,529.7 allocated to employees in the UK, Europe and Singapore based on individual and business unit performance. No new awards are being allocated from this Plan. Non current assets 2,034.8 2,310.8 • In 2002, two UK-based Inland Revenue approved Share Incentive Plans (SIP) were established for the acceptance of employee profit Total assets 5,953.4 6,840.5 share contributions used to acquire Group securities for UK-based Group employees. These plans are currently not accepting new Current liabilities 3,169.7 4,333.7 contributions whilst Lendlease makes all profit share payments to employees in cash. • Americas: US Rabbi Trust (Rabbi Trust) was established in 2004 and updated in 2005 for the acceptance of employee profit share Non current liabilities 42.7 51.9 contributions used to acquire Group securities for US-based employees. This part of the plan is not currently accepting new Total liabilities 3,212.4 4,385.6 contributions and only holds cash or short term investments. Net assets 2,741.0 2,454.9 • Employee Share Acquisition Plan (STI) (ESAP STI): ESAP STI was established in July 2014 for the purpose of acquiring and allocating securities granted as the deferred component of Executive Short Term Incentive (STI) awards which are funded by Lendlease Issued capital 1,276.3 1,256.3 subscriptions. Securities are currently allocated to employees across Australia, Singapore, Malaysia, the UK and the US. Treasury securities (100.4) (90.9) Eligibility Reserves 232.9 229.4 The rules for eligibility for particular plans are determined by reference to the regulatory, legal and tax rules of each country in which the Retained earnings 1,332.2 1,060.1 Group operates. Total equity 2,741.0 2,454.9 Distributions and/or Voting Rights Generally, employees in the various operating security plans are entitled to distributions and voting rights for allocated securities. The In respect of the contingent liabilities of the Group disclosed in Note 27 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, the Company participates in the provision plans reflect this intention subject to regulatory, legal and tax constraints. Voting and distribution rights on any unallocated securities of guarantees to Group entities. reside with the trustees of the relevant security plan trusts. The trustee may exercise these rights in accordance with any fiduciary or governance rules pertaining to the deed or trust laws in the legal and tax jurisdiction within which the trust operates. 168 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 169 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued b. Associates and Joint Ventures For personal use only Interests held in associates and joint ventures by Lendlease are set out in Note 12 ‘Equity Accounted Investments’. 31. Related Party Information Transactions between the Lendlease Group and its associates and joint ventures principally relate to: a. Consolidated Entities • Development: development management services, infrastructure bid and advisory services and the sale and purchase of development properties with Lendlease managed funds; Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at their cost of acquisition less impairments in the • Construction: provision of project management, building, engineering and construction services; and Company’s financial statements. • Investments: provision of property and infrastructure investment management, property management and asset management services. Lendlease Corporation Limited provides a wide range of corporate services to its consolidated entities. Corporate management fees A non interest bearing loan has also been provided to a joint venture and at 30 June 2016 the loan balance was A$7.0 million and/or guarantee fees are charged to these entities for these services. These services principally relate to: (June 2015: A$28.6 million). • Administration, company secretarial, accounting, legal, tax, insurance, information technology and public relations; Except as noted above, transactions and outstanding balances are typically on normal terms and conditions. • Human resources and employee services including the administration of salaries and superannuation and employee security based Revenue earned by Lendlease during the year as a result of transactions with its associates and joint ventures is as follows: payment plans (refer to Note 6 ‘Other Expenses’ and Note 29 ‘Employee Benefit Vehicles’); and • Financing and treasury services, which includes working capital facilities and long term financing. Interest is earned or incurred only June 2016 June 2015 on long term loans provided to or drawn with subsidiaries based on project specific risks and returns. Outstanding balances arising A$m A$m from working capital facilities and long term financing are typically unsecured and repayable on demand. In addition, guarantees Revenue are provided to particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. These include bonding and bank guarantee facilities used primarily by the Construction business as well as performance guarantees for certain Development business commercial built-form Provision of services developments. Guarantee fees are charged under normal terms and conditions. Associates 8.5 29.1 The following represents the transactions that occurred during the financial year and the balances outstanding at year end between Lendlease Corporation Limited and its consolidated entities. Joint ventures 1,668.2 1,148.6 COMPANY Other transactions and outstanding balances with associates and joint ventures have been disclosed in Note 4 ‘Revenue’, Note 5 ‘Other June 2016 June 2015 Income’, Note 6 ‘Other Expenses’, Note 7 ‘Finance Revenue and Finance Costs’, Note 22 ‘Loans and Receivables’ and Note 23 ‘Trade and A$000s A$000s Other Payables’. Transactions with joint operations are included in the consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position. Transactions c. Key Management Personnel Corporate management fees1 46,539 The key management personnel compensation is as follows: Guarantee fees 12,368 11,615 June 2016 June 2015 A$000s A$000s Dividend income 655,637 395,966 Interest income 11,386 17,037 Short term employee benefits 17,728 18,221 Interest expense 112,940 116,882 Post employment benefits 414 475 Security based payments 9,458 9,350 Outstanding Balances (Net of Provisions Raised) Other long term benefits 63 87 Receivables 3,839,810 4,514,336 Total 27,663 28,133 Payables 3,143,070 4,277,178 1. Corporate management fees from 1 July 2015 are charged by Lendlease Group Services Pty Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lendlease Corporation Limited. Information regarding individual Directors’ and Senior Executives’ remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Report. Transactions that occurred during the financial year between entities in the Lendlease Group included: • Provision of project management, design services, construction management and engineering services to development projects; • Provision of development management services; • Provision of investment management services; • Provision of payroll, transaction and management services; • Receipt and payment of superannuation contributions; • Reimbursement of expenses made on behalf of subsidiaries; • Loan advances and repayments between subsidiaries; • Premium payments and receipts for the Group’s insurance policies; and • Dividends received or due and receivable from subsidiaries. 170 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 171 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes b. Goodwill Allocation For personal use only Goodwill relating to the Construction business is allocated to CGUs identified according to regions as set out below. 32. Intangible Assets Construction Accounting Policies Australia 743.4 745.7 Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in Europe 240.7 265.3 intangible assets as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates. Americas 187.5 182.6 Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised. Gains Asia 7.6 7.4 and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Total goodwill 1,179.2 1,201.0 For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGU) (or groups of CGU), that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. CGUs are an identifiable group of assets that generate cash c. Impairment Tests and Key Assumptions Used – Construction associated with the goodwill. Management consider this is an area of estimation uncertainty as these calculations involve an estimation of the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. The Construction CGU uses the value in use The recoverable amount of the Construction CGUs is determined based on value in use (VIU) calculations. For the Construction CGUs, basis, which requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in the assumptions used for determining the recoverable amount of each CGU are based on past experience and expectations for the future, order to calculate the recoverable amount. utilising both internal and external sources of data and relevant industry trends. Management agreements and other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and No impairment arose as a result of the review of goodwill for the Construction CGUs for the year ended 30 June 2016. Based on impairment losses (see Note 6 ‘Other Expenses’). Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the information available and market conditions at 30 June 2016, a reasonably foreseeable change in the assumptions made in this estimated useful lives of the intangible assets, ranging from three to 20 years. assessment would not result in impairment of Construction goodwill. The following describes the key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections when determining VIU relating to the Construction CGUs. Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Cash Flows Note A$m A$m The VIU calculations use pre tax cash flow projections based on actual operating results, and financial forecasts covering a five year Goodwill 32a 1,209.2 1,230.2 period which have been approved by management. These forecasts are based on management estimates to determine income, Management agreements 67.3 71.9 expenses, capital expenditure and cash flows for each CGU. Other intangibles 170.3 142.6 Growth Rate Total intangible assets 1,446.8 1,444.7 The terminal value growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the five year period is 3.0% (June 2015: 3.0%). The growth rate reflects the forecast long term average growth rate for each CGU and the countries in which they operate. a. Goodwill Discount Rate Construction 1,179.2 1,201.0 The discount rates applied to the cash flow projections vary between 14.0% and 20.0% (June 2015: between 14.0% and 20.0%). The Development 30.0 29.2 Group’s weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rate, with appropriate adjustments for Total goodwill 1,209.2 1,230.2 the risk profile relating to the relevant CGUs and the countries in which they operate. The discount rates used are pre tax. Reconciliations Reconciliations of the carrying amounts for each category of goodwill are as follows: Construction Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,201.0 1,146.2 Additions during the year 2.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate/other movements (21.8) 52.6 Carrying amount at end of financial year 32b 1,179.2 1,201.0 Development Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 29.2 24.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 0.8 5.0 Carrying amount at end of financial year 30.0 29.2 172 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 173 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 For personal use only A$m A$m 33. Defined Benefit Plans ii. Reconciliation of Defined Benefit Obligations Defined benefit obligations at beginning of financial year 1,144.1 875.6 Accounting Policies Included in Income Statement Group companies operate pension plans. The plans are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trusteeInterest cost 38.8 37.5 administered funds as determined by periodic actuarial calculations. Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement, usually Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from: dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. Demographic assumptions (9.4) The asset or liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation i.e. ‘the pension liability’ at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The present value of Financial assumptions 91.2 117.7 the pension liability is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate or Experience adjustments (24.0) 30.4 government bonds, that: Other • Are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid; and Benefits paid (40.4) (27.1) • Have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (150.1) 119.4 The defined benefit obligation is calculated at least annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which Defined benefit obligations at end of financial year 1,059.6 1,144.1 in simplistic terms proportions the benefit based on service. Management consider the valuation of defined benefit plans undertaken by the actuaries to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a number of key assumptions must be adopted to determine the valuation. iii. Reconciliation of the Fair Value of Plan Assets Actuarial losses/(gains) will arise where there is a difference between previous estimates and actual experience, or a change to Fair value of plan assets at beginning of financial year 1,075.3 836.1 assumptions in relation to demographic and financial trends. These actuarial losses/(gains) are recognised in the period they occur, Included in Income Statement directly in other comprehensive income as remeasurements. They are included in retained earnings in the Statement of Changes in Equity and in the Statement of Financial Position. Interest income 36.6 36.0 Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Administration costs (2.4) (3.4) Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme Actual return on plan assets excluding interest income 115.2 69.8 Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited (UK Construction) sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme (the Other Scheme) for qualifying UK employees. The Scheme is administered by a separate board of Trustees which is legally separate from UK Contributions by Group companies 20.2 51.1 Construction. The Scheme’s Trustees are composed of representatives of both the employer and employees. The Trustees are required Benefits paid (40.4) (27.1) by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (148.3) 112.8 day to day administration of the benefits. Fair value of plan assets at end of financial year 1,056.2 1,075.3 The Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme, with final salary section providing retirement benefits based on final salary and the index-linked section providing retirement benefits based on career average salary. A separate section, the Personal Investment Section, iv. Expense Recognised in the Income Statement provides retirement benefits on a defined contribution basis. The UK Construction’s contributions to members’ Personal Investment Fund Net interest cost 2.2 1.5 accounts are not included in these disclosures. Administration costs 2.4 3.4 The final salary section closed to future accrual on 31 August 2008 and the index-linked section closed to future accrual on 31 January 2012. There were no Scheme amendments affecting defined benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. UK Net defined benefit plan expense 4.6 4.9 Construction pays deficit funding contributions plus 4.0% of members’ basic salaries to cover the Scheme’s expected administration v. Fair Value of Plan Assets costs and costs of benefits payable on death in service. The Scheme expects to pay A$18.3 million in contributions to its defined benefit plan in 2017. This includes the annual deficit recovery payment of A$13.8 million, which was agreed as an annual payment until 2020 Plan assets comprise of: following the triennial actuarial valuation for 31 March 2014. Equities The defined benefit plan is exposed to actuarial risk and market (investment) risk, the information which follows provides additional detail UK 94.5 110.6 on risk. Global 242.9 289.4 Financial Disclosure June 2016 June 2015 Investment funds 124.6 153.3 A$m A$m Infrastructure 77.3 22.4 i. Statement of Financial Position Amounts Government index-linked bonds 367.1 310.2 Corporate bonds 133.9 144.5 The amounts recognised in the Statement of Financial Position are determined as follows: Other assets 15.9 44.9 Defined benefit obligations 1,059.6 1,144.1 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the financial year 1,056.2 1,075.3 Fair value of plan assets (1,056.2) (1,075.3) Net defined benefit liability 3.4 68.8 The investment funds target an absolute level of return. The plan assets can be categorised as Level 1, where the fair value is determined using an unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset, or Level 2, where the fair value is derived either directly or indirectly from observable inputs. At year end, approximately A$875.5 million of total plan assets were categorised as Level 2 (June 2015: A$752.2 million). UK Construction and Trustees have agreed a long term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an asset-liability matching policy which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the pension plan by investing in assets such as indexlinked bonds which perform in line with the liabilities of the plan so as to protect against inflation being higher than expected. The current benchmark allocation is 55.0% growth assets and 45.0% matching assets (June 2015: 55.0% growth assets and 45.0% matching assets). 174 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 175 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued b. Long Term Incentives (LTI) For personal use only The LTI plan is designed to: 33. Defined Benefit Plans continued • motivate executives to achieve the Group’s long term strategic goals and provide reward where the Group delivers better securityholder Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme continued value than its peers; and June 2016 June 2015 • align the interests of executives and securityholders given that the value received is linked to the Group’s security price. vi. Principal Actuarial Assumptions Arrangements for LTI awards Discount rate (%) 2.8 3.5 LTI design How the LTI works RPI Inflation (%) 2.9 3.2 Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. Average pension increase in payments (%) 2.3 2.5 Securities • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or Future mortality (years): other means at the Board’s discretion. • On vesting, each performance security entitles executives to one Lendlease security, or at the Board’s discretion, Male 25.3 25.4 cash or other instruments of equivalent value. • In the event of a change in control of the Group, the Board has the discretion to determine whether the vesting of Female 27.1 27.0 some or all performance securities should be accelerated. The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yield, if assets underperform this yield will create Performance • 50% of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the performance hurdle is not fully a deficit. A decrease in corporate bond yield will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially Period achieved at this time, those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. offset by an increase in the value of the Scheme’s corporate bond holdings. The majority of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked • The remaining 50% of the performance securities are assessed after four years. to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although in most cases this will be capped to protect against extreme • If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards are forfeited. • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. inflation. The majority of the assets are either unaffected by or loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life Termination of • If the executive resigns or is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities. The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for Employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. expected future mortality improvements, the assumption is that a member aged 63 will live for a further 25.3 years (June 2015: 25.4 years) • For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may remain on foot, subject to the original performance hurdles. if they are male and 27.1 years if they are female (June 2015: 27.0 years). At 30 June 2016, the weighted average duration of the defined • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total permanent disability), the Board may exercise discretion and benefit obligation was 19 years (June 2015: 19 years). settle the award at the time of termination of employment. Performance June 2014 to 2016 Financial Years June 2013 Financial Year vii. Sensitivity Analysis Hurdles Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligations by the amounts shown below. • 50% subject to Lendlease’s Total Securityholder • Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) compared to Return (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ the companies in the S&P/ASX 100 Index. The S&P/ASX 100 0.1% 0.1% ASX 100 Index. The S&P/ASX 100 companies are companies were determined at the start of the 0.1% 0.1% Increase RPI Decrease RPI 1 Year 1 Year determined at the start of the performance period. performance period. Increase in Decrease in Inflation and Inflation and Increase in Decrease in • 50% subject to Return on Equity (ROE). Discount Rate Discount Rate Pension Payment Pension Payment Future Mortality Future Mortality A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Vesting Schedule Relative TSR percentile ranking Percentage of performance securities that vest if the June 2016 TSR relative TSR hurdle is met Defined benefit obligations (19.5) 20.7 16.0 (17.3) 33.6 (34.1) • Below the 50th percentile • No vesting June 2015 • At the 50th percentile • 50% vesting Defined benefit obligations (20.2) 20.8 16.7 (15.9) 30.2 (30.8) • At or above the 51st percentile but below the 75th • Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 52% and percentile 98% The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely • At the 75th percentile or greater • 100% vesting that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. Vesting Schedule Average Return on Equity over the Percentage of performance securities that vest if the Non-pensioner benefits are linked to RPI in the period up to retirement. Once in payment, pension increases are linked to RPI but with a ROE performance period ROE hurdle is met 0% floor and different caps applying to different periods of pensionable service. The inflation sensitivity reflects a change in RPI inflation and the associated increases in payment. • Less than 11% • No vesting • 11% • 25% vesting 34. Employee Benefits • Above 11% but below 15% • Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% • 15% or greater • 100% vesting Detailed information regarding the Group’s reward strategy is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Report. The key incentives are as follows: c. Amounts Recognised in the Financial Statements • Short Term Incentives (STI); and • Long Term Incentives (LTI). LTI awards are valued using Monte-Carlo simulation methodology where the security price can be projected based on the assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes formula. Retention awards are valued by discounting the security price by the expected dividends assumed a. Short Term Incentives (STI) to be paid from the valuation date until the vesting date (if applicable). The model inputs include the Lendlease Group security price, a risk The STI plan is an annual incentive plan whereby a number of employees receive benefits which are dependent upon the achievement free interest rate, expected volatility and dividend yield. of both Lendlease financial targets and individual goals. The total value of the potential benefit varies by executive and is tested against During the financial year ended 30 June 2016, a A$43.0 million expense was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to equity relevant market levels for each role. settled security based payment awards (June 2015: A$38.6 million). • The STI plan comprises a cash element which is paid in September following year end. For more senior employees, where potential benefit is typically higher, the plan also includes a deferred element. • Deferral periods are generally for one or two years. The deferred element is normally awarded as Lendlease securities and in some instances as cash. Securities are held in Lendlease employee security plans on behalf of the employee for the deferral period, (refer to Note 29a ‘Employee Security Plans’). For employees to receive the full deferral, they must generally be employed by the Group at the date of vesting. 176 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 177 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies For personal use only 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards a. Foreign Currency Translation New and Revised Accounting Standards Adopted 1 July 2015 Functional and Presentation Currency There were no new accounting standards or amendments adopted by the Group for the year ended 30 June 2016. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic New Accounting Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Adopted environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial report is presented in Australian dollars, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2016 but are available for early adoption, unless otherwise noted, and have not been applied in preparing this report. Transactions and Balances The table below represents new and revised accounting standards, together with consequential amendments relevant to the Group’s Foreign currency transactions are translated into Australian dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the transactions. Assets and results for 30 June 2016. liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Australian dollars at balance date. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting are recognised in the Income Statement for monetary assets and liabilities such as receivables Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on Financial Statements and payables, except for qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges in foreign operations that are recognised in AASB 2014-3 AASB 2014-3 amends AASB 11 Joint Arrangements to Based on preliminary analysis performed, other comprehensive income. Refer to Note 25 ‘Hedging’ for further detail. Amendments to Australian provide clarification that acquisition of interests in joint the amendments are not expected to Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair Accounting Standards – operations which constitute a business should apply all have a material impact on the Group as value gain or loss. Translation differences on non monetary items, such as investments classified as available for sale financial assets, are Accounting for Acquisitions of of the principles of accounting and disclosures in AASB 3 acquisitions are currently accounted for included in the fair value revaluation reserve in equity. Interests in Joint Operations Business Combinations. in line with the proposed amendment. The standard becomes mandatory for the June 2017 Group Entities financial year and will be applied retrospectively. The results and Statement of Financial Position of all Group entities that are not presented in Australian dollars (none of which has the AASB 9 AASB 9 addresses the classification, measurement and Based on the preliminary analysis currency of a hyperinflationary economy) are translated as follows: Financial Instruments and derecognition of financial assets, financial liabilities and performed, AASB 9 will impact the consequential amendments hedging. The standard becomes mandatory for the June classification of available for sale • Revenue and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of transaction 2019 financial year, and will be applied retrospectively. financial assets within the Statement of rate, in which case revenue and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions); Financial Position, while other • Assets and liabilities for each Statement of Financial Position presented are translated at the closing rate at balance date; and amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the Group. • All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, in the foreign currency translation reserve. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity AASB 15 AASB 15 provides a new five step model for recognising Based on the preliminary analysis and translated at the closing rate. Revenue from Contracts revenue earned from a contract with a customer and will performed, this standard is not expected with Customers and replace the existing AASB 118 Revenue and AASB 111 to have a material impact on the Group, b. Goods and Services Tax consequential amendments Construction Contracts. however it will impact the information The standard becomes mandatory for the June 2019 disclosed in relation to revenue Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of goods and services tax (GST), except where the amount of GST financial year and will be applied retrospectively. contracts. incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In these circumstances, the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. AASB 16 AASB 16 provides a new model for accounting for leases. The potential effect of this standard is yet Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of GST included. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the Leases The standard becomes mandatory for the June 2020 to be determined. Australian Taxation Office (ATO) is included as a current asset or liability in the Statement of Financial Position. Cash flows are included financial year and will be applied retrospectively. Early in the Statement of Cash Flows on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities which adoption is permitted under certain circumstances. are recoverable from, or payable to, the ATO are classified as operating cash flows. AASB 2014-10 AASB 2014-10 amends AASB 10 and AASB 128 to clarify Based on preliminary analysis performed, Amendments to Australian Accounting the requirements for recording the sale or contribution the amendments are not expected to StandardsSale or Contribution of of assets between an investor and its associate or joint have a material impact on the Group. Assets between an Investor and its venture. Associate or Joint Venture and The amendment becomes mandatory for the June 2019 consequential amendments financial year and will be applied prospectively. AASB 2016-1 The amendments to AASB 112 clarify the accounting for Based on preliminary analysis performed, Amendments to Australian Accounting deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and the amendments are not expected to Standards – Recognition of Deferred that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. have a material impact on the Group. Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The amendment becomes mandatory for the June 2018 financial year and will be applied retrospectively. AASB 2016-2 The amendment to AASB 107 introduces additional The amendment is not expected to have Amendments to Australian Accounting disclosures relating to changes in liabilities arising from a material financial impact on the Group, Standards – Disclosure Initiative: financing activities. however it will impact the type of Amendments to AASB 107 The amendment becomes mandatory for the June 2018 information disclosed in relation to financial year and will be applied prospectively. financing cash flows. 178 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 179 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Directors’ Declaration For personal use only In the opinion of the Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company): 1. The financial statements and notes and the remuneration disclosures contained in the Remuneration Report in the Directors’ Report are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: a. Giving a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Consolidated Entity as at 30 June 2016 and of their performance for the financial year ended on that date; and b. Complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations Regulations 2001. 2. The financial statements and notes also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in the Basis of Preparation. 3. There are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. 4. The Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2016. Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors: D A Crawford, AO Chairman This page is intentionally left blank. S B McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Sydney, 19 August 2016 180 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 181 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements Our Business | Our Strategy | Pillars of Value | Risk | Performance & Outlook | Governance | Financial Statements For personal use only Independent auditor’s report to the members of Lendlease Corporation Limited Report on the financial report Auditor’s opinion We have audited the accompanying financial report of Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company), which comprises the consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 June 2016, In our opinion: and consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, (a) the financial report of the Group is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended on that date, the Basis of Preparation, notes 1 to 36 comprising a summary of significant (i) giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2016 and accounting policies and other explanatory information and the directors’ declaration of the Group of its performance for the year ended on that date; and comprising the Company and the entities it controlled at the year’s end or from time to time during the financial year. (ii) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. Directors’ responsibility for the financial report (b) the financial report also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards as The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives disclosed in the Basis of Preparation. a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or Report on the remuneration report error. In the Basis of Preparation, the directors also state, in accordance with Australian We have audited the remuneration report included in the Governance section of the directors’ Accounting Standard AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements, that the financial report for the year ended 30 June 2016. The directors of the Company are responsible for the statements of the Group comply with International Financial Reporting Standards. preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Section 300A of the Auditor’s responsibility Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial report based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. These Auditing Standards require that Auditor’s opinion we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform In our opinion, the remuneration report of Lendlease Corporation Limited for the year ended 30 the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. June 2016, complies with Section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial report. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating KPMG the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial report. We performed the procedures to assess whether in all material respects the financial report presents fairly, in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and Australian Accounting Standards, a true and fair view which is consistent with our understanding of the Group’s financial position and of its performance. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. S J Marshall Partner Independence In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence requirements of the Sydney Corporations Act 2001. 19 August 2016 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG Liability limited by a scheme approved under International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Profession Standards Legislation. For personal use only Cobalt Place, London Other Information 08 184 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 185 Five Year Profile 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June For personal use only Profitability 2016 2015 2014 20131 2012¹ Revenue A$m 15,089 13,281 13,936 13,163 11,548 Profit before Tax A$m 863 768 999 571 523 Profit after Tax A$m 698 619 823 549 501 EBITDA A$m 1,055 967 1,193 739 660 Earnings per stapled security on Profit after Tax 2 cents 120.1 106.8 142.7 95.6 87.7 Profit after Tax to securityholders’ equity for the period (ROE)3 % 13.0 12.4 18.2 13.6 13.5 Dividend/Distribution payout ratio on Profit after Tax % 50 51 50 44 43 Dividend/Distribution per stapled security cents 60.0 54.0 71.0 42.0 38.0 Corporate Strength Total assets A$m 18,593 18,959 15,752 14,301 12,831 Cash A$m 1,008 750 1,716 1,610 1,052 Borrowings A$m 2,031 2,450 2,347 1,976 1,369 Current assets A$m 5,858 6,496 4,933 4,833 4,317 Non current assets A$m 12,735 12,463 10,819 9,468 8,515 Current liabilities4 A$m 8,824 9,706 7,576 6,957 6,736 Non current liabilities A$m 4,154 4,085 3,307 3,077 2,266 Total equity A$m 5,615 5,168 4,869 4,267 3,830 Operating cash flow A$m 853 (167) 822 81 (46) Net asset backing per security A$ 9.64 8.90 8.43 7.41 6.69 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 4 times 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.6 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities (excluding resident and accommodation bond liabilities)4 times 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.0 Net debt to total tangible assets, less cash 5 % 6.5 10.5 5.7 5.4 5.5 Borrowings to total equity plus borrowings % 26.6 32.2 32.5 31.7 26.3 Securities on issue m 582 580 577 576 573 Number of securityholders no. 61,521 56,966 55,046 53,591 52,739 Number of equivalent full time employees 6 no. 12,162 12,443 13,268 15,634 17,315 Securityholders’ Returns and Statistics Proportion of securities on issue to top 20 securityholders % 72.7 75.7 76.1 76.1 76.6 Security holdings relating to employees7 % 5.6 5.6 6.3 6.9 6.9 Weighted average number of securities m 581 579 577 574 572 Total dividends/distributions 8 A$m 349 313 410 242 218 Security price as at 30 June as quoted on the Australian Securities Exchange A$ 12.60 15.03 13.11 8.35 7.20 1. June 2012 and June 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the impact of first time adoption of the revised AASB 119 Employee Benefits standard and the new AASB 11 Joint Arrangements standard in 2014, with retrospective adjustment from 1 July 2012. 2. Calculated using the weighted average number of securities on issue including treasury securities. 3 Return on equity (ROE) is calculated as the annual Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year and year end securityholders’ equity. 4. Ratio includes resident and accommodation bond liabilities related to the Retirement Living business. Under the current interpretation of accounting standards, these are required to be classified as current liabilities as any resident may choose to depart within 12 months. The investment properties, property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets to which they relate, however, are required to be classified as non current. Although a resident may choose to depart within 12 months, the Group’s commercial history has shown that the majority of resident contracts are not due for a period greater than 12 months, which means these liabilities are effectively non current. 5. Net debt includes certain other financial liabilities of A$29.5 million (June 2015: A$58.3 million). 6. Casual and third party workers are excluded from full time equivalent employees at June 2016, 2015 and 2014; comparative periods 2013 and 2012 have been restated to conform with current period disclosure. The reduction from June 2015 mainly relates to restructure of the Australian Construction business. The reduction from June 2014 mainly relates to the restructure of the Australian Construction business and the sale of the European Facilities Management business. The reduction from June 2012 mainly relates to the sale of the Aged Care business. 7. Securities held through employee benefit vehicles. 8. A$160.0 million unfranked Company dividend was declared subsequent to the reporting date for June 2016. Preliminary artist impression of Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore (Image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 186 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 187 Portfolio Report For personal use only Table of Contents Key Portfolio Metrics Key Portfolio Metrics 187 Development Development 187 AUSTRALIA ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS TOTAL Construction 188 June June June June June June June June June June Investments 189 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Australia 190 Residential, Commercial and Healthcare Development 190 Number of development projects1 no. 25 30 2 2 11 20 5 7 43 59 Construction 192 Investments 195 Backlog Units and SQM2 Asia 198 Residential – Land units zoned no. 48,835 51,080 3,860 3,860 52,695 54,940 Development 198 Residential – Built-form units zoned/ unzoned3 no. 13,905 14,890 2,230 2,225 4,995 5,315 4,360 3,530 25,490 25,960 Construction 198 Total residential units no. 62,740 65,970 2,230 2,225 4,995 5,315 8,220 7,390 78,185 80,900 Investments 199 Residential land4 sqm/000s 11 44 11 44 Europe 200 Development 200 Commercial zoned4 sqm/000s 5,095 5,182 369 368 230 311 379 423 6,073 6,284 Construction 201 Retirement Living Investments 202 Backlog units5 no. 4,028 666 4,028 666 Americas 203 Infrastructure6 Development 203 Number of infrastructure projects – Construction 204 Under construction / preferred bidder7,8 no. 1 49 2 2 3 6 Investments 205 Invested Equity 10 A$m 20.4 185.79 6.4 4.2 26.8 189.9 Committed Equity 11 A$m 70.09 12.3 14.1 12.3 84.1 The Portfolio Report is based on the Lendlease Group (the Group) Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 1. Where a project has multiple stages these have been combined in line with the planning process. Does not include the Mt Gilead project in Australia as the and should be read in conjunction with those Financial Statements. acquisition is subject to a number of conditions including planning. 2. Backlog includes Group owned, joint venture and managed projects. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary as planning approvals All currency amounts in the Portfolio Report are expressed in are obtained. Australian dollars unless otherwise specified. 3. Includes 25,490 zoned units and zero unzoned units at June 2016 (June 2015: 22,041 zoned and 3,919 unzoned units). 4. Represents net developable land in relation to master-planned urban communities, and net developable floor space for other developments. Commercial space has been disclosed based on Gross Floor Area (GFA) in Asia and refers to the total area of the covered floor space measured between the centre line of party walls, including the thickness of external walls but excluding voids. The actual land area and floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. 5. Backlog units include Group owned and managed sites and aged care beds within facilities to be constructed. Backlog units are located in New South Wales, Victoria, Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia and South Australia. Following a strategic review of the Retirement Living operations, additional backlog units were identified. This has the impact of increasing closing backlog units from the prior year. 6. Following the revision of the Group’s segment reporting structure for June 2016, the Infrastructure component of the Development segment now includes projects which are under construction or for which the Group is preferred bidder. The Americas Infrastructure projects are now reported within Investments. 7. The Australian Infrastructure Development projects are managed by the Capella Capital business. 8. The one project in Australia as at June 2016 represents Eastern Goldfields Regional Prison, which is currently under construction. Projects in Europe as at June 2016 include Brescia 2 in Italy, which is under construction and Treviso Hospital in Italy for which the Group is preferred bidder. 9. In June 2016, the Group sold down its equity interests in Sunshine Coast University Hospital, New Bendigo Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live) into the Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company. 10. Invested equity refers to the contributed equity for each project. 11. Committed equity refers to equity the Group has a future commitment to invest. 188 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 189 Portfolio Report continued Key Portfolio Metrics continued For personal use only Construction Investments AUSTRALIA ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS TOTAL AUSTRALIA1 ASIA2 EUROPE1 AMERICAS1 TOTAL June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June June 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Investments3 (A$m) New work secured revenue1 Co-Investments 974.7 814.0 339.8 361.5 65.7 76.1 1,380.2 1,251.6 Building 4,518.6 3,894.5 462.0 424.3 1,289.8 1,566.3 4,531.5 3,206.3 10,801.9 9,091.4 Retirement Ownership 1,488.3 1,580.2 1,488.3 1,580.2 Engineering 2,729.9 1,735.3 22.3 57.0 2,752.2 1,792.3 Infrastructure Investments 15.2 15.2 6.1 109.4 109.2 124.6 130.5 Services 1,041.3 920.7 1,041.3 920.7 Total Investments 2,478.2 2,409.4 339.8 361.5 65.7 82.2 109.4 109.2 2,993.1 2,962.3 Total new work secured revenue 8,289.8 6,550.5 484.3 481.3 1,289.8 1,566.3 4,531.5 3,206.3 14,595.4 11,804.4 Funds Under Management (FUM)3 (A$b) Backlog Revenue2 FUM at the beginning of the period 13.8 10.9 5.3 3.6 2.2 1.8 21.3 16.3 Building 6,330.6 6,269.9 555.9 375.2 1,505.0 1,463.4 6,715.2 5,524.9 15,106.7 13,633.4 Foreign exchange movement 0.2 0.6 (0.4) 0.3 (0.2) 0.9 Engineering 3,845.5 2,342.5 3.8 21.5 3,849.3 2,364.0 Additions 2.1 3.0 0.2 1.2 2.3 4.2 Services 1,714.2 1,258.8 1,714.2 1,258.8 Reductions (0.3) (0.8) (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) (0.8) (0.9) Total backlog revenue 11,890.3 9,871.2 559.7 396.7 1,505.0 1,463.4 6,715.2 5,524.9 20,670.2 17,256.2 Net revaluations 0.9 0.7 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.8 Total FUM 16.5 13.8 5.6 5.3 1.5 2.2 – – 23.6 21.3 AUSTRALIA ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS TOTAL June June June June June June June June June June Assets Under Management (AUM) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Number of centres 16 16 4 4 2 2 22 22 % % % % % % % % % % AUM (A$b) 3 6.4 6.1 4.4 4.3 0.9 1.0 11.7 11.4 Backlog Realisation GLA under management (sqm/000s)4 722.2 740.9 294.8 294.8 141.7 141.7 1,158.7 1,177.4 Next 12 months 47 49 91 69 71 66 49 53 51 52 1. Following the revision of the Group’s segment reporting structure for June 2016, the Investments segment now includes the equity investments in operational 12 24 months 30 24 7 26 17 25 33 25 29 25 infrastructure projects. Beyond 24 months 23 27 2 5 12 9 18 22 20 23 2. Following the revision of the Group’s segment reporting structure for June 2016, Paya Lebar Quarter Joint Venture (formerly Paya Lebar Central Joint Venture) is now reported within Development. Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 3. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. 4. Represents the gross lettable area of the centres, with the exception of Asia which represents the net lettable area of the centres. 1. New work secured revenue is the total revenue to be earned from projects secured during the year. 2. Current year backlog revenue is the total revenue to be earned from projects in future financial years, based on projects secured as at 30 June 2016. Although backlog revenue is realised over several years, the average foreign exchange rate for the current year has been applied to the closing backlog revenue balance in its entirety, as the average rates for later years cannot be predicted. 190 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 191 Portfolio Report continued Australia For personal use only Development Residential and Commercial Project Listing Residential and Commercial Project Listing continued RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL Estimated Backlog Backlog Estimated Estimated Backlog Backlog Estimated Ownership Completion Land Built-Form Backlog Ownership Completion Land Built-Form Backlog Project Sector Location1 Interest Date2 Units3,4 Units3,4 sqm/000s5 Project Sector Location1 Interest Date2 Units3,4 Units3,4 sqm/000s5 Zoned Projects Subtotal zoned projects (brought forward) 35,980 7,240 4,271 Bingara Gorge Communities NSW Land management 2026 555 39 Staged acquisition Blakes Crossing Communities SA (100% interest) 2019 580 10 Calderwood Valley Communities NSW Land management 2040 5,005 57 Owned St Marys – Owned Richmond Apartments Vic (100% interest) 2021 365 Jordan Springs Communities NSW (100% interest) 2023 1,345 25 613 Owned The New Rouse Hill Communities NSW Land management 2017 65 430 Toorak Park Apartments Vic (100% interest) 2018 465 Urban Staged payments Atherstone Communities Vic Land management 2034 3,990 80 Barangaroo South Regeneration NSW (100% interest) 2023 775 192 Owned Urban Owned Aurora Communities Vic (100% interest) 2026 3,075 177 Circular Quay Regeneration NSW (100% interest) 2021 56 Harpley Communities Vic Land management 2025 3,705 313 Darling Square (formerly Urban Staged payments Darling Harbour Live) Regeneration NSW (100% interest) 2020 1,505 75 Owned Laurimar Communities Vic (100% interest) 2017 10 Fernbrooke Ridge Communities Qld Land management 2018 310 Owned Rocky Springs Communities Qld Land management 2054 10,675 1,037 Mayfield Communities Vic (100% interest) 2017 40 Springfield Lakes Communities Qld Land management 2027 4,320 440 88 Urban Melbourne Quarter Regeneration Vic Land management 2021 1,690 123 Staged acquisition Yarrabilba Communities Qld (100% interest) 2042 13,705 1,675 2,022 Urban Victoria Harbour Regeneration Vic Land management 2024 2,950 48 Urban Brisbane Showgrounds Regeneration Qld Land management 2025 2,390 92 Alkimos Communities WA Land management 2023 1,415 5 55 Subtotal zoned (carried forward) 35,980 7,240 4,271 The Assembly at Coolbellup Communities WA Land management 2017 40 1. Locations are New South Wales (NSW) and Queensland (Qld). 2. Estimated completion date represents the expected financial year in which the last unit will be settled for master-planned communities, and the construction Urban completion date for apartments and non-residential projects. Waterbank Regeneration WA Land management 2023 1,190 18 3. Backlog includes the total number of units in Group owned, joint venture and managed projects. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. Total zoned 48,835 13,905 5,095 4. Backlog units do not include the Mt Gilead project in Sydney’s South West as the acquisition is subject to a number of conditions including planning. 5. Represents net developable land in relation to master-planned urban communities and net developable floor space for other developments. 1. Locations are South Australia (SA), Victoria (Vic) and Western Australia (WA). The actual land area and floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. 2. Estimated completion date represents the expected financial year in which the last unit will be settled for master-planned communities, and the construction completion date for apartments and non-residential projects. 3. Backlog includes the total number of units in Group owned, joint venture and managed projects. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. 4. Backlog units do not include the Mt Gilead project in Sydney’s South West as the acquisition is subject to a number of conditions including planning. 5. Represents net developable land in relation to master-planned urban communities and net developable floor space for other developments. The actual land area and floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. 192 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 193 Portfolio Report continued Australia continued For personal use only Construction Major Projects – Building1,2 Construction Contract Value5 Secured Completion Project Location3 Client Type4 A$m Date6 Date7 Sector Description Barangaroo South NSW Lendlease/Barangaroo LS 3,018 2012 2017 Commercial & Design and construction of the basement, infrastructure works, commercial office and residential Development Authority Residential buildings Sunshine Coast University Hospital8 Qld Queensland Health LS 1,579 2013 2017 Healthcare Design and construction of the new 738 bed hospital ICC Sydney NSW Darling Harbour Live Partnership/ LS 1,135 2014 2017 Entertainment/ Design and construction PPP contract for the redevelopment of the Sydney Convention, (formerly Darling Harbour Live) Infrastructure NSW/Sydney Harbour Recreation Exhibition and Entertainment Precinct at Darling Harbour Foreshore Authority Darling Square NSW Lendlease Haymarket LS/MC 1,076 2015 2019 Residential/ Design and construction of 539 apartments, a hotel, infrastructure and public realm as part of the (formerly Darling Harbour Live)9 Hotel/ Darling Harbour redevelopment Infrastructure Crown Sydney Hotel Resort NSW Crown Resorts Limited MC 1,000 2015 2021 Hotel Construction of the Crown Sydney Hotel Resort at Barangaroo South New Air Combat Capability – NSW Commonwealth Department MC 701 2015 2019 Defence Design and construction of the facilities required to support the Joint Strike Fighter aircrafts at RAAF Williamtown of Defence RAAF Williamtown New South Wales (excludes Managing Contractor fees) New Bendigo Hospital Vic Victorian Government/ LS 630 2013 2018 Healthcare Design and construction of a new 372 bed hospital in Bendigo Bendigo Health New Air Combat Capability – NT Commonwealth Department MC 360 2016 2018 Defence Design and construction of the facilities required to support the Joint Strike Fighter aircrafts at RAAF Tindal of Defence RAAF Tindal Northern Territory (excludes Managing Contractor fees) Adelaide Convention Centre SA Department of Planning, Transport and MC 352 2011 2018 Commercial Managing Contractor for the redevelopment and extension of the existing convention centre Redevelopment Infrastructure, South Australia Air 7000 SA Commonwealth Department MC 296 2016 2019 Defence Facilities requirements for the Maritime Patrol Aircraft replacement capability at RAAF Base Phase 2B of Defence Edinburgh, SA – Main Operating Base 60 Martin Place NSW Investa LS 276 2016 2019 Commercial Design and construction of new premium grade 33 storey commercial office building, including demolition of existing 28 storey office building Land 121 National Commonwealth Department MC 258 2016 2018 Defence Facilities component of the LAND 121 acquisition project, which involves the construction of of Defence facilities across eight Defence bases and 17 units nationally, primarily driven by changed facility requirements due to vehicle replacement program Gosford Hospital NSW Health Infrastructure LS 214 2016 2019 Healthcare Design and construction of a new wing and refurbishment of various levels within the existing Redevelopment Gosford Hospital Toorak Park, Armadale Vic Lendlease Development CM 209 2015 2017 Residential Construction of a residential development at Armadale Monash Children’s Hospital Vic Department of Health and MC 206 2014 2017 Healthcare Managing contractor of a new 230 bed hospital Human Services Campbell Barracks WA Commonwealth Department LS 200 2016 2019 Defence Construction of facilities and infrastructure for the Army Redevelopment Project of Defence Adelaide Medical & Nursing School SA The University of Adelaide MC 194 2014 2017 Education/ Design and construction of a new University health science facility for teaching and research Healthcare Victoria Harbour – 888 Collins Vic Lendlease Development CM 182 2015 2017 Residential Construction of a residential development at 888 Collins Victoria Harbour – 889 Collins Vic Lendlease Development CM 171 2015 2017 Residential Construction of a residential development at 889 Collins 1. Disclosure of major projects is subject to client approval. This could impact the projects available for disclosure. 5. Construction value represents the Group’s share of the total construction value of the project. 2. Backlog revenue as at 30 June 2016 for the projects listed totals A$4,539.6 million, representing 72% of the total backlog revenue for the region in relation 6. Secured date represents the financial year in which the project was secured. to Building projects. 7. Completion date represents the financial year in which the project is expected to be completed. 3. Locations are New South Wales (NSW), Queensland (Qld), Victoria (Vic), Northern Territory (NT), South Australia (SA), National and Western Australia (WA). 8. Includes client provisional funding. 4. Contract types are Lump Sum (LS), Managing Contractor (MC) and Construction Management (CM). 9. Excludes ICC Sydney as this project is disclosed separately. 194 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 195 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Australia continued Construction continued Investments Major Projects – Engineering1,2 Co-Investments ConLendlease Market Value1 Market Value1 struction ComInterest June 2016 June 2015 Contract Value5 Secured pletion Region % A$m A$m Project Location3 Client Type4 A$m Date6 Date7 Sector Description Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust Australia 15.0 380.3 181.5 North Connex NSW NorthConnex D&C 1,270 2015 2020 Roads and Design and construction of the 9km twin Australian Prime Property Fund – Commercial Australia 9.4 197.3 178.9 M1/M2 Tunnel Co. Pty. Ltd Highways motorway tunnels Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust2 Australia 12.5 107.5 191.3 Northern SA SA Department D&C 985 2016 2019 Roads and Design and construction of the North Connector of Planning Highways South Corridor, Northern Connector Craigieburn Central Australia 25.0 78.3 81.2 Transport & Project Infrastructure Australian Prime Property Fund – Industrial Australia 10.9 78.3 76.1 Gateway Qld Queensland D&C 631 2016 2018 Roads and Widening 11.3 kilometres of motorway Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail Australia 1.0 44.5 43.5 Upgrade North Department Highways from four to six lanes between Nudgee Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company3 Australia 10.0 40.5 of Transport & and Bracken Ridge, upgrading the Nudgee Main Roads Interchange and widening the Deagon Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund Australia 10.0 38.0 36.7 Deviation to two lanes in each direction Lendlease Real Estate Partners New Zealand Fund New Zealand 5.3 8.1 7.0 Oxley Highway NSW NSW Roads & D&C 600 2014 2017 Roads and Design and construction of 23 kilometres Lendlease Communities Fund 1 Australia 20.8 1.4 4.1 to Kundabung, Maritime Highways of upgrade works to the highway, Pacific Highway Services including major bridge crossings across Lendlease Core Plus Fund4 Australia 13.4 0.5 11.4 the Hastings and Wilson Rivers Lendlease Retail Partners – Australia Fund4,5 Australia 2.6 2.3 Nambucca to NSW NSW Roads & D&C 572 2013 2017 Roads and Design and construction of 22 kilometres Urunga, Maritime Highways of dual carriageway and bridges Total Investments 974.7 814.0 Pacific Highway, Services 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. Mid-North Coast 2. During the year the Group divested a 25% interest in Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust reducing the investment held in the fund from 37.5% to 12.5%. Caulfield to Vic Level Crossing ALL 529 2016 2019 Rail The Level Crossing Removal Project: 3. In June 2016 the Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company (LPIIC) was established. LPIIC invested in three assets including Sunshine Coast Dandenong Removal Caulfield to Dandenong is removing nine University Hospital, New Bendigo Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live). Lendlease holds a 10% investment in LPIIC. Authority level crossings and building five new 4. Lendlease Core Plus Fund and Lendlease Retail Partners – Australia Fund have divested assets during the period. stations at Carnegie, Murrumbeena, 5. Lendlease Retail Partners – Australia Fund investment value is below A$0.5 million which rounds down to A$nil. Hughesdale, Clayton and Noble Park Kingsford Smith Qld Brisbane City D&C 443 2016 2019 Roads and Widening of Kingsford Smith Drive from Funds Under Management Drive Council Highways four to six lanes between Theodore Street Market Value1 Market Value1 at Eagle Farm and Cooksley Street at June 2016 June 2015 Hamilton, and improvement works Fund Fund Type Asset Class A$b A$b between Cooksley Street and Breakfast Creek Road at Albion Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail Core Retail 5.0 4.6 CityLink Tulla Vic VicRoads D&C 230 2016 2018 Roads and Design and construction for the widening Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust Core Commercial 3.2 2.3 Widening Highways of the Tullamarine Freeway between Bulla Australian Prime Property Fund – Commercial Core Commercial 2.9 2.5 Road and Melbourne Airport, including new structures at English Street and Managed Investment Mandates Core Various 2.0 1.7 Mickleham Road, ITS works, Calder Freeway ITS and ramp widening work; and Lend Lease One International Towers Sydney Trust Core Commercial 1.3 0.9 associated works Australian Prime Property Fund – Industrial Core Industrial 0.9 0.8 Bruce Highway Qld Queensland SOR 122 2014 2017 Roads and Construction of 6.5km of new northbound Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund Core Retail 0.6 0.6 Cooroy Southern Department of Highways highway lanes to duplicate the existing Interchange to Transport & Cooroy bypass, including upgrade of the Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company 2 Core Various 0.4 Cudgerie Drive Main Roads Cooroy Southern Interchange and new Lendlease Real Estate Partners New Zealand Fund Enhanced Retail 0.2 0.2 bridges over Six Mile Creek Lendlease Retail Partners – Australia Fund 3 Core Plus Retail 0.1 1. Disclosure of major projects is subject to client approval. This could impact the projects available for disclosure. 2. Backlog revenue as at 30 June 2016 for the projects listed totals A$3,613.8 million, representing 94% of the total Lendlease Core Plus Fund 4 Core Plus Various 0.1 backlog revenue for the region in relation to Engineering projects. 3. Locations are New South Wales (NSW), South Australia (SA), Queensland (Qld), and Victoria (Vic). Lendlease Communities Fund 1 5 Value Add Residential 4. Contract types are Design and Construct (D&C), Alliance (ALL) and Schedule of Rates (SOR). Total FUM 16.5 13.8 5. Construction value represents the Group’s share of the total construction value of the project. 6. Secured date represents the financial year in which the project was secured. 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. 7. Completion date represents the financial year in which the project is expected to be completed. 2. In June 2016 the Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company (LPIIC) was established. LPIIC invested in three assets including Sunshine Coast University Hospital, New Bendigo Hospital and ICC Sydney (formerly Darling Harbour Live). Lendlease holds a 10% investment in LPIIC. 3. Lendlease Retail Partners – Australia Fund funds under management is A$5.4 million which rounds down to A$nil. 4. Lendlease Core Plus Fund funds under management is A$4.2 million which rounds down to A$nil. 5. Lendlease Communities Fund 1 funds under management is A$8.4 million which rounds down to A$nil. 196 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 197 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Australia continued Investments continued Investment Management Assets Under Management Retirement Living Portfolio Summary Market Value3 Market Value3 OWNED MANAGED/LEASED/OTHER GLA June 2016 June 2015 Shopping centres Managed on behalf of sqm/000s1,2 A$m A$m Number of Number of Number of Location1 Villages Units2,3 Villages Units Villages Units2 Cairns Central, Qld APPF Retail 52.8 Qld 12 2,911 3 1,137 15 4,048 Caneland Central, Qld APPF Retail 65.6 NSW 17 3,160 17 3,160 Caroline Springs Square, Vic APPF Retail 21.0 Vic 25 3,974 1 75 26 4,049 Sunshine Plaza, Qld APPF Retail/Other joint owners 75.9 SA 3 386 3 386 Erina Fair, NSW APPF Retail/Other joint owners 114.7 WA 10 1,611 10 1,611 Macarthur Square, NSW APPF Retail/Other joint owners 94.6 ACT 2 130 2 130 Mid City (retail), NSW APPF Retail/Other joint owners 9.1 Total retirement villages 69 12,172 4 1,212 73 13,384 Lakeside Joondalup, WA APPF Retail/Other joint owners 98.1 1. Locations are Queensland (Qld), New South Wales (NSW), Victoria (Vic), South Australia (SA), Western Australia (WA) and Australian Capital Territory (ACT). Craigieburn Central, Vic APPF Retail/Lendlease 62.7 6,448.4 6,112.8 2. Includes 100% of Group owned and managed properties. Only includes completed units. Menai Marketplace, NSW Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 16.5 3. The New Zealand business was sold in the year, with cash settlement in July 2016, 996 units and 5 sites were comprised within this business. Settlement City, NSW Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 19.4 Southlands Boulevarde, WA Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 21.4 Infrastructure Investment Armadale Shopping City, WA Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 31.0 Actual Operational Estimated Invested Committed Financial Term Capital Spend2 Equity3 Equity4 Northgate, WA Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 15.9 Project Location1 Status Close Date Years A$m A$m A$m Barangaroo South (Retail), NSW Other owner 2.7 Healthcare Watertown, WA Other owner 20.8 Queen Elizabeth II Medical WA Operational Jul 11 26 140 15.2 Total 722.2 6,448.4 6,112.8 Centre Car Park 1. GLA represents the gross lettable area of the centres. 2. GLA reduced across the portfolio due to the sale of Stud Park shopping centre (June 2015: GLA 740.9). Total 140 15.2 3. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. 1. Location is Western Australia (WA). 2. Represents total estimated capital spend over the contract duration. June June 3. Invested equity refers to the contributed equity for each project. Retirement Living 2016 2015 4. Committed equity represents future contributions the Group has a commitment to invest. Villages – owned1 no. 69 74 Villages – managed/leased/other no. 4 4 Number of villages no. 73 78 Units – owned1 no. 12,172 12,981 Units – managed/leased/other no. 1,212 1,212 Number of units2 no. 13,384 14,193 Number of resale units no. 1,038 1,082 Long Term Growth Rate % 3.7 3.7 Discount Rate % 13.3 13.3 1. The New Zealand business was sold in the year, with cash settlement in July 2016, 996 units and 5 sites were comprised within this business. 2. Includes 100% of Group owned and managed properties. Only includes completed units. 198 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 199 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Asia Investments Development Co-Investments Estimated Lendlease Market Value1,7 Market Value1 ,7 Market Value1 ,7 Market Value1,7 Ownership Commercial Interest June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Interest Estimated Backlog Backlog % S$m S$m A$m A$m Project Sector Location % Completion Date1 Built-Form Units2 sqm/000s3 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund (ARIF) Zoned Projects ARIF 1 (313@somerset)2 10.1 29.1 35.0 29.1 33.7 Paya Lebar Quarter Urban Singapore 30% 2019 430 136 ARIF 2 (Setia City Mall) 3, 4 35.9 24.0 29.8 24.0 28.7 (formerly Paya Lebar Central) Regeneration ARIF 3 (Jem)5 20.1 156.4 160.9 156.4 154.7 The Lifestyle Quarter at Urban Malaysia 60% 2024 1,800 233 Tun Razak Exchange Regeneration 313@somerset2 25.0 95.3 114.6 95.3 110.2 Total zoned 2,230 369 Parkway Parade Partnership Limited 4.9 35.0 35.6 35.0 34.2 Total Investments 6 339.8 375.9 339.8 361.5 1. Estimated completion represents the expected financial year in which the last unit will be settled for master-planned communities, and the construction completion date for apartments and non-residential projects. 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. 2. Backlog includes the total number of units in Group owned, joint venture and managed projects. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary 2. The Group owns 25% of the 313@somerset retail centre through its investment in CDR JV Ltd, with the remaining 75% held by ARIF 1, in which the Group holds as planning approvals are obtained. a 10.1% interest. 3. Commercial space has been disclosed based on Gross Floor Area (GFA). GFA in Asia refers to the total area of the covered floor space measured between the 3. The Group directly owns 35.9% of ARIF 2, which has a 50% ownership interest in Setia City Mall. centre line of party walls, including the thickness of external walls but excluding voids. The actual land area and floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. 4. Capital redemptions during the period exceeded the share of profit/loss resulting in a decrease in the equity accounted investment. 5. The Group owns 20.1% of ARIF 3, which has a 75% ownership in Jem. 6. Following the revision to the Group’s segment reporting structure for June 2016, Paya Lebar Quarter Joint Venture (formerly Paya Lebar Central Joint Construction Major Projects1,2 Venture) is now reported within Development. 7. The foreign exchange rate applied to the Asia Co-Investment balances as at June 2016 is A$1 = S$1 (June 2015: A$1 = S$1.04). Construction CompleFunds Under Management Contract Value4 Secured tion Project Location Client Type3 A$m Date5 Date6 Sector Description Market Market Market Market Value1 Value1 Value1 Value1 Paya Lebar Quarter Singapore Roma Central GMP 246.8 2016 2017 Mixed Early works for mixed use June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 – Early Works Pte. Ltd, Verona Use development consisting of Fund Fund type Asset class S$b S$b A$b A$b (formerly Paya Lebar Central Pte. Ltd, Residential, Retail and Central – Early Works) Milano Central Office components Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund (ARIF) Core Retail and 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.4 Pte. Ltd. Commercial SoftBank Fast Pole Japan SoftBank Mobile MC 152.1 2011 2017 TelecomDelivery of precast concrete Managed Investment Mandate Value Add Retail and 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 municapoles for SoftBank’s base Commercial tions station site Parkway Parade Partnership Limited Core Plus Retail and 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1. Disclosure of major projects is subject to client approval. This could impact the projects available for disclosure. Commercial 2. Backlog revenue as at 30 June 2016 for the project listed totals A$157.1 million, representing 28% of the total Construction backlog revenue for the region. Lendlease Jem Partners Fund Limited Core Retail and 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 3. Contract types are Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) and Managing Contractor (MC). 4. Construction value represents the Group’s share of the total construction value of the project. Commercial 5. Secured date represents the financial year in which the project was secured. Total FUM 5.6 5.5 5.6 5.3 6. Completion date represents the financial year in which the project is expected to be completed. 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. The foreign exchange rate applied as at June 2016 is A$1 = S$1 (June 2015: A$1 = S$1.04). Assets Under Management Market Value2 Market Value2 Market Value2 Market Value2 GLA1 June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Shopping centres Managed on behalf of sqm/000s S$m S$m A$m A$m Jem, Singapore ARIF/Lendlease Jem 108.2 1,872.0 1,880.0 1,872.0 1,807.7 Partners Fund Limited Parkway Parade, Parkway Parade 52.5 1,209.0 1,196.0 1,209.0 1,150.0 Singapore Partnership Limited 313@somerset, ARIF/Lendlease 27.1 1,010.0 1,100.0 1,010.0 1,057.7 Singapore Setia City Mall, ARIF/Lendlease 107.0 261.2 284.3 261.2 273.4 Malaysia Total 294.8 4,352.2 4,460.3 4,352.2 4,288.8 1. Represents the net lettable area of the centres. 2. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. The foreign exchange rate applied as at June 2016 is A$1 = S$1 (June 2015: A$1 = S$1.04). 200 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 201 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Europe Development – Project Listing Construction Major Projects1,2 Estimated ConConOwnership Estimated Backlog Residential Commercial struction struction ComInterest Completion Built-Form Land Backlog Contract Value4 Value4 Secured pletion Project Sector Location % Date1 Units2 sqm/000s3 sqm/000s3 Project Location Client Type3 £m A$m Date5 Date6 Sector Description Zoned Projects Elephant & Castle London Lend Lease LS 212 424 2016 2019 Residential Design and construction of Elephant & Castle Urban Regeneration London, UK 100% Various 2,470 18 – West Grove Residential 593 new homes over two (CG) Plc buildings and a series of Deptford Urban Regeneration London, UK 100% Various 1,130 7 mansion blocks as part of the International Quarter Urban Regeneration London, UK 50% Various 335 200 Elephant & Castle masterplan London (formerly The Rathbone London Great LS 198 396 2015 2017 Mixed-use Design and construction of International Quarter) Square Portland mixed residential, Chiswick Urban Regeneration London, UK 100% 2019 135 2 Estates plc commercial, retail and public realm new build in London’s Wandsworth Urban Regeneration London, UK 100% Various 110 West End, including 162 UK residential projects Urban Regeneration Various Various Various 815 11 3 residential apartments and 265,000 square feet of Total Development 4,995 11 230 commercial office space 1. Estimated completion date for built-form units represents the financial year in which the project construction is expected to be completed. North Wales Wales Ministry of LS 158 317 2015 2017 Justice Design and construction of a 2. Backlog includes the total number of units in Group owned and joint venture projects. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. Prison Justice 2,106 inmate Category C 3. Represents net developable land in relation to master-planned urban communities and net developable floor space for other developments. The actual land prison in North Wales area and floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. International London Stratford LS 138 276 2016 2018 Commercial New build 20 storey office Quarter London City building providing 500,000 (formerly The Business square feet of office space International District with retail on ground floor Quarter) Limited Building 1 International London Stratford LS 119 238 2016 2018 Commercial 12 storey office building Quarter London City providing 267,000 square (formerly The Business feet of office space and International District associated fit-out with retail Quarter) Limited units at ground floor Building 2 Elephant & Castle London Lend Lease LS 117 233 2015 2017 Residential Design and construction of – South Gardens Residential 360 residential units and 3 (CG) Plc retail units as part of the Elephant & Castle masterplan International London SCBD LS 89 178 2015 2018 Residential Design and construction of Quarter London Residential two residential buildings (formerly The Limited (30 storey and 18 storey) International comprising 333 units Quarter) – Glasshouse Gardens 1. Disclosure of major projects is subject to client approval. This could impact the projects available for disclosure. 2. Backlog revenue as at 30 June 2016 for the projects listed totals £623.1 million, representing 83% of the total Construction backlog revenue for the region. 3. Contract type is Lump Sum (LS). 4. Construction value represents the Group’s share of the total construction value of the project. 5. Secured date represents the financial year in which the project was secured. 6. Completion date represents the financial year in which the project is expected to be completed. 202 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 203 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Europe continued Americas Investments Development Estimated Co-Investments Ownership Estimated Backlog Backlog Commercial Lendlease Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Interest Completion Land Built-Form Backlog Interest June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Project Sector Location % Date1 Units2 Units2 sqm/000s3 % £m £m A$m A$m Zoned Projects Lendlease Retail LP 4.3 36.8 35.2 65.7 71.8 Horizon Uptown Communities Colorado 100% 2033 3,860 371 (formerly Lendlease Retail Partnership) Covington Medical Arts Healthcare Louisiana 100% 2014 5 Lendlease PFI/PPP Infrastructure Fund LP (UKIF)2 2.1 4.3 Pavillion4 Total 36.8 37.3 65.7 76.1 281 Fifth Avenue Apartments New York 40% 2019 125 1 Funds Under Management Clippership Wharf Apartments Massachusetts 100% 2021 485 1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Riverline Urban June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 (formerly River South) Regeneration Illinois 60% 2025 3,750 1 Fund Fund type Asset class £b £b A$b A$b Total Development 3,860 4,360 379 Lendlease Retail LP Core Retail 0.9 0.8 1.5 1.7 1. Estimated completion date represents the estimated financial year in which the last unit will be settled for master-planned communities and the financial year (formerly Lendlease Retail Partnership) in which construction will be completed for apartments and healthcare projects. 2. The actual number of units for any particular project can vary as planning applications are obtained. Lendlease PFI/PPP Infrastructure Fund Core Infrastructure 0.2 0.5 3. Represents expected rentable square metres. The actual floor space for any particular project can vary as planning approvals are obtained. LP (UKIF)2 4. The building was completed in 2014, the building is not fully leased and upfitting is carried out, the project is still in development phase. Total FUM 0.9 1.0 1.5 2.2 Assets Under Management Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Market Value1 Managed on GLA3 June 2016 June 2015 June 2016 June 2015 Shopping centres behalf of sqm/000s £m £m A$m A$m Touchwood, Solihull Lendlease 60.4 299.4 282.8 534.6 577.1 Retail Partnership Queensgate, Peterborough IREEF 81.3 230.0 212.0 410.7 432.7 Queensgate Peterborough Total 141.7 529.4 494.8 945.3 1,009.8 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. 2. The Group sold its remaining 1% investment in Lendlease PFI/PPP Infrastructure Fund LP (UKIF) along with the fund management rights during the year. 3. GLA represents the gross lettable area of the centres. 204 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 205 Portfolio Report continued For personal use only Americas continued Construction Major Projects1,2 Investments ConConstrucstruction ComInfrastructure Investment Contract tion Value4 Value4 Secured pletion Original Operational Invested Committed Project Location Client Type3 US$m A$m Date5 Date6 Sector Description Financial Term Equity2 Equity3 Units Under Project1 Location Service Status Close Date Years US$m US$m Management4 432 Park New York CIM Group GMP 704 965 2012 2017 MixedConstruction manager for a Avenue use 73,000 square metre, 89 storey Air Combat Arizona/ Air Force Operational Jul 07 50 11.0 2,200 condominium and retail project Command Group II New Mexico 56 Leonard New York 56 Leonard GMP 382 523 2012 2017 Residential Construction manager for a Camp Lejeune North Marine Corps Operational Oct 05 50 14.5 6,470 Avenue LLC 42,000 square metre, 60 storey Phases 1, 2 and 3 Carolina/ residential building with 146 units New York LUMINA San Tishman GMP 376 515 2013 2017 Residential Construction manager for 655 Tri-Command South Carolina Marine Corps Operational Feb 03 50 3.3 1,500 Francisco Speyer condominium units in two Fort Campbell Kentucky Army Operational Dec 03 50 6.0 4,450 buildings (37 and 42 storeys respectively) and two nine storey Fort Drum New York Army Operational May 05 50 5.0 4,025 residential buildings Fort Hood Texas Army Operational Oct 01 50 6.0 5,900 252 East New York World Wide GMP 354 485 2014 2017 MixedConstruction manager for a Fort Knox Kentucky Army Operational Feb 07 50 3.0 2,385 57th Street Holdings use 55,000 square metre, 57 storey Phase 1 and 2 apartment, condominium and retail project Hickam Hawaii Air Force Operational Feb 05 50 17.3 2,500 520 Park New York Zeckendorf GMP 295 404 2014 2019 Residential Construction manager for a 51 Island Palm Hawaii Army Operational Apr 05 50 8.0 7,750 Avenue Development storey high rise luxury Communities LLC condominium, consisting of 31 PAL Groups A, Various Army Operational Aug 09 50 12,450 condominium units and 8 staff B and C quarters Tri-Group Colorado/ Air Force Operational Sep 07 50 10.9 1,525 Riverpoint Chicago Riverpoint GMP 237 324 2015 2017 Office Construction of 125,000 square California LLC (Hines) metre, 53 storey office building Wainwright/Greely Alaska Army Operational Apr 09 50 2.0 1,900 and garage built over an existing Phase 1 and 2 podium Total 82.0 5.0 53,055 Clippership Boston Lendlease GMP 204 279 2016 2020 Residential 60,000 square metre, mixeduse, Wharf Development residential development on the 1. The number of projects for June 2016 total 17. A number of the projects were combined to reflect the investment, such as Camp Lejeune Phases 1 and 2 and East Boston waterfront consisting Camp Lejeune Phase 3, Fort Hood and Fort Hood Stage 3 (Chaffee Village 1), Fort Knox Phase 1 and Fort Knox Phase 2 (Additional Scoring), PAL Groups A and B and PAL Group C and Wainwright/Greely Phase 1 and Wainwright/Greely Phase 2. of 478 residential units with views 2. Invested equity refers to the contributed equity for each project. of downtown Boston. Ground 3. Committed equity represents future contributions the Group has a commitment to invest. floor will contain a variety of retail 4. Units under management are the expected number of units at the end of the initial project development period. spaces including a health club, coffee shop, restaurant and kayak centre 9 W Walton Chicago 9 West Walton GMP 135 184 2015 2018 Residential Construction of 38,800 square Condominium metre, 35 storey super-luxury Developer LLC condominium with 3 levels of below grade parking Hilton DC Lowe GMP 79 108 2015 2017 Residential High rise apartment building with Washington Enterprises 230 units built on existing below Residential grade parking structure. Project is adjacent to operating hotel 1. Disclosure of major projects is subject to client approval. This could impact the projects available for disclosure. 2. Backlog revenue as at 30 June 2016 for the projects listed totals US$670.1 million, representing 14% of the total Construction backlog revenue for the region. 3. Contract type is Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP). 4. Construction value represents the Group’s share of the total construction value of the project. 5. Secured date represents the financial year in which the project was secured. 6. Completion date represents the financial year in which the project is expected to be completed. 206 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 207 Securityholder Information For personal use only Securities Exchange Listing and Code Privacy Legislation Security Information at a Glance at 1 August 2016 Lendlease Group is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange Under Chapter 2C of the Corporations Act 2001, a securityholder’s (comparative 1 September 2015) and trades under the code LLC. information (including the name, address and details of securities 2016 2015 In the US, Lendlease securities are traded on the over-the-counter held) is required to be included in Lendlease’s public register. market in the form of sponsored American Depositary Receipts This information must continue to be included in Lendlease’s Number of securityholders 61,957 57,821 (ADRs) under the symbol LLESY. Each ADR represents one public register for seven years after a person ceases to be a Units issued 582 million 580 million ordinary security. Information about ADRs is available from the securityholder. These statutory obligations are not altered by depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon (www.adrbny.com). the Privacy Amendment (Private Sector) Act 2000. Information is Percentage owned by 20 largest securityholders 72.39% 75.37% collected to administer the securityholder’s holding and if some or Interim dividend/distribution 30 cents per security 27 cents per security Voting Rights all of the information is not collected, then it might not be possible to administer the holding. Lendlease’s privacy policy is available on Total dividend/distribution 60 cents per security 54 cents per security Each stapled security in Lendlease Group and each ADR entitles the holder to one vote. Rights to Lendlease Group securities its website. Dividend payout ratio 50% 51% granted under Lendlease Group’s employee equity incentive plans Dispute Resolution do not carry voting rights. Spread of Securityholdings as at 1 August 2016 There is a dispute resolution mechanism that covers complaints by Share Accumulation Plan securityholders. For more information, please contact Lendlease (comparative 1 September 2015) The Share Accumulation Plan is designed to be a convenient Investor Relations at +61 2 9236 6464 or send us an email at 2016 2015 way for securityholders with a registered address in Australia or LendLeaseInvestorRelations@lendlease.com 1 to 1,000 securities 31,356 30,172 New Zealand to build their securityholdings without incurring Distribution and Share Accumulation Plan transaction costs. The laws of other countries make it difficult 1,001 to 5,000 25,255 22,842 Issue Price History for us to offer securities in this way. Lendlease securityholders 5,001 to 10,000 3,472 3,118 are able to reinvest their distributions to acquire more Lendlease For historical distribution and Share Accumulation Plan Issue Price securities through the Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) or information, please see the below link to our website 10,001 to 100,000 1,773 1,596 the Share Election Plan (SEP). Securityholders may also make www.lendlease.com/au/investor-centre/distribution-history 100,001 securities and over 101 93 contributions of between A$500 and A$2,500 to acquire new Lendlease securities under the Share Purchase Plan (SPP). Together Total number of securityholders 61,957 57,821 the DRP, SEP and SPP constitute the Share Accumulation Plan. Securityholders with less than a marketable parcel 2,476 2,402 The rules of each of these plans are set out in the Share (representing 29,464 securities) (representing 28,597 securities) Accumulation Plan Information Sheet. Copies are available on the Lendlease website. Please note that the Share Election Plan and Securities Purchased on Market the Share Purchase Plan are currently suspended. The following securities were purchased on market during the financial year for the purpose of funding employee incentive awards Key Sources of Information for Securityholders through Lendlease securities. We report the following to securityholders each year: Number of securities purchased Average price paid per security • Annual Report; and Stapled securities 3,861,842 A$13.45 • March and September distribution statements. Electronic Communications Buy-Backs Securityholders have the option of receiving the following As at 1 August 2016, there were no current on-market buy-backs of Lendlease Group securities. communications and all other company related information electronically: • Annual Report; • Distribution statements; and • Notice of Annual General Meetings. Lendlease makes the Annual Report available in an interactive version online. A hard copy of the Annual Report will only be sent to those securityholders who elect to receive it in that form. In addition, you may elect to receive notification when the Annual Report is available online. Securityholders who wish to register their email address should go to the website of the Lendlease share registry www.investorcentre.com/ecomms For registry contact details see page 210. 208 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 209 Securityholder Information continued Glossary For personal use only Twenty Largest Securityholders at 1 August 2016 Construction backlog realisation: The proportion of construction New work secured revenue: Estimated revenue to be earned backlog revenue which is expected to be earned across future years. from construction contracts secured during the period. New work Name No. of Units % of Issued Capital is secured and forms part of construction backlog revenue when Co-Investment: The total market value of Lendlease equity invested across Lendlease managed funds as at 30 June 2016. formal contracts are signed. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 125,201,425 21.50 Construction backlog revenue: Current year construction Distribution payout ratio: Distribution divided by Profit after Tax. J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 93,547,842 16.06 backlog revenue is the total revenue to be earned in future Profit after tax (PAT): Profit after Tax attributable to National Nominees Limited 72,120,621 12.39 financial years, based on the projects secured at 30 June 2016. securityholders, determined in accordance with Australian Critical incident: An event that had the potential to have caused Accounting Standards. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 41,171,606 7.07 death or permanent disability. Public Private Partnerships (PPP): A joint procurement BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 23,567,114 4.05 Development pipeline: Estimated remaining end value of all of arrangement for infrastructure development contracts between LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <Castle Account A/C> 14,075,522 2.42 the Group’s secured development projects based on values as the public and private sectors. LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Ltd <EIT Custodian A/C> 10,870,532 1.87 at 30 June 2016; Includes 100% of joint venture projects and Return on equity (ROE): The annual Profit after Tax divided therefore will not necessarily correlate with the Group’s Profit by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year and year end Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 7,246,076 1.24 after Tax. Securityholders’ equity. LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <ESAP Account> 4,880,090 0.84 Distribution per security: Amount of interim and final distribution Securityholders: The number of individual securityholders of Argo Investments Limited 4,793,894 0.82 per stapled security from the Company/Trust. Lendlease securities. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 3,935,728 0.68 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Senior Executive: Employees who hold a position at Executive amortisation. level according to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. This UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 3,893,609 0.67 generally includes Regional Business Unit Heads, Regional Earnings per security: Profit after Tax divided by the weighted AMP Life Limited 3,570,581 0.61 average number of securities on issue during the year (including Function Heads and in some cases, direct reports to Global treasury securities). Function Heads. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 2,453,500 0.42 Effective tax rate: Income tax expense as a percentage of profit Urbanisation pipeline: Estimated remaining end value of all of the SBN Nominees Pty Limited 2,203,887 0.38 Group’s secured development projects (excluding Communities before tax. Forsyth Barr Custodians Ltd 2,193,474 0.38 projects) based on values as at 30 June 2016; Includes 100% of Financial close: The point at which the parties to a project joint venture projects and therefore will not necessarily correlate CS Fourth Nominees Pty Ltd 1,801,117 0.31 procured under a PPP contract are irrevocably committed through with the Group’s Profit after Tax. the execution of unconditional contracts. Questor Financial Services Limited 1,377,574 0.24 Weighted average number of securities: The time weighted Funds under management (FUM): The total market value of equity Avanteos Investments Limited 1,369,552 0.24 number of securities outstanding during the period. invested across Lendlease managed funds as at 30 June 2016. BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd 1,259,643 0.22 Gearing: Net debt to total tangible assets less cash. 421,533,387 72.39 Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs): GMRs are Lendlease’s minimum environment, health and safety standards designed to control the risks across our operations. Substantial Securityholders as Shown in the Company’s Register at 1 August 2016 Green Star rating: Green Star is a national voluntary environmental Name Date of Last Notice Received No. of Units % of Issued Capital rating system used by the Green Building Council of Australia to evaluate the environmental design and achievements of buildings. LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Ltd* 01/08/2016 32,452,363 5.58% Investments performance: The performance of our Investments Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 22/04/2016 29,512,777 5.07% business which includes our funds under management, assets under management, co-invested equity in Lendlease managed *This is a Lendlease employee benefit vehicle. funds and direct investment in property and property related assets. Lendlease investments: Includes equity invested in Lendlease managed funds and direct investment in property and property related assets. Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR): An indicator and industry standard measuring a workplace injury which prevents a worker from returning to duties the next day. Major projects: All major Construction projects as disclosed in the Portfolio Report. As at 30 June 2016 this represented 51% ($10.6 billion) of total secured Construction backlog. Market capitalisation: The number of securities on issue multiplied by the security price at year end. Net debt: Borrowings, including certain other financial liabilities, less cash. 210 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | LENDLEASE 211 Corporate Directory For personal use only Annual General Meeting 2016 The Annual General Meeting of shareholders of Lendlease Corporation Limited and the general meeting of unit holders of Lendlease Trust (together, Lendlease Group) will be held at 10am on Friday 11 November 2016 in the Savoy Ballroom, Grand Hyatt Melbourne, 123 Collins Street, Melbourne. Full details will be provided in the Notice of Meetings. 2016 Financial Calendar 19 August Full Year Results Announced 24 August Security Price Ex Distribution 14 September Final Distribution Payable 11 November Annual General Meeting 2017 Financial Calendar 27 February Announcement of Half Year Results 2 March Security Price Ex Distribution 3 March Interim Distribution Record Date 24 March Interim Distribution Payable Please note that the timing of events can be subject to change. A current calendar is available online at www.lendlease.com Entity Details Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 Registered Office Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney, Exchange Place, 300 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000 Contact T: +61 2 9236 6111 F: +61 2 9252 2192 W: www.lendlease.com Share Registry Information Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited ABN 48 078 279 277 GPO Box 242, Melbourne Victoria 3000 Australia T: 1800 230 300 (within Australia) T: +61 3 9946 4460 (outside Australia) W: www.computershare.com.au Barangaroo Reserve, Sydney For personal use only Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney, Exchange Place, 300 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000 www.lendlease.com
