COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) EXSYN Aviation Company Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 1st of July 2015 To: 1st of June 2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 9th of June 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that EXSYN reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sander Christian de Bree CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights EXSYN strives to have a diverse workforce existing of people from different nationalities, gender and religion. We do not exclude any employee or potential new recruit based on age, gender, religion or nationality. This is actively included in our Human Resource policies. Employees of EXSYN are not travelling to countries for which the Dutch Foreign affairs ministry has issued a travel warning or travel ban. As a company we refrain from doing business with either suppliers or customers that do not comply with the guidelines of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights. These assessments are part of our procurement and sales processes. Labour Our company is compliant with labour regulations applicable to the kingdom of the Netherlands. It upholds standards which extend far beyond the UN Global Compact. In addition, our company voluntarily joined the collective secondary union agreements applicable to the aviation sector in the Netherlands. Our employees are paid well above minimum wage standards of the Netherlands Any supplier that we contract with is screened against compliance with national labour regulation standards of the Netherlands. In case a supplier is located outside the European Union it is screened against compliance with the Global Compact standards. This screening is part of our procurement process. Any customer that we contract with is screened against compliance with national labour regulation standards of the Netherlands. In case a customer is located outside the European Union it is screened against compliance with the Global Compact standards for labour. This screening is part of our sales process. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: EXSYN is not involved in the manufacturing of material and as such does not have significant waste streams. Any supplier to EXSYN however is screened against compliance with the ISO 14001 standard. This is part of our procurement process. In addition, any office waste is disposed in a segregated manner based on local community regulations that apply to the registered location of our offices. Anti-Corruption Any company that EXSYN will do business with (either as customer or as supplier) is screened against registration in the OFAC sanction list of the US department of treasury. If a listing existing no business engagement will be made with this potential customer or supplier. As part of our company policies we included an anti-bribery act within our staff manual, preventing employees from accepting gifts (in any shape or form) from any representative of government bodies or companies. In addition EXSYN has a strict policy in not participating in any bribery activity with any body of government or affiliated representatives. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: 40% of EXSYN’s workforce is female, 60% is male. Age demographic lies between 21 to 32 years of age. EXSYN employs staff from 4 different nationalities and diverse religious and ethnic background. Within the Board of Directors, 33% is female and 66% is male, all being within the age between 30 to 40 EXSYN’s sickness rate is 1.3% which is more than 10% below the average national rate within the Netherlands and one of the lowest within the European Union.
