SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CONTENTS CONTENTS 4 Arval’s commitment 8 16 Social 5 Economic 10 18 to the Global Compact Responsibility Responsibility Our CSR commitments 6 Commitments Commitments 15 23 Arval, a leader in sustainable mobility Arval develops innovative and sustainable Arval pursues a fair human resources policy that solutions, and acts responsibly in everything it does respects employee diversity and individuality Interview Philippe Bismut, CEO Arval Interview Interview Sandrine Ferré, Communications Bart Beckers Thérèse Vercruysse & CSR Director, Arval Chief Commercial Officer, Arval Human Resources Director, Arval 24 Civic 32 Environmental 26 34 Responsibility Responsibility Commitments Commitments 30 39 Arval promotes a culture of road safety, combats Arval minimises the environmental impact CONTACTS exclusion, and supports education of its customers’ vehicles Interview Interview Tracey Fuller Liam Donnelly SANDRINE FERRÉ AURÉLIE BRUNEAU Customer Engagement Manager, Arval UK General Manager, Arval Netherlands Communications CSR Manager and CSR Director aurelie.bruneau@arval.fr sandrine.ferre@arval.com 22, rue des Deux Gares 92564 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex France Tel: +33 (0)1 57 69 50 00 2 3 ARVAL’S COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT OUR CSR COMMITMENTS Over a decade after signing the voluntary UN Global Compact and agreeing to implement universal sustainability principles and take Arval, a leader in sustainable mobility, has made 12 commitments action to support them, Arval remains strongly committed to aligning to the four pillars of corporate social responsibility: its operations and strategies with the Global Compact’s ten principles: HUMAN RIGHTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Developing sustainable solutions in an ethical way proclaimed Human Rights. 1• Enhance our Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) approach • Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights 2• Act with business ethics abuses. 3• Embed CSR in our range of products and services LABOUR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pursuing a committed and fair human resources policy • Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 4• Train staff members to build up long-term and ethical business relations • Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 5• Promote diversity • Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 6• Solidarity-based employment management employment and occupation. CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Combating exclusion, promoting education, road safety and culture challenges. 7• Influence and act for road safety • Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 8• Apply a corporate philanthropy policy focusing on education, environmental responsibility. health and culture • Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 9• Be compliant with the UN’s guiding principles concerning Human Rights environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Acting to reduce impact on climate and pollution extortion and bribery. 10• Promote the choice and use of eco-friendly vehicles/solutions 11• Reduce the environmental footprint linked to our own operations Read on to discover the many ways Arval is putting these 12• Apply specific policy commitments in sensitive management sectors principles into action … 4 5 Interview Interview Philippe Bismut CEO, Arval Sandrine Ferré Communications and CSR Director, Arval Philippe Bismut, CEO of Arval, and Sandrine Ferré, Arval’s Philippe Bismut: Communications and CSR All of our 28 subsidiaries around the world are expected to not only Director, talk about how the acknowledge Arval’s CSR commitments but also take concrete actions to company demonstrates its Today our commitment is stronger than support them. This report is full of examples of some of the best practices ever. Concretely, we demonstrate our they have developed and shared with us. longstanding commitment to ongoing commitment by following the Corporate Social Responsibility. We should also mention that all of Arval’s innovative digital solutions 12 CSR commitments established by our incorporate CSR concerns. Examples are such mobile tools as Arval Drive parent company, BNP Paribas, in four Challenge, a mobile app that is fun to use and rewards drivers with points areas: economic, social, civic and for safe, eco-friendly driving, and Arval Active Link, a telematics solution environmental. Sandrine Ferré: that gives fleet managers an overall view of driver behaviour in terms of safety and fuel consumption. Arval was the first full-service leasing Sandrine Ferré: company to sign the United Nations Global Compact in 2004. Why did the Briefly, in the economic sphere, we Sandrine Ferré: company feel that it was important put our expertise to work to provide to publicly make this commitment to And we mustn’t forget that Arval was the first multi-brand, multi-segment, Sandrine Ferré irreproachable, ethical service and help full-service leaser in France to receive ISO 14001 environmental certification, Corporate Social Responsibility? our clients save money by using innovative another proof of the strength of our commitment in this area. Fifteen of our Communications and sustainable mobility solutions. subsidiaries have also received this certification. and CSR Director, Philippe Bismut: Our social commitment focuses on ethical Arval business relations, diversity and solidarity. CSR has been integrated into the Employee satisfaction is measured every Philippe Bismut: company’s fabric ever since it was founded year by our Global People Survey. In the in 1989, through our concern for road 2015 survey, 90% of our employees said Could you tell us about the activities of the CSR team you lead, Sandrine? safety, for the environment, and for people they believed that Arval is an environmen– our employees, clients, drivers and tally responsible company and 75% said suppliers. that Arval plays a socially responsible role Sandrine Ferré: in the community. We coordinate actions and exchange best practices within the CSR CSR is not just about image; it is at the heart of the business. Our existing and In the field of civic responsibility, we community, and communicate internally and externally on initiatives potential clients, who are increasingly work with our clients on improving road undertaken by our subsidiaries. Each country’s CSR correspondent reports aware of its importance, appreciate our safety and eco-driving. We also engage in to us on their activities, adapted to local concerns, and we also encourage efforts in such areas as road safety, charitable activities and encourage our participation in worldwide events like the UN’s Global Road Safety Week eco-friendly vehicles and eco-driving. employees to do the same. Finally, we in May. Our employees are inspired by the insist on respect for human rights in all “We signed the UN Global Compact charitable activities they participate our activities. in 2004 to announce that we are in. And, not least of all, the search serious about CSR and about taking Philippe Bismut: When it comes to the environment, we for sustainable solutions stimulates action to prove it.“ are constantly striving to reduce our own Perhaps we can give the last word to Arval’s slogan, which sums up our innovation. “Our social commitment focuses impact on the environment, especially approach to CSR perfectly: “We care about cars. We care about you.” That We signed the UN Global Compact in 2004 through the reduction of CO2 emissions means respecting the environment by reducing the impact of our business on ethical business relations, to announce that we are serious about CSR and by seeking solutions that can help our to the utmost, improving life for everyone, and treating our employees, diversity and solidarity.” and about taking action to prove it. clients do the same. Philippe Bismut clients, suppliers and citizens of the world with the respect they all deserve. CEO, Arval 6 7 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Developing sustainable solutions in an ethical way 1/ Enhance our Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) approach 2/ Act with business ethics 3/ Embed CSR in our range of products and services 8 9 1/Enhance Total Cost of Ownership ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Enhance Total Cost of Ownership Steering Fleet Managers towards Safe, Responsible Solutions Arval increases clients’ costArval’s research arm, the 13-year-old The Arval Smart Experience, which has won several awards Onboard telematics solution Arval Active Link provides in the United Kingdom, puts user-friendly online tools, mobile intelligence that saves time and money, improves security efficiency by optimising fleet Corporate Vehicle Observatory (CVO), studies business mobility and market apps, tablet-optimised dashboards and social media at the and optimises vehicle usage. management with innovative, developments. Its annual Fleet disposal of fleet managers and drivers at no extra cost. The sustainable solutions. Barometer monitors trends and Arval Fleet View app offers detailed, up-to-date, at-a-glance Arval’s flexible Outsourcing Solutions put the company’s anticipates the future evolution of information on the customer’s fleet situation at all times. consulting expertise to work to optimise clients’ costs while business mobility, while its analysis of handling the complex details of fleet management for Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is an approach Arval Connect is a secure website offering fleet managers the changes in the fleet management them. to fleet management that shows clients the big useful information on both the fleet market and their own fleet. market since 2005 provides historical picture: not only the direct costs that are always perspective. The Arval Mobile+ app makes a wealth of crucial information Arval Webstore, available on all screens, provides an taken into account but also indirect and hidden – about each vehicle, nearby service options and fleet policies – instant full-service leasing quote for any vehicle available 2/Act With Business Ethics The valuable information produced available remotely to drivers via a smartphone. costs. by the Observatory has numerous on the market. practical applications. CVO’s research, Arval’s goal is to optimise its clients’ TCO, notably for example, led to the development through Arval Analytics, a powerful strategic of a model of TCO calculation that planning aid offering access to fleet data in one evaluates the hidden costs of road click, for a long-term view of fleet trends that collisions, such as loss of productivity, affective loss and cost of medical contributes to intelligent decision-making. treatment. Arval Consulting’s Mobility Audits go even deeper, CVO’s work facilitates the definition analysing in detail vehicle use by all employees and choice of safe, responsible and proposing alternatives to generate economic solutions to steer fleet managers in and environmental benefits for the customer, their mobility decisions. Arval aims to act responsibly and with honesty spelled out in a concrete action plan. and integrity in every area of its business. ENSURE ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR ARVAL MOVING FROM TCO TO TCM Honesty and integrity in the workplace are absolute values for The 2014 Fleet Barometer survey carried out by the Corporate Vehicle Observatory showed that Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is the Arval. Its strict Code of Conduct and anti-corruption policy apply to most important criterion for large and very large companies (over 100 employees). Arval’s highly effective TCO approach takes into every Arval subsidiary and cover relationships with all stakeholders account the most important components, including cost reduction, efficient mobility and carbon-footprint reduction. across the whole lifecycle of the company’s business. A whistle-blowing procedure has also been put into place to enable TCO is easy to track and compare, and our customers value our TCO approach for its highly useful benchmarking. the reporting of any irregularities. As efficient as it is, however, the TCO approach does not consider all costs generated by a fleet, so Arval is also moving to a Total Cost of Mobility (TCM) methodology, which takes into account all mobility costs by employee, department or company, using innovative tools The Code of Conduct puts forth a set of principles and values to steer the business activities of everyone who works within Arval’s like Arval Mobility Link. sphere of action, internally or externally. 10 11 3/Embed CSR in our range of products and services ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Act with business ethics To ensure adherence to these policies at both the local and group levels, the internal Compliance and Control Department is charged with: • Upholding rules governing the acceptance of gifts and invitations from/to business contacts • Checking that rules concerning sanctions, embargoes, anti-money-laundering, Arval has developed a range of innovative, corruption and terrorism financing are respected • Enforcing a strict ban on cash payments from customers or partners, even effective, sustainable tools to help customers in countries where this form of payment is still common practice adopt a responsible approach to mobility. • Advising employees on how to behave and speak with competitors, third parties and colleagues CSR concerns are integrated into Arval’s innovative • Ensuring that privacy protection regulations (adapted to local laws) solutions. In addition to its consulting services, Arval offers are followed its customers a wide range of intelligent tools through the • Following up on whistleblowing made through the alert procedure Arval Smart Experience, made up of a number of online tools, mobile apps, tablet-ready dashboards and social networks designed to improve customers’ efficiency, safety and sustainability. Our customer CSR approach is based on four “Lasting relationships based on trust require honesty, integrity, respect cornerstones: for others, and fair and accurate decision-making at all levels.” Philippe Bismut, CEO, Arval • Car Policy: Enhancing Total Cost of Ownership through fleet analysis, vehicle selection advice and CO2 reduction targets. Arval solutions: Arval Analytics, Arval Mobility Audits, Arval Smart Experience, Arval Fleet View, Arval Connect, Arval Active Link. ENSURE SUPPLIER STANDARDS • Sustainable Services and Solutions: Advice on choosing Arval’s suppliers are held to the policy is also included in every RFP, leasing services with embedded CSR, fleet optimisation same high ethical standards as the and many countries send an annual through car sharing, Arval preferred maintenance network. company itself. A supplier charter is CSR assessment form to major Arval solutions: Arval Outsourcing Solutions, Arval Car signed by all entities within the scope suppliers. Sharing. of ISO 14001 certification. • Driver Care: Eco and safety training, safety kits for drivers, safety On top of all this, Arval regularly and eco tips, eco smart apps. Arval solutions: Arval Mobile+, Rather than signing a supplier’s own audits and assesses key suppliers. Arval Drive Challenge. charter, Arval insists that its charter, In Poland, for example, a certified which fully respects Global Compact i n d e p e n d e n t s e r v i c e p ro v i d e r, • Reporting and Offsetting: Regular reporting on fuel principles, is included in all Requests TUV, audits services and suppliers costs, CO2 emissions and driver collisions, plus fleet and for Proposal (RFP) and new contracts. to ensure that clients are served business reviews to advise customers on action plans and carbon A questionnaire on the supplier’s CSR properly. offsetting. Arval solutions: Arval Analytics, Arval Fleet View. 12 13 Interview ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW Arval in action around the world Do CSR concerns come into play in total cost of ownership (TCO) and total cost of mobility (TCM) approaches? Driver behaviour is an important influencer of TCO, and encouraging and All over the world, Arval’s subsidiaries are Arval Netherlands introduced Arval Mobility helping drivers to learn to behave well on the road can have a direct concentrating on creating, promoting and Link, a platform that allows employees to positive impact on TCO. In the area of fuel consumption and accident delivering responsible products and services. choose for themselves the best way to travel management, the link is clear. When it comes to car policy, we help clients In our day-to-day operations, we are increasingly being asked to define on each journey – by car, bicycle or public transchoose vehicle options that not only improve employee safety but also car policies for clients that take CSR concerns into account and make sure Arval Austria offers clients a fuel card that optimize TCO. One can reinforce the other. portation – and simplifies the administration they are dealt with in a consistent and reliable way. In countries like the measures their consumption when they buy of monitoring transport costs while providing Today, we are talking more and more in terms of the next dimension, TCM. UK, for example, our clients want us to take care of driver-license checking, fuel, making it possible to calculate each following up with training courses, anomaly reporting in operational fleets incentives to lower fuel consumption and CO2 In that area, we have been launching a number of innovative projects and vehicle’s CO2 emissions. This information, and so on. emissions. services, such as Arval Mid-Term Rental, Car Sharing and Arval Active Link, transmitted to fleet managers via digital to name just a few, developed in response to clients who are asking for With Arval Active Link, the onboard telematics offer, we are able to monitor tools, allows them to compare real emissions Arval Poland facilitates safe, eco-friendly ways to improve their TCM (thanks to Arval Drive Challenge). driver behaviour and its impact on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. per litre of fuel with theoretical emissions driving through the Arval Driving Academy, the Driver behaviour as measured by Arval Active Link can even predict the provided by the manufacturer. The Arval first such training programme in the country’s potential for collisions. As soon as we see driver behaviour deviating from Active Link telematics solution will make these fleet market. The academy will offer over a the norm, we contact the client or the driver to propose solutions such as measurements even more precise and provide thousand BGZ BNP Paribas company car users Bart Beckers road safety training. a more accurate analysis of driver behaviour. a full day of obligatory training in eco and Chief Commercial SPREADING THE WORD ABOUT CSR Officer, Arval defensive driving. Arval Belgium launched Arval Car Sharing in Arval’s exemplary commitment to CSR What other products and services does Arval offer that can help clients 2015 with the purchase of 20 cars. The service Arval Romania is tackling the CO2 problem sets it apart. Arval’s different entities work effectively while also acting as good corporate citizens? is already being used by some clients. by offering clients an emission-offsetting regularly organise discussion groups We have a range of digital tools like Arval Smart Experience, a full suite programme with Tree Nation, while Arval about such important CSR topics Arval Luxembourg is making life simpler and of applications that is highly effective for fleet managers and is also good Switzerland is selling CO2 compensation as road safety, car-sharing and fuel for the environment, since it cuts down drastically on paperwork. It is also more eco-friendly for its clients by providing through myclimate; so far, its customers have alternatives, and all new local websites increasingly appreciated by drivers as an easier, cheaper, more economic drivers with documents in digital form, cutting compensated for over 108 tonnes of emissions. include a section on sustainable way to communicate. back on paper use. development, accessible directly from Arval UK had a busy year, especially in the “Big international clients are We are also innovating with such programmes as My Arval Community, the homepage, to present Arval’s CSR increasingly including CSR digital realm. Some 3,200 customers (7.7%) which was launched in France and will be rolled out in other countries. It policies and commitments. concerns in their tenders.” now use e-Billing, and it has developed a allows fleet managers from different companies to discuss new initiatives range of electronic tools for customers and and CSR-related topics among themselves. They learn from it, and Arval, as ARVAL ACTIVE LINK the moderator of the community, learns from it as well. their drivers, among them driver apps for Arval Mobile+ and the Arval Drive Challenge, The telematics solution Arval Active Are Arval’s clients expressing an interest in good corporate citizenship as Car sharing is another environmentally friendly initiative offered by a comprehensive suite of electronic reporting Link, developed and launched in well as economic benefits? Arval. We were the first in France to launch it, and it is also offered in the tools for Arval Fleet View and Arval Analytics, 2015, optimises cost management by Netherlands and Belgium. We support our clients by offering it as part of an keeping the fleet manager informed Definitely. Big international clients are increasingly including CSR questions a new telematics solution with Arval in their tenders, not only for legal reasons but also because CSR concerns internal mobility policy. of fuel consumption and kilometres Active Link and new prospecting tools with are increasingly an integral part of their business. They often ask for Arval is always looking for innovative new solutions that save clients money driven, establishes real-time contact arval.co.uk and Arval Webstore. Many of these detailed information on and proof of CSR compliance. They are increasingly while addressing their environmental, social and civic concerns. One good with the driver for maintenance and initiatives were recognized by awards and assistance, and also encourages safe, seeing it as a way to differentiate between companies with short-term example is a contract awarded this year by the city of Paris to BNP Paribas commendations from the 2015 BusinessCar responsible driving. views and companies they can partner with for the long term in a Real Estate and Arval for the construction of a green building incorporating Fleet Technology Awards. sustainable relationship. Clients are also looking for ISO certification. the Arval Car Sharing platform. 14 15 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Pursuing a committed and fair human resources policy 4/ Train staff members to build up long-term and ethical business relations 5/ Promote diversity 6/ Solidarity-based employment management 16 17 4/Train staff members to build up long-term and ethical SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS business relations Arval in action around the world Arval Spain, in accordance with group policy, trained all new employees in the Arval Code of Conduct and also provided around 15,000 hours of training overall, or 39 hours per year per employee. Arval Switzerland offered several trainings on long-term business relations to increase its sales staff’s knowledge of Along with its commitment to being a products, services and Arval Sales Methodology. The use of social media was another popular subject, with employees good corporate citizen for customers and receiving 40 hours of training on average during the year. stakeholders, Arval insists on the same ethical standards for its employees in 5/Promote Diversity every part of the company. Arval is a learning company committed to providing managerial training programmes to help staff build long-term ethical business relations. As part of this commitment, Arval has adopted the four BNP Paribas Management Principles, which have long proved their worth as guidelines for ethical business conduct: client focus, risk-aware entrepreneurship, people care (showing respect, promoting equal opportunities, Arval in action around the world Arval’s Human Resources policy is strongly acknowledging performance, and developing talent and committed to respecting employee diversity Arval Austria offers three types of training courses and seminars: universal and individuality. skills), and leading by example. courses, involving mainly language classes, which were taken by one-third of employees in 2015; technical training on tools used at Arval Austria and The training approach based on these principles is those offered to customers (Arval Smart Experience, Arval Active Link, etc); Non-discrimination is one of the pillars of Arval’s Human designed to help employees enhance their performance, Resources Guiding Principles and the Arval Mobility Policy. and special courses on such topics as cross-cultural management. advance in their careers and learn about the company’s To enforce this commitment, Arval trains its HR managers in culture. The One Arval Academy was launched in 2015 At Arval Brazil, an hour of training, open to all who wish to participate, is non-discrimination practices and teaches them to promote to centralise all the company’s training courses, both offered every Friday on subjects that are proposed in advance by employees. inclusion and diversity. The Arval Management Committee general and specific, and will be rolled out in all Arval As of the end of 2015, 31,166 hours of training had been offered to Arval now has strong female representation and a wide spread of subsidiaries around the world. France’s employees, representing 5,887 trainings. nationalities. 18 19 6/Solidarity-Based Employment Management SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Arval in action around the world Arval keeps in close touch with its employees, listening and reacting to their needs and opinions. Arval’s active communication and interaction policy is a vital sign of respect for its employees. Each year, the confidential Global People Survey gauges employee satisfaction and the general climate in the company. The results, published and distributed in the form of reports, are used as a basis for improvement, with historical comparisons providing an indicator of progress. In addition, such bottom-up communication practices as Human Resources breakfasts, workshops and focus groups facilitate closer cooperation between employees and managers. To further improve communication and transparency, Arval has a Mobility Portal that advertises vacancies across the company to give For Arval France, which was awarded Arval Italy’s OHSAS 18001 certification, employees everywhere a chance to diversify and advance their careers. the Diversity Label by AFNOR (the French first obtained in 2012 for good occupational Arval’s emphasis on Learning & Development through training offers another way of increasing employee mobility and career national standardisation organisation) in health and safety performance, was advancement. 2015, diversity and equal treatment are a renewed in 2015 for another three years. top priority in every aspect of professional And, for the second year in a row, employees life, starting with recruitment and were invited to bring their children to work continuing throughout the employee’s on every Friday in May for Arval Kids Day. training process and career. Internal Over 300 children took part in Road Safety publications help raise awareness about awareness activities and visited their diversity and keep everyone informed parents’ offices. The country also offers about new developments. women a post-maternity part-time job plan and has a “pink parking” area for pregnant Its Disability Mission, launched in 2007, women. coordinates the integration of disabled employees, raises staff awareness about disabilities at work, and focuses on Arval Luxembourg signed the Letzebuerg employee retention, workstation adaptation Diversity Chart to demonstrate its and training. In September, the HR departcommitment to promoting diversity ment’s seminar on disability presented through concrete actions that go beyond the Disability Mission and organised team legal and regulatory obligations. The Arval Way: “People are the solidarity-building games for 40 employees. greatest asset of the organization” Arval France, 51% of whose employees are Arval UK conducted the Stonewall Survey women, also renewed its gender equality (along with BNP Paribas UK) to evaluate agreement and increased the percentage the management of diversity and equality of women on its Management Committee in the workplace and identify possible from 20% to 33%. areas for improvement. 20 21 Interview SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW How does Arval instil a sense of ethical responsibility in its employees? Ethics is a value for us, and we are convinced that our business is sustainable only if we act ethically. This is the way we ARVAL TAKES CARE OF ITS PEOPLE want to position ourselves on the market. How is Arval’s commitment to Corporate To ensure ethical behaviour in-house, we As a “learning company”, Arval wants to enhance the level of performance of employees Social Responsibility expressed through have tools and processes in place, including on the job, support talented people in their careers and increase employability within the the company’s human resources our Code of Conduct, whistle-blowing approach? procedures and an induction programme, company through mobility. in which ethics training is embedded. CSR is important to us, not only in words Employees know that we have a zero Arval regularly provides comprehensive training programmes in a variety of ways, but also in actions. If you don’t walk the tolerance policy; if someone behaves in a talk, it can cause problems. For example, including classroom training, conferences, seminars, workshops, on-the-job training, non-ethical way, we do not want to hear we want to promote diversity. We set coaching and e-learning. explanations. an example at the top. If you look at the composition of our Executive Committee or Arval has a policy of solidarity-based our Management Committee, you will see employment management. What does this that they are made up of different genders mean for employees in concrete terms? and many nationalities. We may be based in France, but we are an international We know that motivated employees are company. There are four nationalities more productive, so we provide tools and among the eight people on our Executive an environment designed to make them Committee. When we say that we are feel comfortable, engaged and motivated. international and diverse, we really are. In “Nine-to-five” employees are present but top management, we are multicultural and not necessarily productive. The best way multinational, with English as a common to motivate employees is to provide them language. with direction, because then they know what their contribution is and feel that Why is diversity so important for Arval? they are truly needed. What they do should make sense to them. They also need to feel Diversity is not just about gender, but rewarded for what they do. We share our also about nationality, physical abilities, successes with them. religion, age, etc. If a team’s members are all clones of each other, they may work Something we are really proud of is that together well, but I’m not sure they will our people are truly engaged. We measure be very creative. Will they be challenged? employee satisfaction every year through “We are convinced that our business is sustainable only if we Will they think out of the box? When the confidential Global People Survey, act ethically.” there is diversity in a team, it may be more which is used in every country. It has an difficult to manage, but we know that at extremely high participation rate year the end of the day the results will be better. after year: 81% in 2013 and 84% in 2014 We want to be innovative, and we want and 2015. Employees respond to it to be a flexible, alert company. Change for because they know it makes a difference, Thérèse Vercruysse us is not an exception; it is normal life. It that there is follow-up on the results: in Human Resources keeps you on your toes, agile. And diversity every country an action plan is formulated Director, Arval is one way of accomplishing that. at Executive Committee level. 22 23 CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY Combating exclusion, promoting education, road safety and culture 7/ Influence and act for road safety 8/ Apply a corporate philanthropy policy focusing on education, health and culture 9/ Be compliant with the UN’s guiding principles concerning Human Rights 24 25 7/Influence and act for road safety CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS Arval in action around the world Arval UK supported Global Road Safety week in May, producing a safety poster and getting over 100 employees to sign the Save Kids Lives declaration. The company also promoted its work across other countries, resulting in Arval India engaging its employees in this initiative. In its role as a fleet management specialist, Arval is especially Every November, Arval supports UK Road Safety week, led by Brake, the UK road safety charity. Arval UK has been a corporate sponsor of Brake for over nine years, working in partnership to promote the charity and produce educational information for customers, and concerned about safe driving and engaging employees in fundraising initiatives. This year the company raised £1,500 for Brake through a sponsored run, cake sale, collision prevention. dress-down day and raffle. The company also produced a driver safety newsletter and a new safety film made available on YouTube. In addition, Arval UK worked with corporate customers on their own road safety programmes (reaching around 5,000 drivers) and hosted TRANSFORMING DRIVER BEHAVIOUR three customer road safety workshops involving sharing of best practices. Arval sees road collision prevention as a corporate Working with the community, the company presented a Road Safety puppet show to 1,200 young students in the UK; sponsored SafeDrive duty. Every year, it publishes a Fleet Review on StayAlive, a local road safety show, for 15-year-old students, reaching over 8,000 pupils; and arranged for Vauxhall to donate a Vauxhall 8/Apply a corporate philanthropy policy focusing collision rates and road safety programmes for fleet Adam car to Michelin for the Young Driver of the Year programme. managers. on education, health and culture By organising numerous events every year, including a variety of eco-driving and safety training sessions, Arval also raises awareness about road safety. Arval in action around the world In-house training and awareness programmes are available to Arval clients worldwide. All such initiatives are first tested by Arval to ensure their Arval Belgium launched Arval Drive Challenge in 2015 and also organised a Road quality and effectiveness. Safety Week Campaign: the winning schools in a drawing competition won prize The company’s Eco-Driving programme includes money to be invested in road safety around the school. As a good corporate citizen, Arval safety training both on the road and on simulators In partnership with its telematics provider, Arval Brazil is creating an institute to encourages its branches around the world to save clients money by reducing fleet claim rates provide traffic and road safety education to the public. to participate in a wide variety of local and improving employees’ driving records, two factors that together represent over 46% of Total Arval Finland is using social media to promote road safety, the use of the right charitable activities. Cost of Ownership. seasonal tyres and safe driving. Arval is committed to corporate philanthropy focusing on The Arval comprehensive road risk programme education, exclusion, health, road safety, culture and solidarity. Arval Morocco rolled out road safety training, mandatory for collaborators receiving helps limit clients’ legal liability and improves Since 2008, all Arval subsidiaries have maintained close and a car from Arval and voluntary for 42 other drivers. After a rundown on theory, the control of visible and hidden costs of collisions (lost sustainable relationships with local non-governmental trainees take to the road, assisted by trainers offering tips on safer, more ecological time, vehicles taken off the road for repair, missed organisations. driving. business opportunities, etc.). Safe driving can also The company’s subsidiaries take this commitment seriously, help the environment by reducing CO2 emissions. In recognition of its expertise in road safety, Arval Spain’s Madrid office was working with and making contributions to local charities, raising awarded ISO 39001 certification in 2015, with assistance from the Fundación Mapfre, That’s not all: Arval encourages all of its clients funds, volunteering their time and labour, and lending cars for a non-profit organisation devoted to road safety in Spain. Barcelona will seek to include safety training in their Company Car activities benefitting children in need, the poor, the disabled, certification next, and the company will help its clients obtain it as well. Policy and offers them personalised advice in refugees and victims of natural disasters. They also encourage selecting vehicles that meet their safety needs. In 2015, Arval Turkey trained 37 drivers in eco driving and 581 in road safety. their clients to participate in their philanthropic actions. 26 27 9/Be compliant with the UN’s guiding principles CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS concerning Human Rights Arval in action around the world Arval Germany donated two cars to To ensure that the United Nations’ guiding Human Dunkelziffer, an association that helps Rights principles are respected throughout its business maltreated children, and two more to Hilfe relationships, Arval complies with UN Global Compact von Mensch zu Mensch, an association that principles both in-house and in its upstream relations looks after unaccompanied minor refugees. with suppliers. Arval Hungary helped make Christmas special at the Transition Home for children The company’s global procurement contracts in Nyírszőlős by financing a theatrical proconsistently include a reference to the Global duction and providing transportation to it. “Thanks to Arval, the children felt like kings Compact and clearly stipulate that business partners and queens,” said the head of the home. must communicate any non-compliance. Arval India hosted “Arval Outreach: A Day of Giving” in July 2015 for 45 underprivileged At tender level, suppliers are always given the children from the Vatsalya Trust homes, with company’s latest Communication on Progress and a the help of the Concern India Foundation. summary of Arval’s Corporate Social Responsibility Employees spent the day with the children, policy. They are also required to sign Arval’s suppliers’ enjoying group activities and sharing meals. charter. Arval Romania actively supports two “Un Maillot pour la Vie” by participating The children are eager to visit again. nongovernmental organisations doing in its sport charity auction and buying Arval Italy reaches out to future drivers with good works in the country. The company Maria Sharapova’s T-shirt to support sport Contracts of any nature must include a commitment to its Sulla Strada Giusta (On the Right Road) lent four cars at no cost for four months activities for children. refuse child labour and corruption, and to reduce the project, which raises awareness of road to Plantam Fapte Bune to help with its environmental impact of business activities. Arval UK won an International CSR safety and eco driving in collaboration with afforestation project, which aimed to plant Excellence Award in 2015 for its Arval the Meyer Children’s Hospital in Florence. 1 million trees in Romania in a single day. Cares approach to employee-led To guarantee full transparency for all stakeholders, For every new car registered, the company The company also supported HHC, an fundraising. During the year, 98 Arval’s Communication on Progress report is published gives the hospital one euro – between NGO that helps abandoned children in the employees gave over 500 hours annually on the UN Global Compact website. October 2014 and December 2015, over country, for the third time in 2015. of their time to 11 team events. €103,000 was donated – and promotes the Arval Russia is involved in a number of Arval Cares Direct gave £31,870 to some initiative among customers and suppliers, philanthropic projects. In addition to 15 UK-based charities, while indirect who gave €26,000 to the hospital. supporting the Pervomaisky Orphanage, fundraising brought in £45,700. The Corporate Social Responsibility it arranged for the donation of 60 PCs to And a donation to charity for every committee at Arval Morocco sponsors and the State College of Modern Technologies completed Net Promoter Score promotes a number of community actions for its computer labs, and participated customer survey in 2015 raised £1,615 among employees, who have donated a in a charitable run with its client for the Alzheimer’s Society. total of 320 hours to the projects. SAP. It also helped the French charity 28 29 Interview CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW Interview What measures or tools are most effective in improving road safety? We also work with a number of other partners with whom we sponsor Tracey Fuller safety-awareness programmes for young drivers and children in schools. Education and awareness are key to changing driver behaviour on the Customer roads. In the UK, we continuously talk to our people about all aspects of Then there is our own charity, Arval Cares, which has been running for over Engagement road safety. We invest in improving the safety of our employees through 10 years in the UK. Each month we support a different charity nominated Manager, Arval UK an ongoing programme of driver education and training that focuses on by an employee, and we aim to raise awareness of the charity through such topics as winter driving, minimising distractions, cycling safety, the month and raise funds for it through various activities like bake sales fatigue and tyre safety. We also focus on seasonal campaigns, which and raffles. On the last Friday of every month, we have a dress-down day: might, for example, raise awareness of alcohol and morning-after risks employees donate money to the charity to participate. At the end of the around Christmas time. month, Arval Cares tops up the money raised to a nice round figure and donates it to the charity. These campaigns are delivered through newsletters, posters, events and e-mail campaigns. We also have such tools and resources as tyre-tread Arval Cares also supports employees in their own fundraising activities by cards, which people can keep in their wallets to ensure that their tyre sponsoring them to run a marathon, for example, or jump out of a plane. depth is at a safe level. Last year, 20 of our employees cycled over 240 miles from Arval Swindon to the Arval Paris head office and raised over £14,000 for two charities. All of these campaigns and resources are shared with our customers. For example, we’ve issued around 10,000 tyre-tread cards over the last four years to our customers, who give them to their drivers. We also support customers in improving the safety of their fleets. That can involve doing driver road shows, reviewing company policies and setting new procedures or sharing with them our education and awareness initiatives, the most “Education and awareness recent being our “do’s and don’t’s for cyclists and drivers” to raise are key to changing driver awareness about sharing the roads safely. behaviour.” What charitable activities are Arval UK and its employees involved in? Do Arval’s responsibilities towards the outside world differ from those of We are passionate about supporting a charity called Brake, a UK road-safety other types of companies because of the nature of your vehicle-leasing charity. We have been partners for nearly 10 years. We raise awareness of business? the charity, fundraise for it and support its Road Safety Week, held every November. Last year, we also produced a new video, “Top 10 Safety Tips We take road safety seriously for a couple of reasons. Firstly, we have more from Arval”, for Road Safety Week. It is available to everyone on YouTube than 900,000 vehicles on the road worldwide and want drivers to be aware (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uh4GkzMnd9c). of the risks they face and how to use the roads safely. However, above all we want to take care of people when they use the roads, no matter how they In May 2015, we actively supported the UN’s Global Road Safety Week for use the roads; whether they drive company cars or vans as part of their job, the first time, as did other countries, including Arval India. This campaign or just commute to work, we want to protect them and the communities is all about saving kids’ lives. They even had a dedicated hashtag where our vehicles are used, and we do this by educating people about (#savekidslives). In the UK, we produced posters with information on how to stay safe on the road. how you can protect children on the roads, whether they are cycling, scootering or walking, and distributed them to partners, customers and Informing people about alternative technologies like electric and hybrid employees. Around 120 employees, including our Executive Board in the vehicles is also important to us. We continuously raise awareness about UK, made their own pledges, and we took photos and did lots of social these technologies in relation to company cars and help our customers media and tweeting around it. That was probably our biggest project. make the right choices and consider alternative technologies in their I shared that with all of our countries. fleets where appropriate. 30 31 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Acting to reduce impact on climate and pollution 10/ Promote the choice and use of eco-friendly vehicles/solutions 11/ Reduce the environmental footprint linked to our own operations 12/ Apply specific policy commitments in sensitive management sectors 32 33 10/Promote the choice and use ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS of eco-friendly vehicles/solutions Arval in action around the world Arval Morocco teams also participated in amount of CO2 emissions per vehicle the first Arval Regularity Rally, whose goal delivered in the country in 2015 was 97 Since the potential impact Various solutions are then proposed. Arval’s experts keep up with all the latest grams/kilometre. innovations in engine efficiency and is to promote eco-driving and road safety on the environment of the Arval advises on the decision-making alternative fuel to advise clients on by encouraging participants to strictly process, manages the calculation of Arval Portugal has formed a new 949,000 vehicles Arval leases CO 2 volumes, and provides its expertise for which vehicles are best suited to their In 2015, Arval Czech Republic delivered 510 respect the rules of the road and drive in partnership with a local company for an eco-responsible manner. During the to its clients is considerable, car policies and driver training. needs. Their advice can actually lead to a vehicles running on compressed natural “race”, participants stopped at the Imi n’Ifri eco-driving and road-safety training. reduction of around 5 tonnes of CO2 gas (CNG), which emits 20% to 29% less The training sessions were kicked off the company does its utmost If emissions remain above the reduction emissions per vehicle during the duration natural bridge, where they collected CO2 than diesel or gasoline. with two major clients, with impressive to advocate the use of ecoobjectives, Arval provides offsetting of a contract. several tonnes of kilos of trash left behind results: fuel consumption was reduced by solutions and manages the traceability, Arval India has been promoting the by previous visitors. friendly alternatives in-house quality and eligibility of the underlying How does it work? Arval’s Eco-Driving about 15%. Mahindra REVA electric car, a new solution and among its clients. compensation project. training programmes teach drivers how Arval Netherlands helps its clients reduce for India, on its website. Arval UK produced an eco-driving guide to use their vehicles more efficiently. their environmental footprint with green Leased cars, which have a shorter road in support of Green Transport Week and When they drive with tyres inflated Arval Italy has also been actively car policies, car-sharing initiatives and life than private vehicles, are replaced distributed it to its customers for them Arval has developed a wealth of innovative at 60% of the recommended level, for promoting the use of alternative fuels. It road training. Along with six other Dutch on average every 39 months with to share with their drivers. The guide services to help fleet managers build an example, it causes over-consumption of has 1,130 hybrid vehicles, 344 electric companies, it initiated an Eco-Challenge new, less-polluting models, and Arval highlights ways in which drivers can make optimal car policy, among them Arval fuel of 1 litre per 100 litres. vehicles, 1,877 vehicles running on offers its clients electric cars when for all company drivers. The average their fuel go further. Analytics and Arval Fleet View. Following Initially, increased awareness of best gasoline and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), appropriate. Arval’s tailored advice, clients can reduce practices enables drivers to cut fuel and 2,441 on gasoline and methane. vehicle emissions by selecting the most The telematics solutions now available consumption by around 5%; subsequent Arval Luxembourg, which visits its clients ecological vehicles for their purposes. for cars provide valuable information training can bring about a real change in Expert advice can lead to a reduction of 5 at least once a year and often much more on how each one is operated, making behaviour, cutting fuel consumption and tonnes of CO 2 emissions per vehicle during the Other services include fleet optimisation, frequently, always sets a good example it possible to intelligently optimise CO2 emissions by 8% to 14%. duration of a contract car-sharing programmes, eco-driving by arriving in an electric car. Its business its use. training (which can lead to reduced Arval promotes environmentally friendly managers offer expert advice on reducing emissions and a 25% reduction in fuel vehicles (electric, hybrid, etc.) and good emissions. The average theoretical CO2 costs), tips for drivers, carbon offsetting ECO-DRIVING driving habits through other initiatives as emissions of its clients’ fleets over the past for fleets, and regular reports on fuel costs well, including the production of “green three years were as follows: 2013: 124 In all the countries in which it operates, and driver collisions. catalogues” offering advice and suggesgrams; 2014: 121 grams; 2015: 120 grams. Arval offers clients and employees the opportunity to participate in a complete tions, and tools like Arval Fleet View, which Arval Morocco has created an annual TRANSFORMING DRIVER eco-driving programme that encourages provides at-a-glance information on challenge to recognise clients who make BEHAVIOUR drivers to change their behaviour behind average fleet CO2 emissions and fuel an effort on safety and eco-driving, with the wheel and learn to use their vehicles consumption. Arval’s comprehensive programme for three trophies awarded: one for safety, one more efficiently. reducing the impact of fleets on the for eco-driving and one for a combination environment begins by measuring On their own, drivers can test the ecoof both. Rankings and news are sent to the emissions of the client’s fleet and friendliness of their driving habits with the clients every three months to motivate establishing quantitative reduction goals. Arval Drive Challenge app, a serious game. them to improve their standing. 34 35 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS 11/Reduce environmental footprint Arval in action around the world linked to our own operations year. Rainwater is recovered for reuse, and The certification, for the Scandicci and electronic valves automatically shut down Assago hubs, has now been extended to the water supply to avoid loss of water. The the Verona and Rome hubs. company’s computer screens are equipped The vehicles in Arval Luxembourg’s own Arval monitors its environmental OPTIMISING THE ARVAL with EcoView sensors. fleet emit an average of 113.95 grams FLEET footprint closely and takes action Arval Finland continues its move from of CO2 per kilometre. The company uses E v e r y y e a r, A r v a l f u l l y paper to electronic communications: e-cars for local business trips. It prefers to reduce it in as many ways as compensates for the CO 2 clients can sign contracts electronically, eco-friendly suppliers with ISO 14001 possible. emissions of its own company for example, rather than on paper. Lights certification, and its cleaning company cars around the world. This are turned on and off automatically to save uses non-polluting products. Business choice, made by the company, is electricity. travel is reduced by using Lync, ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION supported by its staff. In 2015, videoconferences and conference calls. The BNP Paribas Group’s goal of reducing a number of Arval subsidiaries Arval’s commitment to the environment has CO2 emissions per employee to 10% Arval Netherlands has installed 520 solar participated in REDD+Kenya, been recognised with ISO 14001 certification in between 2012 and 2015 was bested panels on the roof of its building. a project designed to reduce the UK, France, Spain, Italy, the Czech Republic, by Arval France, which has reduced its the impact of deforestation in Arval Spain has renewed its commitment Romania, Hungary, Belgium, the Netherlands, emissions per employee by 18%. Kenya and protect biodiversity. to the ISO 14001 internal travel policy Germany and Slovakia. The new photovoltaic plant for Arval recommendations on lower CO2 emissions Arval Austria employees are highly aware Arval recognises that its day-to-day operations Italy’s headquarters in Scandicci, and carbon offsetting compensation for the of the impact of their daily activities on the and products have both a positive and negative completed in April 2015, produces energy company fleet. environment. They use eco-friendly paper, impact on the environment and is fully for the building. By the end of November take care not to use too much of it, print in committed to minimising the pollution and it had produced 49,316 kWh, and it will black and white on both sides of the sheet harmful effects of its actions and products cover one-third of the company’s electricity and reduce the size of documents when wherever possible. needs once damage caused by a hurricane possible. The use of bottles was cut back is repaired. Its software measures This commitment is put into action through the in 2015, and bicycle couriers are preferred the amount of CO2 emissions avoided ISO 14001 Environmental Management System over cars or the post for the delivery of (27,513.20 kilos as of 11 March 2016) and (EMS) and other environmental initiatives. documents. litres of petroleum use avoided (11,292,27 The company also promotes in-house The company’s offices are located in one as of 11 March 2016). environmental awareness and strongly of Vienna’s first green buildings, which has Every year, Arval Italy sets goals for the encourages its employees to: no air conditioning and was chosen by the amount of paper to be saved through company for that reason. • Reduce paper use digitisation. One project carried out • Use eco-friendly travel Arval Belgium is also located in a green in 2015 saved 1,785 kilos of paper. • Lower energy consumption building with reduced energy consumption. Arval Italy has had ISO 14001 certification • Prefer eco-efficient buildings Nearly 600 solar panels on the roof for its voluntary environmental • Recycle produce an estimated 117,000 kWh per management system since 2004. 36 37 12/Apply specific policy commitments in sensitive Interview ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY / INTERVIEW management sectors How does Arval Netherlands contribute It is also possible to create a bonus-malus to the increased use of sustainable, system on the platform. If I perform better eco-friendly vehicles and solutions? than the parameters the company has set for fuel consumption or mileage, I receive The Arval Group strategy is to embed CSR a bonus. If I perform worse, I get charged need to keep the building going. concerns in the heart of all its products and a penalty. The idea is to encourage people We also support an organisation called services. One strategic thing we have done to think much harder about their need to Natuurmonumenten, a Dutch organisation in the Netherlands is to develop, through the travel and the method of travel taken. that develops and preserves nature parks. Arval Mobility Link, an IT platform that allows our clients to offer their employees greater Our future plan is to use Arval Active Link Whenever we put a vehicle on the road that Arval’s environmental approach Arval is committed to applying risk guidelines for new customers and contract renewals. freedom of mobility choice while controlling as the main device to capture vehicle has a CO2 capacity of less than 100 grams, we These guidelines comply with BNP Paribas’s sector exclusion policies covering defence, is embedded in its policies to palm oil, nuclear power, wood pulp, coal-fired power generation, oil sands, the mining costs. information and to feed this into our donate €10 to Natuurmonumenten. So when we mobility platform, because the more data we encourage our clients to reduce CO2 emissions, ensure that it is involved only in industry and agriculture. The Netherlands has a very, very good public have, the more we can do for our clients. This the users of the parks benefit. transportation network, so the ability to choose responsible projects. The aim is to create strict investment and financing policies for sectors that may have a between your car, public transport, rail, bicycle ties into the group strategy, which calls for Furthermore, we also offset our own carbon significant impact on the environment. Based on in-depth analyses, these policies address Arval Active Link to be installed in all our cars footprint from our own company cars by or taxi is well developed here, probably more so the most critical points in the production chain, which accounts for the bulk of potential by 2020. donating €5 every month to the Climate than in any other country in mainland Europe. impact in each segment. They stipulate essential conditions and precise complementary Is this type of approach the way of the Neutral Group when a company car is refuelled. We are really seeing tangible evidence that criteria, which help pinpoint all risks related to a transaction, ensuring that only future? In this way we try and practice what we preach. companies are saying to employees that responsible projects are selected. they wish to offer their employees greater Right now the platform is being used only in choice by means of offering them a mobility Arval Netherlands and Arval Belgium. It is more budget. Our mobility platform allows the difficult to implement in larger countries with client to manage how these mobility budgets less-integrated public transport systems, but are being used, putting the decision about the when the technology catches up, I think this form of transport they wish to take into the is the way employee mobility is going to go. It hands of employees. will make it much easier for employees to swap from one form of transport to another. If, for example, I am an employee and I use my company car, each journey is recorded What is Arval Netherlands doing to reduce its on the mobility platform reflecting the start own environmental footprint? and end point, the kilometres driven and the Every year we set ourselves a target for a fuel consumption. If I decide to take the train reduction in our carbon footprint. In 2014, an tomorrow, I can present my travel card to independent body calculated that the carbon the electronic reader in the station at the footprint for our company car drivers and journey start and end. This journey is then our office building was 759 tonnes of CO2, so also recorded on the mobility platform, and “The Arval Mobility Link in 2015, we installed 541 solar panels on the you do not have to buy a ticket. All journeys platform gives drivers a clear roof of our building. These panels are now undertaken on the mobility card are picture of their personal generating around 120,000 kilowatts of invoiced once a month and can also be used electricity per year, which we can use. As a mobility CO 2 footprint.” on trams, buses, metros and taxis. result, in 2016, we expect to be close to our On the platform, both my employer and I target of 500 tonnes of CO2. That means we will can view all my journeys and identify how have reduced the amount of CO2 gas we are Liam Donnelly efficiently I drove my car in terms of fuel producing from 759 tonnes to 500 tonnes per General Manager, consumption, and I can get a very clear year; that’s a huge drop. We’re almost at the Arval Netherlands picture of my personal CO2 footprint. point of generating 25% of all the power we 38 39 Designed and produced : Paris Brest Conseil PHOTO CREDITS © SHUTTERSTOCK © Xavier Muyard © Matton Images / PhotoAlto/ Phovoir © Pexels Arval Service Lease – Public limited company with a capital of 66 412 800 € Registered office: 1, boulevard Haussmann 75009 Paris France Tel: + 33(1) 57 69 50 00 Commercial register [RCS] Paris #352 256 424
