Pomeroy’s Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities and striking the right balance between development and preservation to sustain our environment! 2 Introduction This Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Sustainability Plan (“Plan”) has been developed by Pomeroy for purposes of articulating the company’s commitment to fulfilling its responsibilities as a corporate citizen in the global marketplace. More specifically, with regard to the domestic and international markets that the company transacts business in, Pomeroy recognizes the importance of more formally identifying its specific corporate responsibilities, establishing initiatives to control corporate operations that intersect with these responsibilities, and, if or as appropriate, implementing a voluntary management system to measuring the company’s progress accordingly. Therefore, this Plan: 1) identifies and defines Pomeroy’s social and environmental responsibilities; 2) describes the controls, goals, standards or objectives that the company has established in furtherance of meeting such responsibilities; and, 3) documents the voluntary management system the company has implemented to measures its progress and/or achievement of positive results against the controls, goals or objectives. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 3 PART I: Social Responsibilities POMEROY’S CORE VALUES AND BUSINESS PRACTICES ARE FOUNDED ON THE FOLLOWING PRINCIPLES: Forced or Involuntary Labor. Pomeroy will not use forced or involuntary labor of any type (e.g., forced, bonded, indentured or involuntary prison labor); employment is voluntary. Child Labor. Pomeroy will not use child labor. The term “child” refers to any person employed under the age of 15 (or 14 where the law of the country permits), or under the age for completing compulsory education, or under the minimum age for employment in the country, whichever is greatest. We support the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs which comply with all laws and regulations applicable to such apprenticeship programs. Wages and Benefits. Pomeroy will, at a minimum, comply with all applicable wage and hour laws and regulations, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours, piece rates and other elements of compensation, and provide legally mandated benefits. Working Hours. Pomeroy will not exceed prevailing local work hours and will appropriately compensate overtime. Pomeroy will not require its employees to work more than sixty (60) hours per week, including overtime, except in extraordinary business circumstances with their consent. In countries where the work week is less, that standard will apply. Pomeroy employees should be allowed at least one (1) day off per seven-day week. Nondiscrimination. Pomeroy will not discriminate in hiring and employment practices on grounds of race, religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, marital status, pregnancy, political affiliation, or disability. Respect and Dignity. Pomeroy will treat all employees with respect and will not use corporal punishment, threats of violence or other forms of physical coercion or harassment. Freedom of Association. Pomeroy will respect the legal rights of employees to join or to refrain from joining worker organizations, including trade unions. Pomeroy has the right to establish favorable employment conditions and to maintain effective employee communications programs as a means of promoting positive employee relations that make employees view third-party representation as unnecessary. Health and Safety. Pomeroy will provide employees with a safe and healthy workplace in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Consistent with these obligations, supplier must have and implement effective programs that encompass life safety, incident investigation, chemical safety, ergonomics, etc., and provide the same standard of health and safety in any housing that is provided to employees. Protection of the Environment. See Part II of this Plan, titled Environmental Sustainability. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 4 PART II: Environmental Sustainability Pomeroy will operate in a manner that is protective of the environment. At a minimum, Pomeroy will comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards, such as requirements regarding chemical and waste management and disposal, recycling, industrial wastewater treatment and discharge, air emissions controls, environmental permits and environmental reporting. Pomeroy will also comply with any additional environmental requirements specific to the products or services that Pomeroy provides to its clients in accordance with the specifications for the applicable engagement. Pomeroy is committed to advocating, implementing and advancing environmentally friendly business initiatives. This Plan documents Pomeroy’s approach to environmental sustainability, which is aligned with the following Environmental Protection Agency guidelines: •PLAN: planning, including identifying environmental aspects and establishing goals •DO: implementing, including training and operational controls •CHECK: checking, including monitoring and corrective action •ACT: reviewing, including progress reviews and acting to make needed changes to the company’s plan concerning environmental sustainability. Pomeroy explores new and improved ways to transact business in a more ecologically friendly manner by ADVOCATING, IMPLEMENTING & ADVANCING “GREEN” initiatives in our corporate environment that are founded on the following core principles: CONSERVATION UTILIZATION OF ALTERNATIVE/RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES and RECYCLING. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 5 Environmental Sustainability Shared Responsibilities Philosophy & Methodology Pomeroy is aware of the impact that the company and its Establish an accurate baseline for the following employees have on the environment. Pomeroy environmental aspects that are common to Pomeroy’s employees are expected to adhere to any directions, business: processes, procedures or policies that Pomeroy may provide, adopt or implement in furtherance of the •Waste Management and Recycling on Pomeroy’s corporate commitment to fostering a sustainable Corporate Campus environment. Pomeroy strongly encourages its employees to undertake efforts to do any and all of the • Energy Consumption on Pomeroy’s Corporate following in the ordinary course of their employment: Campus • minimize waste; •Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions on • restrict printing of documents where possible, using Pomeroy’s Corporate Campus double-sided format where available; PRODUCE Set voluntary goals to achieve positive results associated with these environmental aspects of the business that Pomeroy conducts on its corporate campus. RECYCLE USE Implement initiatives, standard practices or procedures • use e-mail rather than paper correspondence; accordingly to meet such goals • turn off computers and lights when leaving the office; Conduct self-assessments or internal audits to measure • make use of all recycling facilities; and the company’s progress against its stated goals for the • bring to the attention of an appropriate person any environmental aspects identified above. water leaks or dripping taps. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 6 Our Goals Conserve and improve energy efficiency Conserve and improve water efficiency Identify and reduce additional sources of greenhouse gas emissions Produce less waste and conserving resources Raise environmental awareness and encourage employee participation Investigate and expect similar environmental standards from suppliers Encourage use of biodegradable or environmental alternatives to chemicals Continued monitoring and review of campus wide operations and performance Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 7 2014 Environmental Impact Summary The US Pomeroy Headquarters campus is committed to minimizing its impact on the environment and continually seeks to improve environmental performance. Pomeroy recognizes environmental responsibility requires producing less waste, conserving resources, conserving energy, improving efficiency and raising awareness. Periodic evaluations have been performed by an independent third parties to identify measure and monitor environmental aspects. Assessment of operations include for utilities, lighting and HVAC. Additional steps have been taken to develop inventory and policy for waste, green gases and recycling. As a result of monitoring, improvements have been achieved in reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste generation and increases in efficiency and recycling. Future goals include increasing environmental awareness and encouraging more employee participation. Examine and expect similar environmental standards from suppliers. Encourage use of biodegradable or environmental alternatives to chemicals. Increase levels of recycling. Identify and reduce additional sources of greenhouse gas emissions. Continue monitoring and review of campus wide operations and performance. As well as pursing sustainable purchasing practices. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 8 Waste Management & Recycling Results Reported in Pomeroy’s 2014 Environmental Impact Study Recycling Program The Pomeroy US Headquarters campus recognizes the importance of waste reduction. The facility encourages employees to participate. The current goal is for a year to year increase in recycling materials. Trends show an increase in recycling followed by a decrease. This data indicates first Pomeroy focused on recycling materials already in use. After recycling became part of the standard practices, Pomeroy pursued avenues to reduce consumption of waste generation, such as reusing paper materials. Additional Items Plastic, aluminum and glass are collected throughout the campus and have a dedicated dumpster and recycled. However, the quantity removed is not currently tracked. Light bulbs are collected throughout the campus and are recycled through the trash company Rumpke. However, the quantity removed is not currently tracked. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 9 Energy Consumption Results Reported in Pomeroy’s 2014 Environmental Impact Study Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 10 Energy Consumption Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Pomeroy US Headquarters campus aims for a goal of year to year decrease in energy consumption. The 2014 report identifies the indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from the electricity purchased by Pomeroy. GHGs are emitted when fossil fuels are combusted to generate electricity. Therefore any GHGs produced are indirect emissions. Over the years, electricity and natural gas usage data have been collected for each energy consumer at the facility. The facility location is used to determine the correct emission factors to use, as different parts of the country use different fuels to generate electricity. The 2014 Environmental Impact Report tracks purchased energy and quantify the equivalent emissions. Overall, the data trend shows a decline in electricity consumption, even with increased expansion. Note consumption of natural gas increased during the measured years. This increase can be attributed to colder than average temperatures. Consistent efforts have been made to be more energy conscious and efficient. Some conservation actions include installing more efficient equipment. Building optimization measures have been implemented by the facilities management from monitoring this data. Plans for future improvements include further optimizing building operation plan and an additional on campus options for employee health and wellness. The 2014 Environmental Impact Report contains a summary of GHG emissions from purchased energy. It is not intended to address outsourced activities such as supplier manufacturing operations or service‐oriented businesses such as cleaning services. Carbon‐cutting actions such as recycling, waste prevention, and energy efficient product purchasing demonstrate Pomeroy’s commitment towards sustainable business practices, therefore reducing the GHG emissions associated with their activities. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 11 Energy Consumption Electric Savings from Light Bulb Upgrades Lighting can be a large part of the electric bill and the HVAC load. Currently, the Configuration Center light fixtures each have (7500) 32 Watt T-8 bulbs. The proposed energy savings measure is to use (5000) 20 Watt LED bulbs instead. Light bulbs generate a small amount of heat as a byproduct of operation. The following is a brief calculation of the energy consumption and savings earned by switching and reducing the number of bulbs. There are many factors that go into the energy cost savings, but this analysis should provide a rough estimate. The following assumptions were made. The Configuration Center operates 18 hours a day, 6 days a week and 52 weeks a year. Owen Electric is Pomeroy’s current energy supplier and the approximate energy cost per kilowatt hour is $0.08. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 12 Other “GREEN” initiatives and offerings Pomeroy performs asset recovery services for its clients in the ordinary course of business. As technology and businesses continue to change, IT upgrades, replacements, or consolidations are inevitable. Now, more than ever, clients rely on Pomeroy to perform necessary end-of-live services relative to their IT assets. By managing all assets through a single process and ensuring data wipes are conducted appropriately, Pomeroy can reduce liability associated with handling data protection and destruction. In addition, Pomeroy is capable of assisting its clients with the redeployment of assets that are usable by processing the return and distribution of all assets out of a single facility. This gives clients the ability to see what is available online from their own inventory prior to deciding to purchase a new asset. In the event assets are disposed of, Pomeroy facilitates the disposal for its clients via environmentally friendly processes --without utilizing landfills! Pomeroy maintains preferred relationships with manufacturers of IT products that meet Energy Star efficiency standards. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 13 Setting Goals & Measuring Progress • Waste Management and Recycling – Corporate Campus Cardboard Recycling Municipal Solid Waste • 2013 129 Tons •2013 Actual 68 Tons • 2015 130 Tons •2015 Goal 80 Tons • Energy Consumption – Corporate Campus Electricity Fossil Fuels Consumption • 2013 Actual 4,849 Year n-1 (MWh) • 2013 Actual 2,011 Year n-1 (MWh) • 2015 Goal 4,800 Year n-1 (MWh) • 2015 Goal 2,000 Year n-1 (MWh) • In-Direct GHG Emissions – Corporate Campus • 2013 Actual 5,336 Year n-1 (MWh) • 2015 Goal 5,500 Year n-1 (MWh) Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 14 Reporting on Results Pomeroy recognizes the importance demonstrating its’ commitment to the environmental goals and objectives set forth in this plan by making public disclosures about the results achieved by the company over time. Therefore, Pomeroy is committed publicly disclosing the progress that the company is making against its’ voluntary environmental goals, along with any information related to environmental fines or penalties. The disclosures may be made, at the option of the company, via any or all of the following forums: www.pomeroy.com press releases Newsletters corporate presentations to clients and/or business partners An example of the company’s newsletter communication is provided on the following page. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 15 Reporting on our Green Initiatives Placing emphasis on environmentally friendly business practices and choices Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 16 Employee Engagement Pomeroy appreciates the importance of increasing the environmental consciousness of its workforce, and the significance of encouraging employees around the globe to share responsibility for the overall success of the company’s green initiatives. Pomeroy is committed to communicating with its employees for purposes of increasing awareness about this Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan, providing visibility into the company’s voluntary goals established under this plan, reporting on the company’s progress in achieving the goals set forth under this plan, giving suggestions and ideas to employees on ways they can personally participate in this initiative, and generally drive employee engagement. Examples of the company’s communications are provided on the following (4) pages. In addition, this plan document may be reviewed and referred to by employees on a 7x24x365 basis via ION – Pomeroy’s intranet site. Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 17 Employee Engagement Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 18 Employee Engagement Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 19 Employee Engagement Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015 20 Employee Engagement Pomeroy. Corporate Responsibility & Environmental Sustainability Plan Confidential & Proprietary Information 2015
