SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT THE REPORT, 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE GROUP CEO, 4 ABOUT BORUSAN, 7 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY, 11 BUSINESS EXCELLENCE, 21 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH, 32 NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, 38 WORKING LIFE, 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, 52 PERFORMANCE DATA, 59 GRI CONTENT INDEX, 64 BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 3 ABOUT THE REPORT In accordance with its principles of The Borusan Group operates in four The information disclosed in the Borusan transparency and accountability, the core businesses and in six main sectors. Group 2014 Sustainability Report, our Borusan Group offers direct, explicit While the priorities of these sectors sixth sustainability report to date, reflects and up-to-date information about its differ, they were consolidated within the performance realized in the period products, services and activities to all its the scope of the joint reporting study. between January 1, 2014 and December stakeholders. These include employees, The performance results regarding the 31, 2014. Beyond this, the data from shareholders, investors, customers, economic, environmental and social previous reporting periods was also suppliers, local communities in which they activities pursued throughout the year by shared in order to present the reader with operate, nongovernmental organizations Borusan Mannesman, Borçelik, Borusan a performance comparison. (NGOs), academicians, the public and the Otomotiv and Oto Group companies, The Borusan Group aims to implement media. Supsan, Borusan Lojistik, Borusan EnBW its sustainability reporting in compliance Enerji and Borusan Makina ve Güç In this year’s study, as well as in our with the requirements of the GRI G4 Sistemleri from among Group companies, previous report published in 2013, we standard “core” application level in the are presented within the scope of the made use of the United Nations Global forthcoming periods, on an annual basis. report. The overall turnover of the given Compact Progress Report Principles and The Borusan Sustainability Report companies constitutes 95% of the total the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) publications concerning previous periods revenue of the Borusan Group and it framework as our guideline. The most can be accessed via the corporate website involves all the sectors in which the Group significant change adopted by Borusan at http://www.borusan.com. operates. The performance regarding with regard to its sustainability reporting Kerim Çelik and Borusan Manheim is not in 2014 was to increase the application included within the scope of this report. option to the GRI G4 reporting standard, the last version of the Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative. Unless indicated otherwise, all the data included in the report has been prepared and explained in accordance option “core” requirements of the GRI G4 Reporting Guideline. G4-6, G4-16, G4-17, G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-28, G4-30, G4-32 BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE GROUP CEO AHMET KOCABIYIK AGAH UĞUR Chairman of the Board Group CEO We will continue to fulfill Dear Stakeholders, The year 2014 was one characterized by operation in 2014. Also in 2014, another geopolitical risks coming into prominence significant investment was accomplished our responsibilities in We continued to generate added value for the world economy and an increase by Borusan EnBW Enerji. The Company for our stakeholders in 2014, a year in building a sustainable which we celebrated the 70th anniversary in global uncertainties. This situation initiated its investment that will brought to the forefront problems ultimately bring in 207 MW of additional future and strengthening of our establishment. We are constantly rising from the geopolitical position of power to Turkey through the wind power striving to act respectfully of both human our sustainability beings and the environment in which we Turkey, which had a negative impact on plants established in the cities of Mersin, the economy. In spite of this situation, Izmir, Bursa and Çanakkale. performance. We express live and operate in all of our extensive we at Borusan managed to succeed in activities, which we are able to conduct At Borusan, we are constantly our appreciation to our thanks to our more than 7,000 employees increasing our turnover by 9% over taking important steps in the area of that of the previous year and kept our employees who add and the extensive value chain in our gross profitability at the same level, all organizational development in order operational geography consisting of 11 to create a simpler, more agile and value to Borusan on our countries. It is our pleasure to present while realizing our important strategic customer-oriented corporate climate. In investments in 2014. sustainability journey, to our esteemed stakeholders the works addition to this, we continually strive in we perform with our transparent and In 2014, we prepared our 5-year strategic our activities for the development of new our dealers and suppliers accountable management understanding. plan in order for our Group companies products, services and business models, a who stand beside us, our In this regard, we are pleased to share to become leading and strong regional focus which is the most important area of with you our sustainability strategy players in their markets of operation, concern, and all at an increasing speed. In shareholders, investors and the current situation, as well as our as well as drawing up a roadmap for the this context, we made use of 35 different and customers for placing projections for the future, in this sixth purpose of ensuring a sustainable growth business opportunities and conducted annual report on our sustainability of Borusan. In this context, our companies over 50 new product, service and business their trust in us, as well as performance. also made significant investments model development projects. all our other stakeholders. in 2014. Borusan Mannesmann established the Baytown Houston plant to manufacture pipes used for rock gas drilling and energy lines in the United States, the world’s largest rock gas market. The plant, which will eventually feature an annual production of 300,000 tons and the employment of nearly 300 persons, was completed and began G4-1 BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 5 We always take into consideration the In keeping with our priority of creating Towards this end, we continued the risks brought about by climate change, safer and healthier workplaces for our support provided by the Borusan Kocabıyık which is one of the most significant employees, customers and suppliers Foundation for educational institutions in social and environmental issues of and our zero work accident objective, 2014, providing educational support for our day. As such, we continually work we continue to constantly improve over a hundred young people. We brought towards reducing the impact of our our Occupational Health and Safety together thousands of music lovers with activities on climate change. In keeping performance. During the year 2014, we some of the world’s best musicians at with this vision, we are constantly provided the employees of our Group Borusan Sanat, while presenting art lovers striving to develop more energy efficient companies with 22,199 man-hour and with authentic works of contemporary processes in all our operations, to save contractor employees with 10,367 manart at Borusan Contemporary. We worked our natural resources and offer products hour of occupational health and safety towards a more equal and fair society which consume less energy. In 2014, we training, respectfully. through our projects focusing on women’s achieved significant gains in the use of empowerment. In the reporting period, Besides improving the sustainability resources through the efficiency projects we conducted a total of 2,861 hours of performance of our operations, we also implemented by our Group companies. volunteer projects with 630 volunteers, all develop projects that will contribute to During the year, we attained an energy as part of the Ocean Volunteers Platform the fulfillment of social expectations savings of 3,303 GJ and an emissions formed by our employees. In addition to and needs, as well as the attainment of reduction of 210,000 CO2e tons, as well as this, we gave a total of US$ 15 million sustainable development objectives, in realizing a total water recovery of 84,450 towards various social projects. the society in which we live. Through m3 throughout the Group companies. our works devoted to education, culture In the days to come, we will continue to Last year we continued our training and the arts, the environment, human fulfill our responsibilities for building a activities in order to support the rights and the empowerment of women, sustainable future and strengthening our professional development of our which we conduct on the basis of our sustainability performance. Finally, we personnel, providing a total of 48,959 employee’s volunteer service, we share want to give our heartfelt thanks to our man-hour of training to 2,873 of our back what we receive from society with employees, who add value to Borusan in employees during the reporting period. We the communities around us. our sustainability journey, our dealers continued to organize training activities and suppliers who stand beside us, our aimed at supporting and improving shareholders, investors and customers for employees at all levels of the organization placing their trust in us, as well as all our through the various programs we organize other stakeholders. under the auspices of our own Borusan Ahmet Kocabıyık Agah Uğur Academy. Chairman of the Board Group CEO G4-1 6 #MyDream is to leave for future BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 generations Towards an Istanbul as green a Brighter Future as our elders have talked about. In order to do this we can plant trees in front of our houses with “a tree for every house” campaign. Plum, peach, apple, pear and quince trees . . . Hopefully, we will all have neighbors with so many trees that children could go in their yards and pluck fruit. Çiğdem Tellioğlu BESys ABOUT BORUSAN ABOUT BORUSAN BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 8 BORUSAN’S The Holding is responsible for providing the necessary WORLDWIDE expertise to support APPEAL the Group’s attainment of its strategic targets and business results, Growing through as well as managing its innovative and processes in relation to development oriented The Borusan Group, which operates via Borusan Holding and Borusan Danışmanlık optimum cost/maximum perspective, Borusan more than 7,000 employees over a large ve Ortak Hizmetler A.Ş. carry out the central productivity. The Holding follows a path of geographic sphere covering 11 countries in administration of the Borusan Group, which North America, Asia and Europe, sustains owes its sustainable growth to a strong also manages its major profitability and openness its consistent growth in the sectors of steel, corporate business culture. Furthermore, initiatives such as Lean to world markets. Through distributorship, logistics and energy. The Borusan Holding assumes responsibility Group continues to create added value for enhancing the value secured for 6 Sigma, sustainability its steady growth, Borusan for its stakeholders with more than 70 shareholders and stakeholders through the and corporate social is active over a large years of experience in both industry and strategic leadership it provides its Group responsibility projects geographical region, with service. It has earned a strong reputation companies. The Holding, which plays a as a successful institution focused on directive, supportive and controlling role, across the Group operations in 11 countries. developing innovative products and fulfills critical duties such as the efficient companies. services, with a strong vision that is open to use of resources and the determination of its world markets. sustainability strategy. Beyond this, all other complementary function and service areas of the corporate center come under the management of Borusan Danışmanlık ve Ortak Hizmetler A.Ş.. G4-12, G4-17 ABOUT BORUSAN BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 9 BORUSAN GROUP NET SALES (MILLION DOLLARS) STEEL DISTRIBUTORSHIP HEAVY 4,499 PIPE EQUIPMENT AND POWER SYSTEMS 4,141 Borusan Mannesmann Borusan Makina ve Boru Yatırım Holding Güç Sistemleri 3,976 Borusan Makina Borusan Mannesmann Kazakistan BM Vobarno AUTOMOTIVE 2012 2013 2014 Borusan Mühendislik Borusan Otomotiv Borusan İstikbal Borusan Oto CONSOLIDATED EBITDA Ticaret USA Algeria Italy Turkey N. Cyprus UAE Kyrgyzstan (MILLION DOLARS) Borusan Otomotiv Netherlands Oman FLAT STEEL Premium Kiralama Georgia Kazakhstan 341 Azerbaijan 328 Borçelik Supsan Adana 271 İzmir Ankara Kocaeli Antalya Manisa Bursa Mersin Kerim Çelik Manheim Turkey Balıkesir Muğla Diyarbakır Tekirdağ Erzurum Trabzon LOGISTICS ENERGY AMERICA EUROPE / AFRICA MIDDLE EAST/ ASIA Gaziantep Zonguldak İstanbul Borusan Lojistik Borusan EnBW Enerji USA Algeria Holland Italy Turkey TRNC Georgia Azerbaijan UAE Oman Kazakhstan Kirgizstan Borusan Logistics North 2012 2013 2014 International Europe/ Africa Middle East/Asia America G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 10 #MyDream is a country where my BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 nine-month-old daughter will not Towards a Brighter Future encounter any prejudice because of her choices, where she can get the job she wants and where she is free to work under equal conditions as men. Berat Korkaya Borusan Lojistik GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY 12 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future THE POWER OF The governance understanding of Borusan Holding is based on a structure consisting of RISK We aim to reduce the total annual risk cost through multiple methods such as EFFECTIVE AND an understanding of effective, transparent MANAGEMENT advanced risk modellings, volatility and communication with internal and external technical risk analyses, extensive risk TRANSPARENT stakeholders and efficient organization, While it is aimed for the assessment studies for new investments COMMUNICATION in light of its 70-year experience. Borusan Group seeks to consistently generate proper identification, and opportunity/loss scenario analyses. more added value for its stakeholders measurement and INSTITUTIONALISM IN RISK MANAGEMENT through long-term strategic plans and management of risks and its risk management model that aims at At Borusan, the Group senior management transforming social, environmental and opportunities in relevant is integrally responsible for the proactive economic risks into opportunities. Business fields of operation, management of risks, alongside the responsible managers for relevant ethics and legal compliance form the business models and basis of Borusan Group’s relations with all processes. The Board of Directors its stakeholders. The Holding endeavors strategies are formed determines the acceptable risk tolerance for the dissemination of the corporate accordingly to provide the limit that companies can endure for all sustainability culture among stakeholders probable risks. The Holding Corporate and on a social level, besides constantly highest possible value for Risk Management Department, which improving the social, environmental and our stakeholders as well as was constituted in order to support the Borusan Group aims to economic performance of Group companies sustainable growth. senior management in relation to risk continuously provide with the sustainability understanding it has management issues, ensures the formation As part of risk management practices added value for its developed throughout the years. that are considered a necessity in order of risk management processes and the identification and pursuance of standards, stakeholders. Accordingly, to achieve our objectives, we look for and informs the senior management it places special emphasis ways to transform strategic, financial through regular reporting practices. and operational risks into opportunities on risk management. Risk by drawing on effective organizational management models are structure and various risk management tools. formed through longterm strategic plans and risks are transformed into opportunities. G4-14 13 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future Holding Financial Control, Internal Audit and Financing and Investor Relations departments help the Corporate Risk STRATEGIC PLANNING LEADER AND STRONG Group companies determine their own Management Department in relation to risk processes. The At Borusan Holding, the long-term objectives and critical success factors in financial tables and identified critical performance indicators constituted by all Group companies on a monthly basis in strategies of the Group are determined accordance with these four main strategic themes. The strategic business units and accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards with a five-year perspective and Group other management units within the Group (IFRS) are analyzed by the Financial Control Department in terms of consistency and compliance with standards; it is ensured that companies are managed with the identify strategic initiatives and areas of necessary actions are taken with regards to reporting, as well as long-term objectives identified in these development. The actions to be taken in these areas of strategic development are operational and strategic issues. The Internal Audit Department strategies. Group strategies are planned managed by business units on the basis of audits the processes of Group companies, identifies risk areas and offers the companies improvement suggestions in these areas. based on national and global variables, projects, through business development, investments, purchases, Lean 6 Sigma The audits conducted by the Internal Audit department involve while long term trends such as developing projects, necessary organizational environmental and ethical issues alongside social issues such as technology, increasing volatility changes and other relevant management employee rights, human rights, mobbing, occupational health and safety. The Financing and Investor Relations Department identifies and regulations, changing customer techniques. and measures the financial risks facing the companies, and expectations, diminishing natural The main objective of the 5-year strategic ensures that these risks are managed with a proactive perspective. plan prepared during the reporting period resources and rapidly growing markets is to ensure that Group companies are are also observed. leading and strong regional players in their During the reporting period, 40% of Group company departments were markets. As part of this plan, it is aimed for audited on relevant issues by the Holding Internal Audit Department. The long term plans and critical success factors of Group companies Borusan to double in size within 10 years. are determined within the framework of four main strategic The plan also has the characteristic of being themes: Profit Growth, Strategic Market Positioning, New Product a roadmap for third generation Borusan and Service, Business Excellence. All long-term objectives aim managers who will take over the flag from for increasing the market share of Group companies in their line the current second generation managers of of business and for sustainable and smart profit growth. While the 70-years old Borusan Group. aiming for establishing a simpler, more efficient, faster and more creative organization, the development of new products, services and business models is sought in order to fulfill rapidly changing customer expectations and to be a step ahead of competitors. G4-14 14 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future STAKEHOLDER Stakeholder Group Communication Method / Frequency ENGAGEMENT Group A All individuals, institutions and CEO and General Manager Memorandums (frequency depending on communicated issues); Borusan Day (yearly); Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); organizations that have a direct or indirect Employee Engagement Survey (yearly); Internal Communication Meetings (at least once a year in Group companies); impact on the activities of Borusan Borusan Members Performance assessment meetings (yearly); Internal Information Notices (instant); Ocean Volunteers Platform (all year long); Social Activity Clubs; Ethical Principles; Holding and Group companies and/or are Employee Trainings and Borusan Academy Faculty Programs (all year long); directly or indirectly affected by these The Borusans and Yammer Intranet Platforms; Bi’Alem Human Resources Portal and Practices activities are regarded as stakeholders. Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Specific communication mechanisms are Customers Employee Engagement Survey (once a year in Group companies); Meetings and Interviews; Web-based Practices; Ethical Principles; Corporate Website effectively employed for all stakeholder groups and practices that will increase the Business Partners Annual Report (yearly); Sustainably Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews participation of stakeholders in decisionAnnual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Audits (instant / periodical); Joint Projects; Corporate Website; Public Institutions making mechanisms and voluntary social Meetings and Interviews responsibility activities are implemented Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Press in accordance with the principles of Annual Public Disclosure Meeting; Project Specific Press Meetings; Interviews; Press Tours (instant); Corporate Website transparency and accountability. Banks Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Meetings and Interviews In accordance with the approach of Group B Strategic Communication that was developed in order to establish lasting and Suppliers Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Supplier Evaluation Surveys healthy balances with stakeholders, special Local Administrations Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Joint Projects communication channels are designed for primarily employees, customers, business Business World Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews world, press and other identified target Annual Report (yearly); Sustainably Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Joint Projects; Donations NGOs groups; communication and participation and Sponsorships; Memberships (permanent) practices whose frequencies alternate Social Media Users Instant Agenda Messages Shared on Corporate and Brand Accounts according to the characteristics of the Capital Markets Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Periodic reports (on Borusan Yatirim’s website) stakeholder group are carried out. It is aimed to become a preferred stakeholder Group C through practices that emphasize the Universities and Human Resources, Career Days Participations; Sabancı University and Borusan Academy Program Collaboration; Joint Program differences and values of Borusan Group. Academicians with Boğaziçi University and Borusan Internal Financial Affairs All Other Segments of the Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; News and Information Flow through Media Tools; Society Interested in Borusan Communication through Corporate Social Media Accounts G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 15 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future Union and Association Memberships CORPORATE strength and success of the Group and their proper utilization in the long term. Anadolu Education and Social Support Association Association for the Integration of Common Generations GOVERNANCE The parent, which manages relations with Group stakeholders on a strategic level, also The strong corporate governance structure Science Heroes Association Private Sector Volunteers’ Association of Borusan Holding, which does not assumes the task of directing corporate directly participate in the management and volunteering resources with a sense of Modern Independent Cooperation Association SAHA Association of Group companies, is built on effective social responsibility. Association for Supporting Contemporary Life Society for the Support of Contemporary Art communication and auditing mechanisms Borusan Holding Board of Directors, which that ensure its control over the entire Clean Sea Association TEMA Foundation is the senior decision making body of the Group. The Holding that plays a central Group, assumes general responsibility for Foreign Economic Relations Board TMMOB Chamber of Mechanical Engineers role, comprises Borusan Yatirim, which Group activities before shareholders and participates in principal companies with Lovers of Emirgan Social Solidarity Association Turkish Education Foundation stakeholders. The Board, which identifies minority shares and functions as a portfolio company, and the Corporate Parent. the objectives of the Group and develops Endeavor Active Entrepreneur Promotion Turkish Psychologists Association strategies to achieve these objectives, works Association Corporate Parent is used as a collective Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen’s denomination for all administrative towards the sustainable growth of Group Young Foresight Association Association platforms that may directly or indirectly companies. Borusan Holding Board of influence the management of the Directors has a balanced structure where Global Relations Forum Association Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society subsidiaries of Borusan Group and have executive and nonexecutive members come Economic Development Foundation Turkish Internal Auditing Institute Association visitorial power over the companies. together; it consists of 7 members, of which two have independent statuses. The Holding Istanbul Chamber of Industry Turkish Personnel Management Association EFFECTIVE USE OF INFORMATION Executive Committee, which is below the KalDer Quality Association Turkish Women Entrepreneurs Association board of directors within the corporate The Corporate Parent, which strategically Corporate Communication Association Turkish Corporate Governance Association structure, operates as an administrative leads Group companies, ensures the platform supervising the realization of the English Chamber of Commerce in Turkey compliance of company performances Corporate Risk Management Association strategic targets of the Group. Members Association with strategic targets through control mechanisms. While ensuring that of the Executive Committee take on METU Development Foundation Turkish Sustainable Development Association information and human resources are presidency or membership assignments in Common Purpose Association TÜSİAD Global Compact used most effectively across the Group, the Boards of Directors of Group companies the Parent also secures the generation and they lead works focused on certain Common Purpose Association Commercial UNICEF Turkey National Committee Enterprise Association of financial resources necessary for the sectors and lines of work. G4-16, G4-34 16 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future SUSTAINABILITY It carries out all its activities aiming for excellence, in accordance with the principles of corporate management, developing ecoThe sustainability performance of Borusan Group in social, environmental and economic areas is primarily the responsibility MANAGEMENT friendly innovative solutions for customers, supervising economic of the Group CEO. Economic sustainability performance is ensured impacts, protecting the environment and using natural resources through practices led by the Group CEO and company General Borusan Group operates efficiently with a sense of responsibility. Managers, social sustainability performance through practices led by Holding Human Resources and Corporate Communication in accordance with Activities are carried out respecting human rights, equality of departments, and environmental sustainability performance the basic principles of opportunity is encouraged and all kinds of discrimination opposed through practices led by company environment and energy in all operations. The Group aims to attract the best talents in sustainable development; accordance with its strategic targets and to keep these talents representatives as well as the Environmental Sustainability Committee. it defines its social and within its body by providing the necessary environment for their professional and personal development. It aims to provide a The Sustainability Committee, which was established in order to environmental spheres healthy and safe workplace for its employees, implementing active support the CEO regarding sustainability management practices, of influence, alongside occupational health and safety practices in this regard. comprises a responsible top executive and senior manager as the economic impact it Borusan Group executes operations based on productive activities well as the representatives of Group companies. The committee, which undertakes the tracking and coordination of sustainability generates, as its primary and efficient resource use. It strives to disseminate environmental objectives across the Group, plays an active role in coordination, awareness across the organization and the value chain; it supports responsibility. It identifies activities and formations that will increase the environmental good practices and the analysis of sustainability risks. stakeholder expectations awareness of employees and the society. With the awareness of its responsibilities in relation to climate change, it aims at constantly Sustainability Management at Borusan and sustainability policies improving its environmental footprint; it seeks to develop as the principal reference environmentally friendly and efficient products and services that Economic Social Environmental points for developing provide the best benefit for users. Group CEO Holding Human Company Environment and Resources Energy Representatives business strategies, and SUSTAINABILITY IN ALL AREAS acts with the awareness In line with its understanding of social responsibility, it supports the Company General Managers Holding Corporate Communications Environmental Sustainability Committee that the decisions taken development of the level of education, art and culture of the society in which it exists. It supports its employees and stakeholders in and actions implemented assuming an active role in the solution of social and environmental today will shape the future. issues, it designs and implements social responsibility projects on the basis of volunteerism. It aims at generating a positive indirect economic sphere of influence through local supply and local employment practices; it accompanies the sustainable development of the society of which it is a part. G4-17, G4-27, G4-34 17 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future Sustainability in all Companies The management of social, environmental and economic The results acquired on the basis of Group companies were sustainability topics, which are defined as one of the main consolidated throughout the Group on the basis of sectoral Sustainability management practices draw strategies of the Group, draw on risk and opportunity assessment characteristics. The matrix obtained as a result of the practice was on the effective operational structure mechanisms. Sustainability risks are first revised in the 5-year finally submitted for the approval of the Holding Board of Directors as other commercial activities do; a Strategic Plan and annual business plan periods. In addition to and the materiality study was thereby completed. sustainability division of labor is realized these plans, economic issues are assessed and managed within among departments based on their areas the body of the Holding through a comprehensive financial of specialization. The practices, which are risk systematic and strategic planning tools. Social issues are Employee Rights Customer Satisfaction supported by the bidirectional information managed under the leadership of Borusan Kocabiyik Foundation flow between Group company departments Legal Compliance Product and Service Quality in cooperation with the Holding, while environmental topics are and levels as well as the Holding and managed through processes realized by Group companies in view Business Ethics Fight Against companies, as well as audits and reporting Competitive Strategic Planning of sector dynamics. Corruption practices, strive for the implementation of the Group sustainability strategy in all of Identification of Material Aspects Dealer and Supplier Business Success Product Strategy in Emerging and Engagement Markets the companies.1 Material Aspects that generate an impact on the business successes Product and Service Security (and of Group companies and the value chain were identified through Occupational Health and Safety safety) As part of works conducted jointly by the “Borusan Group Identification of Material Aspects” study Holding Purchasing and Internal Audit conducted during the reporting period. As part of the study, a Customer Data Security Brand Reputation departments, it is planned for suppliers to be subjected to audits involving social and material issue universe was constituted. The universe, which Innovation Management and environmental topics, in the forthcoming comprised general and sector-specific sustainability issues arising Collaborations period. from the engagements and legal obligations of the Holding and Business Continuity, Operational Group companies, including practices from competitor companies Excellence and Process in the sectors of operation and reflecting stakeholder expectations, Optimization was offered to the views of Group company representatives and Eco-innovative, Value-Added Holding employees. Products Topics included in the material issue universe were weighted Risk Management 1 Due to the structure of the Group, the most significant part of social, environmental and economic impacts through the survey practice. The stakeholder expectation levels Product Accessibility and Diversity arising from the operations of Borusan Holding of the issues, which were analyzed with a risk and opportunity occurs as a result of the activities of subsidiaries located outside of the organization. Therefore, oriented perspective and in accordance with the GRI G4 standard, The Future of Energy practices, projects and performance results of were assessed at the Sustainability Workshop realized with the Borusan Mannesman, Borçelik, Borusan Otomotiv, participation of the Sustainability Committee. Supsan, Borusan Lojistik, Borusan EnBW Enerji and Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri are included G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, within the scope of the report. G4-23, G4-27, G4-34 18 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future BUSINESS ETHICS Borusan acts on the basis of fairness and mutual benefit in its relations, which it RAISING AWARENESS AMONG EMPLOYEES AND FIGHT AGAINST conducts within the framework of its ethical The responsibilities of investigating values and the laws; it relies on effective CORRUPTION communication mechanisms for the notices received through the line, where complaints regarding violations of ethical dissemination of its values and corporate Borusan Group conducts culture throughout its value chain. It rules are also conveyed, and developing solutions in relation to these notices its relations with its carries out leading practices in its sectors of belong to the Ethics Board that works operation in the areas of business ethics, fair stakeholders on the competition and fight against corruption, it under Borusan Holding Inc. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The processes of basis of transparency, shows a maximum effort to establish a social investigating the notices received from continuity, mutual trust awareness in these issues. Group companies are conducted by Borusan Borusan Holding is among the founding and honesty; it regards The business ethics rules, which Borusan Holding Audit Director and Borusan members of the Ethics and Reputation Group employees are obligated to comply Holding Legal Director; notices conveyed Society (TEID), which was established the consistency of its with, were composed by Borusan Group Ethics to the Ethics Board by Borusan Group with the aim of enhancing business ethics statements, actions, Board and offered to the access of employees employees or third parties are undisclosed, awareness in Turkey and raising awareness demeanors and decisions and stakeholders online. Employees are examination and investigation works are about this issue in the business world, as responsible with complying with the rules, conducted by independent experts in well as the society. Besides the Holding, as its sine qua non. as well as encouraging compliance with the secrecy. The Ethics Board may be reached which takes office in the Board of Directors rules in their relations with other employees 24/7 by phone or e-mail. as part of the voluntary support it provides, ZERO-TOLERANCE POLICY FOR and stakeholders. Employees may use the Borusan Yatirim and Borusan Sigorta DISCRIMINATION AT BORUSAN The booklet “Handbook for Borusan “Borusan Group Ethical Rules Consultation companies also provide support for the Residents: Business Principles, Business Borusan Holding promotes individual rights and Information Line”, which was established voluntary activities of the society. and liberties and conducts a proactive Ethics and Human Resources Practices”, in accordance with this responsibility, to fight against any probable discrimination which defines in detail the business Every year, all the white-collar employees against its employees and other consult or inform regarding their own principles concerning topics such as human working at Group companies are provided stakeholders with regards to ethnic origin, behaviors or the behaviors of Borusan gender, color, race, nationality, economic rights, environment and public activities, with trainings regarding ethics and risks employees around them. status, religion and other beliefs in all of its the outline for the implementation of associated with corruption, which is a operations. This approach, which applies During the reporting period, there was ethical rules and the rules of conduct subtopic. In the reporting period, 3,205 to the recruitment, promotion and working no legal action taken against any Group regarding stakeholder relations, can be man-hour of training was provided in this conditions of employees, also constitutes one of the primary elements of relations company in issues related to unfair reached on the web at http://www.borusan. regard. In 2014, there was no corruption with customers, suppliers and business competition, monopolization and similar com.tr/_Media/Pdf/IsIlkeleriveIsEtigi.pdf. case identified throughout the Group or in partners. topics. business partners and suppliers. G4-16, G4-56 19 GOVERNANCE AND BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 SUSTAINABILITY Towards a Brighter Future Borusan Group has declared that it will LEGAL COMPLIANCE practice the 10 basic principles regarding All Borusan Group companies are obliged human rights, working standards, to fully harmonize with the laws of the environment and fight against corruption countries where they operate and with in accordance with the United Nations international legal rules. At Borusan, Global Compact, of which it became a no Group employee is allowed to oppose signatory in 2006. the law with the intention of serving the The Group, who acts in interest of companies or individuals. line with the principles Borusan does not work of transparence and with customers and accountability, offers the suppliers who violate progress it has achieved the laws or fail to comply on the basis of these with business ethics. principles to the views of Operations are conducted its stakeholders and the in accordance with general public through the principle of legal Legal compliance is essential with arises about a doing, the issue is consulted sustainability reports. compliance, within the regards to the financial and commercial with the Ethics Board, company General framework of exemplary records of Group companies, as well as Manager and Holding Legal Department. the environmental and social dimensions corporate standards that of our operations. The Holding Internal are ever higher. Audit Department subjects all operations During the reporting period, there was no penalty suffered due to a failure to to regular audits with regards to legal comply with laws and regulations. compliance; in case a legal suspicion G4-16, G4-56 20 #MyDream is my the happiness BORUSAN of REPORT-2014 GROUP SUSTAINABILITY my mother. I am Towards tryingatoBrighter make Future her dreams come true. I would do anything to be able to tell people about the importance of a mother’s love and to demonstrate this to a wider audience. Gülsüm Özkoca Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 22 CORPORATE Borusan Group considers the efficiency and simplicity of its processes to be of 6 Sigma, which is a practice method that leads to the objective step by step, is CULTURE AIMING key importance for the continuity of based on the restructuring of the quality profitability. It strives to be able to view understanding and statistical information FOR EXCELLENCE business ways from different perspectives as well as the business processes of with an integral approach and to make Borusan Group by avoiding any possible Borusan Group, which a habit of constantly examining them mistakes. constantly strives for through the methods it adopts. In Improvements in parallel with customer accordance, 6 Sigma Management Method the better, aims for the expectations are implemented in hundreds is practiced in all Group companies of processes every year through projects continuity of profitability since 2002, in order to ensure constant conducted within the scope of 6 Sigma, and excellence through improvement in product, service and every process is measured also based on management quality, satisfaction of effective and simple changing customer expectations customers’ criteria of evaluation. 6 Sigma also contributes to the sustainability works processes. 6 Sigma and the preparation of Borusan for the of Borusan Group. As part of this method, Management Method future. many projects aimed at reducing energy is practiced in all Group 6 SIGMA AT BORUSAN consumption and emission, the efficient use of water and other resources, as well as companies since 2002, in 6 Sigma Management Method is rendering environmental functions more preferred by companies that aim to grow order to achieve excellence efficient and effective were conducted to by creating value and can transform the this day. in process management. inputs they have into outputs with the understanding of “zero defect”. Borusan Borusan, which acts with the Group created an innovative, agile, efficient understanding of decisive leadership, corporate culture that aims to achieve has parted 6 Sigma into the roles of NATURE-FRIENDLY APPROACH the best through its practices throughout Deployment Champion, Master Black Golden Award for Borusan Makina ve Certified Green Product from Borusan Belt, Black Belt, Expert Green Belt, Green Güç Sistemleri from Customer Service EnBW Enerji the institution by adopting 6 Sigma as Excellence part of the corporate structure. Borusan Belt, Project Sponsor, Process Owner, Borusan EnBW Enerji offers certificated and Financial Representative in order to Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri was green products for its customers who Group aims at canceling out the error considered worthy of the Golden Prize would like to supply their consumption rate, reducing costs, enhancing quality, make the most efficient use of the human for the third time at Customer Service from renewable energy plants and prefer productivity, profitability, market share resource in the implementation of the Excellence Awards for the evaluation of certificated products in this scope. methodology. service quality, organized in 2014. and customer satisfaction through 6 Sigma Method. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 23 THREE SEPARATE AWARDS FOR BORUSAN OTOMOTIV Borusan Otomotiv was deemed worthy of three awards at once at Top Gear awards competition organized in 2014. BMW i8 was elected the Automobile of the Year in England and Turkey, BMW 220d the Coupe PRODUCT AND SERVICE Excellence in products and services is aimed for through the detailed analyses performed. Customers are offered the best Automobile of the Year, and BMW 218i Active Tourer the Family Car of the Year. QUALITY quality products and services in each business line, while products and services are designed in accordance with critical customer The issue of quality management is demands and expectations. In 2014, 66 black belt and 222 expert green emphasized in all processes prior to Compliance with standards and management systems in quality belt process improvement projects were production, during production and understanding is of great importance for Borusan. In general, completed as part of 6 Sigma. 12 black ISO 9001 Quality Management System and ISO-TS 16949 belts were provided with a total of 2,160 postproduction. The process, which Automotive Industry Quality Management System are followed man-hour, and 119 expert green belts with starts with the compliance of the raw in business processes. At the facilities, Occupational Health and Safety practices are realized in compliance with OHSAS 180001 4,165 man-hour of training. materials used in production with the Occupational Health and Safety Management System, while the necessary standards, continues with management of environmental resources is conducted according to product labeling processes and safe and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standards. Quality and management standard certificates are periodically renewed in secure products as well as high added order to ensure product quality and safety, environmental resource value services offered to customers. management, as well as human health and safety. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 24 PRODUCT AND SAFE DRIVE TRAINING FROM BOM ACADEMY SERVICE SAFETY BOM Academy, which was trainers how to safely and actualized as a social properly control a fast vehicle by AND SECURITY responsibility project within the body of Borusan Otomotiv using basic driving techniques, enabling them to have a highly Borusan commits to supply Motorsports, aims to offer the most effective trainings for enjoyable driving experience as more experienced and selfits products and services automobile users in a wide array, through its team consisting of confident drivers. In this regard, 149 people benefited from the to consumers in the safest experienced trainers. Drivers safe driving trainings organized learn from BOM Academy by BOM Academy in 2014. way. In accordance, safety practices surpassing legal requirements are All responsibilities regarding products are managed through conducted in all product quality management systems in all of the stages, starting with production processes until the product reaches the customer. segments. Product and service safety criteria differ in each market. For this reason, works are conducted in order to ensure the compliance of all products and services with legal regulations and other requirements of the markets. Besides, development works are constantly conducted in order to improve existing systems and generate new systems. Besides minimizing the health, safety and environmental impacts of the products, conveying information regarding these impacts to OPERATOR PROTECTION SYSTEM AT BORUSAN MAKINA VE GÜÇ SISTEMLERI customers and end users also constitutes part of the sustainability approach of Borusan. In accordance, there was no incident related At Borusan Makina ve Güç in dangerous situations caused Sistemleri, cabins are equipped by environmental factors, to noncompliance with legal regulations regarding product and with Roll-Over Protected the movement, maneuver service safety and security in the reporting period. System and Fall-Over Protected and working functions of System in order to ensure the machine operator are operator safety in construction deactivated thanks to the equipment. In this way, in case sensitive operator seat. the equipment rolls over and BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 25 LAND ROVER 4X4 SAFE DRIVE BORUSAN MACHINE OPERATOR SCHOOL Land Rover provides trainings regarding class training. Experienced trainers, who are Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri initiated sector thereby ensuring customers’ works are off-road basic driving techniques, thereby present in the vehicles, constantly provide Borusan Machine Operator School, which more effectively conducted, once more for enabling participators to enjoy safe driving information and directions; ensuring that was actualized in 2008 in order to minimize customer operators. At the end of the training experiences in the nature. As part of the participators drive the vehicles that they use working accidents that might occur due to participated by 14 operators, successful specially prepared programs, driving exercises alternately more consciously and safely, while the use of construction equipment, to prolong operators were awarded with the Construction are provided in secured tracks following in also receiving basic training information. the lifetime of the equipment and to bring Equipment Operating Certificate approved by in trained and conscious operators to the the Ministry of National Education. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 26 CUSTOMER DATA BUSINESS SECURITY CONTINUITY Borusan Group guarantees customer Sustainable production data security through confidentiality agreements. Access to customer and continuity of information is limited through production is ensured authorizations determined within customer relations management systems; this through operational information is not shared with third parties. targets set in accordance Information received from customers with the strategy of is only used in case communication permission is obtained; it is not shared with business excellence. another company under any circumstance. Customers are provided Thank to these precautions, there was no customer confidentiality infringement with uninterrupted or any case of customer data loss in the product and service by reporting period. working for ensuring Borusan Holding Legal Department is the smooth continuity conducting a harmonization project involving all Group companies devoted of production and Projects and practices are actualized in Recovery Center for maintaining business to customer data security. As part of the commercial activities order to identify and assess situations continuity in case of disasters and that endanger production in terms of emergency situations. Besides, autonomous project, meetings were held with Group even in the most urgent quality and efficiency, and to prevent their maintenances are realized at Borusan companies and process mappings were realized. It is planned for the processes situations, maintaining occurrence. Besides, effective precautions, Mannesmann, Borçelik and Supsan, while systems and competences aimed at TPM (Total Product Maintenance) practices of Group companies to be analyzed in brand reputation and protecting assets within the business stand out at Borçelik. Besides, necessary accordance with trainings organized and presentations given throughout the year, complying with legal system are developed. periodical and planned maintenance and thereby concluding the harmonization requirements. IT Business Continuity Plan devoted to repair works are conducted in all Group companies for the smooth continuation of program. the security of Information Systems that production. are of critical value for Borusan Group was developed, while there is a Disaster BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 27 CUSTOMER At Borusan, a customer-oriented approach is adopted that considers solving all customer dissatisfactions based on SATISFACTION transparency in customer relations to be its fundamental principle. There are channels through which customers can Borusan works for adding easily communicate their demands and dissatisfactions; these are approached and assessed objectively, in fairness and secrecy, and value to its business the necessary improvements and controls are realized. and customer in all its At Borusan Group, customer satisfaction is ensured in accordance decision and actions. with ISO 10002 Customer Satisfaction and Complaints Handling It follows a proactive System. In this way, customer complaints are managed consistently, systematically and in a responsible way. Besides, approach determined with Customer Experience projects conducted by different business regards to the changing units at group companies help ensure customer satisfaction. expectations, needs and the Customer Satisfaction Net Loyalty Score tracking system. priorities of customers; Group companies where ISO 10002 Customer Satisfaction Besides, the Customer Satisfaction and Engagement Survey is and Complaints Handling System is implemented: Borusan regularly conducted every year. As a result of the survey conducted it ensures customer Mannesmann, Borçelik, Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri, Borusan Lojistik, Supsan. in 2014, customer satisfaction level was determined to rise to the loyalty through longlevel of 75.2%, and customer engagement level to 80%. term relations generating For Borusan, ‘customer satisfaction’ means producing and mutual value. developing together with customers. “Voice of Customer” works, CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT SURVEY (%) started 9 years ago by Borusan Group in consideration of the 77.9 80 74.4 76.1 75.2 70.6 71.5 impact of product and service quality on customer satisfaction and 68.9 regularity, were put into practice in most Group companies in this process. Borusan companies, which have actualized “Voice of the Customer” works, redesign and consolidate business processes in accordance with the expectations and suggestions of customers. Thanks to the business processes and structural solutions developed in order to listen to the voice of the customer, Group companies can achieve satisfaction indexes above country and 2011 2012 2013 2014 industry averages. The quality of the service provided by Borusan Customer Satisfaction Customer Engagement dealers is regularly measured each month and assessed through G4-27 BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 28 At Borusan Otomotiv, feedbacks were Borusan Mannesmann evaluates Real success stories believed to have collected from employees regarding suggestions through Regulatory and created a difference in the area of impressive practices that they experienced Preventive Activities Forms devoted to customer satisfaction competed at Nuri as customers in other sectors, as part of the customer complaints. In the reporting Baba Customer Satisfaction Awards, internal communication work “My Happy period, these suggestions were closely organized for the fifth time in 2014 at Customer Experience” that was started to followed up at Factory Cockpit Meetings Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri. The raise awareness, and the personnel who held monthly. importance that customer satisfaction provided feedbacks were rewarded for the bears for the institution was emphasized purpose of encouragement. through the recounted experiences. CUSTOMER COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT The Lean 6 Sigma Project started under the A “Customer Relations Management At Borusan Mannesmann, customer name “Enhancement of Aftersales Service feedbacks and complaints are effectively Committee” was established in Bor Customs Loyalty and Turnover of Fleet Customers” tracked through the Customer Complaint and Turkey Logistics business units at at Borusan Otomotiv aims for the Management (CCM) system involving IT Borusan Lojistik, in order to enhance based technological solutions. All the data realization of practices that will enhance is recorded on the system and transmitted the efficiency of Customer Relations the satisfaction of fleet customers primarily complaints are solved in order to ensure Management works; and the committee in the area of Aftersales Services. As part of customer satisfaction flawlessly. started its works during the year. the project, meetings were organized with Supsan started working on turbo a total of 21 senior executives from 9 fleet Following the New Machine Sales 6 Sigma production and sale as part of the customers who preferred to receive service Black Belt Project completed in 2011 by innovation project realized on the basis from unauthorized services for reasons Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri, the of “Voice of the Customer” works, at 2013 such as cost orientation and different Rental CEM Project, where the process yearend. The engine trials for the first expectations. It is aimed through customer of machine rental will be approached turbo produced in 2014 lasted for 2 months visits for customer expectations to be better integrally, was started in the reporting and upon their completion the produced defined and for solutions to be created period. As part of the project, 20 customers turbo were offered to customers. together. in Turkey are scheduled for visits in order to collect the voice of the customer. Borusan Otomotiv was deemed worthy of The project bears great significance the “Automobile Main Category” award with regards to customer perception with its BMW brand at the A.L.F.A. Awards management and increasing loyalty. where the most successful brands in the area of complaint management are identified. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 29 DEALER BUSINESS SUCCESS AND BORUSAN BORUSAN SUPSAN SATISFACTION MANNESMANN OTOMOTİV 100 100 10 At Borusan Group, where product quality is considered both in terms of the superior qualities of the product and the provided support, aftersales services are given great importance. dealers dealers dealers A strong and powerful dealer network plays a significant role in the success of Supsan, For this reason, dealers are constantly supported in order to increase their (21 authorized dealers Borusan Mannesmann and Borusan business success, improve their and Otomotiv in the industry. Authorized competences and meet their business dealers and service points, where products related needs. Group companies, which 29 authorized services) and services meet with customers, are establish sustainable long-term relations our business partners who play the most with dealers and share their experience important role in ensuring customer and knowledge with them, conduct several satisfaction. dealer improvement projects in order for dealers to rise up to Borusan standards. BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 30 DEALER NETWORK IMPROVEMENT WORKS FROM SUPSAN DEALER BUSINESS SUCCESS WORKS AT BORUSAN MANNESMANN Supsan aims to strengthen its dealer network Besides, 18 Apprenticeship Training Center Borusan Mannesmann sales teams regularly of the senior management in order for dealer by increasing demand for products at the Meetings were organized in order to inform visit dealers throughout the year. During and Borusan Mannesmann employees to base. In this regard, 45 meetings were target apprentices about the Supsan brand. these visits, solutions are brought to the exchange ideas with one another. 56 dealers organized in 2014 with the participation of A total of 2,501 people were reached through problems of dealers and potential business have participated in the dealer meeting boring operators, repairmen and retailers. the meetings and trainings organized in 2014. opportunities are evaluated. Besides, dealer organized in 2014. meetings are organized with the participation #MyDream is to contribute to the development of young people through BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 31 music education. Özgür Arslan Borusan EnBW Enerji ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 33 ENVIRONMENTAL BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 APPROACH Towards a Brighter Future ENVIRONMENTALLY Borusan Group companies act with the awareness of their duty towards the future of the world in all of their operations; decisions ENERGY AND CLIMATE RESPONSIBLE at all stages of the value chain are taken in consideration of the Borusan Group companies endeavor to generate innovative and environmental impacts of their results. In accordance with the STANCE environmental sustainability strategy determined at the Holding pioneering solutions regarding the combat against climate change, while the carbon footprint of the Group is consistently reduced level, practices that will transform risks brought about by climate Borusan Group change into opportunities are implemented throughout the Group, through effective energy and emission management practices that are actualized. In all Group companies, strategies that will companies aim to develop the environmental impacts of the operations are constantly transform environmental risks into opportunities are pursued, reduced and a proactive approach is adopted in order to protect environmentally conscious biodiversity within the operational geography. and concrete gains are achieved with regards to energy savings, and efficient products and material and natural resource efficiency through practices Borusan Group companies, which are in leading position in several performed. services that provide the sectors, aim to develop environmentally conscious and efficient best benefit for users, while products and services that provide the best benefit for users, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DENSITY RATE (CO 2e ton/m$)* while adopting environmental practices that minimize natural adopting environmental resource use, waste generation, energy consumption and carbon practices that minimize footprint. A maximum effort is shown for raising environmental 114.9 natural resource use, awareness among employees, customers, suppliers and the general 123.7 public, while activities and entities centered on environmental waste generation, energy responsibilities are supported. 89.6 consumption and carbon 79.0 86.9 85.0 footprint. 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Scope 3 *Greenhouse Gas Emissions Density Rate was calculated based on the total annual turnover of the companies included within the scope of emission calculations. Bandırma WPP, Yedigöl Aksu HPP and Balabanlı HPP facilities of Borusan EnBW Enerji are renewable energy plants, which meet their own consumption through this production. 34 ENVIRONMENTAL BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 APPROACH Towards a Brighter Future Some of the energy and emission management practices actualized during the reporting period are as follows: Steam gain was ensured by directing the hot exhaust gases coming out of the waste heat boiler in the stove area at Borçelik Plants CGL3. As a result of the natural gas savings achieved through the practice, an annual energy consumption of 2,558 GJ was prevented. As part of the practice implemented at Borçelik treatment facility, areas where electricity consumption is concentrated were identified and analyzed. Following the investigation of suggestions for A range of improvements were made regarding the use of cutting improvement, the heaters in the facility oil, which prolongs the lifetime of cutting edges and stones located were replaced with new and efficient in production lines by preventing their overheating, through the models, while the insulation of the facility Cutting Oil Recycling System Optimization project implemented at was renewed. As a result of the practice, Supsan Production Facilities. There used to be a separate hydraulic around 180 GJ of energy saving was pump and oil reservoir at each bench on the lines before the project; achieved annually. the number of pumps across the production line was reduced, As part of the renewable energy practice thereby minimizing maintenance costs as well as oil and electric BALABANLI WIND POWER PLANT PROJECT put into practice at Borçelik Headquarters, consumptions. An improvement of 11% was achieved in the annual The second and last phases of capacity. Balabanlı Wind Power PV (photovoltaic) panels were installed pump engine electrical energy consumption and an annual savings Balabanlı Wind Power Plant Plant, where wind power, which on the building’s roof and electricity of about 33 GJ was ensured through the project. that was actualized in 2011 by is a renewable energy source and Borusan EnBW Enerji, which one of the cleanest energy types, production from solar energy was begun. advances with the objective of is generated, consists of 22 wind Around 94 GJ of electricity is annually becoming one of the leading turbines and it is characterized obtained through the practice. renewable energy investors in as an environment-friendly the Turkish electricity sector, power plant with a total were completed in 2014 and the installed power of 50 MW. plant was put into use in full 35 ENVIRONMENTAL BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 APPROACH Towards a Brighter Future ENVIRONMENTAL In accordance, all Group companies aim to minimize the negative environmental impacts of all operational processes starting with Through the waste recovery practice implemented at Borçelik galvanizing plant, it was ensured that the zinc ash generated as IMPACTS OF the design and production stages of products and services, until a result of the process in CGL lines was recovered through the their transportation and marketing. Practices going beyond equipment and reused in the process lines. The cycling of 2,000 OPERATIONS legal compliance are realized through high standards adopted in tons of zinc ash annually can be ensured by means of the practice. accordance with the requirements of the relevant line of work. Borusan Group, which During the reporting period, a ventilation system was established The environmental impacts of operations are constantly reduced in order to prevent sludge accumulation in the chemical treatment incorporates the leading through practices involving the processes of reducing natural facility reaction basin at Borusan Mannessmann Halkalı Plant, companies of the steel, resource use, minimizing water consumption and preventing waste thereby increasing the efficiency of the treatment process. 77 tons generation at its source. A maximum effort is shown in order to of water was recovered annually thanks to the practice of treating distributorship, logistics protect biodiversity within the operational geography. In regard of the treatment bottom mud that subside in the treatment balancing and energy sectors, acts the relation between employee behavior and operational efficiency, pool through filter presses, while the hazardous sludge was with the responsibility of regular environmental training practices aimed at employees and dewatered thereby achieving reduction in the waste amount. In the contractor employees are implemented throughout the Group. same period, the amount of the treatment chemical (Barium) used protecting and keeping the in order for the discharged water values to remain within legal During the reporting period, 442 Borusan Group employees were environment where we live provided with 1,063 man-hour, and 40 contractor employees limits was optimized, ensuring an improvement by 25%. and work clean. with 60 man-hour environmental training. In the same period, The amount of packaging material used for packing was optimized resources worth 2,085,983 TL were allocated for environmental at Borusan Mannessmann Halkalı Plant, preventing unnecessary management expenditures throughout the Group, and 103,828 TL consumption. Also at Halkali Plant, the draining angles of the for environmental investment expenditures. There was no penalty lubrication draining pans were increased, allowing for efficient received due to noncompliance with environmental law and draining and reducing oil consumption. regulations in 2014. As part of the practice implemented at Borusan Mannessmann Some of the water and waste management practices realized Gemlik Plant, detergents present in galvanization waste waters during the reporting period are as follows: that cause high COD parameters in the waste water were replaced with detergents that will create less pollution, facilitating the As part of the project implemented at Borçelik, turf irrigation treatment of waste waters in the chemical treatment unit. Through systems were rendered fully automatic thereby achieving the revision, less polluted wastewater input to the chemical water savings. Turf irrigation processes, which were previously treatment facility was realized in terms of COD parameters. In performed manually and during daytime, were changed to consequence of the practice, the wastewater being discharged is nighttime and optimized. Through the project, a reduction of 72% 66.7% cleaner. in water consumption was achieved, while 58,000 m3 of annual water savings was ensured. 36 ENVIRONMENTAL BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 APPROACH Towards a Brighter Future BIODIVERSITY Yedigöl Aksu and Harmanlık facilities The necessary lifeline water amount in order in the quality of water as a result of the are situated in a Wildlife Protection Area. for the natural life to remain unaffected process. A fish passage was built over the Borusan Group strives to protect The environmental impact assessment by Borusan EnBW Enerji Yedigöl Aksu regulator structure in order for the regulator biodiversity in its operational geography, it processes of the relevant facilities Facility, established on Aksu, a tributary of that is located in the Hydroelectric Power carries out leading practices in line with the were offered to the consideration of Çoruh River, was determined with academic Plant not to impact the passage of the fish academic collaborations it forms. There is universities; operations are conducted with collaboration. In this direction, the lifeline and biodiversity, thereby ensuring the no water source affected by the operations precautions taken in accordance with these water released on the stream is constantly continuity of the fish types living in the of Group companies in terms of amount considerations. tracked. No deterioration was determined stream. and biodiversity. Borusan EnBW Enerji 37 #MyDream is toBORUSAN help people who areREPORT-2014 GROUP SUSTAINABILITY deprived of foodTowards a Brighter and water, Future thereby eliminating the despair of desolation by creating circles of goodness. Hüseyin Şen Borusan Mannesmann NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 39 NEW PRODUCTS BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 AND SERVICES Towards a Brighter Future KEEPING UP Creativity and different business manners are emphasized in order to preserve competitive power in a differentiating world, Borusan Group companies, which always prioritize customer demands, aim to continue developing new products and services WITH THE WORLD under rapidly changing conditions of competition. In this regard, based on innovation in order to meet the different expectations developing new products, services and business models is one of and needs of customers, in the forthcoming period. The Holding THROUGH Borusan Group’s most important areas of focus. Borusan Group takes concrete steps towards transforming creativity into a CREATIVITY constitutes extensive processes and systems ranging from establishing the necessary organizational structures for realizing business culture across the Group. Borçelik focused more on developing new products, services and its new product and service objectives to identifying new product Borusan Group attaches business models, in 2014. 25 separate projects were actualized objectives, to constituting a more creative and tolerant culture to great importance to works collaborations with universities. All executives appropriate this as part innovation works. While the works for the project that was accepted within the scope of TÜBİTAK 15501 Industrial R&D for the creation of the process and provide support for projects, make suggestions for Projects Support Program are continuing, other projects, whose new products and business models and follow market dynamics technologies of the future with this awareness. In this way, while different approaches are applications were made, were received for evaluation. and their adaptation to adopted for different markets, new product and business model Borusan Lojistik included a new business model, which will create a difference for customers operating in the field of the Holding structure. development works are conducted in compliance with Group e-commerce, with an innovative perspective among the services strategy and in a target-based manner. Intellectual and industrial it offers. The launching of the new business model is scheduled In 2014, 35 different business opportunities were utilized and rights that are acquired most of them were transformed into business models, while for 2015. are being protected with 7 projects were taken into the incubation stage thanks to Supsan released the turbo product it started producing as innovation-oriented works. As of yearend, over 50 new product, part of an innovation project and started sales. Also, the the aim of benefiting eccentric national production bench investment, projected for service and business model development projects were being from the accumulation conducted in 7 different Group companies. implementation in 2015, was realized. of knowledge to the The creation of the technologies of the future, planning and Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri continued offering maximum; works in this execution of R&D activities in order to be adapted to the Holding alternative and extended package solutions aimed at customer structure, protection of products and services acquired as a result needs with EMD and CAT Propulsion that it included within its direction are accelerated. of the activities through intellectual and industrial rights policies product range. and always ensuring optimum benefit from the accumulation of knowledge are sought after. In accordance, it is planned for a Group-wide R&D Center to be established that will accelerate works and through which R&D strategies will be executed. The necessary infrastructural works for Borusan R&D, planned for implementation in 2015, were completed in the reporting period. 40 NEW PRODUCTS BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 AND SERVICES Towards a Brighter Future INNOVATION COLLABORATIONS WITH UNIVERSITIES MANAGEMENT FROM BORÇELIK Borçelik continued the joint works it has AND been conducting with the Department Metallurgical and Materials Engineering COLLABORATIONS at Bursa Technical University since its establishment, in areas such as laboratory facilities, test and analysis The accumulation of competency, experience sharing in knowledge that will technical issues, within the scope of university-industry collaboration works, arise in the wake of joint in 2014. Also, technical consultancy support was received from Mustafa studies conducted by Kemal University Faculty of Engineering Department of Civil Engineering as part universities, research of a new product innovation project, while joint projects were conducted with centers and the industry Istanbul Technical University Faculty of within the framework Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering of the new product, and Dumlupinar University Faculty of Engineering Industrial Engineering during service and business this term. development strategy is of great significance for Thanks to collaborations with universities, the sustainable success BORUSAN AT İTÜ ARI TECHNOCITY both universities and the industry gain Borusan Group continued taking concrete high quality, innovative and creative and future of Borusan steps towards increasing university projects. Borusan Group conducted many Holding. In accordance, collaborations in the reporting period. In this regard, it took its place at Istanbul R&D project with ITU Metallurgical and Materials, Industrial and Mechanical national and international Technical University ARI Technocity in order to be in proximity to university Engineering departments in the reporting collaborations and resources, data repositories and period. As part R&D activities, over 5 million academicians. projects are developed TL was received in support from TÜBİTAK. and participation to R&D platforms is ensured. 41 NEW PRODUCTS BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 AND SERVICES Towards a Brighter Future ECO-INNOVATIVE, PRODUCT STRATEGY IN VALUE ADDED GROWING MARKETS PRODUCTS Borusan Group, which develops its own While devising projects technology and comes to the forefront in within the framework of its sector with regards to international topics identified in our competition, aims to create a difference technological roadmap, against its competitors while pursuing each project aims at its works in the global competition contributing both to the environment and to raise its production country and sector of ETA ELECTRONIC TRANSPORTATION NETWORK PROJECT and product quality to the level of global operation. Projects, which ETA, which was established as an electronic transportation network technologies, in all the works it has project under the roof of Borusan Lojistik, provides significant comply with identified benefits for SMEs over the internet and for transporters by making pursued to this day and will pursue in the objectives, measurement use of mobile technologies. Thanks to this eco-innovative business model, while SMEs are provided with reliable, insured, cost effective future. and information transportation service that is traceable 24 hours for carrying their cargo, transport companies achieve business continuity, cost infrastructures and advantage and efficiency. allow its personnel to ETA system, which transforms the fleet of individual entrepreneurs into an efficient, centrally commanded corporate service provider, specialize, are produced. has the characteristic of being a technological fleet management system whereby thousands of vehicles are efficiently managed In 2014, Group companies and all parties are provided with value. By means of ETA, which provides a significant support for public administration in terms of continued working on fighting against oil no 10, counterfeit and smuggled fuel through the standards it introduces to the industry, the share of unloaded vehicles business models that in vehicle-km is improved among member vehicles. 20% increase ensure added value and in efficiency is ensured and around 10,000 less heavy vehicles are employed, by performing more transportation with the same number efficiency in their sectors of vehicles. The system ensures significant savings and gains for the national economy, independent transporters and SMEs. and lines of business. 42 NEW PRODUCTS BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 AND SERVICES Towards a Brighter Future PRODUCT ACCESSIBILITY AND DIVERSITY Borusan Group companies, which operate in four basic areas, namely steel, logistics, distributorship and energy, offer a large product range to their customers. Supsan, Borusan Mannesmann and Borusan Otomotiv provide ease of accessibility to their products with the nationwide broad dealer network they have, while Borusan EnBW Enerji transmits the produced energy to the grid, facilitating access to renewable energy. Borusan Group, which works for offering solutions that best strategic sectors; in this regard it had the opportunity to make answer customer expectations and needs, also takes into sales in countries such as China, Egypt and Indonesia, in 2014. DISABLED FRIENDLY AUTOMOBILES consideration the changing conditions of different markets. In order to ensure easier access to vehicles Borusan EnBW Enerji aimed for growth directed at portfolio for disabled users, Borusan Otomotiv Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri maintained its market profitableness, besides maintaining its existing investments. makes alterations to the design of leadership in the Turkish machine market core segment, while In this regard, it started investment works in the areas of automobiles depending on the disability. making new investments in its power systems operations for the geothermal and solar power generation, besides wind and In this regard, 281 automobiles providing ease of access for the disabled were sold “Energy & Industrial Solutions” market, in 2014. In international hydroelectric power plants. during the reporting period. operations, it has created growth oriented new opportunities Borusan Lojistik continued its market researches aiming to with the products and services it offered in the area of mining. In engage its investments in Kazakhstan and the Middle East and to parallel with its strategy of expansion, it has extended its service grow in these regions in the forthcoming periods. geography with a new purchase in Far East Russia. Borusan Otomotiv gained new customers in the shrinking Borçelik aimed at utilizing business opportunities with added Turkish automobile market and completed 2014 as the year with value by tracking emerging economies in the automotive, white the highest number of new and used vehicle sales. goods, panel radiator and construction group, which are its 43 #MyDream is to earn money BORUSAN on theGROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 paintings I have created as aTowards hobby,a Brighter Future thus making my pastime my job. People succeed when they are happy doing what they love to do. Hence, we should encourage everyone who has a talent to pursue it vigorously and support people in their efforts to further develop their hobbies. Hanife Geğin Bor Gümrük WORKING LIFE WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 45 CENTER OF CONSOLIDATED EBITDA (MILLION DOLARS) ATTRACTION FOR TALENTS 1,094 1,076 Borusan Group pays particular importance to the professional and 5,417 5,643 personal development of its employees. It actualizes unique talent practices 2013 2014 in order to accompany Male Female the development of its Maximizing the competence, motivation and performance of employees. Creating a its employees and thereby creating a difference in its sectors of healthy and safe working operation constitutes the basis for the human resources practices environment is also among of Borusan Group companies. At Borusan, workplace peace is established through fair practices opposing discrimination; the priorities of Borusan. practices that set a good example for the sectors and geographies of operation are realized through pioneering projects aimed at women employment. The personal and professional developments of employees are accompanied by talent management practices, where Borusan Academy plays a central role, aiming at transforming Borusan into a center of attraction for talents. Effective practices are executed in order to create a healthy and safe working environment, the Group’s performance in this area is continuously improved. G4-10 WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 46 OCCUPATIONAL Works are conducted in compliance with the relevant occupational health and safety laws and regulations; risk analyses, emergency HEALTH AND situation books, relevant trainings, field trips, annual work and training plans are systematically maintained in this context. SAFETY Borçelik, Borusan Mannesmann, Borusan Makina ve Güç Creating a safer and Sistemleri, Borusan Oto / Otomotiv, Borusan Lojistik, Kerim Çelik, Supsan, Borusan EnBw Enerji Bandırma WPP Facility and Holding healthier working Headquarters have OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety environment for Management System certification and the requirements of the system are fulfilled. employees, customers and The articles regarding occupational health and safety and the suppliers is regarded as improvement of environmental performance and human rights a business priority and practices are defined in the main agreements made by Borusan it is aimed to achieve the Group companies with suppliers. Occupational health and safety requirements are controlled during supplier audits; the support of “zero working accident” third parties may be sought in relevant audits. ideal in all Borusan Group companies. Active The collective agreements made by Group companies with unions involve Occupational Health and Safety issues and it is indicated Occupational Health that legislation provisions are implemented. Periodical inspections and Safety practices and intervention processes in case of work accidents, as well as information regarding protective equipment and wearing apparel are such as performance detailed in the agreements. measurement, training, drill and infrastructural There are Occupational Health and Safety Committees In 2015, “Borusan OHS Group” is to be established with the purpose representing all Group employees in all Borusan Group companies. of developing Occupational Health and Safety culture among Group improvements are OHS Committees operate as an internal communication mechanism companies and enabling companies to share their experiences and used in this regard, and through which Group employees can communicate their learn from each other. occupational health and suggestions, complaints and expectations in the issues of health and safety, while the proposals brought forward by the committees During the reporting period, Group company employees were provided safety performance is constitute one the most important elements of the continuous with 22,199 man-hour and contracting company employees with 10,367 man-hour of occupational health and safety training. continuously improved. improvement of Group’s OHS performance. WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 47 TALENT It is ensured that employees are informed about the targets of the units where they work and the expectations of the Group from BORUSAN ACADEMY MANAGEMENT themselves through effective employee communication, while their Borusan Academy, which allows trainings are organized for participation in decision-making processes is encouraged. for training and development business leaders at all levels The organizational In this direction, objective performance assessment processes practices aimed at the employees of the organization. Among and executives of Group these programs are Executive structure of Borusan taking into account the characteristics required by the positions, companies to be managed Orientation Practice, which personal skills and individual performances are conducted in Group, which has attained Human Resources processes that are managed by means of from a single center, ensures the development of the Group’s was designed to facilitate the adaptation of those who became the effectiveness and professional systems. The necessary training and development human resource in line with an executive for the first time to Holding strategies. It is aimed to their new roles, Lean 6 Sigma simplicity it possesses in facilities for employees to improve themselves in the best way and raise business leaders who have Faculty, which is joined by to get better at their jobs are provided; career planning practices the light of its 70-year led by employees taking initiative are carried out. a culture of high performance those perceived to have a high through strategy-oriented potential within the organization business experience, The competence and performance of employees are assessed programs that comply with and assigned as Project Manager values, aim for high quality and (Black Belt), and the Leadership offers employees a through the “Performance Management System: 360° Competence the continuity of development. Faculty that continues for 2 Assessment System”, which is carried out by taking the opinions of the working environment “subordinate”, “superior”, “horizontal stakeholders” and “themselves”. Educational programs for years (25 days) in total, for which executives with high potential are where they can realize While the difference between the positional requirements of employees, such as Borusan chosen. Citizenship Training Program their potential. For employees and their competences is measured via the system, that ensures collective vision During the reporting period, a personal development areas are identified in accordance. The system employees to assume the results also constitute the basis for remuneration processes. and corporate adaptation, which every employee can participate total of 48,959 man-hour of training was provided to 2,582 tasks and responsibilities During the reporting period, 85% of white-collar employees within 6 months after their employees and 291 executives recruitment, Joint Training as part of Borusan Academy through which they can and 13% of blue-collar employees at Borusan Group received Programs and Lean 6 Sigma programs. performance feedbacks. generate maximum value Dissemination Trainings, which At Borusan Group, the concept of “business leader” carries a employees request to join in is regarded as one of the accordance with their personal meaning beyond the hierarchical structure. Employees at all levels primary determinants for of the organization are considered the leader of the jobs they are and professional requirements, accompany several proficiency achieving the Group’s main responsible for; in accordance, training and development programs programs. that will accompany their personal and professional developments targets. are designed and implemented. Borusan Academy, which was At the Academy, programs devoted to Borusan Group constituted in this direction, allows for the management of the executives and executive training and development practices of all Group companies from a candidates are designed and single center. WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 48 During the reporting period, blue-collar important internal communication activity. employees were offered 13,620 On special occasions, CEO and Senior man-hour, and white-collar employees Management announcements are made 35,339 man-hour of training. In the same regarding developments in investments period, blue-collar contractor personnel and new businesses, and all corporate were provided with 11,238 man-hour of activities are constantly communicated to training, whereas the trainings provided employees through the intranet system. for white-collar contractor personnel The satisfaction, loyalty and eagerness of amounted to 4,638 man-hour. employees are measured through annual employee engagement surveys and the Employees at all levels, who achieve results are considered as a significant their targets, prepare themselves for input for all human resources processes. great responsibilities and create a visible All Group companies use the Suggestion difference through their behaviors, System, whereby suggestions provided by are effectively evaluated at Career employees and deemed appropriate are Management Meetings organized regularly carried into practice, thereby improving the every year. New career plans are generated performance of companies in the areas of for employees who create a difference with their performance and potential, by taking operational efficiency, occupational health and safety, environment and employee EMPLOYEE RIGHTS A fair policy centered on social gender equality and opposing discrimination is into account the current and probable engagement. At Borusan Group, employees are provided carried out in all human resources practices future structure of the organization. with a fair working environment and human including remuneration, promotion Borusan Group companies come together Borusan Day, organized once a year with resources policies based on employee rights processes and career management with university students every year as part the participation of about 2,800 employees, and human rights are pursued. Practices programs, in Group companies. At Borusan of the “New Generation of Talents” practice where the corporate strategy and vision, based on merit and social gender equality Group, the CEO himself appropriates social and they have the chance to meet future as well as a summary of activities is shared are conducted in the issues of remuneration gender equality policies and programs, Borusan residents. with internal stakeholders, is the most and benefits; employees’ freedom to while Borusan Holding Human Resources unionize and collective agreement rights Director and Corporate Communication White Collar Employee Engagement Index 2012 2013 2014 are protected. A preventive approach Director conduct the follow-up of processes. Satisfaction 54.7 62.2 67 is adopted throughout the organization regarding the issues of child labor, forced Loyalty 58.6 63.6 73 labor and discrimination; steps are taken in order to generalize this understanding in Eagerness 61.0 65.4 74 the supply chain. WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 49 As of the reporting At Borusan Group, a business understanding that does not UNITED NATIONS WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT discriminate based on gender, practices equal wage for equal PRINCIPLES LEADERSHIP GROUP period, the ratio of work policy and provides equal opportunities to men and women Borusan Group, who ranges among 800 companies worldwide, women employees to all employees for their self improvement is adopted, while protecting and 20 in Turkey, that have signed the United Nations Women’s and consolidating this environment is among major business white-collar employees Empowerment Principles (WEPs), became the first Turkish company priorities. Human resources policies based on opportunity and was realized as 16%, social gender equality constitute the basis for all human resources to be elected for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Leadership Group upon the invitation received in 2014. Borusan whereas the ratio of practices, while works aiming at raising awareness among Group plans to conduct works in order to increase the dissemination stakeholders and the society are conducted. women executives to all of the principles, whose number of signatories is aimed to be raised, Acquiring the “Equality of Opportunity Model Certificate” in at the level of SMEs, to provide mentorship for companies intending executives was realized cooperation with “Women Entrepreneurs’ Association” (KAGIDER), to sign, thereby sharing its knowledge and experience regarding as 15%, across Borusan in 2015, in order to certify the social gender equality policies it the empowerment of women. Group. practices within the corporation, is also among the objectives of HAY Job Evaluation System constitutes the basis for remuneration Borusan Group. The institutions, which receive the certificate processes in Group companies. Lines of work, which are grouped in after undergoing an independent evaluation process, register accordance with the system, are evaluated with regard to market their sensitivity for social gender equality and the empowerment data taking their size into consideration; it is aimed to pay wages of women in employment through their structures, actions and above the determined median. Wages are determined in the light employment facts before the national and international public. of objective criteria such as assumed responsibility, performance There are nursing/lactation rooms, from which working mothers results and seniority; employees of the same level are compared in can benefit, at all Borusan Group locations. All employees, order to guarantee that there is no gender-based discrimination in men and women, who have a child aged 0-6, can benefit from remuneration processes. special discounts when their children are educated or attend developmental programs at certain kindergartens or nursery and In the reporting period, there was no incident of discrimination within day care centers. Flexible working practices are used at Group the operations of Borusan Group. companies according to the feasibilities of the relevant line of work. At Borusan Otomotiv, a work from home practice is carried out, while at other companies role-based flexible working hours are As of the reporting period, the ratio of Level 1 wages, which is the applied. beginner level at Borusan Group companies, to the minimum wage was realized as 172%. G4-16 WORKING LIFE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 50 In 2015, a training practice In the reporting period, there were no involving issues related to incidents indicating that the freedom of gender equality is planned association and union rights are at risk in to be carried out in all the operations of Group companies. Group companies. During the reporting period, all Group Executives between operations except Borusan Lojistik the ages of 35 and 55 operations were audited and evaluated with at least 3 years of in terms of human rights impacts; no seniority are offered a infringements were determined in these retirement plan that will areas. help them manage their Borusan Social Clubs, established in order to contribute to the social As part of the plan, the company makes a contribution to the wage career ending through lives of Borusan residents, organize activities such as bowling, cut applied to relevant employees, all employees within the scope the Employee Individual of the plan who have completed 5 years at Borusan Group can trekking, wood painting, dance, diving courses, photography courses and excursions. Group employees are provided with sports Retirement Plan aimed at assume their savings. Also, all Group employees are offered with opportunities through sports centers at various locations; musical, the opportunity of health insurance covering inpatient treatment executive level employees and ambulatory emergency interventions, annual check-up to a exhibition and conference activities and art publications within the body of Borusan Culture & Arts Center aim at raising the level of of Borusan Group varying extent, according to level, and life insurance. culture of employees and preserving the cultural heritage. companies. INTERNATIONAL ETHICAL VALUES According to the human rights policies of the corporation and the 4th and 5th principles of the Global Compact, of which it is a party, there is no child labor or forced labor in any operation conducted by Borusan Group companies, operations that carry these risks are not realized. Works for the formation of an ethical rules text to be signed by contractors and suppliers with whom we work were begun in accordance with the objective determined by Holding Audit and Purchasing departments. The concerned document will involve conditions related to child labor and forced labor. G4-11 51 #MyDream is having book cafés where BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 we can gather to read books besides Towards a Brighter Future just going to the libraries in our cities. I dream of having the reading groups practice (of which we see many examples abroad) becoming widespread in Turkey, thereby increasing the sharing of ideas among people. Duygu Horoz Borçelik CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 53 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future “I have a great debt of gratitude to my country. And I have worked hard all my life to repay it.” The late Asım Kocabıyık BORUSAN SOMA SOLIDARITY FUND In order to support the families of the coal miners who suffered as victims in the mine disaster that took place in Soma, a donation campaign was started THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING at the initiative of Borusan employees. PRINCIPLED AND BENEFICIAL The “Borusan Soma Solidarity Fund”, Borusan Holding conducts its social In order to ensure the permanent success of which was collected via the participation Since its inception, responsibility activities in line with the it’s social responsibility endeavors, Borusan and efforts of Borusan Holding and the Group’s companies, was used to support guiding principle of “giving back to the Holding utilizes the needed know-how Borusan has been community what we get from society”. and voluntarism energy of its employees, the SOMADA (Soma Solidarity Network) project conducted by the Union of Disaster growing by embracing The Company takes it upon itself to both as well as all other necessary resources Psychosocial Services (UDPS). The aim of this project is to provide social and and equipment. In 2008, Borusan Holding responsibilities for both continue its growth by generating value psychological support for families and for its country and at the same time to established the Ocean Volunteers Borusan children who lived through the mine its nation and the society contribute to society. Borusan Holding’s Platform. Platform in order to put the disaster to help them to overcome and hold on to life. As part of the project, the therein. Accordingly, it primary social responsibility projects focus knowledge and skills of Borusan employees Borusan Soma Solidarity Fund was used on the areas of education, culture and to good use in social responsibility projects to cover the costs of the establishment continues its development the arts and women’s empowerment. In in the areas of education, culture and the and management of the first psychosocial support center that was founded in the and expansion by creating order to manage these responsibilities in a arts, the environment and human rights. center of Soma, plus vehicles for two mobile units. value for the country, manner that is effective and sustainable, Some of the key operating principles the Company has structured all its social throughout this entire endeavor include while simultaneously activities under the roof of the Borusan volunteerism by its employees, thereby In 2014, 630 volunteer Borusan employees carrying out a wide variety Kocabıyık Foundation. In 2014, a total ensuring maximum benefit, as well as the served via the Borusan Ocean Volunteers. of US$ 15 million worth of resources was systematic and sustainable deployment Platform and worked a total of 2,861 of social responsibility of all the social responsibility practices hours in 52 service activities, organized transferred to the Borusan Kocabıyık projects. Foundation for its social responsibility realized via the Group companies. in cooperation with 26 non-governmental projects. organizations. 54 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future EDUCATION Borusan Holding is fully committed to maintain the vision of its founder Asım Kocabıyık to support the cause of education in Turkey. The Borusan “ROOKIE INSPIRATION” AWARD FOR BORUSAN ASIM KOCABIYIK TECHNICAL Kocabıyık Foundation AND INDUSTRIAL VOCATIONAL HIGH In the reporting period, Borusan Holding SCHOOL was established with the continued its support for the educational Students from the Borusan Asım Kocabıyık donations of the Kocabıyık institutions it has constructed, primarily Technical and Industrial Vocational High School participated in the “First Robotics the Borusan Otomotiv Zehra Nurhan family and the Borusan Kocabıyık Primary School, the Gemlik Competition Midwest Competition” contest that was organized in Chicago under Group companies, and Borusan Primary School, the Borusan the sponsorship of NASA, and returned with the “Rookie Inspiration” Award. The continues to add value Asım Kocabıyık Technical and Industrial performance of the robot built by students Vocational High School and the Kocaeli of the Asım Kocabıyık TIVH won the hearts to society in the area University Asım Kocabıyık Vocational of the competition committee at the First competition that has been organized for of education since its School of Higher Education, by helping to 20 years for the purpose of increasing the provide for their needs. interest of students in science and art of inception in 1992. To date, invention, as well as to help them focus on Borusan Holding has Values Education for technology development. Preschoolers constructed 9 schools and with the objective of guiding teachers and In an effort to inculcate ethical values parents in teaching basic ethical values to transferred them over to in children, the book entitled “Values children during their preschool years. The Scholarship Support for Youth the national education Education in Preschool”, which was lessons, which are supported with games, Borusan Holding also provides scholarships prepared by Professor Dr. Gülçin Alpöge various activities, tales, stories, poems, to support the education of university system. with the support of the Borusan Kocabıyık songs and drama scenarios in each unit, students both at home and abroad. In this Foundation, was placed in the hands of aim for children to adopt these values at an scheme, a total of 131 scholars benefited 5,240 preschool teachers in Istanbul during early age instead of learning them by trial from the scholarship support provided by the reporting period. The book was written and error. the Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation in 2014. 55 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future “100 Basic Works” for Primary Schools Also in 2014, Borusan Holding continued ARTS & CULTURE Borusan Sanat is the governing body of the Borusan Istanbul Philharmonic Orchestra (BIPO) which was founded in 1999 and its support of meeting the book needs of primary schools in Anatolia with the “100 Borusan Holding believes that raising with its dynamic ensemble comprising some of the best classical Basic Works” prepared by the Ministry of musicians in Turkey is working to become one of the leading National Education. the level of education and culture of the symphonic ensembles in Europe, as well as the Borusan Quartet, society in which it operates is one of its top the Borusan Children’s Chorus, and Borusan Klasik, which is the Support for the IMAGINE first classical radio in Turkey that broadcasts over the Internet. Initiative from Borusan Ocean objectives. Acting with the awareness of the Volunteers responsibility it bears as an institution in Music for Peace with BIPO The Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform the construction of a society that protects The Borusan Istanbul Philharmonic Orchestra (BIPO), which supported the IMAGINE Initiative started reaches about 25 thousand music lovers each year through its by UNICEF as a part of the 25th anniversary its culture and values, the Company sets an monthly concerts, offered classical music lovers a special event of of the Convention on the Rights of Children. example for society with its sensitivity in four concerts named “Music for Peace with BIPO”. The revenue from this event, organized as a joint venture between Borusan Sanat Volunteers worked towards the collective the area of arts and culture. aim of helping children live in a better and the Music for Peace Foundation, was donated to the Music for world, all in collaboration with UNICEF, Borusan Sanat is the vehicle for furthering this mission as an Peace Foundation, whose purpose is to provide children with the which continues its work for the education institution that supports and exhibits art, as well as offering new opportunity of classical music education, as well as making the and protection of children. opportunities on a daily basis for talented youth. voice of peace heard through music. 56 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future Moreover thanks to the special concerts organized, 19 young musicians to date have been given the opportunity of receiving Six Different Exhibitions from higher education abroad. Borusan Contemporary Istanbul Music Festival Borusan Contemporary’s 2014 program With the aim of promoting the popularization of classical music included bringing art lovers together among the masses, Borusan continued in 2014 with its tradition of with exhibitions of varied media and being the main sponsor of the Istanbul Music Festival, an endeavor conceptual content, alongside selections Borusan has supported from the Festival’s inception. from established collections. In all, Borusan Contemporary hosted six different Borusan Music House exhibitions last year, plus the practice of The Borusan Music House, home to classical music, world music, conducting workshops in parallel with the jazz, new music and dance since 2010, also hosts contemporary exhibitions was continued. The workshops, art exhibitions. In 2014, it continued hosting unique projects that organized throughout the year, brought contributed to the musical life of Istanbul. together both children and adults with art. 57 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future ”Ancient Theaters of Anatolia” Ertuğ & Kocabıyık Publications, an important part of Borusan Holding that serves under Borusan Sanat, was established with the mission of acquainting the world with the historic, cultural and artistic heritage of Turkey and Europe. Last year it published its new book, entitled “Ancient Theaters of Anatolia”. The large volume, which is composed of the photographs of architect-photographer Ahmet Ertuğ and a vivid text written by R. R. R. Smith, presents extremely well preserved theaters in all their unparalleled detail and glory. Support for the Excavation Works in the Ancient City of Ephesus The Ephesus Foundation was established under the leadership of Borusan Holding with the aim of contributing to the development of the ancient city of Ephesus and its international promotion. The Foundation strives to raise funds for the protection and preservation of ancient Ephesus and bring awareness of this marvel around the world. In 2014, the Ephesus Foundation continued to support the excavation works in the city. 58 CORPORATE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 RESPONSIBILITY Towards a Brighter Future WOMEN’S Towards this end, the Company initiates projects that facilitate bringing more women into the business world and strengthening Microcredits for Supporting Women Entrepreneurship EMPOWERMENT the family and national economy. In addition, Borusan Holding Besides supporting the employment of women in the industry, Borusan is among the signatories of many international protocols and Holding also offers women who want to start their own business, covenants regarding this key issue, particularly the United Nations thereby achieving their economic freedom through entrepreneurship, Women’s Empowerment Principles. the opportunity of benefiting from its Microcredit practice. In 2014, “My Mum’s Job is My Future” credit support was provided to 603 women entrepreneurs who wanted to start or improve their own businesses via Microcredit branches In cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and in Afyon and Gemlik. To date, the number of women entrepreneurs the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Borusan Holding who have received microcredit support in various business lines has conducts the project entitled “My Mum’s Job is My Future” in order reached 1,300, while the total credit loan amounts to 3 million Turkish to specifically promote the increase of women’s employment in the Liras. The areas of work for these women entrepreneurs range from industry and the empowerment of women in society in general. operating bakeries and hairdressing salons to the manufacturing of The goal of this project is to build nurseries and day care centers, handwork products. individually called “Borusan Joy Factory”, where children between birth and six year old will receive care and preschool education Support for Women’s Studies services. The scope of this venture is to construct these centers in Borusan Holding attaches great importance to closing the social gender 10 organized industrial zones in 10 provinces across Turkey. In gap as a sociological issue. The Company believes in the magnitude this manner, women who could not otherwise hold jobs because of of contributing to the development of the theoretical background of the lack of childcare, will now be able to find employment in these the issue while conducting tangible, solution-oriented projects. As a industrial centers while their children simultaneously benefit from consequence, Borusan provides support for universities conducting excellent preschool care in an educational environment that will women’s studies both in Turkey and abroad. In this regard, in 2014 ensure their mental and physical development. Borusan sponsored numerous academic studies and research projects As a part of helping increase a society’s As a part of this project, in 2014 “Borusan Joy Factory” nursery and conducted at Koç University, Sabancı University and Columbia University. overall quality of life, Borusan Holding day care centers were opened for services in Afyon and Adıyaman. These two centers are now enabling 150 children to receive the Ocean Passengers Young Women Mentorship Project believes in the importance of empowering women in both the social and economic benefit of preschool education while their mothers return to their Borusan employees with different specialties and employed in spheres of life. This will not only enable jobs at organized industrial zones. In 2014, the “My Mum’s Job is My different Group companies conduct mentorship work in order to the building of a stronger economy and Future” project was deemed worthy of the Inclusiveness Award at ensure that young women who do not have equal opportunities create a more equal society, but it will the Corporate Social Responsibility Awards Competition, organized may start their business life better equipped. In 2014, around 100 also help achieve progress in the areas of by the Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations (TISK). volunteers from Borusan, working in six different cities, provided sustainability and human rights. support for the Ocean Passengers Young Women Mentorship Project started by Borusan Holding in cooperation with the Women Entrepreneurs Association (KAGIDER). G4-16 PERFORMANCE DATA 60 PERFORMANCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 DATA Towards a Brighter Future SOCIAL PERFORMANCE DATA 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total Workforce 7,184 8,012 Total Workforce by Level of Education 6,224 6,504 Direct Employment 6,224 6,504 Elementary Education 1,282 813 Female 1,017 1,043 High School 2,078 2,742 Male 5,207 5,461 University and Above 2,864 2,949 Contractor Company 960 1,508 Employee Breakdown by Age 6,224 6,504 Female 128 208 18-30 1,864 2,196 Male 832 1,300 31-40 2,725 2,759 Total Workforce by Contract Type 1 6,224 6,504 41-50 1,391 1,352 Permanent 5,843 6,181 51-60 209 174 Female 931 983 60+ 35 23 Male 4,912 5,198 Senior Management Temporary 381 323 By Gender 54 58 Female 86 60 Female 12 11 Male 295 263 Male 42 47 Total Workforce by Category 6,224 6,504 By Age Group 54 58 Blue Collar 2,158 2,378 18-30 1 0 Female 12 16 31-40 4 5 Male 2,146 2,362 41-50 25 30 White Collar 4,066 4,126 51-60 24 23 Female 1,005 1,027 Male 3,061 3,099 1 Part-time employment does not occur within the scope of Borusan Group operations, G4-9, G4-10, G4-17 61 PERFORMANCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 DATA Towards a Brighter Future Mid-Level Management 2012 2013 2014 Leaving Employees 2012 2013 2014 By Gender 244 269 By Gender 1,554 1,710 Female 57 66 Female 341 348 Male 187 203 Male 1,213 1,362 By Age Group 244 269 By Age Group 1,554 1,710 18-30 0 1 18-30 995 1,026 31-40 79 108 31-40 329 415 41-50 127 128 41-50 170 208 51-60 38 32 51-60 60 61 Hired Employees Employee Trainings (number of participants) By Gender 1,798 1,796 Blue Collar 1,479 1,880 Female 365 361 White Collar 1,038 850 Male 1,433 1,435 Employee Trainings (person*hour) By Age Group 1,798 1,796 Blue Collar 24,935 13,620 18-30 1,365 1,280 White Collar 39,980 33,508 31-40 330 366 Contractor Employee Trainings (number of participants) 41-50 86 129 Blue Collar 934 1,561 51-60 17 21 White Collar 741 1,919 Contractor Employee Trainings (person*hour) Blue Collar 1,131 11,238 White Collar 1,562 4,638 62 PERFORMANCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 DATA Towards a Brighter Future Employees Receiving Performance Feedback 2012 2013 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA Blue Collar 324 Energy Consumption (GJ) 2 2012 2013 2014 White Collar 3,502 Energy Consumption from Non-Renewable Resources 2,908,038 2,910,399 3,108,481 Energy Consumption from Renewable Resources 10,240 Employee Satisfaction Indexes 2012 2013 2014 Satisfaction 54.7 62.2 67 2012 2013 2014 Loyalty 58.6 63.6 73 Total Energy Savings (GJ) 32,080 7,696 3,103 Willingness 61 65.4 74 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO 2e ton) 3 2012 2013 2014 OHS Trainings (number of participants) 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 + Scope 2 255,984 273,826 283,708 Direct Employment 78 21 Scope 3 90,810 103,083 112,282 Contractor Company 2 18 TOTAL 348,807 378,923 398,004 OHS Trainings (person*hour) Direct Employment 624 168 GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio (CO 2e ton/m$) 4 2012 2013 2014 Contractor Company 16 144 Scope 1 + Scope 2 114.87 123.68 89.62 Number of OHS Committees 1 1 Scope 3 78.99 86.90 84.96 Number of Members in OHS Committees 7 7 Number of Employee Representatives in OHS 2 2 2012 2013 2014 Committees Total Amount of Emissions Reductions (ton CO2e) 23,381 37,141 210,000 Number of Employees Covered by Collective 2 Energy data of Borusan Otomotiv ve Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri began to be consolidated as of 2014, 1,624 1,717 Bargaining Agreements 3 The data belonging to Borusan Otomotiv is not included in the consolidated emissions figures, The data belonging to Borusan Otomotiv. Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri and Borçelik are not included in Scope 3 values, 4 GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio was calculated with regards to the total annual revenues of companies that are included in emission calculation, G4-17 63 PERFORMANCE BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 DATA Towards a Brighter Future Water Withdrawal by Source (m3) 5 2012 2013 2014 Total Weight of Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method 2012 2013 2014 (ton)8 Well Water 1,213,649 1,216,190 1,169,966 Energy Recovery 0 0 24,336 Municipal Water 71,687 65,524 82,326 Recovery 1,281,892 1,482,168 631,032 TOTAL 1,285,336 1,281,714 1,252,292 Dump Site 0 881,977 1,042,730 Incineration 0 0 7,780 Total Water Discharge by Destination (m3) 6 2012 2013 2014 Other 589 571 20,054 Receiving Environment 241,610 246,743 221,717 TOTAL 1,282,481 2,364,716 1,608,387 Sewer 8,400 9,200 36,600 TOTAL 250,010 255,943 258,317 Total Weight of Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal 2012 2013 2014 Method (ton)7 Energy Recovery 33,267 12,942 10,109 Recovery 1,790,186 2,128,461 2,808,113 Dump Site 523,440 18 1,992 Incineration 618 0 368 Other 65,973 112,880 28,680 TOTAL 2,413,484 2,254,302 2,849,262 5 Water withdrawal data of Borusan Lojistik, Borusan EnBW Enerji. Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri and Borusan Otomotiv began to be consolidated as of 2014. 6 Waste water figures of Borusan Lojistik and Borusan EnBW Enerji are not included in the consolidated data, Figures belonging to Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri and Borusan Otomotiv began to be consolidated as of 2014. 7 Waste data of Borusan EnBW Enerji, Borusan Otomotiv and Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri began to be consolidated as of 2014. 8 Waste data of Borusan EnBW, Borusan Otomotiv and Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri began to be consolidated as of 2014. GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 65 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Disclosure Reported in Reference Pages Explanations External Audit Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Message from the Chairman and the CEO 4-5 Organizational Profile G4-3 Contact Inside Back Cover G4-4 About Borusan 9 G4-5 Contact Inside Back Cover About Borusan 9 G4-6 About the Report 3 http://borusanyatirim.com/_file/tr/FaaliyetRaporlari/ G4-7 Borusan Holding Annual Report 133 BorusanYatirim/2014BORUSANFAALIYETENG.pdf G4-8 About Borusan 9 About Borusan 9 G4-9 Social Performance Data 60 http://borusanyatirim.com/_file/tr/FaaliyetRaporlari/ Borusan Holding Annual Report 82-87 BorusanYatirim/2014BORUSANFAALIYETENG.pdf Working Life 45 G4-10 Social Performance Data 60 GRI Content Index 65 There are no seasonal employment changes in Borusan Group operations. G4-11 International Ethical Values 50 About Borusan 8 G4-12 Corporate Website http://www.borusan.com.tr/EN/GroupBorusanDetail.aspx http://borusanyatirim.com/_file/tr/FaaliyetRaporlari/ G4-13 Borusan Holding Annual Report 114 BorusanYatirim/2014BORUSANFAALIYETENG.pdf G4-10, G4-32 GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 66 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Disclosure Reported in Reference Pages Explanations External Audit G4-14 Risk Management 12-13 About the Report 3 Business Ethics And Fight Against Corruption 18-19 G4-15 Employee Rights 49 Women’s Empowerment 58 G4-16 Union and Association Memberships 15 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries About the Report 3 About Borusan 8 G4-17 Sustainability in All Areas 16 Social Performance Data 60 Environmental Performance Data 62 About the Report 3 G4-18 Identification of Material Aspects 17 G4-19 Identification of Material Aspects 17 About the Report 3 G4-20 Identification of Material Aspects 17 About the Report 3 G4-21 Identification of Material Aspects 17 G4-22 GRI Content Index 66 There are no restatements of information provided in previous reports. About the Report 3 G4-23 Identification of Material Aspects 17 G4-22 GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 67 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Disclosure Reported in Reference Pages Explanations External Audit Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement 14 G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement 14 G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Sustainability Management 16 Identification of Material Aspects 17 G4-27 Customer Satisfaction 27 While we have used stakeholder feedbacks in determining the content of the GRI Content Index 67 report, we plan to reflect stakeholder expectations to the report more effectively in the upcoming periods. Report Profile G4-28 About the Report 3 G4-29 Corporate Website http://www.borusan.com.tr/_Media/PDF/SurdurulebilirlikRaporuING2013.PDF G4-30 About the Report 3 G4-31 Contact Inside Back Cover About the Report 3 G4-32 GRI Content Index 65 G4-33 GRI Content Index 67 Borusan Group Sustainabiltiy Report 2014 was not subjected to any external audit. Governance Corporate Governance 15 G4-34 Sustainability Management 16-17 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 G4-27, G4-33 GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 68 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Category: Economic Message from the Chairman and the CEO; Aspect: Economic Performance 4-5, 16-17 Sustainability Management http://borusanyatirim.com/_file/tr/FaaliyetRaporlari/ G4-EC1 Borusan Holding Annual Report 82-87 BorusanYatirim/2014BORUSANFAALIYETENG.pdf Message from the Chairman and the CEO 4-5 G4-EC2 Sustainability Management 16-17 Energy and Climate 33-34 G4-EC3 Employee Rights 49 Aspect: Market Presence Employee Rights 49 G4-EC5 Employee Rights 49 Aspect: Indirect Economic Sustainability Management; Corporate 16-17, 53-58 Impacts Responsibility G4-EC7 Corporate Responsibility 53-58 G4-EC8 Corporate Responsibility 53-58 Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy Energy and Climate 33-34 G4-EN3 Environmental Performance Data 62 Energy and Climate 3 G4-EN6 Environmental Performance Data 62 Product and Service Quality 23 G4-EN7 New Products and Services 39 GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 69 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Aspect: Water Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 G4-EN8 Environmental Performance Data 63 G4-EN9 Biodiversity 36 Aspect: Biodiversity Biodiversity 36 G4-EN11 Biodiversity 36 G4-EN12 Biodiversity 36 Borusan Group operations has no significant impact on protected or restored G4-EN13 GRI Content Index 69 habitats. Aspect: Emissions Energy and Climate 33-34 G4-EN15 Environmental Performance Data 62 G4-EN16 Environmental Performance Data 62 G4-EN17 Environmental Performance Data 62 Energy and Climate 33 G4-EN18 Environmental Performance Data 62 Energy and Climate 34 G4-EN19 Environmental Performance Data 62 Aspect: Effluents and Waste Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 G4-EN22 Environmental Performance Data 63 G4-EN23 Environmental Performance Data 63 G4-EN26 Biodiversity 36 G4-EN26 GRI Content Index 69 There is no body of water significantly affected by Borusan Group’s water use. GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 70 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Aspect: Compliance Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 G4-EN29 Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 Aspect: Overall Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 G4-EN31 Environmental Impacts Of Operations 35 Aspect: Environmental Sustainability Management 16-17 Grievance Mechanisms Borusan Group did not receive any complaints through the official grievance G4-EN34 GRI Content Index 70 mechanisms regarding the environmental impact of its operations during the reporting period. Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment Working Life 45-50 G4-LA1 Social Performance Data 61 Employee Rights 48-49 G4-LA2 Corporate Website http://www.borusan.com.tr/EN/UcretYonetimiVeYanHaklar.aspx Aspect: Labor/Employment Risk Management and Internal Auditing 12-13 Relations In case of operational changes, Borusan Group companies comply with the G4-LA4 GRI Content Index 70 minimum period of notice defined by the laws and regulations. Aspect: Occupational Health Occupational Health and Safety 46 and Safety Occupational Health and Safety 46 G4-LA5 Social Performance Data 62 GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 71 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Occupational Health and Safety 46 During the reporting period, no incidents of occupational disease or work-related G4-LA6 fatalities occured within the scope of Borusan Group operations. Consolidated GRI Content Index 71 figures for injury rate, lost day rate and absentee rate cannot be provided. Related data will be disclosed as of 31.12.2015. No operations carried out by Borusan Group companies bear G4-LA7 GRI Content Index 71 risks of specific occupational diseases. G4-LA8 Occupational Health and Safety 46 Aspect: Training and Education Talent Management 48 Talent Management 48 G4-LA9 Social Performance Data 61 Training data cannot be provided with gender breakdown. Related data will be GRI Content Index 71 disclosed as of 31.12.2015 Talent Management 47 G4-LA11 Social Performance Data 62 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Employee Rights 48-49 Opportunity Employee Rights 48-49 G4-LA12 Social Performance Data 61 Aspect: Equal Remuneration Employee Rights 49 for Women and Men G4-LA13 Employee Rights 49 Aspect: Labor Practices Sustainability Management 16-17 Grievance Mechanisms No Borusan Group company received complaints through the official grievance G4-LA16 GRI Content Index 71 mechanisms regarding their labor practices during the reporting period. GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 72 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Sub-Category: Human Rights Aspect: Non-discrimination Sustainability Management; Employee Rights 16 G4-HR3 Employee Rights 48-49 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective International Ethical Values 50 Bargaining G4-HR4 International Ethical Values 50 Aspect: Child Labor International Ethical Values 50 G4-HR5 International Ethical Values 50 Aspect: Forced and International Ethical Values 50 Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 International Ethical Values 50 Aspect: Security Practices International Ethical Values 50 Security personnel employed by Group companies undergo training concerning the G4-HR7 GRI Content Index 72 policy, procedure and legal obligations regarding human rights. Aspect: Indigenous Rights International Ethical Values 50 No incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people occured during the G4-HR8 GRI Content Index 72 reporting period. Aspect: Human Rights International Ethical Values 50 Grievance Mechanisms No Borusan Group company received complaints through the official grievance G4-HR12 GRI Content Index 72 mechanisms regarding their compliance with human rights during the reporting period. GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 73 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities Sustainability Management 16-17 No Borusan Group company conduct operations with significant actual and G4-SO2 GRI Content Index 73 potential negative impacts on local communities. Aspect: Anti-corruption Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 G4-SO4 Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 G4-SO5 Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 Aspect: Public Policy Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 Borusan Group does not make directly or undirectly any financial and in-kind G4-SO6 GRI Content Index 73 political contributions. Aspect: Anti-competitive Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 Behavior G4-SO7 Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 Aspect: Compliance Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 G4-SO8 Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms Risk Management 12 for Impacts on Society No Borusan Group company received complaints through the official grievance G4-SO11 GRI Content Index 73 mechanisms regarding their impact on society during the reporting period. GRI CONTENT INDEX BORUSAN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT-2014 Towards a Brighter Future 74 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reference Profile Disclosure Reported in Explanations External Audit Pages Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Product and Service Safety and Security 24 Safety G4-PR1 Product and Service Safety and Security 24 G4-PR2 Product and Service Safety and Security 24 Aspect: Product and Service Customer Satisfaction 27 Labeling G4-PR5 Customer Satisfaction 27 Aspect: Marketing Strategic Planning 13 Communications Borusan Group companies do not sell products that are banned in certain markets G4-PR6 GRI Content Index 74 and/or subject of stakeholder questions or public debate No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR7 GRI Content Index 74 marketing communications occured during the reporting period.. Aspect: Customer Privacy Customer Data Security 26 G4-PR8 Customer Data Security 26 Aspect: Compliance Business Ethics and Fight Against Corruption 18-19 During the reporting period, no significant fines were paid for non-compliance with G4-PR9 GRI Content Index 74 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. CONTACT Borusan Holding A.Ş. Rumelihisarı, Baltalimanı Hisar Caddesi No:5 34470 Sarıyer / İstanbul T: +90 (212) 393 52 00 F: +90 (212) 393 00 01 To receive information about the report, and express opinions and suggestions: Ayşe Yeşer BALMUMCU ybalmumcu@borusan.com Reporting Consultant: Kıymet-i Harbiye info@kiymetiharbiye.com T: +90 (212) 279 13 13 Design: Myra LEGAL DISCLAIMER: Borusan Group Sustainability Report for 2014 (“Report”) is prepared by Borusan Holding A.Ş. (“Borusan” or “Borusan Holding” or “Borusan Group”). All the information and opinions contained in this Report do not purport to be comprehensive, and have been provided by the Borusan independently to verify for the purposes of this report. This report is issued for information purposes only and cannot be used as a decisive tool for an investment decision. The information in this report does not count as a part of an offer or an invitation for the selling of the Borusan Group shares and no legal connection can be constituted with the publication of this report. It is believed that all the information in this report and the related documents are accurate and provided in good faith based on reliable resources. However Borusan does not commit, guarantee or provide further news about this report. In accordance to this, none of the Group Companies or Members of the Board, Consulters or employees are under the responsibility of Borusan directly at indirectly for the loss due to the information within the scope of this report. G4-3, G4-5, G4-31
