Responsible investment report 2015 CSR at Axcel Axcel gives consideration to sustainability in all its investments. It is now a precondition for successful investments that owners are fully aware of CSR issues and actively work to address them. Axcel joined the Global Compact in 2010, fore natural for Axcel to have CSR fully since when we have worked strategically integrated in its investment processes with CSR. In 2016, Axcel submitted its and in the exercise of its ownership first report to the UN PRI (Principles of during the investment period. Responsible Investment). Axcel only invests in companies that satAll Axcel’s companies are required to join isfy, or are willing to satisfy, Global Comthe Global Compact within one year and pact’s principles. The companies’ capacto continuously work on developing posiity and willingness to work in accordance tively in line with the Global Compact’s with the principles are also therefore part ten principles. This work constitutes an of Axcel’s due diligence when acquiring integral part of active ownership, with new companies. companies drawing up an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report Whereas Global Compact mainly focuses which is published on the UN Global on CSR at company level, UN PRI adCompact’s website. dresses environmental, social and governance matters at fund level under the Axcel regards CSR as an integral part of designation ESG (environment, social, the work on risk in companies. It is theregovernance). As a member of both 2 schemes, Axcel has the best possible – consider risks relating to CSR issues platform for establishing the framework and address them proactively for CSR reporting, as acknowledged by – are in a position to meet the requirements both companies and investors. and expectations of customers and business partners concerning supply It is Axcel’s goal to continuously develop its chain management and code of conduct companies’ CSR work. This is a demanding – consider future business opportunities process requiring that the companies set and positioning in relation to CSR aside both time and resources to develop in – comply with the DVCA’s guidelines on this area. Consequently, Axcel undertakes openness and transparency. ongoing dialogue with the companies on the development of CSR work. This takes place Virtually all Axcel’s companies have pubat regular meetings with a circle of CSR oflished a COP, and the rest are on the way ficers and directly with the companies. to doing so. Axcel routinely makes proposals to its companies for improvements, Axcel works to ensure that its companies: but it is vital that they themselves assume – comply with relevant laws, rules and inbasic responsibility for CSR work. ternationally recognised principles Global Compact status of Axcel-owned companies as at 31.03.2016 Joined Global Compact First COP Ball Group X 2012 Conscia New investment – Delete Group X 2015 Driconeq X 2013 EG X 2015 EXHAUSTO X 2015 Mita-Teknik X 2015 Netel X 2016 Nordic Waterproofing X 2013 Silkeborg Data X TCM Group X 2012 Axcel’s approach to CSR Axcel has signed up to both the PRI and the Global Compact, which ensures real improveGlobal Compact at fund level. At company level, ments in ESG performance and risk manage­ all portfolio companies have signed up to the ment. Axcel’s Reporting to Investment active investors and decision ownership the public Monitoring Global Due diligence of Axcel’s Compact COP companies 9 companies 3 COP assessment for Axcel III and IV Human Rights Risks regarding equality, life and security, personal freedom, economic, social and cultural freedoms. Labour Risks regarding freedom of association and recognition and the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment & occupation. Environmental Challenges Risks regarding environmental impact, damage to ecosystems, pollution, damage to acquatic ecosystems, land degradation, the impacts oc chemicals use and disposal, waste production and depletion of non­renewable resources. Anti-corruption Risks regarding corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Overall assessment of Axcel companies: 1 = Low risk 2 = Medium risk 3 = High risk Assessment of risk by category Fund Portfolio Company Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Axcel III K/S Ball Group 1 1 1 1 Driconeq 1 1 1 1 Axcel IV K/S Exhausto 1 1 1 1 Mita-Teknik 1 1 1 2 Netel 1 2 1 1 Nordic Waterproofing 1 1 1 1 EG 1 1 1 1 Delete Group 1 1 2 1 Conscia 1 1 1 1 4 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2015 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Netel Mita-Teknik Mita-Teknik comments Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes (Yes) Mita has an approved CSR policy, which also includes environmental issues. But the company has no specific ”Environmental policy” in place. Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No No (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco­label européen...) If yes, please give name of label/certification The business management system is not officially certified. However, Environmental the BMS is reviewed and signed off practice of the portfolio company by an external consultant. The BMS is considered to fulfil the requirements of ISO 140001:2004. Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Not applicable Yes Mita­Teknik benefits from an intelligent control system in the buildings in Rødkærsbro saving energy to heat and electricity. Number of employees at year­end (2015) 340 238 Number of employees at year­end (2014) 196 224 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2015 ? Yes No If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add­ons prior to integration Has the company benefited from a reduction of: absenteeism rate? Yes Yes Generally on very low level and reduced in DK and UA; DK: from 2.67% to 1.59%; UA; from 1.0% to 0.85%; CN: from 0.35% to 0.70%; Social behaviour of the portfolio company incident rate? Yes Yes No incidents in DK and UA last two years; 3 smaller incidents in CN last two years; Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 10% ­ 30% 0­10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Part of the quality system including instructions when people onboard; people working with dangerous equipment pass special exam; CP obtain permission to work in hights;; Safety committee and Cooperation committee in DK; Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes Governance Bribery Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes Yes Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information 5 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2015 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria EG Delete Group Conscia Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes Yes No Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No Yes No (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco­label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14001, 9001, OHSAS 18001 Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Information not available Yes No Number of employees at year­end (2015) 1805 730 118 Number of employees at year­end (2014) 1501 677 71 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2015 ? Yes Yes Yes If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add­ons prior to integration 81 20 Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? Yes Yes No incident rate? Not applicable Yes No Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0­10% 0­10% 10% ­ 30% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes No Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes No Governance Bribery Yes Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Not applicable Yes No Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 6 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2015 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria EXHAUSTO A/S NWP NWP comments Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? No Yes Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No Yes (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco­label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14000 for SE and FI Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Yes Yes Number of employees at year­end (2015) 318 634 Average 2015 Number of employees at year­end (2014) 301 644 Average 2014 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2015 ? No No If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add­ons prior to integration Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? No Yes incident rate? No Yes Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0­10% 0­10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? No Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes Governance Bribery Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes Yes Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 7
