FOURTH www.grupoassa.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR FOURTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This Report on Sustainability is the fourth report In 2015 we moved a step beyond our committhat gA has produced to provide information ment to sustainability by adhering to the Uniregarding progress in our economic, social and ted Nations Global Compact. In this way, we environmental performance during 2015. formalized our commitment to the Principles of this initiative related to respect for human rights, Using the guidelines proposed by the Global implementation of better labor standards, environReporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guide, we mental impact and the fight against corruption. have achieved the status of “in compliance”. Based on the document “Making the Connection”, Although this Report has not been verified by an from the United Nations and the Global Reporting external source, many of the processes presented Initiative (GRI), we present our Communication here were certified by independent third parties on Progress (COP), demonstrating compliance in accordance with internationally recognized through the actions reported and putting a spotstandards. light on the material standards in our company. 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Within a context of deepening volatility in interWith sustainable growth as a founding value national markets, political factors, increases in and as our guide in our day-to-day manageinflation rates and currency depreciations in Lament, we reaffirm our commitment to work tin American countries, at gA we are deepening with all our stakeholders – our collaborators, our commitment to sustainable business growth investors, clients, business partners, suppliwith a long-term view of our main differentiators: ers, and our local communities – to continue our people and the quality and innovation of transforming the present into a better future. our services. We created the gA Center for ROBERTO WAGMAISTER Digital Transformation with the commitment Through this 4th Report, we invite you to Founder, CEO & Chairman de gA to generate greater knowledge and drive the engage in conversation, to join the proposed process of digitalization in companies in Latin initiatives, or to suggest opportunities for America, launching the first study on this toimprovement. This year we again commit to a pic; we implemented a new internal method to digital format that allows each of you to delve gA was born with a clear vision: to become a our role in society and to the impact we genergenerate innovation for the development of new further into the topics that are of most interest global leader in the transformation of business ate on people and organizations. Sustainability products and services, valuing the capacity of in an agile and easy manner. We invite you through technology built on a solid foundation: is a management model that defines our way all collaborators; and we improved our delivery to browse our report and to let us know your our values. These values have allowed gA to of being and doing things. structure to make our services more efficient. suggestions and ideas to continue improving grow, while maintaining the spirit on which it was day by day. founded when were just 17 entrepreneurs, to During 2015 we developed a strategic plan “We are a company what today is a multicultural base of more than with a timeline to 2020 that establishes the 1300 collaborators providing services worldwide. commitments to guide the management with a sustainable of our company over the long term toward growth based on Our vision is to continue to bet on a compasustainability. This plan has nine gA comvalued. Sustainability ny where entrepreneurial passion shines. To mitments, resulting from a mix of the three transform the business models of our clients. differentiating pillars that are the essence of is a management To receive the benefits of incorporating digital gA: Technology, Education and Knowledge; model that defines technologies throughout the value chain and with a threefold impact: Economic, Environintegrating it with knowledge of habits and mental and Social; to achieve a transformaour way of being and trends of consumption of the end user. The tion that generates sustainable development doing things.” backbone that supports this great change is and positive impact. our People. Our Mission is to enable them to At the same time, we continue to expand our be part of the process that is changing the Once again we affirm our commitment to sussustainable growth and organizational transforparadigms of value production and to convert tainability by adhering to the United Nations mation program, gA 25, in order to consolidate them into the new workers of 2020: trained to Global Compact. With this report we also our collaborators as change agents, instilling innovate and execute these transformations. announce our first Communication of Progress in them a culture of leadership that represents (COP), demonstrating our commitment to its 10 our spirit and strengthens our passion and We are a company with a sustainable growth principles on labor standards, human rights, professional excellence beyond the position based on values. This allows us to commit to environment and anti-corruption. one has in the organization. 2 3 MESSAGE FROM THE VP CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT for talent management, we consolidated the this year we inaugurated corporate offices in network of change agents in gA 25 Leaders a new eco-friendly building in Mexico. Everywhere, and we invested in more than 129,000 hours of training. All of these actions that we present are sustained by the invaluable contributions of our We support education as the motor of collaborators, with whom we cross pathways transformation in our neighboring communities of learning experiences to search for new and by accompanying more than 1,370 young better strategies that allow us to be closer to PAUL A. DOUGALL people in designing their life project by giving our stakeholders. We would like to especially VP Corporate Development gA them tools that allow them to excel in both thank the effort, commitment and motivation the labor and academic world, through our of those that contributed to this Sustainability Fostering a Future program. With the active Report, which we very proudly present today. participation of around 100 volunteers and This 4th Sustainability Report reflects the main We developed new strategic alliances with DSI, more than 500 in all of our corporate volunteer We invite you to find out more about all of developments carried out throughout the year Continente Siete and Boosteller to enhance programs, we promote the development of our actions by browsing this report, and in gA’s sustainable management. our Global Alliance Network. This contributes communities and look after our surroundings. we welcome your input and suggestions to to the diversification of our value chain and continue improving our management toward We continue to define new ways to optimize strengthens the transformation proposals that “We created the gA sustainability. communication, allowing for a closer dialogue we carry out with our clients. and adapting to the interest of our key publics. Center for Digital Following last year’s positive experience, this We created the gA Center for Digital Transformation with new Sustainability Report is presented in a Transformation, with the commitment to digital and more dynamic format in order to generate greater knowledge and drive the the commitment to bring us closer to our stakeholders. digitalization process in companies in Latin generate greater America. We carried out the first study on knowledge and Taking its process of elaboration as a the state of digitalization in companies in the management tool, this year we delved deeper region in order to understand the nature of the drive the process into working with indicators to monitor our challenges in the digital transformation of the of digitalization in own performance along with that of other key economy and to develop recommendations for areas in the company. how Latin America can face those challenges companies in Latin over the next few years. America.” Through our focus on Digital Business Transformation (dBT) we continue enhancing We continue to strengthen the value We aim to generate a cultural change in gA to the user experience, sustaining close and proposition for our collaborators to reinforce “think green” through awareness campaigns professional relationships with our clients: their growth, motivation and development. In and events with a global reach, recycling 39% of our sales come from clients who have 2015, we designed processes to promote the and volunteering actions, and innovations had a business relationship with us for more professional development plan and personal in technology to diminish the impact of our than 10 years, and 49% from 2 to 10 years. growth of our collaborators through a new model operations on the environment. In addition, 4 5 ABOUT gA We are a leading global firm in Digital Business Transformation (dBT). OUR VALUES 1,373 Collaborators We are committed, proactive and team oriented, bringing professional excellence and integrity to our clients. Sustainable Growth 129,151 Hours Our Vision is to generate sustainable development and create a positive impact by of training for collaborators Professional Excellence transforming businesses, people, organizations and communities. 91.5 Hours Commitment average training per collaborator 100% of Collaborators OUR HISTORY Social Responsibility reached through the New Talent Management Model 1992 Buenos Aires, Argentina Integrity 419 New hires 1999 Sao Paulo, Brazil Teamwork 2000 Monterrey, Mexico 175 Change Agents 2002 Mexico City, Mexico 2004 Curitiba, Brazil gA POWER CONTEST 2009 Santiago, Chile DELIVERY CENTER Argentina, Brazil and Mexico 2011 Tandil, Argentina We organized the “gA PowerContest”, and invited collaborators to participate in this internal competition aimed at developing competencies that enable them to become leaders of business transformation based on innovation. COMMERCIAL OFFICES 2012 Barrafunda, Brazil Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, United States 2013 Bogota, Colombia 261+ Participants 17 Registered teams STAFF LOCATIONS 2015 Miami, USA Belgium, Canada, Colombia, 8 Finalist teams United Kingdom, United States 6 7 ABOUT gA gA 25 LEADERS EVERYWHERE MILESTONES IN 2015 gA 25 Leaders Everywhere is our program for sustainable growth and organizational transEXPANSION IN THE UNITED STATES formation that lays the foundation for the company we want to become. It seeks to consolWith the global vision that is our hallmark, in 2015 we opened an office in the U.S., in idate a culture of leadership that reflects our spirit, energizes our passion and potentiates the state of Florida, in order to better serve U.S. companies poised for a business transprofessional excellence beyond one’s official position in the company. formation centered on processes, people and technology in order to create value. INNOVATION MANAGEMENT TRAINING CULTURE AND CLIMATE We introduced a new internal model for generating innovation, which included organizing our first Power Contest to provide opportunities for teams of collaborators to We train future leaders by establishing a leadership We promote a good working environment and the propose new solutions. In addition, the management team was expanded, incorporamodel tailored to our culture. integration of our collaborators. ting high-potential young executives into key roles for the generation of new products and services. 941 Participants 75% of collaborators participated in the Climate Survey SOLUTION CENTER, OUR NEW MODEL OF DELIVERY 3,764 Hours of training +20 Activities We are working to transform our model of delivery by creating the gA Solution Center. through “Be A Protagonist in gA” program Vive gA, Management Café and Events This change will help the company grow in a sustainable manner and at the same time, will promote accountability and revitalize our business model ONE FIRM by consolida8 groups Internal communications ting all consulting teams into a single organization. trained as Change Agents through Gain, gA Portal and Drive LAUNCH OF THE gA CENTER FOR DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION E.L.I.G.E gA (acronym in Spanish) In association with Dr. Raúl Katz, a professor at Columbia University, we launched this gA Leadership and Management School center to study the impact of digitalization on the productive sector in Latin America and how executives of the largest companies in the region are addressing the challengCHANGE MANAGEMENT es of the digital economy. We have created a new space in our internal network Gain to share the new knowledge produced. The gA Center for Digital Transformation’s invesThe process of cultural evolution is driven by Change Agents. In 2015 we consolidated a network of Change Agents in the region to facilitate change and promote actions to improve the company’s processes. tigation, “Latin America 4.0: Digital transformation in the value chain”, is the first study focused on the digitalization of business in Latin America, analyzing strategy and prog175 Change Agents Network of Change Agents ress in 75 companies in the region. consolidated 8 9 ABOUT gA BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY During 2015, gA produced a strategic plan to 2020 that sets the company’s long-term comOur commitment is to generate a positive impact by building solid, long-lasting mitments in order to guide its management toward sustainability. This plan has nine gA and close relationships with our clients and business partners based on trust and commitments, resulting from a mix of the three differentiating pillars that are the essence of professional excellence. gA: Technology, Education and Knowledge. These pillars have a threefold impact: Economic, Environmental and Social, to achieve a 78.2 millon USD 654 suppliers transformation that generates sustainable development and positive impact. in gross sales 39% of Sales Strengthening come from clients working with our external relationships with clients BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL us for more than 10 years TECHNOLOGY ENHANCE OUR DBT DEVELOP SOLUTIONS CONTRIBUTE TO New Strategic Alliances Development THAT PROMOTE THE APPROACH TO PROMOTE EDUCATIONAL AND Continente Siete and Boosteller of the first study on the digitalization in EFFICIENT USE OF THE THREEFOLD IMPACT LABOR INCLUSION companies in Latin America RESOURCES OUR CLIENTS EDUCATION DEVELOP SOLUTIONS TRAIN POSITIVE THAT PROMOTE THE 4 Rs DEVELOP TALENT FOR An essential part of our success is based on maintaining close and lasting relationships CHANGE AGENTS (RETHINK, REDUCE, THE IT SECTOR with our principal clients over the years. We provide innovative solutions that add value to RECYCLE, REUSE) our clients, aiming to have a positive impact on their performance. TOTAL CLIENTS SALES BY CLIENTS SENIORITY KNOWLEDGE GENERATE AND SHARE PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE PROMOTE MODELS THAT POSITIVE IMPACT PRACTICES IN OUR GENERATE EMPLOYMENT 49% Entre Between años 2 y 210and 10 years SOLUTIONS VALUE CHAIN BASED ON IT 153 39% Más Morede 10 10 than años years 12% Menos de22years Less than años 10 11 BUSINESS OUR VALUE PROPOSITION OUR NETWORK OF PARTNERS gA GLOBAL ALLIANCE NETWORK Through our Digital Business Transformation (dBT) approach we add concrete and measurable value to our clients through a transformation that enhances the user’s overall experience, integrating technologies and new models for using these technologies with the GLOBAL GLOBAL company: their core systems, their human capital and their business processes. DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICE TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS PARTNERS PARTNERS Mobility, social networks, and cloud infrastructure are changing the way companies must define their business model. Through our Digital Business Transformation (dBT) approach, we help companies prepare to adopt what we call “proactive disruption”. • Infosys • SAP HANA • Jive • SAP • Abeam • Success Factors • MetricStream • Oracle Consulting • Demantra • DSI • JDEdwards • Bearing Point • Dunnhumby • Boosteller • Salesforce • WestMonroe • Hybris • Continente Siete • Software AG RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIERS We carefully select our suppliers in order to ensure the greatest quality in their services. The majority of our suppliers are linked to the maintenance of our Delivery Centers, either through infrastructure or as service providers to our collaborators. The main services contracted include: telephone and Internet services, marketing and communications specialists, office supplies, cleaning and building maintenance, security and maintenance of licenses. TOTAL SUPPLIERS 654 12 13 COMMUNITY Through games, exercises and case study simulations, the young people gain knowledge, tools, aptitudes and confidence that they can use in the labor market and/or to continue their studies. COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY We aim to add value and generate a positive impact on the communities where we operate by 7 editions 331 Beneficiaries of the program in 2015 of the program in 2015 enhancing skills, developing capabilities and opening up access to knowledge and tools for professionalization. We invest in education as the motor of change and we are committed to reduce the gap between work and education in order to promote the development of talent in 1,373 Beneficiaries 470 Volunteers Hours since the program began in 2015 our communities. 2,487 Volunteer Hours 504 Volunteers 236,763 USD 1,474 Hours since the program began in 2015 in social investment of volunteer service 100% of Volunteers 100% of Youths 2,076 Beneficiaries 24 Strategic alliances recommend participating in the program recommend the program in social investment programs 504 Volunteers involved The reception in gA was very motivating, it FOSTERING A FUTURE exceeded my expectations. I truly hope this project will continue helping and encouraging Fostering a Future aims to help young people who are in their last years of public secondary young people like me. gA gave me a goal and school draw up a life plan and provides tools that allow them to shine in both the labor and objectives. Thank you for this day! I hope to return, academic worlds. not as a visitor but as an employee!” Participant in Fostering a Future Brazil This program consists in a non-formal education space that is built around the interaction between the young people, the company’s volunteers and an expert facilitator. 14 15 COMMUNITY SOCIAL INCUBATOR EDUCATION 3.0 In conjunction with the organization “Puerta 18”, we developed a social incubator for artisThe program’s objective is to train secondary school teachers in the latest technology in tic-technological entrepreneurships to promote the employability of young graduates from order to contribute to updating education programs to meet the demand in the current its professional specialization program. In this pilot program, the first entrepreneurship labor market. received development and implementation support through a series of talks with professionals from gA and business associates, who shared tools and knowledge that were important for the project. 285 Youths 120 Hours directly benefited of volunteer service The objective of this pilot program was to lead and promote a new model of employability and talent development. This allows us to make a contribution to problems of youth unem8,950 Youths Alliances ployment and the shortage of trained professionals who can make a structural impact in indirectly benefited with the School-Business Partnership Program of the AEA and the Department the communities where we work. of Technical Schools of the Province of 13 Volunteers involved Buenos Aires 8 Volunteers involved 6 months incubation period 93% satisfaction 100% of teachers from the teachers say it is very important for companies to 90 Hours of Volunteer Service 4 Youths benefited share their knowledge with the education provided during this first stage system 100% placed great value on the knowledge gained for their work as teachers In these spaces knowledge is built. As teachers, we prepare ourselves to work in an educational environment, and it is a challenge to get up-to-date with new knowledge we can use to prepare the kids for the real world.” Teacher at the La Matanza No. 14 school 16 17 COMMUNITY CORPORATE VOLUNTEERISM GLOBAL CAMPAIGN – WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY Our volunteers contribute to personalize and humanize the work we do to develop our communities and protect our environment. In 2015 the program was strengthened and given a strong regional stamp, achieving global campaigns with local implementation in every location where we have offices. GLOBAL CAMPAIGN – CHRISTMAS SOLIDARITY 401 794 1,456 Total Volunteers Hours devoted to Beneficiaries of volunteer service the activities FOSTERING A FUTURE LOCAL ACTIONS TO INCREASE SMILES FRIENDS TELL STORIES WITH THE LEER FOUNDATION RUNNING TEAM FOR EX CASA CUNA OPENING WINDOWS PROGRAM WITH ARGENCON PCS DONATION TO THE EQUIDAD FOUNDATION SOLIDARITY ACTIVITIES IN BRAZIL 18 19 ENVIRONMENT AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS EARTH HOUR COMMITTMENT TO OUR ENVIRONMENT We create awareness about the importance of protecting the environment and promote sustainable practices and habits that inspire our collaborators to be change agents to minimize gA’s impact on the planet. New building “Earth Hour” Eco-friendly corporate offices in Mexico we joined the campaign to promote the efficient use of energy WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY 57 “Assagrenero” Volunteers 1,132 Kilos recycled through a regional campaign on electronic World Environment Day waste global campaign 57 Virtual servers recycled to optimize their use, improving 54% of Printouts are two-sided service quality in Argentina Process improvements 35.8% reduction for separating and recycling waste in all AWARENESS CAMPAIGN AT OUR OFFICES in the purchase of plastic cups since 2012 offices gA GREEN We promote cultural change in our collaborators to create awareness about different environmental issues and to change our habits and daily actions. 20 21 ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING ACTIONS GREEN IT ARGENTINA We believe that we can contribute to reducing the impact of our operations on the environment through technology. For this reason the “Green IT” Program was started, through Electronic waste recycling Recycling program at which we developed a number of initiatives to leverage technology to achieve the efficient campaign Garrahan Hospital in Buenos Aires use of paper and energy and reduce the carbon emissions generated by our activities. Battery recycling campaign Paper and plastic recycling TECHNOLOGY TO REDUCE AND RECYCLE programs with ONGs CIANE We implemented a printing control system together with an awareness campaign with Collection of plastic bottles and the Children’s Hospital Foundation of Tandil the slogan “Your role is double”. • Brazil and Mexico adopted measures to • 12% of printouts were double-sided control printouts in Brazil BRAZIL • 54% of printouts were double-sided • 4,240 fewer printouts than in 2014 Donation of 32 kilos of Donation of 0.5 kilos of paper in Argentina electronic waste to Ecoponto to Multilixo Recycling of 320 batteries with TECHNOLOGY FOR COLLABORATION the company Posto 1 We are working to develop and harness more collaborative technology and online communication to avoid unnecessary travel and increase productivity. • Internal social network Gain • Blue Jeans System • VoIP phone system “ASSAGREENERO” VOLUNTEERS 114 Hours of Volunteer Service 68 “ASSAGreenero” Volunteers TECHNOLOGY FOR OPERATING EFFICIENCY We are working on the virtualization of our servers for energy efficiency and to maximize the use of technology and innovation. Thanks to the installment of 254 virtual servers, we have reduced environmental impact, improved workplace quality for the collaborator and service quality for the client. • Skype for business, concept tests to • 38 Virtual Servers created for new asses its implementation in-house services, upgrades • Laboratory (JDE, Oracle and AD&I) • gAcloud Service implemented in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico • 57 Recycled Virtual Servers that are used for new services • 22 new Sharepoint sites 22 23 CHILE Santiago Rosario Norte 555 Oficina 502 ARGENTINA Edificio Neruda Buenos Aires Las Condes Santiago Lima 241, Capital Federal (+56) 2 281 91500 (C1073AAE) marketingcl@grupoassa.com (+54) 11 4510 7200 marketing@grupoassa.com COLOMBIA Bogota Tandil Calle 113 No.7-21 Paz 539, Tandil, Provincia de Teleport Business Park Buenos Aires (7000) Torre A, Oficina 1101 (+54) 11 4510 7300 Bogota – Colombia marketing@grupoassa.com (+57) 1 658 1193 marketingco@grupoassa.com BRAZIL São Paulo SP MEXICO Rua Alexandre Dumas, 2200 – 4º andar Mexico City Chácara Santo Antônio Guillermo González Camarena 1200 04717-910 Colonia Centro de Cd. Santa Fe (+55) 11 55080900 Mexico, D.F., 01210 (+52) 55 9157 8700 Rua Julio Gonzalez, 132 – 21º andar Barra Funda Monterrey 01156-060 Ave. Ricardo Margain 575 Piso 5 – Oficina 504, Torre IOS Campestre São José dos Campos SP Colonia Sta. Engracia Av. Shishima Hifumi, 2911 – 3°andar – Sala 305 San Pedro Garza García, N.L., 66267 Parque Tecnológico – Urbanova (+52) 81 8000 7853 12244-000 (UNIVAP) marketingmx@grupoassa.com (+55) 11 55080900 UNITED STATES Curitiba/PR Miami Av. Presidente Kennedy, 2511 – Térreo 5301 Blue Lagoon Drive This summarized version presents Água Verde Suite 570 highlights from our full digital report, 80610-010 Miami, Florida 33126 which can be browsed online at (+55) 41 30715500 (+1) 786 636 1265 marketingusa@grupoassa.com gasustainable.com marketingbr@grupoassa.com grupoassa.com
