BK Productions’ Communication on Progress – Prepared by Victoria Upah, Business Development Manager Period Covered: 20th January 2015 to 20th February 2016 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that BK Production Nigeria reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication – eg on social Media, our website, on TV and radio Productions, on all our events and in every bid we submit. Bolade Kingsworth,CEO HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals. BK Productions Nigeria actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known, eg torture, politically motivated disappearances, violence, religious motivated killings etc. BK Productions Nigeria has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. BK Productions Nigeria will not tolerate victimisation, bullying, intimidation or harassment in the workplace. BK Productions Nigeria also has an Ethical Policy which requires that each employee conducts the company’s business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws and in a manner that excludes consideration of personal advantage. We also have a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which acknowledges that it has social as well as financial accountability, and in such recognises that its responsibilities extend to improving the environmental, social and economic sustainability of all its business operations and processes. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally and locally, all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. BK Productions Nigeria has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. We operate a friendly and relaxed work environment where every staff see themselves as a part of the BK Family. Staff consultation is observed and conducted where organizational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. We also plan to have it published on our new website for 2016 about our commitment to the UN Global Compact to reflect our ethical business performance and to engage positively with stakeholders including employees, clients and communities, governmental and Non-governmental agencies. This year we have provided pro bono services to the Charity, Churches, Non-Profit organisations and food banks, which exist to provide support and advice to those who do not have a source of income or means to sustain them financially. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals BK Productions Nigeria re-affirms its support of the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced or child labour. All BK Productions’ employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company booklet/documentations which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. BK Productions Nigeria complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job designation. Implementation We are constantly closely monitoring the implementation of HSE policy in our workplace and all our project locations worldwide. BK Productions Nigeria has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy and a Dignity at Work Policy. BK Production has a Private Complaint box which: · Provide avenues for BK Productions’ employees to raise concerns about malpractice or wrongdoing in confidence and receive feedback on any action taken. · Ensure that staff receive a response to concerns that are raised and that they are aware of how to pursue them if you are not satisfied. · Reassure staff that they will be protected from possible reprisals, harassment or victimisation if they make a disclosure in good faith. BK Productions, CEO conducted a number of Youth Empowerment Seminars/Workshop as well was skill empowerment seminars in Lagos and Abuja . ENVIRONMENT Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals Being mostly office or indoor based, the nature of BK Production’s business makes our environmental impact small. BK Productions Nigeria has an Environmental Policy which includes commitment to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. We have a policy for car-sharing wherever possible and we use tele-conferencing wherever possible. All toner cartridges are disposed through the e-waste program in the state. Printing is kept to an absolute minimum. Implementation This year we have provided alternative waste dumpster to collect and separate waste that can be recycled from the ones that requires to be collected by the e-waste waste management Trucks . The nature of our business, which is broadcast Media, Event Managers and Consultant, puts us in a good position to explain the benefits to the environment that our Audience and customers can bring in terms of reducing carbon footprint and we seek to do this wherever possible and deemed to be effective. Outcomes BK Productions Nigeria has never had a reportable environmental incident and would not expect to given the nature of our operations. We have never been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals BK Productions Nigeria is compliant with the Bribery Act and it is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. We are also committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. BK Productions Nigeria supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations who are corrupt. Implementation The Chief Finance officer (CFO) is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within BK Productions Nigeria and our Anti-Bribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. The Policy also covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts. All staff have been trained to understand the difference. BK Productions Nigeria reviews its Confidentiality and Data Protection Policies, which ensure that staff are aware of the need to protect the personal data that we necessarily have access to and which cannot be disclosed, on an annual basis. Outcomes BK Productions Nigeria has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. BK Productions’ financial statements are prepared by our auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour.
