GInRttmRpnooz RAHIMAFROOZ BATTERIES LIMITED 705-706, Wosl NakhalpaB. Tejgaon do t ohaka.12l5, Bangladesh Email : lol :(88.02)9113696 Fax i(88-02)8115305 nlo@.ahifr:irooz.com 20 August 201 I Georg Kell Executbe Head Globa1 Compact Sub: Submission of Communications on Progress (COP) Dear Georg Kell, I am pleased to submit Communications on Progress (COP) for the year 201 1 from Rahimaftooz Batteries Ltd that signifies supports to the ten principles ofthe Global Compact in respect to human rights, Iabour rights, the protection of the environment and anticoruption. With this communication. $,e express our intent to support and advance those pdnciples within our sphere ofinfluence. We suppofi public accountability and transpar€ncy that reflects in this COP. Feroz Rahim Mandgitxq Director Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: (Business should suppott and respect the protection ofinternatio ally proclaimed human rights) COMMITMENT: Committed to protect human rights through complying with national and international larl,s appropriate to otrr business activilies. SYSTEM: Every year we conduct faiDing on tlR policies and procedures and established a strong compliance team to monitor the policies and system violence, analyze and investigate compliance failure. ACTMTY : Provide financial support to employees who may face sudden economic hardship liom employee welfare fund. Conducting training on our company values and I+10 habits. PERFORMANCE : 1 . 'I otal 444 man-hour training on values and 70 man-hour haining on HR policies have been conducted last year. 2. 'lwo u,ay communication regarding company's activities has increased. MPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Employees havc become nore polite and professional in tems ofverbal and physical communication. Blaming culture has been reduced drastically. abuses)t COMMITMENT : We set high standards of ethics and moral r,ifiue for ouiselves. We firmly believe in religious, etfical, social and legal righteousness and we strictly adhere to those. SYSTEM : Employees are directl,v involved in hazard identification, dsk assessments and determining controls, incident investigation, development and review occupational healtll & safety policies objectives. ACTIVITY .' In regard to human ghts tl'ierc a1e commrulication processes for reaching the top through HR Depadment. General Meeting' with all staff & suggestion box ' . PERFORMANCE : No Human Right abuse has been found, observe or rcpoted over the last one ),ear. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Peoples' are now feeling better and safe. Principle 3: (Basiness shoukl upltokl tltefreedoht of association and the efrectfue recog,tition of the ight to collectfue baryai i,tg )l The company respects the right & the labors ofthe compiury have freedom of association, but the workers (labors) have not formed a Tmde Union as the company encoumges open communications with workers and goes beyond the labor code in providing the employees with monetary & non-monetary benefits. SYSTEM : We formulated our Canteen and Welfare policy where workers participated equally and gave their feedback for improvement. ACTIVITY: RBL review its employee salary & other benefits every year though collecting the classiiied inlbmation fiom Bangladesh Consumer Association and Bangladesh Banl regarding inflation rate, consumer price index and make adjustnent in the salary accordingly. PERFORMANCE: Workers' representative actively pafiicipated in selecting candidate 1br Scholarship program. ln Canteen committee meeting q,orkers' representativc spontaneously participated and took part in decision making. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: The present minimum GTFI (Gross l-ake Home) is 5421 Tk. ( five thousand lbur hundred twenty one) which was 5146 Tk. ( five thousand one hundred forty six) in the previous year. On the other hand govemment declared minimum wage is 3000 Tk. Principle 4: (Business shonli aphohl the elin ihatior of all forms oJforced and compulsory labor)l COMMITMENT : As our aspiration statemelt leads, we want to be the most admired and tusted organization, by excelling in everything we do and following ethical business pmctices. SYSTEMS : We are sincerely following the Bangladesh labor code -2006 for working hour guideline ofemployees *hich is monitored and inspected by the Factory inspection department. ACTIVITY: Each enployee ofthe company is getting holiday and leave as mentioned in the law and in addition we reduce the working hours ofworker liom eight hours to six hours in the month of Ramadan so that they get time for prayer and spend time with family. PERFORMANCE: For overtime duty each employee ge1 double benefits of his,her basic salary. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Nou all employees get salaq'through Bank transfer u,hich ensures on time (1sr day of month) salary disbusement without backlog. Principle 5: (Business shoald uphold tlrc effectbe abolitio,t ofchild labot )l COMMITMENT : We are committed to not engage any one belou' the age of 18 in any form of labour. SYSTEMS : Our recruitment policy does not support enrollment ofchild labor in any kind ofjobs. ACTIVITY: Dudtg recruitment of worker we ask lbr the birth certificate or national ID for age ve fication. PERFORMANCE: In our company the minimum acceptable age ofworkers is 1Syears. Even the age group ftom 18 to 20 years in 2010-1 1 was below 107o ofthe population IMPROVEMENT OVER TIIE LAST YEAR: Our education scheme lor employees' children under rvelfare policy supports thern to continue their educalion up 1() SSC level and not forced irr to child labor. Last yeal RBL has supponed I 5 students ol diflbrent education levels (primary & secondart) uherea, it'ras onll lour in the preriou' 1ear. Principle 6: (Basiness should uphoLl the eliminolion of discriminatiott , rcspecl of emp loytue ht a ni o c c up ation) i COMMITMENT : The compary has been providing equa.l oppoftunity. Rahimafrooz never compromises on ethical business practices. One ofits pdme concem is to respect and promote the p nciple ofnon-discrimination in alllevels olour Human Resources. Our recruitment, training and career development policy reflects the conrmitment and respect. SYSTEMS: Our HR Vision to Drive busiress excellence and create a rewarding rvorkplace through people encourage in building perfonnance oriented culture which is a reflection ofnondiscrimination and respect to the individuals. ACTIVITY: Du ng recruitment every candidate has undergone a unique scrutiny process. From that the best perfomer has been selected irrespective ofgender, religious consideration. PERFORMANCE: Last year RBL has recruited 106 employees tlrough a comprehensive recruitment process. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE t,AST YEAR: The company encouraging women enplolees in all positions and role g,3t cqual benefits in all aspects. Priaciple 7: Business should support to a precautiorary approach to environmental Challenges : COMMITMENT: To address environmental challenges, this is a policy ofRahimafrooz Batte es Limited to consider environmental viability ofits activities including planned or nerv developments in the ovemll assessment prccess. SYSTEM: Under existing environmental management svstem RBL set new Environmenlal objectives, targets and prcgrams to control the aspects having significant impact on the environment. ACTIVITY: RBL review its objectives, targets and programs every year and set new action plans on setting objectives and targets. Allocate necessary resowces to achieve objectives and targets. PERIORMANCE I The setting targets have been compared to the previous target. Moreover compare with the KPI (Key Pedonnance Indicator) it can be easily calculate thc performance. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: We have set an environmentai objective to reduce liquid effluent by enhancing process elficiency and implementjng best industrial plactices. To this end $,e have introduced new mechanism in plate washing using sodium bicarbonate and as a result the effluent has been reduced tentatively by 2% tom the last year. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility COMMITMENT: For sustainable developnent in the earth Rahimaftooz Batteries Limited (RBL) utilizes the avaiiable scopes for thc development of environment to a greater extent. SYSTEM: In the process ofcontinual improvement ofenvironmental management syslem, idtiatives are laken that have impact on environment to a greater extent through collecting used battery and recycling. ACTIVITY: RBL has implemented a used battery collection nechanism to collect used batteries from the end users through incentive promotioD and recvcling i1 in an environment friendly manner. After that it has recycled in Lead RecycliDg Plant to reclaim lead. PERFORMANCE: Every year RBL has set KPI on lead recycling and review i1 periodically in its monthly factory meeting. IM?ROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Last year \\'e have recycled 3500 MT lead tom used battedes that is 12702 more ftom the previous yefi. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of enyironmentally fricndly technolo gies COMMITMENT: As a pafi ofits policy to prevent environmental pollution for sustainable growth, Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) is keen to adopt enviroimentally friendly technologies. SYSTEM: During installation ofneu machinery and implementation ofnew projects eco-friendliness is considered as a prerequisite. To meet the environmental challenges and growing consciousness on environment, environmentally lriendly products are also being developed. ACTIVITY & PERIORMANCE: Nerv product POWERMAX battery has been launched in the market. This battery has longer life in vehiclcs (18 month walaanty), thus reducing the number ofbatteries coming in to the market as well as environment. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Gradually we are shifting our focus to longer lil'e and maintenance liee battery from the present Ope. As a result end user wiil get hassle ftee battery in near future. Principle 10r Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery' COMMITMENT: Employees of the company are committed to live up to one of the company's core values in regard to integrity. Rahimalrooz Balteries Limited (P.BL) wants to be the most admired and trusted organization tkough excelling in ever)'thing done by the organization and following ethical business practice. One ofthe values n'raintained by the organization is Integ ty in all our dealings . SYSTEM: The issue integrity and ethical business practice is menlioned in all dealings with our suppliers and vendors Serious actions are taken agajnst employees for any activitics in regard to comrption. ACTIVITY: RBL has regularly maintained supplier communication on ethical business to develop a congenial work environment by maintaining integdty and fairness. A11the vendors and suppliers have signed the Statement of Con'lmitments & Integrity *'hich is in other word a commitment for being lawful. honest, fair, trustworthy and ethical. PERIORMANCET RBL evaluate its suppliers and vendors every year through maintaining a evaluation fomr and take decision to continLre bLlsiness on that evaluation. Improvement over the last year: On last September RBL has evaluated all its approved suppliers and vendors.
