Communication on Progress 2010 CEO Statement 2010 was the very difficult year for Cool House due to poor economic situation in Thailand. However, we still proceed the 10 principles of the UNGC with our businesses. This is for Thai people and our customers who need to learn how to make world a better place by having more understanding in sustainable buildings. There are many activities in implementing the Global Compact Principles in the previous year with satisfactory outcomes We still had supporting the United Nations Global Compact in our activities for public such as the two large exhibitions, Architect2010 and Home & Garden Fair 2010 with large people paid interested in energy-saving residence. Our engagement in UNGC also in our brochures, communication document and presentations. Even struggle against many challenges in 2010 we commit to continuous support the UN Global Compact. Nawapon Sungwienwong CEO Communication on Progress 2010 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights COMMITMENT: Our commitment to human rights in accordance with Thai Labor Act 2008 and Thai Constitution 1998 that we treat everyone evenly no matter what sex, religion, age, or political opinion they are, which commit to do businesses in accordance with SYSTEMS: • Employee recruitment conduct without any discrimination by application form and interviewer. • Employee can pledge a complaints for any discrimination. • Employee can pledge a complaints to government officials for any company wrong-doing. ACTIVITIES: • Our employee have access to free medical treatment by our privilege government cards to some hospitals comfortable for each. • A table tennis for any employee with joy and exercise. OUTCOMES: • Around 5% of employee turnover in 2010 due to their personal reasons. • No complaints from employee to the government. Communication on Progress 2010 Human Rights Principle 2: Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMMITMENT: Everyone in Cool House do not let human rights violation occurring in the company and we do not get any beneficial or ignore human rights abuses committed by our suppliers. We have to ensure that nobody in Cool House is deprived of his or her human rights, or suffers mental or bodily harm. SYSTEMS: Cool House strategies explicit that we protect the human rights of workers in the company’s direct employment and our suppliers. Our employee can pledge a complaints for any human rights issues. ACTIVITIES: Our orientation for new employee and communication meeting includes issues of human rights. Human rights are among our topics discussion in our meetings. OUTCOMES: There is no issues of human rights violations in our company. Communication on Progress 2010 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining COMMITMENT: The company acknowledge the right of the company, the company's representatives and employees to join associations of their own choice. The Cool House Regulation will be accepted by all employee for fair and regulative terms and conditions. Employee terms and conditions are approved by government authorities as per Thai Labour Protection Act 2008 SYSTEMS: Employee terms and conditions of work and the regulation of relations between employees, employers, workers and their organizations is in accordance with Thai Labor Act 2008 and Thai Constitution 1998. ACTIVITIES: N/A OUTCOMES: N/A Communication on Progress 2010 Labour Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour COMMITMENT: All employees works in office environment, then will not be forced to work at any adverse conditions SYSTEMS: • Employee has no needs to lodge any financial deposits with the company. • Employee work with duties and responsibilities as agreed before acceptance to work for the company. • No one will be forced to work beyond working hours. ACTIVITIES: According to Thai Labour Protection Act 2008, employee will not be forced to work overtimes on holidays or after normal working hours except they accept to work. Employee work as their job description. OUTCOMES: Cool House has never been charged with the use of unfair or forced labours in 2010. Communication on Progress 2010 Labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour COMMITMENT: Cool House abide by Thai Labour Protection Act 2008 concerning no labour with age under 15 years working for the company. SYSTEMS: • Employee recruitment will set for no under 18-year-old. • Cool House activities have no need for any works for any labours with ages under 18. • Cool House needs only certified employee. • No child labour required for Cool House businesses. ACTIVITIES: If labour with age below 15-year-old is found at suppliers or contractors, Cool House immediately request suppliers or contractors for child labour removal. OUTCOMES: No child labour was found at suppliers and contractors premises. Communication on Progress 2010 Labour Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT: Cool House respect the principle of discrimination on all employee, no matter whatsoever race, sex, age, educational level, religion. Performance and attitude are the main outcome measurement. SYSTEMS: CEO is the only one who recruit any employee and CEO define policy of nondiscrimination. No any regulation or policy or protocol for employment discrimination. ACTIVITIES: Each employee will work as per their own job description, which not concerning their sex, ages, educational level. OUTCOMES: • Cool House Employee working are not discriminated. They varied in ages, educational level, educational institutes or sex. • No any complaints about discrimination in 2010. Communication on Progress 2010 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges COMMITMENT: Cool House company supports sustainable building designs, which outlines the concepts of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, promotion of greater environmental responsibility and development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SYSTEMS: CEO and Project Managers will check environmental risk for a new contracted construction site to ensure that any potential for unintended environmental damage alongside other risks will be addressed. ACTIVITIES: • Project Managers or Engineers assessed any environmental risk assessment for new contracted construction sites were conducted in 2010 • Management assess the strategy to ensure that impacts of policies and plans are taken into account and mitigated. OUTCOMES: No environment issues occurred in our construction sites as per government surveillance. Communication on Progress 2010 Environment Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility COMMITMENT: Cool House commits to design and construct a Cool House for customers on sustainability basis in accordance with the US Green Building Council:LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) and Energy Conservation Promotion Act 1992 and 2007. SYSTEMS: Architects will design a Cool House as per requirements onto LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) by the US Green Building Council and regulations as per Energy Conservation Promotion Act 1992 and 2007. ACTIVITIES: We introduce a house with energy saving concept as per sustainable designs for all customers and our system is acceptable for them. OUTCOMES: 10 contracts for with sustainable building with energy-saving Cool House system were signed with customers in 2010. Communication on Progress 2010 Environment Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT: Cool House encourages the use of environmentally friendly technologies at every aspects of business activities to reduce environmental impact in all of the company operations. SYSTEMS: • Design department will follow a sustainable green building design procedures. • Purchasing department will seek environmentally friendly materials substitute the existing materials. • Construction department uses green any technologies and less-scraps for house construction to reduce environmental impact. ACTIVITIES: Architects and Engineers, Sales and Purchasing officers continuously update any new legislative regulations for designing sustainable buildings and study and discuss with suppliers to use in Cool House businesses if possible. OUTCOMES: With the Cool House system in accordance with sustainable designing, the research claims that carbon dioxide is reduced 5 tons per year. Communication on Progress 2010 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT: Cool House Code of Practices says no any violation of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other participation in, any illegal act such as bribery, fraud, theft, or illicit dealing for Cool House businesses. SYSTEMS: • At least three quotations from suppliers for purchasing in order to protect corruption by Purchasing people. • At least three price offers from contractors for decision before contract signing. • No payment for any non-receipt. • CEO investigation required for any strange issues. ACTIVITIES: Cool House employees • Project Managers or Project Engineers who have influence on contractors will transparently control their working. • Contract Managers will transparency for negotiating the contracts with contractors. • Procurement Manager and Procurement Officer will transparently deal with suppliers. • CEO approval for above activities for final considerations. OUTCOMES: Cool House has no numbers of any cases about bribery or corruption found in 2010. We have not found any corruption in the company.
