RESPONSIBILITY Communication on progress 2010 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Contents ............ 4 Global energy ............ 5 CEO statement ............ 6 Strategy and stakeholders ............. 8 Human rights ........... 12 Labour ........... 16 Environment ........... 24 Anti-corruption ........... 26 Future focus areas 3 Global energy Our services and solutions include: Being an international project engineering • Project management company dedicated to the global energy • Engineering and design sector, Semco Maritime facilitates the design, • Procurement fabrication, service and maintenance of • Construction and fabrication customer’s assets, providing comprehensive • Installation and commissioning project management across all phases of • Yard and workshop facilities energy projects. From turnkey engineering • Upgrades and refurbs solutions to operation support and delivery of • Maintenance, modification and components, systems and solutions, we make servicing sure our customers and partners in the energy • Products, components and sector experience safe and cost-efficient technology operations. • Operation support Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, our Third-party certified according to: dedicated employees work offshore and ISO 9001 onshore from our subsidiaries in Norway, ISO 14001 the UK, Dubai, Singapore, Vietnam, Central OHSAS 18001 America and the USA. ISO 3834-2 We believe in setting the bar high, challenging Assessments: our people to deliver solutions of the highest Achilles quality, anywhere in the world. First Point Assessment PQAN Certificate 4 CEO statement in which we work. We are all responsible for raising the bar and setting our expectations Semco Maritime’s objective is to develop a little higher, so we constantly monitor our strategic, cost-effective and sustainable actions and develop new models that differentiate us from our initiatives to keep pace with our changing competitors and create value for our world. customers. Our motto, ‘Dedicated people, exceeding expectations’ is reflected in our In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN projects, solutions and manpower services for Global Compact initiative. We are committed the global energy sector. to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the The market in which we operate is areas of human rights, labour, the continuously developing and so is our environment and anti-corruption. Our company. An expanding global presence progress within these areas is reported and means more stakeholders – and a greater published annually. environmental impact – and we strive to meet each new challenge in an environmentally, Semco Maritime uses the UN Global Compact ethically and socially responsible way. as a platform for Corporate Responsibility (CR) its activities and as an incentive for suppliers To help us achieve this, we have formalised to support the principles of CR. The UN Global our corporate values in our Corporate Compact constitutes a good common frame Responsibility strategy, which focuses on of reference and core values, which forms four areas: the community, the environment, the basis of the cooperation between Semco people and sustainability. Our Corporate Maritime’s departments and with suppliers Responsibility initiatives define how we should and other business partners around the world. interact with our customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities and environments Steen Brødbæk CEO 5 Strategy and stakeholders Stakeholders We wish to pursue an active dialogue with Corporate Responsibility Strategy our stakeholders in order to develop and Being a form of corporate self-regulation, strengthen the company. Our primary Corporate Responsibility (CR) initiatives stakeholders are our customers – the encourage organisations to take responsibility foundation of our business. To serve them for their actions. These initiatives range from as best as we can, we depend on qualified protecting the environment, ensuring good employees, good partners and sustainable working conditions for employees and caring political decisions. for the local community. There are a number of factors that influence We value a close and healthy relationship with a company’s CR strategy. As production our stakeholders and are always networks expand around the world and interested in their opinion. Our annual information moves faster and faster and customer satisfaction survey, SemCustomer, becomes more easily accessible, provides a valuable insight into how organisations are becoming more transparent customers perceive our company and we use – and stakeholders are demanding an insight this information to target our resources to into how companies affect their social and specific areas. environmental surroundings. Our CR strategy focuses on four areas: the community, the environment, people and sustainability. It is formalised in our business strategy and is in line with our motto, “Dedicated people, exceeding expectations.” To chart our progress, we have developed step-by-step plans for each area. 6 STRATEGY and stakeholders 7 Human rights The self-evaluation must contain sufficient information so we can make an informed We support and respect the protection of assessment. If the self-evaluation raises doubts internationally recognised human rights. We as to whether a supplier meets our observe the law and wish to instil values and requirements, we meet with the supplier, attitudes that support a responsible dialogue audit the company or renegotiate the with our stakeholders (customers, owners, contract, depending on the situation. end-users, suppliers, employees, national organisations, grass-root movements and local In 2010, we initiated a pre-requisite process, community). where all potential suppliers for a specific system or job had to complete our selfTo strengthen the company and improve evaluation form and sign our code of conduct our business strategy, we wish to develop a in order to make it onto the bidder’s list. All responsible ethical profile. This will link our the suppliers were registered as well as the vision with our values and attitudes and with number of suppliers who returned both the our motto “Dedicated people – exceeding completed supplier self-evaluation documents expectations.” We must share our success and the signed code of conduct. Of those stories – large as well as small – so that we who received the documents, 78 percent can motivate and learn from one another. completed and returned the documents in order to be included on the bidder’s list. Of Code of conduct course, no purchase orders were placed with A code of conduct is a set of ethical guidelines suppliers who did not satisfactorily complete that outlines responsibilities and best our self-evaluation documents or sign our practices in relation to human rights, labour, code of conduct. the environment and anti-corruption issues. All our employees, partners and suppliers are We will continue this process in 2011. In obliged to know, understand and comply with addition, we will investigate how we can use our code of conduct and the values upon our new ERP system to ensure that all our which it is based. suppliers return a satisfactory self-evaluation document. However, the procurement process Supplier evaluation for selecting the right suppliers for framework Our supplier evaluation process forms the agreements has taken longer than expected basis for continuous dialogue and partnership and as a result, supplier evaluations have been with our suppliers. For those suppliers with delayed. Our goal for 2010 has been rolled whom we have a framework agreement, over to 2011, as the evaluation of suppliers is supplier evaluations are mandatory, as a high an ongoing process. We will register the supnumber of transactions and a close relationpliers with whom we have framework agreeship make them strategically important to our ments and in 2011/2012 dedicate additional business. manpower from the procurement department to focus on our ongoing framework agreeA code of conduct and a self-evaluation form ments including new agreements. are sent to each supplier with which we have a framework agreement in order to gain more We will ensure that suppliers of large value information on their social and environmental orders and very essential orders also fulfil our conditions. The suppliers are asked to fill in self-evaluation document requirements and the self-evaluation form and sign the code of sign the code of conduct. conduct and return them to us. 8 RESPECT and responsibility 9 Human rights During 2010, we launched a range of initiatives to raise money for the project. At a UNICEF City 2010 local Danish running event, employees wore UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) t-shirts with the UNICEF City 2010 logo, and works to improve children’s conditions. In for each employee who completed the run, 2010, Esbjerg was appointed a UNICEF City we donated a certain amount to the and the president of Semco Maritime, Erik campaign. This resulted in positive publicity Gaj Nielsen, was made a UNICEF City 2010 both internally as well as in the community. Ambassador. Erik participated in a project initiated in Esbjerg to give more children in Tingatinga Togo the opportunity to attend school. Togo, We supported an exhibition in the historical one of Africa’s poorest countries, is situated Round Tower in Copenhagen. 5,390 km from Denmark. We were involved in The exhibition showcased Tingatinga artists raising awareness of the situation in Togo, and – a modern African painting style – and the UNICEF’s work, and inlaunching initiatives to development of the style since Eduardo S. raise money for new schools in Togo. Tingatinga painted his first enamel on board and made his first canvas work 40 years ago. The money will be used to build 10 schools that can withstand Togo’s heavy rain seasons. The exhibition presented Africa as a continent Rainwater collection and solar cells will also of riches and talented artists, rather than of be provided to make use of available natural poverty and deprivation. We also sponsored resources and generate electricity for lighting a pallet of the book, ‘TingaTinga Kitsch or so that the local community can use the Quality’, which was sent to the book launch in classrooms in the evening. The schools will Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. have toilets and wells with clean water for the local community. In addition, the project will help train local teacher and give young people, who have never attended school before, a practical education. Support for humanitarian projects: TINGATINGA & Unicef Togo & Fight against cancer & Denmark’s fundraising campaign for aid to Haiti and Africa & The muscular dystrophy foundation sports in local community: Football & swimming & badminton & gymnastics & volleyball 10 RESPECT and responsibility Photo: Karin Aaen, Unicef 11 Labour both female and male employees at all levels and in all departments are treated equally We respect the right to collective bargaining. and are guaranteed the same opportunities We do not discriminate or in any other way and terms of employment with regard to make decisions that are affected by employee education, salary, allowance, promotion, leave affiliations with trade unions or other of absence and job content /tasks etc. We associations, nor do we interfere with the believe that difference and diversity foster deformation of any trade unions or associations velopment and change and it is important to in the workplace. use the resources of each individual optimally to develop the business. This policy applies to We do not use force, threats or disciplinary all employees across the organisation. means to force people to work or withhold identification papers or wages from employCompetency assessment ees to force them to work. All employees have Each employee and the company have a muindividual contracts, made and approved in tual obligation to develop in order to create accordance with international and national results and add value to the company and the legal requirements. In some countries, individual. To strengthen competencies within however, if required by law, Semco Maritime the company and to ensure our strategic holds both working permits and passports development, competence assessment will be during the period of employment. We do not implemented at all levels: company, business employ nor support the use of child labour. units and divisions. The purpose of our personnel policy is to Employee, education and training needs are create an attractive workplace where each identified in an annual appraisal, and a plan employee has the opportunity to develop both of action is prepared for the coming year. We personally and professionally, and where the also record employee educational qualificaknowledge and attitude of each employee tions so that qualified resources are matched contributes to a creative and inspiring working to the right tasks. The company is initiating a environment. new business strategy and it is important that employees connect their individual developEqual opportunities ment plan to the strategy. We support diversity and equal opportunities. We do not expose any person to discriminaWe will initiate a competency management tion based on gender, race, colour, religion, and development project to identify the political opinion, sexual orientation, national competencies required to live up to our extraction, social origin, ethnic origin, age or current strategy. The objective for 2010 was handicap. No person is subject to discriminato complete the competency matrix for all tion in hiring, dismissal, transfer, promotion, business units and continue to strengthen wage setting, and setting of working competencies within the company. However, conditions or competency development. All we have not met the goals defined for 2010, decisions regarding employment, promotion, but the process will continue in 2011 and dismissal, wages and other working conditions 2012. are based on relevant and objective criteria. Our equal opportunities policy ensures that 12 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 13 Labour injuries. In 2010, the HSE department initiated a “Focus on safety” campaign to prevent Working conditions accidents. The campaign focused on three Our employees are our greatest assets. Our issues: behaviour, safety and vigilance. The work often takes us to extreme environments, campaign will continue in 2011 with new both on and offshore, and we handle heavy initiatives, information and events. Other machinery, explosive materials and highinitiatives for 2011 include the internal educavoltage equipment on a daily basis. So to tion of mid-level managers as well as a safety protect our people at every phase from design conference for all employees with a focus on to execution, we make safety a key factor of behaviour. every project. To protect the health and safety In addition, all business units are working of our people, our assets and our customers’ strategically with safety. This has led to assets as well as the communities we operate numerous new initiatives that have resulted in, we insist on adhering to globally approved in strategic plans for safety. One initiative is a health and safety standards. Our staff receives standard safety manual for Semco Maritime’s regular training in the latest health and safety international sites. This standard safety manual tools and procedures, and we publish our will be used as a template for larger projects health and safety performance in annual on sites abroad so that all relevant information reports. is included. These initiatives are expected to reduce work-related injuries in the future. Our We constantly develop the processes and aim for 2011 is to see Lost Time Accidents policies underlying our work. It is the responsi(LTA) fall to zero. bility of the management to create a working environment that ensures that we can achieve Working across borders our goals and that policies are observed. In order to harmonise our global business, Accidents can be prevented, so we continuour ISO/OHSAS certificates, procedures ously inform, train and educate employees and handbooks will be standardised across to ensure they know how to work safely. all divisions around the world in order to Likewise, employees are obliged to ‘raise define a common certification by mid-2012. the red flag’ if the workplace does not meet This will strengthen our global cooperation safety requirements, report all undesirable significantly. All non-conformance and safety incidents and suggest improvements. incidents will be registered in a global system In the coming year, we will continue to focus to ensure that we learn from them and that on reducing the number of work-related any improvements will benefit all divisions. Fact box: The table below illustrates the number of accidents during the past four years. Accidents 2007 2008 2009 2010 Lost time accidents 25 14 13 9 Minor accidents 15 16 16 22 Lost time accident LTA is defined as more than 24 hours’ absence Minor accident Minor is defined as less than 24 hours’ absence 14 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 15 Environment remaining waste as well as strengthen the development and use of environmentally We respect the environment and comply with friendly technologies around the world. applicable laws and regulations. However, we place higher demands on ourselves than stipuReduction of paper consumption lated by the law. Semco Maritime is certified In 2010, our goal was to reduce paper according to ISO 14001, which means that consumption by 10 percent. Unfortunately, we engage in targeted and systematic efforts our consumption is generally the same as it to continuously improve our environmental was in 2009. We wish to achieve this goal in performance. We understand ‘a precautionary 2011. approach’ as preventive. We have a number of projects planned We will strengthen employee environmental for 2011 that will no doubt increase paper awareness and responsibility through educaconsumption. However, we have launched tion and active participation in environmental various initiatives to try and counter this. work. • We seek to influence our customers by Our activities must not in any way harm the sending project documentation electronisurroundings and we must maintain a positive cally and not as hard copy. track record of environmental action and • Several types of documentation that are improvement. We aim to reduce our environnormally printed are now scanned and mental impact by using resources in the best saved electronically. way possible, reducing energy consumption, • Co-Sign will be implemented across the and waste and discharge levels. entire organisation. • The new ERP system will affect paper We aim to ensure the best possible energy consumption, as numerous working efficiency of all purchased energy-intensive procedures will be automated, which will equipment. Through internal campaigns we reduce paper consumption. will seek to reduce energy consumption. We will maintain an efficient waste separation system to ensure maximum waste recycling and the best possible separation of the Fact box: The table below illustrates paper consumption during the past four years. Consumption of materials 2007 2008 2009 2010 Paper consumption 14.3 tons 15.4 tons 14.8 tons 15.3 tons 16 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 17 Environment Green IT The IT department has reviewed all its proReduction of electricity consumption cesses and launched initiatives to increase the We continuously seek to reduce our power use of our ‘green’ equipment and processes consumption. During 2010, we launched in all business units and branches. The IT various initiatives, but despite our efforts, department has made considerable investelectricity consumption increased by apments in new technology, which will result in proximately 10 percent. However, a project great long-term energy savings. Some of the to improve the operation of high-pressure air initiatives are: used in the workshops has been successful. This improvement resulted in a 50 percent • Many small servers have been replaced by reduction in kWh consumption. Despite a one large, eco-friendly virtual server. general decrease in activities in 2010, our • A disc system for saving data powers electricity consumption was higher than the when not in use. previous year. • IT equipment is regularly replaced by new, eco-friendly equipment. An increase in staff numbers during 2010 • The cooling system in the server room will required additional office space, and office be replaced with an energy-saving cooling facilities were rented to a business partner, system. which has affected our total electricity • The video-conference system is upgraded consumption. to an eco-friendly version on all PCs. • As a consequence of the above initiatives, In 2011 we will focus on the following we expect to reduce electricity consumpinitiatives: tion by 10 percent in 2011 compared to the previous year. • A campaign will be launched to save electricity in all business units. • We urge employees to turn off PC-screens when not in use. • In the production areas, we have reduced the high-pressure air in the compressors, and calculations show that this will reduce power consumption significantly. Fact box: The table below illustrates electricity consumption during the past four years. Electrical consumption 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electricity (kWh) 2,265,723 2,664,261 2,144,023 2,419,783 18 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 19 Environment Waste separation Waste is one of our most significant enviCO2 neutral website – climate-friendly ronmental impacts, particularly combustible surfing waste. In general, we produce less waste, We joined the CO2 neutral website initiative recycle more and incinerate less waste than in order to neutralise the emissions originating we did in 2007. from our website and our website users. In 2010 however, waste levels increased by approximately 40 percent. The increase is spread across several areas despite the fact Sustainable forests that workshop activities decreased. The The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an increase is partly due to one large project, international non-profit label for wood and which generated a considerable amount of paper. FSC guarantees that the paper used for waste. Clean-up activities in workshop areas printed material is sourced from a sustainable were initiated during 2010. The amount of FSC forest. FSC also guarantees that animals recycled waste has increased proportionally, and plants are protected and that forest which indicates that waste separation in workers are guaranteed education, security the workshops is optimal. However, waste and decent wages. At the moment, we use separation depends on the local infrastructure FSC products for some of our brochures and in the countries in which we operate. our goal is to use FSC-labelled paper for all our brochure material. In 2010, our goal was to recycle at least 80 percent of the total amount of waste. We recycled 81 percent, so we met our target. We will focus more on waste in 2011 and Nordic Swan marking aim to recycle at least 80 percent of the total Our stationery is manufactured from enviamount of waste. ronmentally friendly materials. At present, all stationery and almost all envelopes carry the Nordic Swan label. Fact box: The table below illustrates the various types of waste produced during the past four years. Type of waste 2007 2008 2009 2010 Combustible waste 82,335 54,042 26,832 58,582 Recycling 422,847 408,772 328,704 438,725 Deposit waste 167,750 121,270 5,710 45,136 Specially treated waste 1,541 3,314 1,619 1,650 Total amount of waste 674,473 587,398 362,865 544,093 Recycling degree compared to total amount of waste 63% 69% 90% 81% 20 Climate partnership agreement with we have built a solid, global reputation in the DONG Energy offshore and onshore energy markets and We will enter into a climate partnership agreegradually moved into the market for new and ment with DONG Energy, Denmark’s leading alternative energy solutions. A natural process, power company. The agreement sets out the as alternative and traditional energy solution terms and conditions of a cooperation project requirements are similar. on energy-saving measures and supports the advancement of renewable energies. As a turnkey contractor across a wide range of energy projects for many years, our highly By use of a tailor-made climate package, skilled employees are capable of handling: DONG Energy will help identify energy-saving project development and management, options and suggest initiatives to reduce our engineering, financing, commissioning, operaenergy consumption. tion and maintenance, and after-sales service. We are moving towards environmentally Some of the savings are earmarked for the sustainable energy solutions and are focusing purchase of green power via source guaranon new projects within these areas. tees (also known as RECS certificates.) The guarantee documents that a certain volume Climate and environmentally friendly of power, corresponding to all or part of our technologies annual energy consumption, is from the Horns We seek to improve existing products and Rev 2 wind farm. develop and propagate climate and environmentally friendly technologies. An important We are looking forward to the future coopparameter in the design phase of new eration with DONG Energy which will help us products is ‘environmentally sound project to reduce our energy consumption and move planning’, which means that the materials us towards renewable energy. used, and how to dispose of them, must be considered from an environmental point of Technologies for sustainable growth view. Know-how and experience are key factors in all successful energy projects. The ability We are developing the following climate and to implement complex and costly energy environmentally friendly technologies: solutions requires overview, good planning skills and a determination to deliver on time and on budget. Over the past two decades, SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 21 Environment of our core competencies from many years in the oil and gas business are easily applied to SemCoMem® offshore wind, and we expect this market to Produced water solutions – the next become even more important for us in future. generation. We design and engineer electrical infraTogether with the Danish company, CoMeTas, structure systems for wind farms including we are working on an environmentally friendly construction of the onand offshore substasolution for the treatment of produced water. tions. We are one of the leading operation A lightweight, compact produced water and maintenance suppliers to wind farms in treatment plant, SemCoMem uses a ceramic Denmark, the UK and Germany. Our safety membrane to provide a reliable, efficient soluand quality-conscious staff operate and/ tion – with a much smaller carbon footprint or maintain substation modules, offshore than a traditional plant. accommodation modules, wind turbine SemCoMem – funds for market maturation foundations and land-based substations. Our All offshore oil producing installations need dedicated engineering and design department water treatment systems. Oil fields produce up handle everything from specialised studies to to 90 percent water during operations. When detailed design and specification of substamost of the oil has been separated from the tions, accommodation modules, seafastening water, the produced water still contains too and installation equipment. Our teams have much oil to be pumped back into the ocean also been involved in projects to upgrade and too many particles to be re-injected into installation vessels, install wind farms, and test the well. Our new product, SemCoMem®, equipment for wind turbine manufacturers. removes the dispersed oil and brings the produced water back down to oil concentraCurrently undergoing rapid growth and tions below 5mg/l. Many existing installations innovation, the renewable energy industry is already have such a system, but the technolan exciting place to work. Our engineers and ogy is outdated and has limited longevity, so designers focus on the functionality of each there is substantial global market potential. element and its integration into the overall design and our work continues to break new Wind Power a growing market ground. Founded to provide services for the oil and We believe that the renewable energy market gas industry, our business has increasingly will continue to grow and we are marketing turned toward renewable energy – in parSemco Maritime as a viable choice for develticular offshore wind. A logical step as many opers of these projects. 22 SUSTAINABILITY and stewardship 23 Anti-corruption • Confidential information received during the employment relationship must be We are committed to the highest standards respected and treated according to of integrity, honesty and fairness in all internal common practice or according to the and external relationships. Employees must demands that may have been made. not directly or indirectly accept, solicit or offer • Normally, statements to the media are to pay bribes, kickbacks or other amounts, only to be made through the executive even under unlawful pressure. This prohibition board. also applies to areas where such activity may not violate local law. We also have guidelines We continually work to improve internal for giving and receiving gifts, including processes including employee training. We maximum amounts. have initiated an internal campaign where we for example present and discuss our code Our fundamental values form the basis for the of conduct and ethical profile. It is important company’s ethical principles. The objective to stress that employees must be alert and of our ethical principles is to ensure that the vigilant when acting in the international company and employees are impartial in market. relation to their participation in the market. Potential suppliers need to make their We must obey applicable rules and laws, and company or their products known to us and employees must follow ethical guidelines – in certain situations it can be difficult to make in-house, in business relations and in society. the right decision. The following principles This requires special attention from employees apply to suppliers: who represent the company abroad where the ethical guidelines of each country must • No course of action may restrict the be obeyed to the extent they do not overstep opportunities of each employee or Semco the employee’s own boundaries and morals. Maritime to choose freely as long as no These rules also apply to entertainment purchase/agreement has been made. expenses. The employee is responsible for • Gifts that may affect the integrity of keeping these expenses to a minimum, but at individual employees or give others reason an acceptable level according to the situation. to believe that this is likely must not be It is the responsibility of the respective manaccepted. If any employee is in doubt ager to approve any expenses in connection about the rules it is the responsibility of with business activity. the respective manager to approve the expense. The following rules also apply: • Favours/gifts/entertainment expenses must not be of such proportions that • If a relationship or decision means they affect decision making or give others personal gain or other advantages, this reason to believe that this is likely. must be reviewed with the immediate superior. We have initiated a project to investigate our • If personal interests affect a decision or current agent agreements and to set new give others reason to believe that this is standards for future agreements to ensure likely, the matter must be presented to that our agents comply with our ethical the immediate superior. principles. 24 TRANSPARANCY and good business practice 25 Future focus areas Supplier evaluation Lost time accident frequency (LTA) shall be 0. Register the number of suppliers with whom Increased focus on NCR / HSE reporting to we have framework agreements. focus on ongoing improvements. Continually register the number of suppliers Environmental consumption who receive self-evaluation documents and Reduce paper consumption. the number of suppliers who return the self-evaluation form and the signed code of Reduce electrical consumption. conduct. Focus on waste disposal and recycled waste. Equal opportunities Introduce equal opportunity policy to all Initiate activities in the climate partnership employees in all departments. agreement with DONG Energy. Competency assessment Technologies Initiate a project on competency management Focus on developing climate and environmenand development with the purpose of identitally friendly technologies. fying the competencies required to live up to the current strategy. Ethical guidelines An internal campaign where we for example, Complete competency matrix for all business present and discuss our code of conduct and units in Semco Maritime during 2011 and ethical profile. 2012. Investigate our present agent agreements Working conditions and set new standards for future agreements Continued focus on prevention of accidents, to ensure that our agents comply with our concentrated on three issues: behaviour, ethical principles. safety and vigilance. 26 LOOKING AHEAD to a brighter future 27 Head office: Semco Maritime A/S Stenhuggervej 12-14 DK-6710 Esbjerg V Denmark Tel.: +45 7916 6666 Fax.: +45 7515 6580 Mail: semco@semcomaritime.com Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com SEMCO MARITIME Dedicated people – exceeding expectations www.semcomaritime.com October 11
