GN Store Nord A/S GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 1 Communication On Progress 2010 GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 2 Content Statement of Support from the Executive Management 3 GN Store Nord Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy 4 CSR Activities in 2010 6 CSR Activities in 2011 7 Membership of UN Global Compact Member since: January 14, 2010 Number of employees: 4,500 Sector: Health Care Equipment and Services Reporting date and period February 25, 2011 The report covers the period January 1, 2010 – December 31, 2010. GN Store Nord’s Communication On Progress (COP) is also available on www.gn.com/csr and is accounted for in the CSR section of the GN Store Nord Annual Report 2010. About GN Store Nord GN Store Nord has been helping people connect since 1869. Initially as a telegraph company and now as a global market leader in personal communications providing increased mobility and quality of life for its users. Through its two subsidiaries GN Netcom and GN ReSound, GN develops and manufactures headsets and speakerphones for hands-free communication, hearing aids and audiological, otoneurologic and vestibular instrumentation. The products are marketed globally. As of December 31, 2010 GN had around 4,500 employees worldwide. GN is listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen. For more information, visit www.gn.com GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 3 Statement of Support from the Executive Management GN Store Nord has been helping people connect since 1869. Ever since GN was founded there has been a strong commitment to act in a responsible manner for the benefit of all of our stakeholders, whether they are shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers or other groups. CSR is becoming an increasingly important factor for companies worldwide and this development is expected to continue in the years to come. It is our belief that a structured and business oriented approach to CSR can strengthen GN’s competitiveness in a market with more and more stakeholders placing focus on CSR and requiring companies to relate to CSR. We believe that companies with a responsible corporate profile have an increased ability to attract new employees, increase employee satisfaction and attract new customers and investors. This creates value not only for the specific company but also for the society in which the company operates. In January 2010, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. This was an important step for GN and for our effort to create a structured approach to our work with CSR. Following our enrollment in the Global Compact initiative we have taken a number of other important steps to formalize our CSR approach. A newly formed CSR organization consisting of key employees from areas such as supply chain, human resources, legal, quality assurance, production and corporate communications supports GN’s CSR activities. As members of GN’s executive management, we are responsible for the work of this group and for the strategic direction of GN’s overall CSR effort. Based on the ten principles in the UN Global Compact we have developed a CSR policy for GN. The CSR policy will be the foundation for GN’s work with CSR in the years to come. In the CSR policy we have defined four focus areas based on GN’s business activities, which we consider important in regards to CSR. The CSR policy is put into practice through several policies, such as Code of Conduct, Ethics Guide and various HR policies. It is our ambition that all employees in GN are informed about this policy during 2011 and that all employees understand GN’s as well as their own responsibility in regards to living up to our CSR focus areas. In the years to come we will focus on structuring our CSR approach even more and to create a businessoriented and structured approach to CSR for the benefit of all of our stakeholders. With this letter we want to show our continued support to the UN Global Compact. It is our ambition to continue the development of our work with CSR in the future with inspiration from the UN Global Compact and the ten principles. Yours faithfully Mogens Elsberg Lars Viksmoen Anders Boyer CEO GN Netcom CEO GN ReSound CFO GN Store Nord GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 4 GN Store Nord Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy This CSR policy applies to all GN businesses and includes members of the Board of Directors, officers and employees of the GN Group and its subsidiaries. GN wants to conduct business in a profitable and sustainable manner and offer products that improve people’s mobility and quality of life. We believe that a structured and practical approach to CSR is value creating both for GN and for GN’s key stakeholders such as customers, investors, suppliers and employees. We use a simple and practical approach in our work with CSR. Our policy is to be in compliance with, or exceed applicable statutes and regulations of the countries and local communities in which GN operates. This is reflected in GN’s CSR vision: GN and its subsidiaries want to be recognized by their stakeholders as a reliable and responsible company with high ethical standards. GN bases its CSR efforts on a number of internationally recognized principles relating to human rights, employee rights, the environment and anti-corruption as formulated in the UN Global Compact. Based on its business activities, GN has defined four areas considered to be GN’s key focus areas with regards to CSR. GN’s CSR Focus Areas • GN recognizes all human beings as free and equal in dignity and rights in the workplace and will not tolerate any kind of discrimination or harassment. • GN will not accept use of forced or child labor in any of its or its business partners’ operations. • GN is committed to integrating consideration for its surroundings and environment in its planning and performance of activities. • All GN employees must comply with all internal procedures, applicable laws and regulations when conducting business on behalf of GN. CSR in Practice GN’s CSR policy is put into practice through several policies, e.g. its Code of Conduct, Ethics Guide and various HR policies. GN’s CSR Organization A steering committee made up of GN’s Executive Management team has overall responsibility for GN’s CSR efforts. The committee determines the scope and strategic direction of GN’s work with CSR. Development of GN’s future CSR initiatives is handled by the steering committee, GN’s Corporate Communications department and key GN employees. This development is driven by internal initiatives, input from external stakeholders, legal requirements, and initiatives from the UN Global Compact. Communication of GN’s CSR activities In connection with the publication of its annual report and annual Communication on Progress (COP) docGN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 5 ument submitted to the UN Global Compact, GN publishes information on its CSR activities for the year and goals for the following year. GN’s Corporate Communications department is responsible for all CSR reporting and information, hereunder also all CSR-related inquiries. All relevant information about GN’s CSR activities, policies and COP reports can be found at gn.com/csr. GN’s CSR policy is endorsed by GN’s Board of Directors and Executive Management. GN’s factory in Xiamen, China. GN has been present in Xiamen since the 1870ies GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 6 CSR Activities in 2010 GN Store Nord’s CSR policy is based on the principles in the UN Global Compact. This section describes the main activities accomplished in 2010 in relation to GN’s own focus areas and the principles in the UN Global Compact. Human Rights Environment Anti-corruption 2010 Actions Related to the UN Global Compact principles Labor Ethics Guide In 2010 GN introduced and implemented an Ethics Guide that covers the entire GN Group. The Ethics Guide focuses amongst other things, on GN’s stance on: Discrimination and Harassment, Health and Safety, Child Labor and Forced Labor, Political Activities and Freedom of Association. As of December 31, 2010 more than 50% of all employees in GN had signed the Ethics Guide. The ambition is that all relevant employees in GN must have signed the Ethics Guide by the end of 2011. Whistleblower A Whistleblower Procedure was implemented to ensure that every GN employee and external stakeholder can complain about alleged breaches of internal and/or external regulations or other irregularities. The Whistleblower Procedure became effective on December 20, 2010 and applies to the entire GN Group. As of December 31, 2010 no complaints were reported. Employee Engagement Surveys GN Netcom and GN ReSound conducted the annual global employee engagement surveys as part of the continued effort to ensure a sound physical and psychological working environment. The overall response rate in GN ReSound increased from 81% in 2009 to 84% in 2010. The overall response rate in GN Netcom increased from 90% in Q1 2010 to 92% in Q4 2010. During 2011 the two companies will work with the findings of the surveys. Supplier Audits Our audits have a wide scope including products and processes as well as CSR related areas. Among our supplier base we are seeing the general level constantly improving through a joint effort between our suppliers, government initiatives and customers in general. GN is seeing CSR as a continuous effort working with our suppliers to improve all aspects of their business making them a high quality and responsible partner to GN. • GN ReSound completed 36 supplier audits. 32 with tier one suppliers and 4 with tier 2 suppliers. • GN Netcom completed 22 supplier audits. 7 with tier one suppliers and 15 with tier 2 suppliers. GN ReSound REACH GN ReSound has started up activities to evaluate and implement measures to comply to the REACH ordinance (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) for the safe manufacture and use of chemical substances within the European Union. GN ReSound has issued a policy to ban PVC based materials in its hearing aids. According to initial screenings, the majority of devices do not include PVC. Actions have been set up to replace components including PVC with non PVC materials. GN Netcom packaging project Two packaging projects with focus on sustainability methods were accomplished in GN Netcom. The focus was on material optimization, space efficiency and freight reduction. The outcome was among other things saving on PET plastic equivalent to 2.5 million water bottles per year and less space required during transportation as 60% more headsets now can be fitted on one pallet. One product segment is now also using 100% recyclable boxes and 90% less ink for the print process. GN Store Nord – Communication On Progress 2010 7 Charity Via the GN Store Nord Foundation GN supported the following projects financially in 2010: • St. John’s School for the Deaf in Gambia. The GN Store Nord Foundation has also previously been supporting the school • Danish Red Cross – Haiti and Pakistan • The humanitarian organization Engineers without Borders A number of charity donations were also made by the GN Group during 2010. In 2010 the GN Store Nord Foundation supported St. Johns School for the Deaf in Gambia. CSR Activities for 2011 In 2011, GN aims to introduce all employees to GN’s CSR policy and ensure that the CSR policy becomes an integrated part of GN’s business activities. GN aims at introducing all its main suppliers to the CSR policy. During 2011, it is our ambition to establish a number of common key performance indicators that can help us ensure a structured and measurable overview of GN’s CSR activities and progress in the coming years. Communication with stakeholders An important part of our CSR effort is to engage in a dialogue with our stakeholders as we believe dialogue is an important tool to help us achieve our vision. You are welcome to contact GN Store Nord with CSR-related questions or comments on info@gn.com.
