Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles in the Association of Danish Law Firms 2010 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the Association of Danish Law Firms reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Paul Mollerup Managing Director 2 2. The Association of Danish Law Firms The Association of Danish Law Firms was founded in January 2008, in order to further the interests of Danish law firms, their owners and employees, promote the practice of law and the use of lawyers in society and also be an important public voice in respect to the rule of law and other matters essential to the functioning of a modern democratic society. The Association of Danish Law Firms therefore bears actively to the law-making process by participating in consultations as well as appointing members to governmental committees. The Association has two main tasks as a business association: • To further the interests of its members by exerting influence on politicians and policy makers within all policy areas of interest to law firms. • To help develop the business of running law firms, enabling its members to meet their current challenges – and the challenges of the future – with respect to competition, new services, human resources and best practice. Legally, the Association is governed by a council and a Board of Directors, which jointly formulate the Association’s political views. Members of the Council are elected at the General Assembly and elect the Board of Directors from their midst. The Association’s Managing Director and management oversee the daily activities of the 26 employees of the Secretariat and co-ordinate the activities of the large number of subcommittees and network groups linked to the Association 3 3. Our approach to the 10 principles In the fall of 2010 the Association of Danish Law Firms signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees and members) • Society (locally) • Society (globally) In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages. The first stage would thus concentrate on implementing initiatives within the Secretariat to ensure that all members of staff understood UNs basic principles and ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solutions throughout the organisation. The second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the secretariat, first towards our members, and later toward society, locally and finally globally. To make sure that all initiatives were employee borne, we set up a CSR committee, which became responsible for choosing and implementing the internal initiatives within stage one. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 4 4. Contents of the Association of Danish Law Firms CSR policy – year one The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organisation, has been initiatives concerning labour (employee rights) and environment. 4.1 The environment The environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green purchasing policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. Therefore the new printers, which have been purchased in 2010 consume considerably less power than other printers, and the supplies are sustainable. This applies not only to consumption but also disposal and transport of packaging. With regards to lighting, we chose low-energy solutions wherever possible, buying energy efficient light bulbs and purchasing electricity which primarily derives from wind power. We have furthermore installed videoconferencing facilities in order to reduce CO2 emissions from travelling. The Association has also purchased four bicycles, so that meetings held within greater Copenhagen can be reached by bicycle. We also joined the “Bicycle to work” campaign in May, where more than half the employees bicycled to work regularly in the course of the month. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can reduce our CO2 emissions How do we monitor and evaluate performances The CSR committee regularly informs the organisation, which initiatives have been initiated. Furthermore once a month, a prize is given to the most environment friendly employee. 5 4.2 The working environment and health of the employees The Association of Danish Law Firms believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and bimonthly office meeting. We have conducted a work place assessment, which showed a few areas of employee discontent. The findings were acted upon immediately to improve the satisfaction of the employees. In having a good working environment, lies also having good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – and both have an impact on employee well being and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employees’ physical well being. The employee rights therefore include home working, ergonomic work place assessment, an employer subsidised healthy lunch, fresh fruit, a private health insurance, influenza vaccinations, massage, and annual sports and social activities. Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction and low sickness absence. Monitoring and evaluating performances Constant dialogue with the employees is deemed the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employees well being, both on a regular basis and through the yearly “Performance and Development review” 6 5. Future initiatives In 2011 and 2012 our focus will be directed towards our members – the Danish law firms. We are planning to: • Start a campaign to get our members to register within the global compact framework • Set the agenda for diversity and encouraging equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion, especially for female lawyers. • Actively inspire our members to give legal advise on Corporate Social Responsibility issues . CAMPAIGN TOWARDS MEMBERS EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES CSR LEGAL ADVICE 7 H.C. Andersens Boulevard 45 1553 København V 33 43 70 00 danskeadvokater.dk
