Corporate Responsibility Report and ­Chronicle For a detailed presentation on how the bank assumes its diverse ­social and environmental responsibilities when ­conducting its business activities, refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report. This publication is ­complemented by our online Chronicle that adds a multimedia ­dimension by providing a selection of reports, videos and picture ­galleries that focus on our international projects and initiatives.  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Cover Susan R. Fellner and Julie Kalish from the Americas Campus Recruiting team pictured in front of the Brooklyn Bridge in New York. They feature in the story about the Talent, Branding and Communications department in the Company Profile on page 33. Company Profile For insights about the work of each of the bank’s ­divisions, regions and other Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 functions, ­refer to the Company Profile. A summary of the bank’s financial ­performance ­during the year, the Business Review, is also included in the publication. Annual Report For a detailed presentation of the bank’s annual financial statements, company structure, ­c orporate governance and compensation practices, treasury and risk management framework and an in-depth ­review of our operating and financial results, refer to the Annual Report. How to Access the Responsibility Chronicle from the ­Corporate How to Access Responsibility Report the Responsibility < Chronicle from < the ­C orporate Responsibility Report 4. Save to personal kooaba account* II. I. 1. Start 2. Take photo of 3. Select kooaba page featuring language Visual Search Chronicle symbol (English or or Paperboy in printed version German) on smartphone of Corporate ­R esponsibility Report Facts and Facts and Figures 2010 < ­F igures ­B rochure 2010 II. 5. Go to 6. Log in to per9. In Acrobat 10. Corresponding page of PDF versions available in computer sonal kooaba click link to Chronicle opens in browser English and German at account Chronicle in page-flipping mode  www.credit-suisse.com/facts 7. Find photo (English or German) taken with smartphone 8. Load as PDF (opens in Acrobat) Credit Suisse III. iPad Layout of iPad ­version of Chronicle * Free kooaba Visual Search or Paperboy apps are available is identical to pagefor iPhone and Android smartphones; personal kooaba account flipping version is also free of charge. The Responsibility Chronicle can also be viewed at  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 2 Foreword Dear Reader 2010 was a pivotal year for our industry as it continued to adapt We do so based on the knowledge that it is only thanks to our to the changed operating environment in the wake of the finanhighly qualified employees that we can guarantee the best sercial crisis. Banks, regulators and politicians around the world vice for our clients. As part of our commitment to responsible engaged in an intensive dialogue to redefine the regulatory banking, we also focus on instilling a sense of personal aclandscape − a process that involved the balancing of often dicountability in our employees and on fostering a culture of invergent interests. We continued to adjust our business model tegrity, compliance and trust that motivates them to act in the as we sought ways of generating sustainable, high-quality best interests of clients and shareholders while safeguarding earnings in this new environment. our reputation. Our Code of Conduct, which was updated in At Credit Suisse, our first priority in 2010 was to operate prof2010 , defines six ethical values and six professional standards itably and responsibly as we performed our core activi­­ties as a that we pledge to uphold in every aspect of our work. We also global bank – providing governments, companies and individuals recognize the importance of key international agreements that with vital access to capital, managing client assets, steering promote responsible and sustain­a ble practices in the business capital flows and prudently assessing risks. Acting as a reliable, community. For example, Credit Suisse is a signatory of the UN professional partner to our clients, we focused on building and Global Compact, which prescribes universal principles relating maintaining the trust that is essential to our long-term success. to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and Second, we played an active role in discussions about finananti-corruption efforts. cial regulation and helped to develop constructive solutions – As an integral part of society, we are acutely aware that our particularly in Switzerland, where we contributed our expertise actions have a direct or indirect impact on the world around us. as a member of the Commission of Experts appointed to We therefore strive to balance the diverse needs and expecta­a ddress the Too Big to Fail issue. We support the Commistions of our stakeholders and the communities in which we opsion’s recommendations, which are designed to strengthen erate. We also recognize that a stable social environment is a the stability of the financial system without compromising the prerequisite for the success of our company and seek to probanks’ competitiveness or undermining their ability to serve­ mote social cohesion by addressing problems such as youth the economy. unemployment. One example is the CHF 30 million of support we Our commitment to making our industry more robust is also are providing for coaching programs run by non-profit organidemonstrated by the changes we have made to our own busizations in Switzerland to help young people find apprenticeness over the last two years, during which we assumed a pioships. In our global partnership with Junior Achievement, Credit neering role with regard to new regulations: In anticipation of Suisse volunteers mentor students to help them identify career stricter capital and liquidity rules, we moved swiftly to adopt a options or teach in school programs that develop the business client-focused, capitalefficient strategy and reduced-risk acumen of young people. Our interest in the welfare of the business model, which have positioned us well in the current younger members of society is also reflected by the Credit environment. We have consistently followed our own path, Suisse Youth Barometer, which we published for the first time firmly renouncing a return to “business as usual” and exiting in December 2010. This unique representative survey provides a most proprietary trading businesses. valuable insight into the lifestyle, views and concerns of young At Credit Suisse, we believe that responsible banking and people – opening the way for a dialogue with this generation. successful banking go hand in hand. We therefore strive to act As a good corporate citizen, Credit Suisse also looks beyond as a responsible employer, offering a fair and stimulating workbanking and seeks to improve the lives of needy individuals ing environment that will attract top talents to our organization. around the globe through our diverse social and philanthropic Foreword 3 activities. One example is the continuation of our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative, which aims to strengthen the microfinance sector in Africa, Latin America and Asia and to thus help drive economic development in these regions. We also work with a host of partner organizations to support charitable and humanitarian projects worldwide. These efforts are complemented by the work of the Disaster Relief Fund of the Credit Brady W. Dougan, Chief Executive Office­r (left), and Hans-Ulrich Doerig, Chairma­n of the Board of Directors. Suisse Foundation. Following the natural disasters in Haiti and Pakistan in 2010, for example, the Disaster Relief Fund­ provided rapid financial assistance and matched our employees’ charitable donations on a 2 :1 basis. Our employees’ commitment to helping others is not only reflected by monetary contributions but also by their willingness to devote their time and expertise in the context of our citizen when delivering on our core responsibilities and obligacorporate volunteering program. In 2010, for example, staff in tions as a global bank. Especially in these more challenging New York volunteered with Habitat for Humanity to build lowtimes for our industry, we recognize the importance of comincome housing in the city. In Asia Pacific, similar construction municating openly and transparently with our stakeholders to projects with our global partner were conducted in Seoul and keep them informed of the performance of the business and Sydney. In total, 15,100 Credit Suisse employees worldwide the progress of our efforts in the field of social and environvolunteered 163,700 hours of their time last year to help others. mental responsibility. This Corporate Responsibility Report − As well as considering the social dimension of our corporate which forms an integral part of our ongoing dialogue with our responsibilities, we are mindful of environmental issues when partners − is intended to provide you with a clear understandconducting our work. In 2010, we pursued our efforts to opering of the ways in which we generate long-term value for our ate in an environmentally friendly manner by promoting the clients, shareholders, employees and the broader communities ­efficient use of resources throughout the company and raising in which we work. We also hope that it will encourage you to employee awareness of sustainability issues. We reached an give us your feedback on this topic and will serve as a platform important milestone in our commitment to climate protection in for further discussions. 2010 when we achieved greenhouse gas neutrality for all our operations worldwide as part of our Credit Suisse Cares for Yours sincerely Climate initiative. This program is designed to incorporate wide -ranging climate protection measures into our business activities. In our client-facing activities, we evaluate transactions with potential environmental and social risks using a deHans-Ulrich Doerig Brady W. Dougan tailed review process. We also apply our internal policies and March 2011 guidelines to transactions involving sensitive sectors such as forestry, mining, and oil and gas. All these different aspects of our activities are an expression of our overarching commitment to act as a good corporate 4 Contents 8 Responsibility in Banking 9 Trust and Expertise 11 Corporate Governance 2 Foreword 12 Due Diligence and Sustainability 16 Sustainable Products and Services 6 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility 18 Responsibility in Society 19 Our Role in the Economy and Society 22 Our Social Commitment 28 Sponsorship Contents 5 30 Responsibility as an Employer 31 Credit Suisse as an Employer 34 Global Diversity and Inclusion Booklet – Focus Themes (Page 27 ) 2 Education 36 Responsibility for the Environment 4 Microfinance 37 Environmental and Climate Protection 6 Employee Engagement 40 Environmental Management 46 Dialogue and Transparency Focus 47 Dialogue with Stakeholders Themes 2010 51 Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Focus Themes – Social Commitments We believe that the existence of a sound and stable social environment is key to the long-term success of our business. For many years, Credit Suisse and its employees have therefore been working to help strengthen our society and to address social issues in conjunction with selected partner organizations. As well as providing direct financial support for our partners, we consider it important to make a personal contribution. We therefore encourage our people to share their knowledge and volunteer their own time to help make a difference. In this way, we are demonstrating how we put our corporate values into practice. As part of our social commitments, we defined three focus themes in 2010 : education, microfinance and employee engagement. We also lend our support to various regional projects and campaigns. Together with our employees and partner organizations, we strive to improve the living standards of disadvantaged people. For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requi­r es, the terms “Credit Suisse Group,” “Credit Suisse,” “the Group,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. The business of Credit Suisse AG, the Swiss bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially simila­r to the Group, and we use these terms to refe­r to both when the subject is the same or substantially similar. We use the term “the bank” when we are referring only to Credit Suisse AG, the Swiss bank subsidiary of the Group, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 6 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility At Credit Suisse, we believe that our as well as our role as an employer. It r­ eports, videos, podcasts and picture responsib­le approach to business is a als­o reflects the importance we assign galleries about our international projects decisive factor determining the longto our dialogue with our stakeholders and initiatives, which have been written term success of our bank. We therefore (see illustration on page 7). This report or produced in a journalistic style (see strive to act as a good corporate citizen is structured according to the various box below). in every aspect of our work. This areas of corporate responsibility that we To ensure we can supply the full approach is founded on a broad underfocus on at Credit Suisse. breadth of information required by our standing of our duties as a financial We added a multimedia dimension stakeholders, the contents of this report, services provider and our responsibilities to our reporting for 2010 by launching as well as additional information and toward society and the environment, the Responsibility Chronicle. It contains data on all the themes discussed within it, can be found on the Internet at:  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility This report forms part of our series of annual reporti­n g publications, which provide detailed information about the Responsibility Chronicle Group’s strategy and business model, We report on our activities in the area of corporate as well as our 2010 financial results. responsibility throughout the year. Each week, we publish articles on this topic in our stakeholder magazine bulletin as well as in our online magazine In Focus. The Chronicle, which we have published for the first time in 2011, provides ­ readers with a selection of reports, articles and videos about our ­support for social and environmental initiatives. The Chronicle symbol refers the reader to further information in the Responsibility Chronicle. This Chronicle can be accessed online at  www.credit-­s uisse. com/chronicle and as a special edition within the iPad app of the Credit Suisse bulletin magazine. By taking a photo of the page with the smartphone apps kooaba Visual Search or Paperboy, you can ­d irectly access the corresponding ­f eature in the Responsibility Chronicle. The kooaba app instructions can be found on the inside flap of this report. Corporate Responsibility 7 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility Banking Society  Trust and Expertise  Role in Economy  Corporate Governance and Society  Due Diligence and  Social Commitment Sustainability  Sponsorship  Sustainable Products and Services Dialogue  Dialogue with Stakeholders  Reporting on Corpo­rate Responsibility Employer Environment  Credit Suisse  Environmental and as an Employer Climate Protection  Global Diversity  Environmental and Inclusion Management Code of Conduct Our Ethical Values  Integrity  Responsibility  Respect  Compliance  Confidentiality  Trust Our Professional Standards  Service and Excellence  Risk Culture  Transparency  Adherence to Laws and Regulations  Sustainability  Commitment Responsibility in Banking Responsibility in Society Dialogue and Transparency Our greatest responsibility is to ensure that we Credit Suisse sees itself as an integral part of We cultivate an open dialogue with our clients, manage our company successfully on a long-term ­s ociety rather than just as a bank and financial shareholders and other stakeholders by particibasis for the benefit of our clients, shareholders, intermedia­r y. That is why we support a number pating in events, engaging in personal discussions employees and society as a whole. Competence, of humanitarian and charitable organizations and contributing to the public debate. This diligence and responsible conduct are key to and projects around the world, as well as cultural ­increas­e s mutual understanding and helps us the success of our business. We also strive and sporting events. We also encourage our to identify the needs of our stakeholders, while to take social and environmental aspects into employe­e s to volunteer their time to assist chari­r apidly ­r esponding to new trends. ­account when carrying out our operations. table projects. Code of Conduct Responsibility as an Employer Responsibility for the Environment Our Code of Conduct, which sets out binding Qualified and motivated employees are a vital The protection of the natural environment is one principles for all our operations worldwide, success factor. We want to be an employer of of the most pressing issues of our time. At Credit increas­e s the personal responsibility of all our choice worldwide and therefore offer our people Suisse, we take our responsibilities seriously by employees and Board members and creates a progressive working conditions, attractive training promoting the efficient use of resources and framework where each individual is familiar with programs and varied career opportunities in a by engaging in a dialogue with our stakeholders. Credit Suisse’s corporate responsibilities. Our key multicultural environment. We also develop products and services that focus values include integri­t y, confidentiality and reon environmental themes for our clients. spect, as well as a commitment to sustainability. 8 Responsibility in Banking Ray Wood, Co-Head Power and Renewables in the Credit Suisse Investment Banking division based in New York, is an expert on investment opportunities in the area of sustainable energy. Watch an interview with Ray Wood in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 18  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Banking 9 Trust and Expertise ment, risk analytics and reporting, ­c redit risk management and operational We want to be a reliable and comperisk oversight. tent partner to all our clients and These different measures are critical to our efforts to earn the trust of our to help them achieve their financial stakeholders and, in particular, to goals. We believe that our long-term safeguard the interests of clients and investors. The effectiveness of our success depends on the trust that ­a pproach is demonstrated by the fact ­clients place in us. that Credit Suisse has never had to turn to the government for assistance, while around 70 of the world’s 100 largest banks ­r eceived direct state support The trust that clients and investors place We also operate according to a within the last three years. More imporin Credit Suisse forms the basis of our client-focused, capital-efficient and tantly, we have been able to focus our success. This relationship of trust bereduced-risk strategy and business entire energy and resources on our comes even more important in periods model that is designed to generate ­clients during the recent period of global of fundamental change and uncertainty, consistently good earnings across the ­u ncertainty and were able to help them when our clients’ need for reliable economic cycle. Under this approach, ­invest in growth and manage difficult ­s ervice and sound advice ­increases. we have significantly scaled back our ­r estructuring and liquidity situations. Our clients have confidence in risk exposures while bolstering our Underlining our ­c lients’ satisfaction with Credit Suisse because they know that ­c apital base and have thus positioned Credit Suisse and the trust they place we are fully committed to performing Credit Suisse as a solid and stable in our strategy, business model and our core activities skillfully and respon­p artner to our clients. Our Shared management team, we continued to sibly in every phase of the economic ­S ervices functions help to protect the ­r ecord strong net ­inflows of client ­c ycle – supporting businesses, helping bank’s capital through their activities ­a ssets in every quarter of 2010 and clients to achieve their financial objecin the areas of strategic risk manage­r eceived a number of accolades and tives and safe­g uarding the interests Continued on page 10 of both clients and investors. We fulfill this duty by providing governments, companies and individuals with vital ­a ccess to capital, managing client ­a ssets, ­s teering capital flows and Developments in Global Banking ­p rudently ­a ssessing risks. To this end, At Credit Suisse, we view our business from a global perspective. In strategic we base all our business decisions on a terms, we focus less on the distinction between local and cross-border activities combination of objective data analysis and more on our individual markets as components of a single global marketplace. and the knowledge and insights of our We offer products and services on a cross-border basis − known as offshore team of experts. banking − as well as on a local basis, referred to as onshore banking. In anticipaWe gain trust by maintaining a tion of changing client needs and the evolving regulatory environment, Credit strong compliance and control ­c ulture. Suisse has been growing its international presence and onshore services for many This means that we strive to conduct years. We are now active in over 50 countries and operate 24 booking platforms our business in accordance with the worldwide. At the same time, the Swiss financial center remains attractive highest standards of due ­d iligence and to international clients in view of its numerous strengths relative to other financial to comply with the applicable laws, centers around the globe, such as its efficient system of universal banking − with rules and regulations in all our different the hallmarks of expertise, reliability and quality − as well as favorable framework markets. We have been ­investing conditions such as political and economic stability, a strong currency, first-class ­c ontinuously in the development of our services and highly qualified employees. The banking services offered out of supervisory and control ­c ulture and Switzerland will therefore remain important − particularly in response to the needs ­p rocesses since long before the start of sophisticated clients in emerging markets. Ensuring strict compliance with all of the financial crisis. Our ­c urrent comapplicable legislation when offering cross-border services is an essential part of pliance framework allows us to respond our business model at Credit Suisse. We have therefore been working intensively promptly and effectively to regulatory for years to make sure that our onshore and offshore activities adhere to all developments in all our ­r egions. applicable rules and regulations in Switzerland and abroad. 10 Continued from page 9 awards – including ­Euromoney’s reNew Capital and Liquidity Rules nowned awards for Best Global Bank, Developments in the regulatory landBest Emerging Markets Investment scape are our second major area of Bank, Best Bank in Switzerland and ­focus. We will continue to participate Best Private Bank Globally. in international discussions about the structuring and implementation of Our Strategy for the Future new regulations that are intended to In 2011, we will focus our attention create a more robust financial system, on three principal areas: our clients, enhance investor protection and in­d evelopments in the regulatory crease the transparency of financial Barrier-Free Banking Services ­landscape, and the recovery in the services. In particular, this includes our We are committed to ensuring global economy. contribution to the definition of new that our products and services are First, we will further intensify our capital and ­liquidity rules, as well as our accessible to every­o ne. In 2007, ­efforts to satisfy the needs of ­p rivate pioneering role in the development of a we established our Center of Acindividuals, busi­n esses and ­institutions market for contingent convertible bonds. cessibility with a view to building a and to generate financial ­r eturns with In February 2011, we announced the barrier-free relation­s hip with our and on behalf of these ­c lients. As execution of a definitive agreement with clients and to adapting our banking part of our commitment to delivering two strategic investors to issue an services according to their needs. outstanding financial advice, we will ­a ggregate of approximately CHF 6 bilFor the first time in 2010, the center ­c ontinue to leverage the expertise and lion of tier 1 buffer capital notes to provided relation­s hip managers ­experience of our teams of dedicated be paid up no earlier than October 2013 in Private Banking with training on professionals in all the major financial for cash or in exchange for tier 1 how to offer barrier-free services centers around the world, drawing capital notes issued in 2008 . We also that are tailored to the needs of on their industry-leading ­a nalyses of placed a “Regulation S -only” issue of ­c lients with disabilities. In addition, ­m arket developments. We will also USD 2 billion tier 2 buffer capital notes 42 ATM s have been positioned strive to constantly improve and in February 2011 (see page 48). so that wheelchair users can operextend our range of products and As our third area of focus, we will ate them easily, over 350 talking ­s ervices. One example is our awardclosely monitor the form that the econo­ ATM s have been installed, and winning ­a dvisory process that takes a mic recovery is taking across different the accessibility of our branches holistic view of our clients’ needs geographies – particularly in the emergand office buildings is constantly and develops customized risk/return ing markets, where consumer and inbeing improved. Credit Suisse also ­p rofiles, strategies and solutions to vestment demand appears to be graduissues bank statements printed in ­a ddress them. ally exceeding that of households in Braille and large type and we have It is essential for today’s banks to richer countries. This geographical shift implemented a barrier-free design be able to rapidly adapt their offerings in economic power will bring a large for our website and our online in line with changing client needs as number of challenges on a social, finanbanking service, which received an a result of trends such as growing cial and economic level, while also AA ­r ating (top ­r ating: AA+) from the ­international mobility. Since an increas­r epresenting a source of opportunities ­A ccess for All Foundation in 2010. ing proportion of our client base both for developed nations and the Our Disability Interest Forum comes from outside Western Europe emerging markets. Going forward, we (see page 34) ­p rovides a platform and the US – with individuals often will continue to act as a reliable and where employees can discuss top­living and working in a number of locatrusted partner to our clients and strive ics relating to ­d isability and protions and moving between different to proactively help them to capitalize motes an environment in which all worlds – it is important for us to continon the current process of structural employees can ­r ealize their full ue ­extending our geographical footprint. change and turn it to their advantage. ­p otential. A Dis­a bility Awareness We want to offer our expertise to  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ Training program has been rolled out our global clientele in the locations they banking to educate ­e mployees about this prefer, whether it is through booking topic. More than 2,000 people have platforms on a cross-border basis, already completed the course. in the locations where the clients themRead more about this topic in the selves are based or simultaneously ­R esponsibility Chronicle on page 16 from a combination of financial centers  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle (see box on page 9). Banking 11 Corporate Governance Relations website. We are committed to producing precise, reliable and comThe way we interact with our stakeprehensible financial reports that clearly holders is fundamental for our business explain our performance, our mission and our strategic rationale. Moreover, and our success. We strive to act we are committed to employing a with integrity, responsibility, fairness, responsible compensation approach that ensures a prudent approach to ­transparency and discretion at all risk-taking and aligns the employees’ times in order to secure the trust of interests with those of Credit Suisse, thus motivating the creation of sustainour shareholders, clients and employable share holder value (see box). ees, as well as other stakeholders. Managing Risk Our Risk Management function plays a central role in our organization as it Credit Suisse’s corporate governance internal requirements. They are asked ­fosters a disciplined risk culture and complies with internationally accepted to observe strict standards of profescreates appropriate transparency provid­ standards. We fully adhere to the prinsional conduct at all times. Compliance ing a sound basis for management to ciples set out in the Swiss Code of Best considerations are critically important define a suitable risk profile. Risk Practice including its appendix stipulatwhen selecting employees, developing ­M anagement is instrumental in ensuring ing recommendations on the process training tools, defining processes and a prudent and intelligent approach to around setting compensation for the rules, and are a vital element of all our risk-taking that appropriately balances Board of Directors and the Executive supervisory and control systems. risk and return and optimizes the allo­ Board. In connection with our primary cation of capital throughout the Group. listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange we Shareholder Rights Moreover, through a proactive risk are subject to the SIX Directive on As part of our continued efforts on good ­m anagement culture and the use of Information Relating to Corporate Govcorporate governance we encourage state -of-the -art quantitative and qualiernance. Our shares are also listed on ­investors to participate in the Annual tative tools we strive to minimize the the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) General Meeting and to execute their potential for undesired risk exposure in the form of American Depositary voting rights. To support their decisionin our operations. Shares. As a result, we are subject to making process we are committed to Further information on corporate governance certain US rules and regulations. ensuring accuracy and transparency can be found in the Annual Report 2010 of Credit Suisse Group or at: of our reporting publications, and to  www.credit-suisse.com/governance Our Governance Framework maintaining a state -of-the -art Investor Our corporate governance policies and procedures are laid out in a series of documents governing the organization and management of Credit Suisse. The Board of Directors has adopted a set of Taking a Responsible Approach to Compensation corporate governance guidelines aimed Credit Suisse is committed to fair, balanced, performance -oriented compensation at explaining and promoting an underpractices that align long-term employee and shareholder interests. We believe in standing of our governance structure. rewarding employees for creating sustainable value for the bank and its share­ Other important corporate governance holders over time. Amid emerging regulation and market practices and in dialogue documents include the Articles of Assowith regulators and shareholders, we further modified our compensation structure ciation, the Organizational Guidelines for 2010 . The changes included an increase in base salaries and a decrease and Regulations, the Charters of the in performance -based discretionary variable incentive awards to ensure a more Board of Directors and of each of its balanced mix between fixed compensation and variable awards. Regarding variable committees, the Code of Conduct and awards, which were 27% lower than for 2009, a higher proportion was deferred a global Compensation Policy. and subject to future performance provisions. We also simplified instruments for Furthermore, our employees must deferred awards, thus enhancing transparency for stakeholders. We will continue maintain the highest standards of comto refine our practices based on performance, competitive factors and the pliance with all legal, regulatory and ­r egulatory environment as part of our responsible approach to compensation. 12 Due Diligence and Sustainability opportunities while protecting them from discrimination and recognizing their Due diligence and a responsible right to join or establish a union. Human ­approach to business are key factors rights issues can also arise indirectly in our relationship with suppliers and determining our long-term success. external service providers. Even if our We are therefore committed to influence is more limited in this area, we try to make sure that our ­b usiness ­ensuring we comply with laws and partners uphold human rights and regulations and fulfill our duties ­c omply with employment and social legislation and environmental regulations of due diligence. These efforts are (for example by rejecting the use of ­supported by clear internal rules, child labor and forced labor), based on the terms of the Supplier Code comprehensive control systems and of Conduct we introduced in 2010 . broad-based employee training. One of the challenges we face ­r elates to indirect cases of potential ­human rights breaches as a result of our clients’ activities. The actual extent to which Credit Suisse can influence Credit Suisse has to meet the highthat commits the financial ­s ector to these issues depends primarily on the est standards of trustworthiness, take greater account of sustainability client in question and the nature of respon­sibility and integrity. We therefore ­issues in its work (see table on page 50). the business relationship or transaction. ­expect our employees to act in a proAnother key agreement is the UN If there is a risk that the activities of a fessional, fair and prudent manner Global Compact − an initiative launched ­c lient could impact on human rights, at all times. Our Code of Conduct, in 2000, of which Credit Suisse was Credit Suisse conducts an in-depth risk which ­d efines ethical values and pro­­ one of the first signatories. Under the review (see pages 13 –14). fessional standards that are binding terms of this accord, Credit Suisse As a partner of the International on all Credit ­S uisse staff worldwide, and more than 5,300 other companies ­H uman Rights Forum Lucerne (IHRF ), provides a framework to ensure have agreed to observe a set of prin­ Credit Suisse also promotes human these values and rules of conduct are ciples in the areas of human rights, rights in areas that go beyond banking. firmly established throughout our labor standards, environmental protecThe IHRF seeks to foster a debate ­o r­g anization and guide our employees tion and anti-corruption efforts about human rights issues and to raise in their daily work. In view of the in(see table on page 50). public awareness of current challenges creasingly complex and challenging in this area. In May 2010, it provided ­n ature of our ­b usiness, we refined our Respecting Human Rights a platform for a discussion between Code of ­C onduct in 2010 . The obli­ Our commitment to assume our re­ various leading experts about digitalizagation to ­o bserve the Code of Conduct sponsibilities in the area of human tion and its impact on human rights. also forms an integral part of the rights is based on the UN’s Universal annual ­e mployee review process. Declaration of Human Rights and Voluntary Industry Standards the human and labor rights principles As well as upholding these international International Agreements laid down in the UN Global Compact. agreements, we comply with voluntary The Code of Conduct also forms the We also support the efforts of the industry standards that set out specific basis of our commitment to sustain­ UN Special Representative on Business requirements for individual areas of ability and our pledge to uphold relevant and Human Rights to clarify the res­ business. For example, we conduct our national and international agreements. pective human rights responsibilities of project finance activities in accordance Of particular importance for Credit states and individual businesses. with the Equator Principles, which ­S uisse is the United Nations EnvironAt Credit Suisse, we recognize our are based on the environmental and ment Programme Finance Initiative responsibility to respect the human ­s ocial standards defined by the World (UNEP FI), of which we were one of the rights of individuals within our sphere Bank Group. In line with these stanfirst signatories in 1992 . More than of influence. Our primary focus is on our dards, the 70 participating international 190 banks, insurers and asset managemployees and on ensuring we offer financial institutions perform detailed ers are now involved in this ­initiative them fair working conditions and equal reviews to minimize the negative imBanking 13 pacts of major projects such as the industry standards and assesses the f­ ulfills its voluntary commitments in the construction of dams, power stations client’s track record and stakeholder field of corporate sustainability. and iron ore mines on the environment relationships. It also evaluates whether In 2010, we analyzed a total of and local population. As one of the the transaction is compatible with 284 transactions using the review profounding members of the Equator Credit Suisse’s own internal standards cess to determine whether they posed ­P rinciples in 2003 , we apply these for sensitive sectors. Equator Principles an environmental or human rightsstandards diligently and report annually transactions are assessed in the same related risk. Approxi­m ately 30 % were on our efforts to implement them. way using this process. approved subject to certain conditions, We also play a part in various working If significant reputational risks are while around 16 % were rejected or not groups and joined the Equator Princiidentified or if the transaction is es­ pursued. In most cases where trans­ ples Association Steering Committee pecially complex, the final decision may actions were rejected, the decision was in 2010 . be reached by the Reputational Risk reached ­b ecause they were not com­ By signing up to the Carbon Prin­ Sustainability Committee, which is compliant with the Credit Suisse standards ciples, Credit Suisse has pledged to posed of 13 senior management repreor because of irresolvable conflicts ­o bserve an additional industry standard sentatives − including six members between the prospective client and the that calls for the detailed identification of the Executive Board − and is chaired population potentially affected by its and reduction of carbon-related risks by the Chief Risk Officer of Credit activities. For those transactions that associated with certain projects in the ­S uisse. The committee is also respon­ were reviewed but not pursued, the reaUS power generation sector. sible for ensuring that Credit Suisse sons were adverse market conditions or Identifying and Managing Risks We pursue a strategy that excludes any involvement in transactions or activities that are not compatible with the agreements that we have signed up to or with our own internal guidelines, as well as those that could pose Sustainability Risk Assessments in 2010 an unacceptable risk to our reputation. 2010 2009 2010 2009 If a transaction poses such a risk, Transactions Equator Principles transactions 2 ­C redit Suisse carries out a detailed, assessed 1 uniform internal reputational risk review Number Volume 3 Number Volume 3 process, consulting with independent By region 279 132 5 12 external specialists where necessary. Americas 47 15 1 6 Asia Pacific 105 72 0 4 During this process, detailed assessEurope, Middle East and Africa 58 15 0 1 ments are conducted regarding the Switzerland 69 30 4 1 ­n ature of the transaction, the identity of By sector 279 132 5 12 the potential client and the regulatory, Mining 105 46 4 6 political and social ­b ackground, as well Forestry 38 25 0 0 as environmental and social impacts Oil and gas 50 24 1 3 of a potential client’s activities. The Energy 24 6 0 2 findings of this assessment are submitHydropower 2 2 0 1 ted to an independent risk officer who Chemicals 9 2 0 0 can approve the ­t ransaction, authorize Defense 15 3 0 0 it subject to the fulfillment of certain Other 36 24 0 0 ­c onditions, or ­r eject it. By category 4 5 12 Category A 2 225 6 1,270 If the activities of a prospective Category B 3 111 5 1,755 client entail possible environmental or Category C 0 0 1 12 human rights-related risks, the analysis According to type of financing is performed by Sustainability Affairs, Project financing 5 10 the internal group with responsibility Advice on project financing 0 2 for managing environmental and social 1 Excluding Equator Principles transactions. 2 Transactions assessed. 3 In USD million. 4 Equator Principles ­projects issues. It determines whether the poare divided into different risk categories (A– C), and additional clarifications and action are initiated if required by the tential client complies with the relevant degree of risk involved. 14 because significant additional investi­ ­a lso published in summary form (see risks in our business relations with gation would have been required. ­t able on page 15). These guidelines are ­c lients. This presents a number of chalWe strive to continuously develop based on the regulations prescribed lenges that we will continue to address the tools we use to review risks and to by international organizations such as in the future. raise employee awareness of their the UN and the World Bank and in­ When reaching decisions on con­ ­importance. corporate standards that we expect our troversial issues, we consider the opclients to observe, as well as a list of portunities and risks to individuals Standards for Sensitive Industries activities and business prac­t ices that and groups of people, based on their Credit Suisse conducts business with we will not finance. Credit Suisse drew different viewpoints and interests. certain clients who operate in sensitive up earlier policies for the forestry This is a complex undertaking and we industries such as mining, forestry, and mining sectors. They were followed therefore try to meet high standards and oil and gas. Companies in these in 2010 by a policy on the oil and gas when reviewing risk aspects and sectors play an important economic role sector and guidelines on palm oil pro­b alancing the interests of our stake­ by supplying raw materials and energy, duction. Following the entry into force holders. While observing our duties of as well as often representing a major of the International Convention on Clusconfidentiality, we engage in a diasource of employment, especially ter Munitions in 2010, Credit Suisse logue with specialized interest groups in regions with developing economies. has also communicated its position on and non-governmental organizations At the same time, their projects and this topic. We have stated, among other and encourage our clients to follow ­a ctivities can sometimes have a signifithings, that we do not engage in any the same approach. cant impact on the natural environbusiness transactions that are connectWe consider it important to provide ment and biodiversity, as well as on the ed to the production, trading or use needs-based training for our employees ­c limate and water resources. We are of cluster munitions. to make them aware of these complex very conscious of our responsibilities issues and to ensure they have the as a bank when engaging in business Challenges of Complex Transactions necessary level of expertise to deal relations with these clients. To assess At Credit Suisse, we endeavor to conwith them effectively. In 2010, we inten­potential transactions with companies sistently take account of issues such as sified our training courses and rolled in these sectors, we have drawn up climate change, biodiversity, water scarthem out across all regions, as well as specific internal guidelines that we have city and human rights when assessing focusing even more closely on the Assessment of Sustainability Risks within the Reputational Risk Review Process ( RRRP ) Transaction Industry-­specific guidelines Public Policy – Sustainability Affairs  Analysis of ­t ransactions Transactions with potential  Awareness environmental or social ­r aising/training reputational risks  Provision of assistance Reputational Risk ­Review Process Database of projects/­ companies ­under sustainability review Decision (decline/adapt /adopt) Banking 15 needs of relationship managers. Our Key Elements of Sector Policies and Guidelines three -tier training program is designed  Introduction We recognize the key economic importance of various industry sectors for the global to provide a general introduction to economy. Future economic growth will partly depend on the supply of energy or raw materials by these ­sustainability at Credit Suisse, to prosectors. At the same time, it is vital for them to operate in a sustainable manner. Our sector policies and guidelines set out the environmental and social standards that we expect clients in certain sensitive mote an understanding of the risk sectors to observe when conducting their activities and exclude certain activities. Any exceptions ­r eview process, and to offer in-depth may only be granted individually based on our Reputational Risk Review Process. Summaries of these policies are available online at:  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/doc/policy_summaries_en.pdf information on specific themes for ­r elationship managers serving clients in Forestry and Forest Products Policy sensitive industries.  Professional forestry management operations that are perceived as responsible; purchase of resources from such forestry management operations Recognizing Our Responsibilities  Consideration of and response to local community issues in a meaningful and credible way To preserve our reputation as a bank  No financial services for operations in primary tropical moist forests or other High Conservation Value that acts correctly and with integrity, Forests ( HCVF ), unless such operations are certified by a FSC-accredited certification body or have made substantial and demonstrable progress towards FSC-accredited certification it is vital that we prevent the improper  No financial services for companies that engage in or purchase forest products from forestry oper­ations use of our products and services by in UNESCO World Heritage Sites or that harvest or trade tree species protected under Appendix I of the third parties and comply with the most Convention on International Trade in Endan­gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) stringent legislative and regulatory  No financial services for activities involving illegal logging or uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire ­r equirements. To this end, we perform internal controls, apply recognized stanMining Policy dards and work constructively with  Responsible management of the following issues: water contamination and use; habitat depletion, fragmentation and degradation; waste management; site decommissioning and remediation; worker and the authorities. community health and safety; public involvement, consultation and disclosure The strict Swiss regulations relat­ RRRP mandatory for the mining of coal, asbestos and uranium (or other radioactive materials) ­ing to the prevention of money launder No financial services for operations in protected areas (such as primary tropical moist forests or other ing, business relations with politically HCVF if resulting in significant degradation, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, Ramsar wetlands) exposed persons and the financing of  No financing of operations where mountaintop removal mining practices are used or that include tailings terrorism are implemented in all our disposal in riverine or shallow sea environments business units around the globe. As a  No financial services for companies against which there is credible evidence of involvement in human rights abuses or operations that require resettlement of substantial numbers of people member of the Wolfsberg Group of 11 leading international banks, we are Oil and Gas Policy also working on the further develop Responsible management of the following issues: water contamination and use; air emissions; ment of industry standards to combat habitat depletion, fragmentation and degradation; waste management; oil spill prevention, preparedness corruption, terrorist financing and and response; site decommissioning and remediation; worker and community health and safety; public involvement, consultation and disclosure. ­m oney laundering.  RRRP mandatory for oil sands and oil shale development, Arctic oil and gas development, Our employees have a duty to im­ and transnational pipelines mediately report any legal and regulato No financial services for operations in protected areas ry infringements or cases of ethical  No financial services for companies against which there is credible evidence of involvement in human misconduct to their line manager or a rights abuses or operations that require resettlement of substantial numbers of people superior. Alternatively, they can contact our Integrity Hotline and speak to an Palm Oil Guidelines advisor anonymously if preferred.  Membership in and certification according to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil ( RSPO), or time-bound commitment towards RSPO certification ­M andatory online training courses are  No financial services for projects or activities prohibited by host country legislation and international designed to educate our employees conventions relating to the protection of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage about incidents that can have a critical  No financial services for projects or activities located in or involving clearing of primary tropical moist impact on our business. forests, involving illegal logging or uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire Credit Suisse Group’s Internal Audit department systematically monitors Hydropower Guidelines compliance with internal and external  Taking account of New Framework for Decision-Making by the World Commission on Dams ( WCD) principles, policies and guidelines.  No financial services for projects or activities prohibited by host country legislation and international conventions relating to the protection of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage ­R egular reviews ensure that processes to reduce risks are being conducted  No financial services for projects or activities located in or involving clearing of primary tropical moist forests or other HCVF, UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Biosphere Reserves, or Ramsar wetlands properly and effectively.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ banking 16 Sustainable Products and Services on a monthly basis. In addition, we are represented on the Board of Directors Credit Suisse has once again expandof the European Microfinance Platform ed its offering of sustainability-related ( MFP) and in the team of experts for the European MFP Awards 2010, which products and services with the aim focus on ­value chain finance. of combining economic, environmental Green Business Initiative and social requirements. To meet the diverse needs of our clients and provide them with a range of green products and services, we set up the At Credit Suisse, we develop products 2010 , Credit Suisse’s volume of assets Credit Suisse Green Business Initiative and services in all our businesses that under management in the area of in 2009. This internal forum brings togenerate environmental and social benmicrofinance totaled USD 998 million. gether senior managers and specialists efits. In this way, we can provide clients In November 2010 the responsAbility from across our regions and divisions with attractive investment op­p ortunities Base of the Pyramid Fund (BoP), of to share their insights and promote while helping to supply the necessary which Credit Suisse is the lead investor products and services in renewable encapital for new technologies and for with a commitment of USD 25 million, ergy, clean technology and related companies that focus on sustainability. received the G -20 SME Finance Chalgreen business sectors. By drawing on Our research departments also produce lenge Award, which recognizes the our global resources and perspectives, a wide array of publications to inform best approaches to financing SME s in Credit Suisse can better understand clients about current trends and future developing economies. We joined this environmental trends, their market imoriented topics. venture to complement our microfi­plications and our clients’ needs. nance commitments, thus supporting Supporting Economic Development the long-term development of local Clean Tech in Asset Management Microfinance is the term used to deeconomies and gaining an early expoCredit Suisse’s Private Equity’s Customscribe microloans, savings, insurance sure to the growth potential of future ized Fund Investment Group has nearly and other financial services targeted markets. In July 2010, Credit Suisse CHF 625 million of client commitments at low-income clients. It enables people also underwrote the IPO of SKS, the for investments in clean technology, in emerging and developing countries leading microfinance institution in India making it one of the largest participants to build up a basic livelihood and is and the first organization of its kind in the sector. The group’s clean geared toward the achievement of the to go public in the country. tech practice has committed roughly UN Millennium Development Goals The microfinance sector has seen CHF 440 million to solar, wind, water, such as combating poverty, achieving enormous growth in recent years and materials and related companies. gender equality and improving health. offers a number of undisputed advanThe Credit Suisse Real Estate Fund Credit Suisse has been active in the tages. Nevertheless, it is our duty to Green Property was the first Swiss real field of microfinance since 2001 and, in responsibly guide the evolution of this estate fund to invest in sustainable and 2003, joined forces with partner banks young industry. Recent events and energy-efficient real estate. It achieved to establish responsAbility Social Incriticisms have demonstrated the need significant progress in its growth in vestments AG , a social investment firm for strong institutions led by well-trained 2010. The properties in which this fund focusing on developing countries and managers and staff. The Microfinance invests must meet the strict criteria the emerging markets. Capacity Building Initiative (see booklet, relating to the “greenproperty” quality Credit Suisse’s current microfinance pages 4 –5) actively takes on this chalseal that covers dimensions such as enoffering includes three investment funds lenge by supporting training, product inergy, materials, infrastructure, utilization and one private equity fund that enable novation and thought leadership in miand lifetime cycle. investors to participate directly in small crofinance institutions around the world. and medium-sized enterprises and microFurthermore, in 2010 Credit Suisse Achievements in Investment Banking finance institutions. The bank also mancontributed to academic work in the Credit Suisse is the global market leader ages the custody and administration of field by publish­ing a microfinance case in the wind and solar energy sectors a number of large microfinance facilities study in conjunction with INSEAD Busiwithin the investment banking industry. sponsored by international financial inness School. A Credit Suisse research Since 2005 , we have led the market stitutions such as the International Fiunit dedicated to the micro­f inance secin terms of our volume and number of nance Corporation ( IFC). At the end of tor also tracks trends and developments deals executed and have received nuBanking 17 merous awards for our achievements Client Foundations: Every Donation Reaches Its Beneficiary (see page 37). Credit Suisse also employs Credit Suisse’s three charitable foundations Accentus, Symphasis and Empiris proa large team of analysts to monitor vide straightforward solutions for Swiss clients who wish to use part of their wealth market trends. In 2010, our research to benefit social causes or help protect the environment. To ensure that the donateam extended its coverage to more tions are used efficiently, we assume the foundations’ administration and managethan 70 alternative energy companies ment costs and work with professional NGO s to select and monitor the projects globally and provided in-depth analyses they support. In 2010, more than CHF 7 million was donated by the foundations. of the solar, biofuels, wind, smart grid Read about one of the supported projects and battery industries. in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 12 Credit Suisse has also been active  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle in emissions trading since 2005. Our specialists focus on carbon trading and market making in liquid markets such as the EU. In 2010, we distributed a portion of the Dutch government’s auction of EU carbon allowances and handled the sale of 500,000 metric tons Credit Suisse Sustainability Indices of emissions reduction certificates for the World Bank in its role as trustee for Index Name Description Credit Suisse Social the United Nations Adaptation Fund. 60 businesses that adhere to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Awareness Index Credit Suisse Global 30 businesses that distinguish themselves through the efficient utilization New Index for Private Banking Resource Efficiency Index and recycling of environmentally relevant resources In 2010, we further expanded our offerCredit Suisse Global 40 businesses that are active in renewable fuels or electricity, emissions Warming Index limitation or demand management ing of sustainability-themed investment Credit Suisse Water Index 30 businesses in the fields of water generation, preservation, infrastructure, products. The newly launched Credit treatment and desalination Suisse Solutions (Lux) Megatrends is Credit Suisse Global 30 businesses in the fields of wind energy, solar energy, bioenergy, based on three global megatrends: Alternative Energy Index natural gas, geothermal energy, hydroelectricity, fuel cells and batteries Sustainability, Demographics and MultiCredit Suisse Global 25 businesses in the fields of nano materials, nano information technology, Nanotechnology Index nano health, nano energy and nano instruments polar World. Our global research team Credit Suisse Electric 32 businesses in the fields of energy storage, suppliers and materials, manages the research on megatrends Vehicle Index vehicle manufacturers, infrastructure and services and has developed a ­r esponsible investRenewable Energy Index Economic indicator for turnover, order backlogs, delivery periods, Switzerland inventories and employment in the sustainable energies market ment strategy, ­including a portfolio of equity recommendations. Our partnership with MSCI, a provider of portfolio ESG analyses, enables us to offer our clients analyses of the environmental, social and governance performance of a significant number of companies. Socially Responsible Investments The Credit Suisse Electric Vehicle Index was launched in 2010 to guide 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 investors through this future-oriented market. We also published a number of in CHF million in CHF million research reports on clean mobility to Assets under management with high complement the index. Building on the social/environmental benefits 3,992 3,546 Credit Suisse Global Alternative Energy Index, we launched the first index-based exchange traded fund ( ETF ). Also in 2010, we joined with the Swiss Agency for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency ( AEE ) to launch the Renewable Energy Index Switzerland ( REIS).  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ banking 18 Responsibility in Society Anessa Chui, Program Advisor at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong, spent three months working for a microfinance institution in Uganda as part of the Global Citizens Program in 2010 . Watch a video about Anessa’s volunteering efforts in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 91  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Society 19 Our Role in the Economy and Society ­exceed ­international standards. We r­ esponded promptly to these recomWe aim to conduct our business mendations by implementing appro­ in a way that creates value for our priate mea-sures and we adjusted our ­f inancial ­t argets in line with the new clients, employees and shareholders. ­o perating environment. We also want to ensure that our We continue to assume our full ­ social responsibilities in all four of our ­activities benefit the economy and regions. This reflects the fact that the the broader social environment in success of our business depends on our international network with its which we ­operate. ­b roadly diversified refinancing and ­investment opportunities. At the same time, our Swiss home market has ­a lways been very important to Credit Suisse and we have been a key part of Swiss society for more than 250 years (Credit Suisse was founded in 1856 Our social responsibility centers on No Government Support and Bank Leu in 1755 ). We serve a our role as a financial services provider. At Credit Suisse, we share the view very broad and diverse clientele in our Credit Suisse functions as an intermedithat all forms of government support domestic market in our role as a univerary between companies, private and are to be avoided. Based on this sal bank. institutional investors and the public sec­p hilosophy, we participated in the As a partner to more than one -third tor, helping to supply capital, financial Swiss ­Federal Council’s Commission of all Swiss companies, we are very advice and expertise to the economy. of Experts, which drew up possible conscious of our importance to the In this way, we support economic growth ­s olutions to address future financial country’s economy (see box below). We and promote individual prosperity. ­c rises (see box on page 48). We support therefore took every possible measure the recommendations proposed by the to prevent a credit crunch in Switzerland Taking Account of Risk commission of experts which – together during the financial and economic We entered 2010 in a position of with the “Swiss finish” – significantly crisis. We did not tighten our rules on strength – especially as we are one of Continued on page 21 the few major financial institutions that have never had to turn to the government for support. Risk management is of central importance in our business, and we have continued to systematically and successfully implement our clientfocused, reduced-risk business model. Credit Suisse in Switzerland We have also intensified our focus on Switzerland is a key region for Credit Suisse: We generate risk when offering financial advice – around one -third of our profit in our domestic market, which especially to private clients. is home to almost half of our workforce. Our team of around Credit Suisse welcomes the regula2,600 relationship managers provides high-quality service tory measures taken around the globe and advice to our two million private clients and 106,000 corto improve investor protection and porate clients in Switzerland. We are currently renovating our system stability and to ensure the prop­entire Swiss branch network market with a focus on client, er functioning of the financial markets. employee and environmental needs; this work is due to be In this context, we remain convinced completed by 2013. In 2010, we placed orders for goods, of the merits of our integrated strategy ­services and licenses with 14,000 Swiss SME s. As a lender, in view of the synergies between our we currently have around CHF 150 billion of loans outstanding, Private Banking, Investment Banking comprising mortgages and loans to corporate, ­public and Asset Management businesses and and private clients. CHF 32 billion of this sum consists of believe that it provides a sound basis loans to SME s. We manage CHF 590 billion of ­assets from for our current and future success. ­private and institutional clients in Switzerland. 20 Taking Young People Seriously Credit Suisse’s first ever Youth Barometer survey, which was conducted online in Switzerland, the US and Brazil, provides valuable insights into the views and ­attitudes of young people aged between 16 and 25. This annual ­survey, performed in conjunction with the ­research ­institute gfs.bern, is intended to help strengthen the ­dialogue with members of the younger generation while addressing their legitimate needs and promoting their skills and abilities. The full survey A discussion between Credit ­results can be found under:  www.credit-suisse.com/youthbarometer ­S uisse apprentices at an ­introductory event in Zurich. The 25% increase in the There was a clear consensus between young people ­number of apprenticeships in Switzerland, the US and Brazil on the following that was ­d ecided in 2009 ­issues. Level of agreement in percent. is ­b eing implemented as 0% 25% 50% 75% planned. Around 85% of all ­a pprentices continue working at Credit ­S uisse after com­ A successful career is important to me. pleting their training. 89 84 91 I want to engage in lifelong learning. 81 88 95 Promoting Young Talent Credit Suisse recognizes the important role that young people will play I am pleased to have a good job. 57 in our future social, cultural and economic development. In addition to our 80 63 Global Education Initiative, we have been committed to supporting talented young people for many years – be it in the area of sport or culture A university education is the best basis for a career. 40 or within our own company. In December 2009, we announced plans to 77 76 ­increase the number of apprenticeships in Switzerland by 25% from 600 to 750 over three years. School provides a good grounding for a career. 37 We also place a particular focus on the development of aspiring IT 56 47 ­p rofessionals. As one of the country’s largest IT employers, Credit Suisse requires access to a growing pool of expertise. We are providing CHF 33 I want to earn as much money as possible. 10 million for an IT initiative we are implementing in cooperation with 59 ICT Switzerland. 51 Our program to tackle youth unemployment helps young ­p eople in Young people are at a disadvantage professionally. ­S witzerland to find an apprenticeship and enter the labor ­m arket. Credit 44 55 Suisse has made CHF 30 million available over five years for this purpose. 41 In 2010, we worked with seven partner organizations to implement this Women are at a disadvantage professionally. ­initiative. In the first year alone, 400 young people took part in the various 49 48 programs. Now that the necessary structures are in ­p lace, the number of 47 individuals who receive support will rise to 7,500 each year. My leisure time is more important than my career. In 2010, Credit Suisse conducted its Youth Barometer survey for the 40 47 first time as part of its comprehensive efforts to support young people. 49 This poll, which was carried out in Switzerland and on a pilot basis in the I want to be respected as an individual. US and Brazil, provided valuable insights into the attitudes of young 80 78 ­p eople toward work, leisure and social values. They were also questioned 89 about various financial issues. The findings will enable Credit Suisse I want to lead a responsible life. to address the needs of its younger clients in a more targeted manner. 71 77 82 Read more about the Youth Barometer in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 92  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Switzerland US Brazil Society 21 Continued from page 19 lending at any time and actually slightly Risk Capital Creates Jobs increased our lending volume during We established the fully owned subsidiary SVC Ltd. for this period. Risk Capital for SME s in May 2010 and supplied it with CHF 100 million of capital in an ­effort to help sound Swiss Credit Suisse as a Taxpayer businesses with limited capital reserves achieve growth. This We are also committed to assuming our ­organization ­focuses on SME s in all sectors whose products responsibilities as a client, contractual and services have achieved market acceptance. In the first partner and taxpayer (see box below). few months alone, it received around 300 inquiries from On average over the last five years, firms seeking capital and made six investments in the course Credit Suisse has paid CHF 1.2 billion of 2010. in corporate income taxes worldwide. Read about the first investments by the new venture We ­a lso pay taxes that are unrelated to capital company in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 30 income, which exceeded CHF 400 mil www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle lion in 2010 . In addition, on behalf of employees, Credit Suisse pays payroll withholding taxes and social security contributions, as well as other statutory levies. In 2010, these additional taxes and contributions amounted to over CHF 4 billion globally. Our 50,000 employees also continued to pay billions Credit Suisse as a Client and Contractual Partner in income tax worldwide. Credit Suisse plays an important role as a purchaser of products and services. Despite measures to reduce costs In 2010 alone, we purchased over CHF 6 billion of goods, services and licenses and boost efficiency, our headcount in across our four regions: the Americas, Switzerland, Asia Pacific, and Europe, Switzerland has remained stable at Middle East and Africa. Credit Suisse is committed to conducting its business in around 21,000 and we even increased an ethical, legal and socially and environmentally responsible manner. We expect our number of training positions and our suppliers to observe the same standards of conduct. We want to work with jobs for qualified apprentices (see box on partners that offer great quality and the best possible value for money, as well as page 20; further information on Credit Suisse pursuing a sustainable and innovative approach. Our various suppliers make an as an employer can be found on pages 30 – 35). ­important contribution to ensuring that we can deliver first-class financial services to our clients around the world. We select suppliers on the basis of merit and ­u ndertake to work with those firms best able to meet our exacting requirements. Goods are delivered to the Credit Suisse distribution center in the Uetlihof administrative center, Zurich, and are then dispatched by internal post to our individual branches. 22 Our Social Commitment r­ egions in question and can ensure that the resources we provide are used in At Credit Suisse, we have been a needs-oriented and effective manner. ­committed to improving the lives Credit Suisse foundations and com­ mittees in our four regions coordinate of disadvantaged people for many our work with more than 200 partner years. Working with a group of organizations worldwide, as well as ­facilitating the volunteer work of our partner organizations, we support ­e mployees. For example, the Americas a variety of humanitarian and char­ Foundation in New York and the EMEA Foundation in London support charitable itable projects around the world. projects in their regions, while regional management teams ­oversee our projects in Asia Pacific. In Switzerland, the Credit Suisse ­Foundation Jubilee Fund We believe that the existence of a Based on the knowledge that education and Corporate Volunteering lead our sound and stable social environment is is the key to economic growth and various initiatives. key to the long-term success of our ­s ocial change, we also support internabusiness. Credit Suisse and its employtional organizations that provide children Volunteering by Employees ees therefore work with selected partwith access to quality learning. As As well as significantly increasing ner organizations to help strengthen our a further area of focus, we encourage the value of our financial contributions, society and to address social issues our employees around the world to the volunteer work performed by our on an international level. ­p arti­c ipate in charitable projects on a employees gives them an insight into As a company that is active in both ­voluntary basis. the needs of the people among whom industrialized and emerging market they live and work. It is also an opeconomies, we care about the economic Think Globally – Act Locally portunity for employees to develop their and social development of regions In order to implement our global philan­interpersonal skills and team spirit. In ­suffering from severe poverty and take thropy strategy as effectively as possible this way, volunteering helps to enhance ­t argeted steps to help improve the living across all our regions, it is important our corporate culture. In view of the standards of socially disadvantaged for us to consider local needs and benefits for all concerned, we actively people in these areas. cultural differences when determining encourage all our employees to get We want to be recognized as a good which projects to support. We aim ­involved in volunteer work. We consult and reliable local partner in all the to develop strategic partnerships with with them regarding the selection of ­r egions in which we operate – including leading ­n on-governmental organizations our partners, as well as supporting them in periods of economic difficulty. We that have a sound knowledge of the if they assume positions on the man­ ­focus, in particular, on building longterm relationships that can bring about ­lasting change and enable our partner organizations to extend their projects to other countries. Both our regional and global comEMEA : Supporting People with Dementia and Their Carers mitments are founded on our belief in Each year, employees in the UK select a charitable organization that will benefit the ability of communities to help from their collective fundraising activities over a 12 -month period. In 2010, employthemselves and our wish to assist those ees selected The Alzheimer’s Society as the UK Charity of the Year. This partnerwho are in greatest need, as well as ship broke all previous records: Our people offered their time, money, expertise our ­d esire to preserve the natural envi­ and talents to support this worthwhile cause and raised more than GBP 738,000 ronment. Our global initiatives for in the process. A record GBP 107,000 was raised by the Credit Suisse Enduro 2010 reflect these priorities (see booklet). Challenge Triathlon Team. Other events organized by Credit Suisse in the course For example, we regard microfinance of the year included a dragon boat race and art workshops at London’s National as an effective means of helping people ­G allery that were specifically tailored to people with dementia. to find a way out of poverty and we Watch a video about the Enduro Challenge are working on expanding our Micro­ in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 91  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle finance Capacity Building Initiative. Society 23 Humanitarian Aid and Disaster Relief Fund agement boards and boards of trustees A number of natural disasters occurred in 2010. In Pakistan, the monsoon of these charitable organizations. rains resulted in catastrophic flooding that eventually covered a quarter As a responsible employer, we actively of the country – leaving millions of people homeless. In Haiti, the earth­ promote our volunteering program by quake that struck on January 12, 2010, devastated vast areas of the coun­ enabling every Credit Suisse employee try and left 1.3 million people living in emergency accommodation. In to dedicate an entire working day on view of the exceptional suffering in both of these countries, the Disaster full pay to helping social projects. Since Relief Fund – which was established for this precise purpose and is man­ 2010 , we have also recognized the soaged by the Credit Suisse Foundation – provided rapid financial assistance cial commitment of our people by includto help the victims of the two disasters. Our employees made generous ing it in our annual performance appraisdonations which, together with the financial contributions and matching als as well as in our human resources gifts from the foundation, amounted to a total of USD 7 million in 2010. ­d evelopment strategy. In Switzerland, Through our swift response, we endeavored to alleviate the suffering of volunteering has been part of the the countless victims and to support the rebuilding process. ­p rofessional training program for young talents since 2008 . Read about the disaster relief efforts in Haiti and Pakistan We continued our successful inter­ in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 6  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle national cooperation with our two global volunteering partners in the course of the year: Junior Achievement Worldwide focuses on promoting the development of business acumen among young ­people, while Habitat for Humanity ­International seeks to eliminate poverty housing and homelessness by helping people to construct new homes. Since 2009, Credit Suisse clients have been given the opportunity to participate Following the heavy monsoon rains in selected projects run by our company. in Pakistan in July and August 2010, over a quarter of the country was Since 2010 , Credit Suisse has had left severely flooded. a global database in which we record our volunteering activities. Systematically recording all the data will enable us to coordinate volunteering activities more efficiently in the future and to measure and quantify their social Switzerland: Integration Program for Young People ­impact. In various Swiss cantons, the Swiss Red Cross program ­“ Mitten unter uns” (“In our midst”) supports the integration Expanding Our Commitments of children and young people who do not speak the local Credit Suisse is constantly extending ­language. To develop their language skills, the organization the list of countries in which we arranges for each child to visit a native volunteer for two ­p ar­t icipate in social initiatives. In 2010, or three hours a week over a period of at least six months. we ­increased the number of projects The initiative aims to dispel prejudice and to foster under­ we support across all four of our regions. standing. In addition to this program, the canton of Zurich is In Switzerland, where volunteering is running an initiative to promote the establishment of language ­a lready well established, we encouraged clubs at which volunteers meet with young people on a week­ our employees to play a voluntary ly ­basis to help them learn German as they engage in a range role in projects that are supported by of different activities. In 2010, Credit Suisse employees dethe Credit Suisse Foundation Jubilee voted 1,194 days to supporting various corporate volunteering Fund. The number of young employees ­programs run by the Swiss Red Cross. who perform volunteer work as part Read more about this program of their training program has also risen. in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 66 In addition, we have been able to in www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle crease our number of partnerships with 24 non-profit organizations in Switzerland Asia Pacific: A Brighter Future through Education from 7 to 12 . Child’s Dream is an aid organization that aims to provide children and young people In our Europe, Middle East and in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand with access to education. Thanks to ­Africa (EMEA) region, we once again the financial support it received from Credit Suisse – which totaled USD 250,000 in ­supported programs in the UK , Ger­ 2009 – this organization has been able to supply classrooms, toilets, clean water many, France, Russia, Italy, Israel, and writing materials for around 1,400 schoolchildren in Laos. As well as improving South Africa and Poland and ­c onducted the educational infrastructure, Child’s Dream runs a scholarship program that activities in Spain and the Middle East ­e nables gifted young adults to study at university – an opportunity that they would for the first time. otherwise be unable to afford. The grant given to them has to cover all their In the Americas, we increased our ­expenses, including tuition and fees, the cost of accommodation, food and study level of support for voluntary organiza­m aterials. At present, 90 talented young people are studying at universities in tions located outside New York. In the Thailand and Hong Kong, while 380 students are being ­e ducated at special high coming years, we will continue to invest schools in refugee camps. In spring 2010, the first group of scholarship students in measures to support schools and completed their courses with excellent grades. to select the best teachers and school leaders. Listen to a podcast about Child Dream’s support for disadvantaged students in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 48 In the Asia Pacific region, we focused  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle on expanding our education projects for socially disadvantaged children and young people (see box). Growing Level of Participation We are proud that corporate volunteerParticipation of Our Employees ing is growing in popularity and that in Projects Supported more and more of our employees are playing a personal role in addressing by Credit Suisse Worldwide 5,600 social issues. Compared to 2009, 56,450 the number of employees volunteering by region Switzerland for charitable projects around the world increased by 1,436 to a total of 15,094 in 2010 (see chart). Our aim in 2011 is to encourage even more of our people to act as volunteers in all four regions and to thus further strengthen our relationships with our partner organizations.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ society 5,289 59,466 2,453 1,752 Americas 30,366 Europe, Middle East 17,417 Asia Pacific and Africa Volunteers Time dedicated to voluntary work (in hours) Volunteering metrics related to global partnerships (included in regional figures above) Habitat for Humanity International 884 8,735 Junior Achievement Worldwide 203 3,186 Society 25 Selected Projects Project Aim Result Board Training Program, Training to prepare employees to serve on the boards  Training provided to 297 employees in New York, Chicago US, since 2009 of non-profit organizations and San Francisco Special Olympics North Offering children and young people with learning difficulties  Employees in Raleigh, North Carolina, volunteered 800 hours Carolina, US, since 2005 the opportunity to train for and compete in athletic of their time. Sponsorship of the Plane Pull Competition tournaments Baby Buggy Monthly Recruiting employee volunteers to help repair clothing  365 employees volunteered, mending over 7,400 articles Volunteer Clothing Repair, that is provided to children in need of clothing that benefited nearly 1,500 children US, since 2004 Child’s Dream, Laos, Construction of 33 classrooms for 1,400 students  Classrooms completed in February 2011 since 2003 China Youth Development Construction of a computer lab for the Linjiang school in  21 computer workstations installed Foundation, China, north-eastern China since 2010 Polish Children and Youth Supporting the comprehensive development of children and  212 students from four schools in Warsaw participated in Foundation, Poland, young people in order to increase their chances of the Training of Social Skills program since 2009 obtaining a good education and leading a successful life Fight for Peace, UK , Fight for Peace uses boxing and martial arts combined  30 young people (3 cohorts) participate in the Pathways since 2008 with education to realize the potential of young people in program per year communities that suffer from crime and violence clouddog, UK and South A 12-month program to help students from inner city  24 young people participated in the program, directly Africa, since 2009 backgrounds develop self-esteem, focus and direction benefitting over 1,000 people through their community work through targeted exposure to multicultural, environmental and ecological experiences College for All, Israel, Encourage disadvantaged children and young people with  Program implemented at 11 College for All centers, including since 2009 the potential for excellence to broaden their horizons, the launch of Young Economist course and various community pursue higher education, contribute to society and become outreach programs community leaders City Year London, UK , City Year brings together 18to 25-year-olds from a  60 corps members volunteered in six schools in East London, since 2009 variety of backgrounds to volunteer in schools for a year directly helping over 1,800 pupils Swiss Red Cross, Support for Swiss Red Cross health and integration  1,869 employees supported programs including a blood Switzerland, since 2008 programs donation campaign, “2 x Christmas”, a driver pool transport service and “Mitten unter uns” (“In our midst”) Right To Play, Switzerland, Support for children in disadvantaged regions of the world,  In the Right To Play project, volunteers tell primary school since 2010 including refugees, former child soldiers and children children about the lives of disadvantaged youngsters and (orphans) with HIV/AIDS how they can be helped through games and sports programs Plusport, Switzerland, Promotion of positive experiences and integration through  Around 70 volunteers supported the annual Plusport Day, since 2008 physical sports activities for disabled people Switzerland’s biggest sports day for people with disabilities, or participated in tournaments for the blind and visually impaired WWF, Switzerland, since 2010 Preservation of biodiversity in the Alps  Almost 300 people volunteered in the Engadine and Valais St. Jakob Foundation, Provision of sheltered work and day structures in  Approximately 250 individuals have volunteered to help at Switzerland, since 2010 an individually motivating framework the St. Jakob bakery UNICEF, Twinkle Week, Support for fundraising campaign by children in  Since 2004, around 78,000 children in Switzerland have Switzerland, since 2009 Switzerland for children in need collected more than CHF 3.4 million for children in need Americas: Students Present Business Plans Prep for Prep is a leadership development program that offers promising students access to life -changing opportunities. In August 2010, the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation hosted the Prep for Prep Institute for Entrepreneurship. This event was developed in conjunction with The Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship in New York, which is devoted to helping young people from low-income communities to find a path to success. Talented students were given the ­opportunity to present their business plans to Credit Suisse volunteers who subsequently judged the submissions to select the winner of the competition. In total, 19 students partici­ pated and six became finalists, competing for USD 1,200 in prize money. Watch a video about this event in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 90  www.credit-suisse.com/en/chronicle The Uetlihof administrative center in Zurich is a prime example of how a large building complex within a city can be merged harmoniously with its ­surroundings through the planting of trees and other vegetation. The ­nature park adjacent to the building has received awards from ­various ­organizations. It incorporates small ponds and marshes and ­provides a habitat for around 350 different species of plants. Focus Themes 2010 Focus Themes – Social Commitments We believe that the existence of a sound and stable social environment is key to the long-term success of our business. For many years, Credit Suisse and its employees have therefore been working to help strengthen our society and to address social issues in conjunction with selected partner organizations. As well as providing direct financial support for our partners, we consider it important to make a personal contribution. We therefore encourage our people to share their knowledge and volunteer their own time to help make a difference. In this way, we are demonstrating how we put our corporate values into practice. As part of our social commitments, we defined three focus themes in 2010 : education, microfinance and employee engagement. We also lend our support to various regional projects and campaigns. Together with our employees and partner organizations, we strive to improve the living standards of disadvantaged people. 2 Educating Tanzania’s Nomad Children The entire way of life of Tanzania’s nomadic school has received considerable financial support to pastoralists is under threat as they compete with build new classrooms and teacher accommodation, settled communities for increasingly scarce as well as to purchase tables, chairs, books and other natural resources. If they are to prosper in a teaching materials. Improvements to the school’s rapidly changing society, it is vital for their infrastructure represent a major step forward for the children to go to school. An education project local population. The children agree. “We don’t have is opening up new opportunities for these to sit outside on the ground anymore. The wind no young people. longer turns our pages and we can write more easily. Now there are only two of us sharing a book. Our Sofia and Tumaini wear the same traditional Masai older brothers and sisters hardly ever got a chance to clothing as their mother Marta. However, there is one read because one book had to be shared between fundamental difference between the two generations: six pupils.” Both children can read and write. This important step forward has been achieved thanks to an education Path to Independence project run by the development organization CARE, Many older children are unable to read and write which integrates children from pastoralist communities because they were expected to help at home and into the general school system, offering them access missed out on the opportunity to attend regular to good-quality primary education. primary school. However, these children are now able to visit the Center for Non-Formal Education ( NFE ), Education: A Source of New Opportunities which was also established in Mela with CARE’s The nomadic herders’ way of life has changed dramatsupport. NFE runs special classes in reading and ically in recent years. It is becoming increasingly difwriting that are currently attended by 23 children – ficult for them to live from herding alone, and this is around 10 % of local pupils. Sofia and Tumaini also forcing the Masai to adapt to their changing environbenefitted from classes at the NFE Center at first but ment. Education has a key role to play in this context. very quickly made great progress and were able to “Our children will not be able to pursue our ancestors’ transfer to the regular primary school after passing way of life. Our distinctive culture and language sepathe necessary exams. Today, the two girls are among rates us from the rest of Tanzanian society. We are the best in their class and have a good chance of being driven from our land and our herds are dwingoing on to high school. If they graduate, they will be dling. But education is an asset that cannot be taken able to learn a trade and maybe even go on to study away from us or lost – unlike our livestock.” This comfurther, which would give them even greater indepenment sums up the feelings of the Masai people. “The dence. Their prospects in life no longer depend on pastoralist communities are increasingly realizing how their parents or their future husbands. By going to important it is to educate their children to ensure their school, the two girls have taken the first step on a future livelihoods,” says Stephanie Baric, a program new path toward independence. manager at CARE. “Parents haven’t necessarily stopped migrating but they are now beginning to allow their children to stay behind and continue their education.” This trend is reflected by the number of pupils enrolled in the four schools managed in conjunction with the education project: Since it began, the number of children attending school has risen by 47% to a total of 1,627. The primary school that Sofia and Tumaini attend is located in the village of Mela in the southern part of central Tanzania. As part of the education project, the Education Focus Themes 3 Sofia and Tumaini, two Masai girls wearing traditional dress, are given the opportunity to attend school thanks to an education project run by the development organization CARE. The project integrates children from pastoralist communities in Tanzania into the general school system. Selected figures for the school year 2010 –2011 Number of countries in which the Global Education Initiative is active 24 Number of students who have benefitted from Credit Suisse Is Committed to Education improved access to The Credit Suisse Global Education Initiative supports selected international education and/or improved non-profit organizations with the aim of giving thousands of children and young quality of education people access to better education. The programs run by the initiative focus on providing scholarships and learning materials, as well as training teachers and improving the educational infrastructure. They also seek to create an environment that will sustain a commitment to education at a local, regional and national level. 52,603 In 2010, we continued our cooperation with our long-term partners Camfed, Number of teachers trained CARE, Plan International, Room to Read and Teach for All and entered into a new partnership with Worldfund. In addition, we awarded a number of one-year grants to selected organizations including Catholic Relief Services, Children in Crisis, Leonard Cheshire Disability, PestalozziWorld and the Swiss South African 10,813 Cooperation Initiative. Through these partnerships, we have been able to broaden the reach of our program, extend our organizational network and meet requests Number of schools benefitfor support in specific regions and countries. ting from our support 278 You can find out more about this topic in the Corporate Responsibility Report (pages 22–25 ) and at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes 4 Microfinance: Financing for Small Businesses In a small town in Colombia, Norma Vergara washing and sorting, but when I have more bags, collects and cleans used plastic bags and sells I have up to five neighbors helping me,” says the microthem for a good profit. Thanks to microloans entrepreneur, whose business is also promoting the and training from Opportunity International, economic development of her neighborhood. “The profshe has been able to expand her business, its mean that I can pay the school fees for my children, significantly improve her family’s standard of Carlos David and Jonathan, and buy better food.” living and contribute to her community’s development. At the same time, her business Treating Clients with Respect model is helping to protect the environment. “Our specialist customer service officers are focused on driving forward projects that strengthen the local Norma Vergara and her neighbor Carlos bundle used community,” says Robin Bell, Managing Director at but clean plastic bags and load them on to the waiting Opportunity Latin America. “In doing so, it is hugely mule to take them to the market. “I collect all sorts of important to us to be respectful and helpful to everyplastic bags, wash and sort them, and then sell them one, including our poorest clients.” The focus here is for a profit,” Norma explains. She is from the town of on women. “In poor regions, in particular, women Henequén in the Magdalena region of Colombia. often feel that their work is worthless,” explains Norma belongs to a “Trust Group” made up mostly of Opportunity Colombia’s Sandra Guerra. “In our Trust women, who take out loans with the microfinance Group training programs, we emphasize to them that organization Opportunity International to finance the what they do – both at work and in the home – is growth of their various small businesses. immensely valuable, and we boost their confidence as entrepreneurs. As a result, we find that the women Guaranteeing Neighbors’ Loans take on a leadership role within their communities.” Opportunity offers its clients a variety of financial Norma agrees: “The loans and the training really enservices, including Trust Groups, which are based on couraged me and gave me new hope. By contributing the principle of group liability: The members pledge to to our household income, I feel more independent and guarantee one another’s loans. This group guarantee I know that with my business, I can carry on improving enables individuals without collateral to access the the standard of living of my family and the people loans they need to build up their businesses. Before around me.” Norma’s conscientiousness is typical of they qualify for a loan from Opportunity, Trust Group the many women who reliably repay their loans. members must receive between four and eight weeks of training from their loan officer on a range High Pay-Back Rates of topics from business skills to personal development With pay-back rates of 95%, the Trust Group model to health care. has proven an effective means of combating poverty. By building up small businesses, the groups help Affording School Fees to expand and stabilize the local economy. They also Like most of the members of her group, Norma bring the local community closer together. Norma started out with a small personal loan. Her 76 US dolconfirms this: “If one of our members can’t repay her lars bought her the first bundle of used plastic bags loan, we as a group step in on a temporary basis from the local dump, as well as the tubs and detergent and provide the money. We always discuss things and to clean them. Having repaid her first microloan on help each other.” time, she has since taken out new ones on a rolling basis, investing in her business and always repaying promptly. As a result, she has been able to expand her business continuously over the last year and a half. She now has a loan of USD 190, which she is paying off. “I usually employ three people to help me with the Microfinance Focus Themes 5 In a small town in Colombia, Norma Vergara collects and cleans used plastic bags and sells them for a good profit. Thanks to microloans and training from Opportunity International, she has been able to expand her business, significantly improve her family’s standard of living and contribute to her community’s development. Microfinance Microfinance is an effective means of helping people in developing countries to help themselves – and is therefore an important sector for Credit Suisse to support. Ensuring the development of a strong and responsible microfinance industry is vital, which is why we launched our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative in 2008 . It focuses on developing the people and processes involved in microfinance institutions, as well as their product offering, so that these organizations can strike a balance between their social and financial objectives and their clients’ needs. Credit Suisse currently works with four partner organizations that were selected due to their broad and positive impact on the industry and their ability to replicate their achievements in different markets or regions: ACCION International The founding partner of the Center for Financial Inclusion, a unique “solutions lab” that brings together microfinance organizations, the private sector, policymakers and practitioners. The Smart Campaign, a global consumer protection initiative, is Selected figures for 2010 one of the many initiatives run by the center. As one of our premier partners, ACCION supports the launch of training centers in India and China to provide credit methodology, management and best practice training to microfinance staff.  www.accion.org 8,000 FINCA International A premier partner of the Global Training Initiative that is designed to promote leadership and employee development and to improve the performance of FINCA’s local staff trained 7,500 employees worldwide – especially its credit officers. The initiative’s goal is to make FINCA a “global learning organization” in order to better execute its mission and strategy.  www.finca.org 200 Opportunity International The Electronic Wallet programs in Ghana, Rwanda and Colombia are providing low-income customers with a new means of accessing financial information and services. This innovative program uses a combination of channels such training manuals designed as ATM machines, SmartCards, mobile banks, point-of-sales devices and cellular banking.  www.opportunity.org 1,400,000 Swisscontact Ukraine: The Training in Financial Management Initiative provides workshops that are run by senior Swiss banking experts to share valuable knowledge with the employees of Ukrainian banking institutions and SME s. South Africa: The Access to Finance for people have benefitted Small Business program offers small businesses enhanced access to financial services directly as a result of improved through awareness campaigns and mentoring. East Africa: The Reducing Poverty through Access to Financial Services program gives farmers, small entrepreneurs and households in microfinance services Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania access to secure savings and credit facilities.  www.swisscontact.ch You can find out more about this topic in the Corporate Responsibility Report (pages 16 –17 ) and at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes 6 Employee Engagement: Global Citizens Program Swiss citizen Anne AckerHow is this reflected in your daily work ? mann works as a fund I have learned a great deal about how microfinance ad visor at Credit Suisse in programs function. At Credit Suisse, I advise clients Hong Kong. In 2010, she on investment funds, including funds that invest in spent three months assisting microfinance institutions. Since I returned, I’ve been the Microfinance Capacity trying to give my clients a clearer insight into microBuilding Initiative as part finance programs and to refine the advice I offer them. of the Global Citizens Has your time in India changed your Program. In Bangalore, India, she developed perception of microfinance programs? a risk management training module for ACCION I was already very interested in microfinance and my International to be used by microfinance time in India has now fully convinced me of the merits institutions. of these programs. During my field trips, I met large numbers of people who regularly take out and repay What exactly did your work entail ? microloans, and this showed me that the programs Anne Ackermann I developed a risk management really do work. What is especially important is that training module for the ACCION training center in microfinance clients can trust their own lenders and Bangalore that trains employees from microfinance are able to repay the money on a gradual basis, institutions. Our Western understanding of risk without being subject to the exorbitant interest rates management not only includes credit risks but also charged by other lenders in the market. corporate governance, employee -related risks such More information about Anne Ackermann’s assignment:  http://microfinanceindustrystandards.wordpress.com/ as corruption and exploitation, and environmental risks such as the threat of natural disasters. A survey of microfinance institutions revealed that credit risks Elizaveta Timasheva is a tend to be evaluated quite accurately, whereas these Russian national who works other types of risk are neglected. This is why I develas a project manager at oped a training program that would address issues Credit Suisse in Zurich. In such as these and demonstrate comprehensive risk 2010, she spent one week in management solutions. the village of Mela in Tanzania How did your work benefit ACCION? as part of the Global Citizens Every company can benefit from external input. Program. Drawing on her The specialist risk management knowledge I have marketing expertise, Elizaveta documented gained at Credit Suisse was particularly useful the success of local education schemes run by when it came to formulating a structured and detailed CARE International. concept for the training programs and developing the new module. What was the nature of your assignment ? In which way did you – as a Credit Suisse Elizaveta Timasheva I worked with CARE Internaemployee – benefit from these three months? tional in Tanzania, where I was responsible for docuI believe that I can now bring more innovation, creativmenting the progress of its school projects in the ity and perhaps even better management skills to my Masai village of Mela. It is important for aid organizawork. In India, I had to embrace a culture that was tions to be able to report on the success of their unfamiliar to me and to show tolerance. I now use this programs both in their own publications as well as in openness in my role at the bank. Since the project the press in order to raise the profile of their work involved working independently, I also had to devise and thus attract financial support. my own solutions to a number of problems and this How did CARE benefit from your work ? has increased my confidence to make decisions and I wrote a newspaper article and created presentations manage issues on my own. for CARE using information I obtained in interviews Employee Engagement Focus Themes 7 with schoolchildren, teachers, parents and community leaders in Mela. This material will be valuable to the organization in its fundraising work. Another important aspect of my role was the transfer of knowledge: During my assignment in Tanzania, I spent a lot of time discussing ways to promote the charity’s activities on different levels. I also left video equipment with CARE’s local employees so that they can continue to docuEmployee Engagement ment their work. How will your experiences in Tanzania help Many of our employees volunteer their time and expertise to help good causes – not only increasing the value of our you in your role at Credit Suisse? financial contributions but also helping them to develop their My placement with a Masai community gave me an interpersonal skills and team spirit in the process. We also offer each employee the opportunity to dedicate an entire opportunity to immerse myself in an entirely new working day on full pay to charity work as part of our support culture and way of life and to step outside my comfort for social initiatives. zone and see what I was capable of achieving. I In addition to our two global volunteering programs, which believe that this has given me more confidence. I also we are constantly expanding in conjunction with our partners improved my communication and organizational skills Junior Achievement Worldwide and Habitat for Humanity International, we work with selected organizations in all our and I am more disciplined when starting new projects. regions to coordinate employee volunteering. How has this altered your everyday life? In 2010, we focused primarily on volunteering programs that I now think more about the way my actions affect promote the transfer of skills and knowledge between our other people. I have recognized that even as an people and social organizations. This was the aim of the Global Citizens Program launched in June 2010. The pilot individual, I can truly make a difference by devoting program enabled qualified employees to contribute their my time, skills and energy to supporting the work professional skills to projects run by our partner organizaof charitable organizations. tions in the areas of education and microfinance. By working at a local level, we can respond to the specific needs of our Why did you apply for the Global Citizens partners and help to develop their projects. Program? Last year, 15 Credit Suisse volunteers were sent to 10 counI was very keen to participate in the program after tries to complete one-week training and education assignreading the information about the pilot scheme. In ments with five partner organizations. The volunteers performed a broad range of tasks – from teaching IT courses view of my marketing background and experience in and developing extracurricular activities to drawing up conducting interviews, I thought I had the right skills strategic business plans for the partners’ local branches. for this role. Having never previously visited Tanzania, Three of our employees were deployed with three of our I found the prospect of working in this part of Africa microfinance partner organizations for a period of three both challenging and exciting. months. During their assignments, they helped to develop a risk management course that enables our partner organizaWhat have you told your colleagues, family tion to train microfinance specialists locally. They also deand friends about your experience? signed a model to help microfinance institutions create products that are better aligned to the needs of their clients and I was eager to share my positive experiences with helped improve banking processes and standards. as many people as possible. I have therefore given The Global Citizens Program will be broadened in 2011, a number of presentations about the program at with up to 25 employees volunteering their skills and Credit Suisse events, during which I encouraged expertise to help ensure that the projects run by our partners deliver lasting benefits. other employees to get involved. You can find out more about this topic in the Corporate Responsibility Report (pages 22– 25 ) and at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes Watch video reports about the Global Citizenship Program in the Responsibility Chronicle on pages 88 and 91  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Thanks to support from Credit Suisse, the organization Leonard Cheshire Disability (LCD) can provide children with disabilities with access to good quality education. In Chongwe, a rural district east of Zambia’s capital Lusaka, 272 children in seven schools are benefitting from projects that help schools and communities to find ways to work around or eliminate barriers such as poorly accessible classrooms and unsuitable teaching methods. 28 Sponsorship supported the Davos Festival “Young Artists in Concert” for the first time. Our sponsorship projects in the areas This event was held for the 25th time in of sport and culture form a key part August 2010 (see box on page 29). of our commitment to the broader Music – A Global Language community. These activities focus on The international exchange of cultural experiences is another key component golf, football and equestrian sports, of our sponsorship philosophy. This as well as classical music, the fine ­includes tours by our partner orchestras, especially the New York Philhararts and jazz. We place a particular monic, with which we extended our emphasis on the promotion of young ­c ollaboration in 2010 – adding a new annual education project to our talent and on the international ­p artnership. Renowned classical music ­exchange of cultural experiences. festivals that bring together many of the world’s leading artists also promote ­exchanges across cultural boundaries. We have been supporting the Salzburg Sponsorship has enjoyed a prominent Sydney Symphony Program, which proFestival as its main sponsor since place in our corporate and communicavides one year of training across the 2006 and now also provide support tion strategies for over 30 years. We broadest possible repertoire for highly for its international Young Singers work with institutions that share the gifted young artists. ­P roject to develop young talent. same core values as Credit Suisse and In the area of sponsorship – like in Credit Suisse has, since 1993 , been thus strive to achieve an outstanding the world of business – we place a the ­r esident sponsor of the Lucerne performance and long-term success. considerable focus on consistency and ­Festival in Summer, where we fund These partnerships in all our regions trust. Longstanding partnerships make the Vienna Philharmonic’s annual enable us to benefit from the outstandit possible to plan for the future and ­r esidency. Four other Credit Suisse ing reputation of the organizations we to create a basis for long-term talent partners also performed at the Festival sponsor and to offer our clients unfordevelopment. Since 1993 , for example, in 2010 : the Bolshoi Theatre, the gettable experiences. At the same we have been supporting the Swiss ­Sydney Symphony, the Tonhalle Orches­ time, the corporate sector offers vital Football Association’s junior national tra Zurich and the Orchestre de la support to these sporting and cultural teams. Switzerland’s talented young ­S uisse Romande. institutions, without which they would players delivered another outstanding Wherever possible, we support the have to scale down their activities performance in 2010 when they qualieducational projects organized by our ­dramatically – with gifted young people fied for the finals of the U-17 European sponsors. Examples include special being the first affected. championships as well as for the U-21 evening viewings at the National ­G allery European championships that will be in London, as well as its art educational New Partnerships held in 2011. ­C redit Suisse’s commitprojects for schools and community We assign particular importance to the ment to promoting young international ­o rganizations. development of young talent. This astalent dates back to 1986 , when we  www.credit-suisse.com/sponsorship pect was highlighted in the two main sponsorship agreements we concluded with new partners in 2010 : in conjunction with the Today Art Museum in Beijing, we launched the Credit Suisse Today Art Award for young artists, which Credit Suisse Foundation is unique in China. We also entered Cultural sponsorship has a long tradition at the Credit Suisse Foundation into a partnership with the Sydney Jubilee Fund. Its activities include the presentation of the Credit Suisse ­Symphony, Australia’s national orchesYoung Artist Award and Prix Credit Suisse Jeunes Solistes, which have tra, under which we will not only provide been awarded in alternate years since 2000. The Jubilee Fund also funding for the position of assistant lends its support to the Musikkollegium Winterthur and the Swiss Youth conductor but also for the renowned Music Competition Foundation. Society 29 The Match for Africa The Match for Africa saw the world’s two top tennis players – ­R oger Federer and Rafael Nadal – compete against each other in Switzerland for the first time. The match, which was held in December 2010, enthralled spectators in Zurich’s Hallenstadion and ­t elevision viewers at home, raising a total of CHF 2.5 million for the Roger Federer Foundation and its educational ­p rojects in ­A frica in the process. Credit Suisse played a key role in ­o rganizing this unique match as a ­p resenting ­p artner. A training session for talented young Swiss tennis players was also held in conjunction with the event. Based on a partnership agreement concluded with Roger ­F ederer in 2009, Credit Suisse will donate USD 1 million annually to the Roger Federer Foundation for the next 10 years. Watch a video about this event in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 83  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle 25 Years of Promoting Young Talent The Davos Festival “Young Artists in Concert” was held for the 25th time in August 2010 . It features perfor­ mances by exceptional musicians from all over the world, including Martin Helmchen, Antoine Tamestit and ­N icolas Altstaedt – all previous winners of the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award. Nicolas Altstaedt later performed at the Lucerne Festival in a prize -winners’ concert with the Vienna Philharmonic. The jury included the ­musical experts Michael Haefliger, ­D irector of the Lucerne Festival and founder of the Davos Festival, and ­a uthor Urs Frauchiger. Read more about the winner of the Above Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal at the Match for Africa in Zurich’s Hallenstadion. Credit Suisse Young Artist Award Center Nicolas Altstaedt, winner of the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award 2010, at a in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 54 ­c oncert in Lucerne. Bottom left Members of the Sydney Symphony, Australia’s National  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Orchestra. Bottom right Launch of the Credit Suisse Today Art Award in Beijing. 30 Responsibility as an Employer Elizabeth Intsiful, Dominic Haywood-Benge, Fayez Khan and Anastasia Shadrina are completing the Full-Time Analyst Program at Credit Suisse, London. Read an article about our promotion of young talent in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 44  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Employer 31 Credit Suisse as an Employer We therefore offer a broad range of programs that are designed to strengthThe skills and expertise of our people en the specialist knowledge and leaderare a critical factor determining our ship skills of our people. We help them to actively shape their own career and success. We want to continue to to grow their professional and personal attract and retain the best employees skills using forward-looking approaches and tools. Our training courses for by offering progressive working ­a pprentices, students and graduates, ­conditions, wide-ranging development as well as our range of advanced programs for specialists and managers, opportunities and attractive career ­r eflect our commitment to supporting prospects. This is essential to preserve the development of our people at every stage of their career at Credit Suisse. our future competitiveness. As a global bank, we also promote the exchange of knowledge and experience by encouraging cross-national We know that highly qualified and motieven more closely with the needs of our and cross-business collaboration. In vated employees are the most critical clients, who are today seeking increas2010 , our internal human resources factor determining our success as a ingly sophisticated financial solutions. units helped over 5,000 employees to global bank – especially in a challenging  Growing our own talent: Our transfer to a new position internally. market environment. In order to attract ­p eople are the single most important and retain the best talent, we are factor driving the bank’s long-term Offering Development Opportunities ­c ommitted to further strengthening our ­success. This is why Credit Suisse is Our Business School, which won a position as an employer of choice. As taking steps to recruit even more new pres­t igious international award in 2010, well as focusing on training and develemployees with leadership potential offers specially tailored development opment, we offer a large number of ­d irectly after the completion of their forcourses for employees, managers and employee benefits and competitive mal schooling and studies. These top young talents (see box). Our learning and compensation (see box on page 11) and talents are offered targeted training to development programs are designed to promote internal mobility. In 2010, we support the development of their career. take account of Credit Suisse’s stratefurther developed our human capital gic business objectives and to provide strategy in order to align it more closely Broadening Skills our employees with the expertise they with our business priorities, enhance Employee training and development is need to act as a competent and reliable our corporate culture and thus secure a an important strategic factor that partner to our clients and to offer them long-term competitive advantage for ­e nables us to build the necessary skills first-class service and advice (see box our company. As part of this strategy, and expertise to serve our clients well. on page 33). Since 2008 , the Business we have launched three initiatives that focus on the following areas:  Building a committed partnership culture: We believe that it is only by working together effectively across our organization that we can deliver Credit Suisse Business School Wins Prestigious ­o ptimal client service. This is why we International Award use targeted measures to promote In 2010, the Credit Suisse Business School received the internationally ­c ooperation between employees at all ­r ecognized CLIP (Corporate Learning Improvement Process) Award for levels of the company, to encourage the second time. This accreditation granted by the European Foundation the sharing of knowledge and experifor Management Development demonstrates that our Business School ence, and to ­e nsure that our people is a world-class corporate learning organization. In particular, the award recognize their shared responsibility ­h ighlights its strong client focus, the close links between its programs ­toward our clients. and our business strategy, its comprehensive measures to assess  Embedding client skills in our orthe ­e ffectiveness of the training it offers and its use of innovative ganization: We want to align the experlearning technologies. In 2010, the Business School conducted a total tise and advisory skills of our employees of 6,530 courses, which attracted around 94,000 attendees. 32 School has also been offering numerIn 2010, we introduced our Skill Profiler We offer attractive training positions ous courses such as the four-week Platform, which provides employees and first-class career start programs ­p rogram for newly recruited MBA gradwith an individual overview of their for high school and university graduuates that enables them to rapidly ­c urrent portfolio of skills and their ates. The new human capital strategy ­a ssume a pro­d uctive role within Credit ­p otential for improvement. This platform we defined in 2010 aims to recruit Suisse and to build up an internal netis accompanied by more than 40 webeven more young talents with leaderwork of contacts. based training modules that help ship ­p otential directly after they ­e mployees to eliminate any gaps in ­c omplete their studies and to system­ Innovative Learning Technologies their knowledge. atically support their career growth and In addition to traditional forms of classadvancement. room learning, we continuously make Investing in Young Talent Credit Suisse is regarded as an use of new learning technologies such Our efforts to nurture young talent not ­employer of choice in Switzerland, espe­ as online modules and videos featuring only lay the foundations for our longcially among university graduates. For internal experts. For example, a series term success but, at the same time, the eighth year in succession, we of programs with “learning nuggets” benefit society as a whole. This is why achieved a top ranking in the Universum ­a llows our employees to access short line managers at Credit Suisse are Awards in 2010, when we were named modules about business principles and ­expected to see the cultivation of talent the second most popular employer management expertise on our corporate as an integral part of their role. Their among economics graduates. We hold intranet at any time. We also make use personal performance is measured events at the world’s top universities of short videos in which experts provide ­a ccording to how effectively they lead and institutes of applied sciences to an insight into a range of current topics. their people. ­e stablish contact with young people who are completing their studies and are interested in a career in the ­f inance industry. In 2010, we hired 300 graduates directly as a result of this process. Number of Employees Building on a successful training (full-time equivalents; ­initiative launched by Credit Suisse in as of December 31, 2010) 50,100 Switzerland in 2009, we plan to increase the number of apprenticeships Credit Suisse we offer by 25% over the next three by division years. This means that we provide commercial and IT training for a total of 750 young people. A large proportion ( 85%) 25,600 20,700 2,900 900 of the apprentices who successfully completed their training in 2010 were Private Banking Investment Banking Asset Management Corporate Center offered a job with Credit Suisse – an ­increase of 5 percentage points comby region pared to 2009. We also offer training positions for 120 high school graduates and 300 university graduates, as well 12,100 7,100 9,200 21,700 as internships for 180 students. Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East Switzerland Credit Suisse believes it is important and Africa for managers to be actively involved in the development of young talent and therefore created a mentoring program in which gifted young professionals reBusiness School 2010 ceive support and advice from members of the Executive Board while completing 661 94,000 85,660 459,899 a business-relevant project. The Bachelor of Banking degree that Number of leadership Number of employees Number of training days Number of participants training sessions attending courses in e-learning courses, Credit Suisse created in 2004 in con­including mandatory ­modules junction with the Zurich University of Employer 33 Applied Sciences has now become of employees were included in our Ensuring the Quality ­e stablished as a standard training promost comprehensive talent review so of Our Advisory Services gram in the industry. far thanks to the introduction of a The financial market crisis severely In 2010, we launched an alumni web­u niform global concept for succession tested client confidence in the quality site to maintain contact and exchange planning. of advice offered by banks as well as knowledge with former employees. their integrity. Credit Suisse navigated A series of specialist and social events Enhancing Employee Satisfaction the crisis more successfully than are also designed to build a network Our employees’ level of satisfaction and many of our peers. We are, however, fostering contact between groups of motivation has a decisive impact on committed to further improving the current and former employees. their performance. Since 2006 , we quality of our financial advice and have conducted regular employee entherefore intend to conduct assessNurturing Potential gagement surveys in conjunction with ments and certifications of the approxiWe require highly trained professionals an independent consulting firm. We mately 6,000 employees in Private with strong leadership qualities in order believe that it is imperative for any comBanking who have direct client contact. to extend our competitive position. The pany wishing to be perceived as an We already laid the necessary foundarange of leadership and management attractive employer to obtain feedback tions with the Frontline Training initiaprograms offered by the Business and to implement appropriate measures tive that was launched in Private BankSchool are developed in close collabobased on the input it gathers. In an ing in 2009. The aim of this training ration with our businesses and are ­effort to continuously enhance our scheme is to ensure that all relation­d esigned to prepare high potentials to feedback culture, we decided to modify ship managers can provide clients with assume key positions within the com­ the format of our employee survey in comprehensive information and explapany. To promote the transfer of know2010 . The new survey, which will be nations about products, investment how and the exchange of views and conducted for the first time in April risks and return opportunities and tailor ideas, we have established specialist 2011, will enable us to better analyze their ­offering to individual client needs. networks in various regions that allow whether our people are satisified with The Credit Suisse Business School more than 1,000 employees to impart their work at Credit Suisse and to collaborated with our specialist departtheir knowledge to their colleagues ­r apidly initiate improvements wherever ments to develop a suitable training within the bank. Discussion platforms necessary. program comprising both web-based such as the Leadership Forum enable At Credit Suisse, we consider it modules and instructor-led training. members of the Executive Board and ­important for employees to be able to Following the successful conclusion senior management to come together to combine their family and professional of a pilot phase with employees in exchange their views on Credit Suisse’s commitments and to maintain a work/ ­S ingapore, Hong Kong and Zurich, strategy and focus. At the same time, life balance (see page 34). As a result, Credit Suisse intends to complete our intensive coaching and mentoring we employ over 10 % of our employees the certification of all frontline employculture helps to support top talents on a part-time basis and offer employee ees in Private Banking by the end ­individually. benefits such as childcare and care of 2012 . The certification will be valid In 2010, Credit Suisse presented its for the elderly, legal aid, employee for three years. With this employee Leadership Awards for the first time ­a ssistance, study grants and adoption evaluation system – the largest of its to recognize employees who have made support. In addition, employees who kind in the bank – we believe we are a significant contribution to the compahave worked for Credit Suisse for a playing a ­p ioneering role by setting ny’s success through their outstanding long period of time are offered the a benchmark for advisory quality in the performance and leadership qualities. ­o pportunity to take a sabbatical of up area of private banking. A total of 1,160 employees worldwide to three months. received an award. To ensure that the needs of our As well as promoting young talent, ­p eople are taken properly into account, we regard long-term succession planwe have been working closely with ning as a strategic priority. Each year, ­b odies that represent employee interwe conduct in-depth reviews and ests – such as the European Works ­d iscussions regarding potential candiCouncil and the Credit Suisse Staff dates for appointment to the Executive Council in Switzerland – for many years. Johannes Toetzke, Head of the Private Board and the next management level  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ Banking Institute at the Business School within Credit Suisse. In 2010, most employer (left), and Walter Berchtold, CEO of the Private Banking division, at an award ­s enior managers as well as the majority ceremony. 34 Global Diversity and Inclusion networks to 38 . In 2010, they organized around 500 events. Companies with diverse workforces Credit Suisse also has a Center of gain a host of competitive advantages Competence for CrossCultural Collaboration offering courses to raise in a global business environment: employee awareness about important ­Employee diversity not only strength­ issues that can arise when working with people from different cultures. It has ens their international network of organized events including “Paradeplatz ­contacts and their ability to innovate Meets Manhattan – Cross-Cultural ­C ollaboration Between Swiss and Amerbut also ensures a better under­ icans” and “Doing Business in India.” standing of different client needs and Health and Flexibility guarantees access to a broad pool Credit Suisse believes there is a direct of expertise. link between employee satisfaction and the health, well-being, motivation and productivity of its people. In order to provide a modern working environment A detailed knowledge of regional martion of women in senior management for employees, we launched the pilot kets and different cultures is essential positions. For example, we run a talent project Smart Working in 2010 (see box for a globally active bank that wishes management program to advise women on page 45). The new office spaces to satisfy the needs of its various groups on how they can exploit career oppor­ ­c reated as a result of this initiative will of clients and to offer them first-class tunities as effectively as possible. not only provide greater flexibility and service. At Credit Suisse, we therefore At the end of 2010, female employees mobility but also promote cooperation, regard diversity as a key success factor. ­a ccounted for 37% of our total workcommunication and creativity through We assign the utmost importance to force and 15% of the bank’s senior the use of innovative technologies. offering equal opportunities for all management. In conjunction with a number of our employees irrespective of their age, In Switzerland, Credit Suisse offers ­internal specialist units, we have also gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual a mentoring program that is designed to developed various offerings to help ­identity or disabilities. We also strive provide female specialists with targeted our employees master the challenge to provide an attractive, stimulating and support to help them plan their own of combining their professional and inclusive working environment that is ­c areer and to assume new roles, as well ­p ersonal commitments. Credit Suisse free from discrimination and promotes as encouraging and preparing them to also offers employees a range of a spirit of partnership and productive take on a management function. ­b enefits, including: cooperation.  Flexible working models, such as Promoting Global Cooperation part-time positions, job sharing and Support Programs and Mentoring One important element in our diversity ­remote access to the corporate network In 2010, we launched a new program, strategy is the establishment of net Support for employees with Diversity 2.0, in order to implement works that enable our people to ex­p ersonal, professional, family, health or our global diversity strategy. The change information and ideas across financial problems ­p rogram includes the concept of estabnational and divisional boundaries – thus  Health and pension benefits, lishing Diversity Councils for specific helping to intensify cooperation and as well as leave to care for a partner ­a reas of the business. Drawing on strengthen our corporate culture. Our who is suffering from illness our global diversity strategy, these range of networks include forums for  Maternity, paternity and councils – each made up of a group of women, families, junior profes­sion­­als adoption leave experienced managers – will formulate and our 50 + generation, as well as  Extensive child care programs; concrete measures and activities for ­lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  Prayer rooms for employees who their area. employees. The Disability Interest wish to practice their religion Equality also remains a priority issue ­Forum addresses the daily challenges  Internal medical centers and fitat Credit Suisse: We have launched facing people with disabilities. Three ness centers, as well as programs targeted programs across all our regions new forums were established in 2010, ­re­­latin­g to health, nutrition and em­ployee with the aim of increasing the proporbringing the total number of ­e mployee well-being. In the course of 2010, Employer 35 Credit Suisse ran more than 230 programs at which employees were able to find out more about health issues and nutrition, to participate in sports or to learn about stress management. Promoting Diversity We believe that the execution of our diversity strategy has a decisive impact on our corporate culture and we expect all our employees to help promote an inclusive working environment that is free from harassment and discrim­ ination. When implementing our global policy on diversity, we therefore conduct mandatory bank-wide online training courses on the topic of equal oppor­ tunities and dignity in the workplace.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ employer Above left Pamela Thomas-Graham, a member of the Credit Suisse Executive Board, talks to employees at an event organized by the Women’s Forum. Above right Panel discussion at an event held by the Women’s Forum. Below left Credit Suisse allows many of its employees to complete part of their work from home. Below right Credit Suisse offers extensive child care programs for employees. In 2010, Credit Suisse received various awards in recognition of its ­e fforts to foster a tolerant and inclusive working environment, including: 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers Credit Suisse was once again voted one of the 100 best ­c ompanies for working mothers by Working Mother Magazine. Top 50 Companies for Diverse Managers to Work Diversity MBA Magazine named Credit Suisse one of the top 50 companies that provide equal opportunities for managers. 5 Years Plus Caring Company Award The Hong Kong Council of Social Services commended Credit Suisse for its social ­c ommitments. Stonewall Workplace Equality Index Credit Suisse once again ranked among the UK ’s top 100 employers for lesbian, gay and bisexual employees. Work-Life Achiever Award Credit Suisse was honored for its commitment to promoting a better work/life balance by the Singapore Ministry of Manpower. 36 Responsibility for the Environment In his position as Head of Corporate Real Estate and ­S ervices Switzerland, Rolf Krummenacher is respon­ sible for improving our environmental performance. Read an article about the Credit ­S uisse Cares for Climate initiative in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 70  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Environment 37 Environmental and Climate Protection “newTrees” project on the Indonesian island of Lombok (see box on page 39). Credit Suisse promotes environmental We are also a member of a biodiversity and climate protection and the pres­ working group that forms part of the United Nations Environment Programme ervation of biodiversity at a number Finance Initiative ( UNEP FI ) and we of levels. In 2010, we achieved green­ actively participated in the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to house gas neutrality for all our oper­ the Convention on ­B iological Diversity ations worldwide as part of our Credit in Nagoya, Japan, in October 2010 (see page 39). Suisse Cares for Climate initiative. Whether we are addressing the We participate in discussions on ways issue of climate change, biodiversity or forest conservation – the key theme to promote climate-friendly business highlighted by the UN in 2011 – practices and we take environmental Credit Suisse wants to ensure that its commitments are structured in the issues into account when managing most ­effective way possible. We take risks and developing new products. concrete steps to reduce our direct ­impact on the environment and use our network of contacts, our financial know-how and our pivotal function within the economy to bring about Climate change represents one of the of climate change. To mark the start of ­p rogress in this field. For example, we greatest challenges of our time. The the Credit Suisse Cares for Climate hold information campaigns to raise Climate Change Conference in Cancun ­initiative, we also developed an inter­ employee awareness about en­ in December 2010 once again demonactive on­line training module to educate vironmental issues. We not only channel strated to the world just how difficult it our employees about climate change our expertise into the development can be to reach agreement on concrete and to inform them about concrete of products with an environmental, measures. At Credit Suisse, we rigor­e nergy-saving measures. Information ­c limate -related or social focus but also ously pursued our efforts to protect the is also provided through a series of exploit it in our dialogue with business climate despite – or because of – the ­p osters with specific tips on how partners, economic and political slow pace at which progress is being ­e m­p loyees can reduce the individual ­r epresentatives and other stakeholders made at a global level. Having already ­c arbon footprint. to promote a sustainable approach become greenhouse gas neutral in to business (see pages 47– 50). Switzerland in 2006, we realized this Diverse Measures goal for all our operations worldwide in Credit Suisse’s efforts to support susProducts and Services 2010. A key element of this achievetainable development include our comAt Credit Suisse, we also take environment is the implementation of our fourmitment to preserving biodiversity. mental issues into account in our offerpillar strategy to reduce greenhouse We recognize the vital need to protect ing of products and services whenever gas emissions (see pages 42– 43). the broad range of species on our possible (see page 17). In 2010, Credit In June 2010, we published the planet and to safeguard natural eco­ Suisse once again received industry Credit Suisse Cares for Climate book­logical processes in view of their imporrecognition for its environment-themed let to provide details of our operational tance as a source of food, medicine, services. For example, we were involved climate protection program and to disclean air and water, as well as their role in the financing of a wind park for the cuss how climate change relates to in protecting against natural disasters UK en­e rgy provider Centrica that was our business. In connection with the or in providing green spaces. Biodivernamed the “Renewable Energy Deal of launch of the publication, we organized sity is now under threat due to the the Year,” and the flotation of the US a panel discussion at the bank’s headoverexploitation of land, the destruction solar company STR Holding underwritquarters in Zurich, at which in-house of habitats, climate change and the ten by Credit Suisse was recognized as and external experts debated the impacts of invasive species. Against the “ IPO of the Year.” These accolades ­o pportunities and risks facing society this backdrop, staff in our Asia Pacific were awarded by Environmental Fiand the banking industry as a result region have been supporting the nance, a leading specialist publication. 38 Identifying Environmental Risks Credit Suisse’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions When assessing activities or trans­ actions with prospective clients, we conduct a detailed reputational risk 3% review process to identify any risks they could pose to people or the envi19% ronment, including potential impacts on the climate and biodiversity. This review is based on international industry standards such as the Equator Principles (see table on page 50), as well as 2010 78% internal sector-specific guidelines for Energy use of buildings Business travel Other (paper, waste, water) sensitive industries such as forestry, mining, and oil and gas (see page 14). by region Participating in Environmental Talks CO2 equivalents (metric tons) Credit Suisse is involved in international 175,000 discussions about ways of promoting a sustainable, climate -friendly approach 150,000 to business, and we contribute our 125,000 expertise through our role in various organizations (see page 50). 100,000 Since 2002 , Credit Suisse has participated annually in the Carbon Disclo75,000 sure Project (CDP ) that aims to create greater transparency about greenhouse 50,000 gas emissions. Around 3,000 compa25,000 nies from 60 countries – including 82% of the world’s 500 largest corporations – 0 disclosed information about their CO 2 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 emissions and climate strategies in Switzerland EMEA Americas Asia Pacific 2010 . Credit Suisse scored 69 out of Energy use of buildings Business travel Other (paper, waste, water) a possible 100 points. We also take part in national and international conferences that are dediper capita cated to the topic of climate change – CO2 equivalents (kg) contributing our expertise from a 14,000 banking perspective while obtaining valuable input from other specialists 12,000 that we can apply to our own work. In 2010, we supported or participated 10,000 in various events, including:  Credit Suisse Asian Investment 8,000 Conference ( AIC) in Hong Kong: The 6,000 13 th AIC featured keynote speeches and panel discussions on a broad range 4,000 of key investment themes and trends with a particular focus on risks and op2,000 portunities in the Asia Pacific region. A panel discussion between representa0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 tives of companies in the renewable Switzerland EMEA Americas Asia Pacific energy sector met with considerable interest among the audience of well Energy use of buildings Business travel Other (paper, waste, water) Environment 39 over 2,000 institutional and high-netEngaging Our Employees worth investors. At Credit Suisse, we not only encourage our clients, service providers and sup­  Biodiversity Conference in Nagoya: pliers to support environmental and climate protection but also motivate our people Credit Suisse participated in the 10 th to play an active part in these efforts. In 2010, we engaged in various activities Conference of the Parties to the to raise employee awareness of these issues, including: Convention on Biological Diversity in  WWF Earth Hour 2010 : Several thousand cities in 128 countries and millions of Nagoya, Japan, in connection with people around the world turned off their lights for one hour to make a statement UNEP FI . The conference represented about the need to protect our climate. Credit Suisse took part in this symbolic the highlight in the International Year WWF campaign at 57 of its offices worldwide and encouraged em­p loyees of Biodiversity. A CEO Briefing by to also set an example. In Hong Kong, Credit Suisse staff organized a program UNEP FI on the topic of biodiversity of events in conjunction with WWF Earth Hour to heighten public awareness was presented during the event. The of this issue. expertise of various financial institu bike to work: For the third year in succession, we encouraged our employees tions, including Credit Suisse, was in Switzerland to support this campaign by cycling to work. In June 2010, incorporated into the briefing. Following around 400 employees – organized into over 100 teams – participated in the the event in Nagoya, UNEP FI and ­initiative, covering a total of more than 40,000 kilometers. Credit Suisse co-organized a workshop  Go paperless today ! Each year, Credit Suisse uses thousands of tons of paper in Hong Kong in November 2010 to to send out account statements and other bank documents to clients. We are discuss biodiversity issues with therefore switching to the use of e -documents and are distributing information business community rep­r esentatives in electronic form wherever possible. Credit Suisse made a donation to the with a focus on the asso­c iated risks Swiss Foundation for Landscape Conservation for each employee or client in and opportunities. Switzer­land who switched from paper to e -documents in response to our  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ initiative in the period from October to December 2010 . environment  “newTrees” for Lombok: Credit Suisse offered its employees based in the Asia Pacific region and their family members and friends the opportunity to adopt a tree within a 15 -hectare area of land on the Indonesian island of Lombok as part of the WWF supported “newTrees” project. This reforestation initiative is intended to improve water resources management in this water-scarce area. At the end of the year, over 2,200 trees had been adopted.  London Eco Challenge: Which options are available to reduce energy con­ sumption ? Where can waste products be recycled to produce new resources? Credit Suisse employees in London launched a competition in which their colleagues were invited to put forward specific ideas to address these issues. Their suggestions were examined by an internal specialist committee to determine their potential and viability.  e -bike pilot project: We launched a pilot project from our headquarters in ­Zurich involving 50 participants and 10 bikes equipped with electric motors for use on short journeys. Thanks to this initial project, we were able to gain insights and experience in the use of e -bikes before launching a larger scheme in 2011.  Campaigns on UN World Environment Day: Employees in our Hong Kong office – in collaboration with one of our corporate partners – once again devoted a day to cleaning up a remote and unmanaged beach in recognition of World Environment Day and World Oceans Day. 40 Environmental Management Cares for Climate initiative in 2007 with the aim of becoming greenhouse Credit Suisse is committed to sustaingas neutral globally – a goal that we ability and to operating in an environachieved in 2010 . Credit Suisse’s greenhouse gas neutrality is based on mentally friendly manner. Our ISO four pillars: optimizing operations, certified environmental management capital expenditure, substitution and compensation (see chart on pages 42– 43). system helps us to save resources in In concrete terms, this means that we all our premises, reduce our environcontinuously optimize energy consump­ tion in all our locations and invest in mental impact, lower operating costs energy-saving technology, highly insu­ and ensure compliance with environlating materials and an energy-efficient IT infrastructure for new or renovated mental standards. As energy conbuildings. We also encourage the use sumption is the area in which we have of climate -friendly energy sources the greatest impact on the environworldwide and substitute fossil fuels with renewable energy derived from ment, we implement various operation­ ­hydro, wind or solar power to meet al measures to address this issue. our energy needs. Our remaining emis­ sions are ­offset through the purchase of high-quality emissions reduction ­c ertificates. In 1997, Credit Suisse became the in Switzerland and the Americas region. world’s first bank to obtain ISO 14001 We once again passed the audit withCarbon Calculation Extended certification for its environmental man­ out any need for corrections. The GroupFrom 2008 to end2010, we improved agement system, which governs all the wide certification is valid until 2012 . energy efficiency at our locations in operational responsibilities, processes Switzerland by around 7%. Without and requirements relating to the im­ Global Greenhouse Gas Neutrality the implementation of these efficiency plementation of our sustainability policy. Credit Suisse has been active in the measures over the last three years, We strive to continuously improve our ­a rea of climate protection for over a our energy costs would have risen by environmental performance in order ­d ecade and has been greenhouse gas an estimated 6.5%. to lower our consumption of resources neutral in Switzerland since 2006 . In 2010, the total global emissions and reduce our level of greenhouse We began working on our Credit Suisse were higher than in previous years gas emissions, thus also saving costs. Our team of environmental coor­ dinators – which was strengthened in 2010 through the recruitment of addi­ Prestigious Facility Management Award for 2010 tional specialists in Zurich and New In 2010, Credit Suisse received the “ FM -Anwenderpreis” (Facility Management York – helps to promote implementation Award) from the German trade magazine Der Facility Manager at the International of our measures in the field of opera­ Trade Fair for Commercial Property – Expo Real – in Munich in recognition of tional ecology. To ensure that our the success of a major project to optimize the awarding of contracts to facility ­e nvironmental management system has management companies in Switzerland, as well as the insourcing of key functions the broadest possible basis, we have such as data and energy management. The award-winning project reflects extended it to include external service ­d evelopments at the bank dating back to the 1990 s. We had outsourced a range providers in sensitive areas such of important facility management services to an external provider but subsequently as ­f acility management, catering and decided to insource important strategic functions again in response to increasing travel management. dissatisfaction among users and the growing need to optimize energy and resource In 2010, the recognized external consumption. In this context, a new energy and resource management tool, certification company SGS conducted ­E -Maximo, was developed that provides full documentation on these areas, its annual surveillance audit of Credit thus enabling orders to be pro­fessionally managed, errors to be addressed and Suisse’s environmental management performance to be monitored or enhanced. It also allows us to produce reports on system, concentrating on our activities the energy footprint of each building. Environment 41 for a number of reasons: Our workforce Key Performance Indicators for Operational Ecology 1 grew significantly, we switched to more cost-efficient energy sources and air 2010 2009 travel rose by 15% as a result of the Absolute per FTE 2, 3 Absolute per FTE 2, 3 economic recovery. In addition, we took account of new factors when calculat­ Energy 718,737,000 kWh 14,346 kWh 682,465,046 kWh 14,338 kWh ing our total volume of greenhouse gas Business travel 580,390,000 km 11,585 km 491,440,354 km 10,324 km emissions. When measuring electricity Paper 5,517 t 110 kg 5,809 t 122 kg consumption, we now not only consider Water 1,900,000 m 3 38 m 3 1,567,570 m 3 33 m 3 the emissions resulting from the gener­ Waste 14,538 t 290 kg 14,656 t 308 kg ation of electricity but also the losses 1 According to VfU standard. 2 Annual average. 3 Employees (full-time equivalents). that occur within the network when the electricity is being transported and converted for use by consumers. In 2010, our global emissions totaled 365,800 metric tons, compared to 273,000 in 2009 . However, the two sets of data are only comparable to a Environmental Management Key Figures very limited extent due to the use of new calculation methods in 2010 . In 2010 2009 Switzerland, we succeeded in reducing Environmental/sustainability specialists (in full-time posts) 1 50 44 emissions by 4% per employee. ­Energy Employees trained in environmental issues 2 1,692 2,728 consumption in our premises and Training time (in hours) 3,230 4,205 ­b usiness air travel remain our primary sources of emissions. 1 Full-time equivalents, including the corresponding fixed mandates of externals. 2 eLearning not included. Business air travel, which is often essential to maintain direct contact with our clients, continues to represent a major part of our greenhouse gas footprint, accounting for approximately 17% of our total ­o utput. In an effort to reduce the number of business flights Figures for 2010 taken by our ­e mployees as far as possi­ ble, we ­e ncourage them to take the Use of video conferencing train when traveling short distances or (increase compared to 2009) to switch to video conferencing, which saves both time and money. As a result, 100,000 hours (40%) our use of video conferencing rose by Business travel almost 40 % to a total of 100,000 hours (global greenhouse gas neutrality through purchase in 2010 compared to 2009. Since of emissions reduction certificates, as of 2010­) 2006 , the greenhouse gas emissions from all business flights originating 555 million kilometers in Switzerland have been offset through Use of FSC -certified paper the purchase of emissions reduction (in Switzerland) certificates; with effect from 2010, we have offset the emissions from all 69% our business air travel globally. To raise (premises outside Switzerland) ­e mployee awareness of this topic, the level of emissions incurred is spe­c ified 11% on each ticket. S ­ ervers no longer in use as a result of Although the “paperless office” is still virtualization a vision, we remain committed to con­ tinuously improving our environmental 12,158 Continued on page 44 42 Achieving Greenhouse Gas Neutrality 1. Optimizing operations 2. Capital expenditure 3. Substitution 4. Compensation Efficiency gains and reduction Reduction of energy Use of climate-friendly Purchase of reduction of energy consumption through consumption through energy sources certificates to offset optimization of installations energy-saving investments greenhouse gas emissions Reduction of own energy Reduction of greenhouse and material consumption gas emissions each time energy is consumed Reduction of own greenhouse Compensation of remaining gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas neutrality 1. Optimizing operations 2. Capital expenditure  Increase in energy efficiency of  Extension of the Uetlihof according  Reinvestment of CO 2 tax refund: Under 2.5% per year: We agreed on a target to in­ to the strictest Minergie standard: In 2008, our Credit Suisse Cares for Climate initiative, crease energy efficiency by 2.5% per year with we began the extension of our Uetlihof adminis­ the tax refund we obtained in 2010 from Swit­ our facility management partners in Switzer­ trative center in Zurich – currently the largest zerland’s CO2 incentive tax system was rein­ land back in 2008. As a result of the energy building in Switzerland to be constructed ac­ vested in energy efficiency projects as part of ­efficiency measures implemented over the last cording to the Minergie-PECO standard, which our efforts to support operational climate pro­ three years, we are now able to generate ­a nnual takes account of environmental and health tection measures. Examples of these measures savings of 18 million kilowatt-hours of energy ­a spects. The Minergie standard sets out strict include switching to renewable energies when in our Swiss premises. This has been achieved requirements regarding energy efficiency and upgrading heating systems, increasing insula­ in part by extending server virtualization in the use of healthy and environmentally sound tion levels, installing more efficient LED lighting our data centers – allowing us to realize further building techniques. For example, it stipulates and using optimized cooling systems in data targeted efficiency improvements compared that buildings must have a compact design centers. to 2009. ­featuring highly insulated external structures Further examples of investments that en­  E-Maximo: This specially designed ener­ and energy-efficient windows and provide a abled us to improve our carbon footprint: gy and resource management software proconstant supply of clean air. It also prescribes  Replacement of halon fire extinguishgram (see box on page 40) enables us to define that workplaces must have the greatest posers with more climate -friendly extinguishers: ­e nergy targets for individual buildings and sible degree of natural light – complemented by We installed climate -friendly fire extinguishers to ­initiate specific operational enhancements ­highly efficient artificial lighting systems – in all of Credit Suisse’s premises in Switzerland and energy-related investments. For example, and contain state-of-the-art office equipment. as well as the offices of our Swiss subsidiaries E-Maximo makes it possible to systematically The new section of the Uetlihof will only con­ Neue Aargauer Bank and Clariden Leu, thus record meter readings or to conduct detailed sume around one-tenth of the heating energy significantly reducing the threat of harm to the analyses of the energy and resources we required by a typical building constructed in ozone layer if they are used. ­c onsume. The tool has also simplified the pro­ 1975, when the original complex was built.  Installation of new LED lighting in the cess involved in determining the energy foot­ When it is ready for use at the start of 2012, Uetlihof auditorium: The entire stage lighting print of individual buildings. E-Maximo has the Uetlihof extension will provide 2,000 sus­ system, which previously comprised electricity­a lready been successfully rolled out in 400 busi­ tainably designed new workspaces for employ­ intensive spotlights that emitted a large amount ness premises in Switzerland. In 2011, we will ees who are currently based in less energy-­ of heat, have been replaced with an innovative further develop the E-Maximo concept and efficient premises in the city of Zurich. LED lighting system. This will reduce energy conduct extensive tests with a view to imple­  Renovation of Basel branch: In 2010, consumption, incur lower maintenance costs menting it globally to meet our international we modernized Credit Suisse premises in and maintain a pleasant environment for both ­r equirements. Basel – the first office building in the region to speakers and the audience. be refurbished according to the Minergie-P standard. The facade of the branch at Claraplatz was fully upgraded to improve its energy effi­ ciency and the building was equipped with state-of-the-art heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems. The Basel Department of the Environment and Energy provided finan­ cial support for this project, which is intended to serve as an example to other investors. Environment 43 Left We began extending our Uetlihof adminis­ trative center in Zurich in 2008 . At present, it is the largest building in Switzerland to be constructed according to the Minergie P-ECO standard. Above In 2010, we modernized our premises in Basel according to the Minergie -P standard. This included the upgrading of the ­facade and the installation of new heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems. 3. Substitution 4. Compensation  In total, we purchased approximately  Our remaining emissions, which totaled 208 million kilowatt-hours of electricity from around 365,800 metric tons in 2010 , are offset ­r enewable sources in 2010 . This corresponds to through the purchase of high-quality emissions around 34 % of our global electricity consump­ reduction certificates. Approximately 40 % of tion. All Credit Suisse locations in Switzerland, these certificates meet either the gold standard as well as our offices in Frankfurt, now obtain or the social carbon standard. In 2010 , our their electricity exclusively from renewable portfolio of emissions reduction certificates sources. comprised 70 % wind and biomass/biogas  In London, we previously obtained our ­p rojects, with the remainder consisting of the electricity from renewable sources. In view of ­r ecycling of landfill gas as well as geothermal new legislation in the UK , however, we have re­ and hydropower projects. turned to the conventional energy mix when ex­ tending our supply contracts. Under this legisla­ tion, companies are required to base their CO 2 Portfolio of Purchased calculations on the use of a conventional elec­ ERC Qualities 2010 tricity mix that entails a relatively high level of CO 2 emissions, even if they purchase renewable electricity. We will continue to monitor policy and best practice on energy procurement in the 14% 35% UK .  Whenever we negotiate new electricity supply contracts, we verify whether it is pos­ 5% sible to obtain the quality of green electricity we require at reasonable costs. In order to provide greater transparency regarding the use of ener­ 12% gy labels in the international electricity market, Credit Suisse financed a study entitled Green Electricity – Making a Difference. 34% Wind Biomass/biogas Geothermal power Hydropower Landfill gas 44 Continued from page 41 footprint in this area by accelerating the process of data digitalization, using environmentally friendly paper at our major centers, and encouraging the use of double -sided printing. In 2010, we reduced our global paper consumption by 5%. The proportion of FSC -certified paper we use in Switzerland remained high at 69 % and totaled 11% for our ­international locations in 2010 . Credit Suisse’s 30 data centers around the world consume 172 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, thus accounting for 24% of our total energy usage. Thanks to the increased use of virtualization software, we were Left The data center in Singapore, which has 480 workspaces and received a Green Mark Platinum Award, was further extended in 2010. Right New waste separation system in London. able to turn off 12,158 servers across our company in 2010 and have thus ­f urther optimized our IT-related level of ­e nergy consumption. Involvement of External Partners We are committed to conducting our business in an ethical and socially and environmentally responsible manner Improvement outside Switzerland that complies with applicable legislation. In addition to the measures implemented in Switzerland (see pages 42–43) , we also took steps to optimize energy ­consumption in our other regions in 2010. We strive to create a working environ­ ment that is characterized by integrity, Europe, Middle East and Africa fairness and professionalism and we  The replacement of halogen lights with an ­energy-efficient, low-maintenance lighting system using expect our external providers and busi­ LED technology on the floors of both ­London offices produced a 75% reduction in the amount of ness partners to observe the same prin­ ­electricity they use for lighting. ciples of conduct based on our supply  The proportion of refuse from our London offices that can be recycled or converted into fuel also ­increased from 40% to 90%. The separation of refuse materials into plastics, paper, metals and food management values. waste was previously performed on site. However, Credit Suisse is now working with a specialist The global Supplier Code of Conduct firm that compacts, separates and dries the refuse, food waste, glass and metals using high-tech ­equipment in order to produce a fuel product that can be used as an alternative to ­fossil fuels. we introduced in 2010 defines stan­ dards relating to business ethics and Asia Pacific integrity, environmental protection, and  Our data center in Singapore, which was constructed in 2009 and received a Green Mark Platinum employment and social standards – Award, was further extended in 2010. These measures – which comply with Singapore Green Building including general business principles Standards – will not only reduce energy and water consumption but will also help to create a more ­pleasant working environment with improved air quality for a total of 480 workspaces. In addition, and the corresponding management ­low-energy LED lighting systems that adjust automatically to levels of natural light have been installed systems – that our suppliers are expect­ and rain water is now used to flush toilets. ed to uphold. In order to promote social  During the renovation of Credit Suisse’s offices in the Gateway building in Sydney in 2010 and 2011, a focus is being placed on enhancing energy efficiency and on making use of sustainable building and environmental responsibility, the ­materials and equipment. code requires suppliers to meet stan­  During the annual Credit Suisse Asian Investment Conference in Hong Kong in 2010, we opted to work dards that, in some cases, exceed local with environmentally and socially responsible hotels and catering firms and supplied the participants legislative and regulatory requirements. with the conference documentation in digital form in order to make the event as sustainable as possible. Important aspects of the Supplier Code Americas of Conduct include the sparing use  In 2010, we modified the operating times of the ventilation and air-conditioning systems in our New of raw materials, the careful handling of York offices One Madison Avenue and Eleven Madison Avenue to better reflect the periods when most dangerous substances, the rejection ­employees are present, according to a demand-based approach. This means that the systems auto­ matically switch off outside regular office hours. It is, however, still possible to manually control the sys­ of child labor and intentional discrimina­ tems in localized areas for employees to offer a comfortable working environment outside office hours. tion, and the provision of competitive This project provides an estimated annual cost saving of USD 230,000 by reducing electricity consump­ tion by approximately 1.9 million kilowatt-hours per year. rates of compensation. Environment 45 Our main areas of focus in 2010 :  Catering and cleaning firms: We once again defined annual targets governing energy and waste manage­ ment, product ranges and employee training for the catering firms we use in Switzerland. We adopt a similar approach when working with cleaning companies; here, our focus is on the selection of cleaning products as well as their application.  Invitation for tenders for LED lamps: We defined energy efficiency targets, sustainability requirements and ergonomic criteria for the procurement of LED standard lamps as part of a pilot project in Switzerland.  Corporate wear for Region ­Switzerland: When inviting suppliers to tender for contracts to manufacture corporate clothing, we prescribed environmental and social standards that have to be observed in the pro­ duction process and the selection of fabrics. This enabled us to achieve The Smart Working Initiative focuses on how best to use policies, technology and space to address greater transparency in our cooperchanging work patterns, workplace preferences and the increased flexibility resulting from new technol­ ogies. Modern workspaces installed in connection with the pilot project in Zurich are pictured above. ation with suppliers in 2010, as well as ­leading to a clear improvement in fabric quality.  Merchandising products: The envi­ ronmental and social standards relating to all the products offered in conjunc­ Smart Working Initiative tion with our Bonviva bonus program A new ­lighting concept has been introduced as part of the Smart Working were reviewed by an internal specialist Initiative. Credit Suisse is the first major corpo­r ation in Switzerland committee and fair trade products were to install LED standard lamps in its offices. This decision was made by added to the range. an interdiscipli­n ary project group based on sustainable, energy-related  Facility management: We updated and architectural considerations. We are thus actively ­p romoting a the requirements for the management ­f uture -oriented techno­logy that continuously enhances efficiency, is free of our premises, installations and equip­ from harmful substances and requires substantially less maintenance. ment in Switzerland. ­F ollowing a complex international tendering process, the project team  Waste/recycling management: was able to select lamps that have been tailored to the needs of the Since January 2011, the New York ­c ompany and its employees. This allows the intensity of office lighting Campus has eliminated the use of all to be increased in line with individual requirements – such as when Styrofoam food and drinks containers, ­e mployees are completing detailed PC work. The need to ensure the which have been replaced with products ­e fficient management of overall lighting levels to provide a comfortable made from recyclable materials. and safe working environment was also considered. The ­s tandard lamps  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ are equipped with an innovative control system that ­p rovides the right environment ­level of light in the right places so that natural light can be complemented with artificial light, positively impacting employee ­p erformance and concentration. This combination of modern technology and intelligent controls also provides large energy savings, leading to a long-term reduction in operating costs. 46 Dialogue and ­Transparency Elisabeth Engel and Bernard Bruttin are two of over 300 employees in Switzerland who hold a public office in parallel to their jobs at Credit Suisse. Read an article about the political mandate holders in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 58  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Dialogue and Transparency 47 Dialogue with Stakeholders of our shareholders and the concerns of regulators, politicians and the gener­ The trust of our stakeholders is al public. We were able to anticipate ­essential to the long-term success some of the demands of investors and regulators at an early stage and have of our business. This is why we are been seen as a valued partner in cur­ committed to providing transparency rent discussions about our industry thanks to our experience and expertise. about our activities and strive In 2010, we once again participated in to ­cultivate an open dialogue with an intensive dialogue with national reg­ ulators and legislators – especially clients, shareholders and other the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory groups of stakeholders to promptly ­A uthority ( FINMA), the Swiss National Bank (SNB), the US Federal Reserve identify their needs and find joint (Fed) and the UK Financial Services ­solutions to current challenges. Authority ( FSA). These discussions cen­ tered on the definition of new capital and liquidity requirements as well as measures to ensure the continuation The success of our company depends and consolidate our strengths. For of the big banks’ systemically relevant on our ability to gain and maintain example, we reduced risk exposures functions in the event of a crisis. For the trust of different stakeholders. To and adjusted our compensation system example, the Vice-Chairman of the achieve this, we must first obtain a at the start of 2011, thus demon­­strat­Board of Directors of Credit Suisse clear understanding of the issues that ing that we are committed to strik­Group, Urs Rohner, campaigned for the are important to them. It is only by ing a balance bet­w een the interests formulation of a balanced package of engaging in a fair and open dialogue with our clients, shareholders, em­ ployees, regulatory bodies, politicians and other representatives of society that we can create a solid basis Our Stakeholders of trust. This exchange of views and As a globally active bank, Credit Suisse cultivates a dialogue with its stakeholders ideas enables us to recognize key on a range of topics through various channels. trends and issues at an early stage and to develop sustainable solutions. One of the dominant themes at Financial Analysts Shareholders present is the discussion about the Clients lessons learned from the global finan­ M a r k et p l a c e cial and economic crisis. In order to restore public trust in the banking Eco n o mi c I s s u e s sector, Credit Suisse has sought to help address weaknesses in the financial markets and continued to participate nm e nt a l I s su Credit Suisse Products and Services E nv ir o n m e nt in an intensive dialogue with politicians, es S o c ie t y Governments Environmental Management System Media legislators, regulators, international NGOs Responsibility in Society Local Communities Politics Legal Compliance bodies and non-governmental organi­ Code of Conduct viro Supplier Guidelines zations ( NGO s) throughout 2010 . En HR policies s ue lI ss Focus on Restoring Trust cia So Credit Suisse has never required gov­ ernment support at any point in our Work plac e history of over 150 years. We viewed the recent credit and capital market Suppliers Employees crisis as an opportunity to refocus on Unions 48 regulatory measures in his capacity as Finding a Solution to the Too Big to Fail Issue a member of the Expert Commission On October 4, 2010, the Expert Commission appointed by ­a ppointed by the Swiss Federal Council the Swiss Federal Council presented its recommendations to to develop recommendations to ad­­address the Too Big to Fail issue. The proposed pack­dress the Too Big to Fail ( TBTF ) issue age of measures will strengthen the stability of the financial (see box). He is also involved in the ­system without severely undermining the competitiveness ­international debate about this topic of the Swiss big banks and Switzerland’s financial center. The as Chairman of the IIF Cross-Border individual measures will increase the banks’ ability to ab­Res­o lution Working Group. sorb losses and thus have a preventative effect. At the same To preserve the stability of the finan­ time, they will enable them to maintain systemically relevant cial system while maintaining a level activities such as payment operations, lending and the de­ playing field for international financial posits business, even if faced with the threat of collapse or centers, Credit Suisse also believes if their failure is inevitable. In this context, Credit Suisse has it is imperative for effective regulatory voiced its support for a solution that would allow the sys­ measures to be coordinated interna­ temically relevant functions of ailing banks to be maintained. tionally. This is especially critical since In December 2010, a draft consultation paper was produced the cumulative costs of stricter regula­ on the basis of the Expert Commission’s recommendations. tion are not only expected to impact the By producing a video that clearly explains the proposals, banks but also society as a whole by ­Credit Suisse has sought to contribute to the forthcoming reducing economic growth and adverse­ public debate about this key topic – both in Switzerland and ly affecting the labor market. We are across the industry, as well as among interested members therefore actively involved in the regu­ of the public worldwide. latory debate as a member of various Watch a video explaining the Too Big to Fail issue regional and national industry bodies. in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 17 Credit Suisse has contributed to a num­  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle ber of reports on the future architecture of the international financial system, as well as the lessons learned from the credit and capital market ­c risis. We also worked on position papers that were presented to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Financial Our Stakeholders Clients Stability Board and meetings of G 20 Credit Suisse performs important social Credit Suisse regularly organizes client ministers. functions that go beyond our core bank­ events with high-profile speakers. For We have been addressing regulatory ing activities. This means that our longexample, Jeffrey Owens from the Centre developments and adapting our activities term business success is ­influenced for Tax Policy and Administration at accordingly for some time – as dem­ by our relationship with ­c lients, employ­ the OECD was one of the guest speakers onstrated by the implementation of our ees, investors and other stakeholders at our Thought Leadership Conference client-focused, capital-efficient business such as analysts and the media, as in Zurich. At the Credit Suisse Salons in strategy. As a result, we have already well as representatives of the business 2010, leading decision-makers including implemented a significant element of community, academia, the ­p olitical the former Mexican President Ernesto the proposed package of measures to arena, legislative bodies and NGO s. We Zedillo and the economist Nouriel Rou­ address the Too Big to Fail issue. In cultivate a constructive dialogue with bini discussed a range of topical issues. February 2011, we announced the exe­ all these groups of stakeholders by at­ cution of a definitive agreement with tending or hosting events and engaging Investors two strategic investors to issue an ag­ in discussions in order to identify We maintain a dialogue with investors, gregate of approximately CHF 6 billion their needs and interests and to formu­ analysts and the financial media and of tier 1 buffer capital notes to be late joint ­solutions to current challenges. have gained considerable recognition paid up no earlier than October 2013 By ­simultaneously providing transpar­ for our investor relations work in industry for cash or in exchange for tier 1 capi­ency about our business, we also circles. For example, Credit Suisse tal notes issued in 2008. In addition, we use these exchanges as a means of Investor Relations achieved first place placed a “Regulation S-only” issue of keeping the public informed about our in the banking sector in a survey USD 2 billion tier 2 buffer capital notes. strategy and activities. conducted by Thomson Extel in 2010 . Dialogue and Transparency 49 In addition, our annual reporting suite Society (Annual Report, Business Review and Corporate Citizenship Report) Politicians and regulators achieved second place in the Harbour  We regularly exchange information with politicians and government bodies and engage in a constructive Club ratings produced in conjunction dialogue with regulators and legislators. In Switzerland, we lend our support to the “militia” system of politics by granting employees generous working time arrangements so that they can fulfill their political with the Swiss business magazine roles while exercising their regular profession. At present, around 300 members of staff hold a public Bilanz and the University of Zurich, office in the cantonal authorities or at commune level. We hold an annual meeting for these employees at which we run workshops on political work and provide a ­platform so that they can share their experi­ while our Investor Relations website ences and exchange their views and ideas with the bank’s top management. was named the best in Switzerland  World Economic Forum (WEF) The WEF ­provides a global platform for international, cross-industry in the IR Global Rankings 2010 . dialogue and cooperation. Credit Suisse has been a member of the WEF for more than two decades and a strategic partner since 2006. Events hosted by Credit Suisse at the WEF in 2010 were dedicated to climate change, economic growth, sovereign debt and the future of the financial markets. Employees We work closely with bodies that re­ Business organizations present employee interests such as the A favorable operating environment is important to Credit Suisse in view of the key role we play in Credit Suisse Staff Council ( PKOM ) in the economy and as an employer and taxpayer. A large number of Credit Suisse employees around the world are therefore involved in committees, working groups and the executive bodies of industry Switzerland, national employee asso­ associations, as well as in umbrella organizations and bilateral chambers of commerce. They include ciations and the European Works Coun­ the following organizations: cil to ensure that the needs of our  Association for Financial Markets in Europe (AFME) AFME promotes the interests of European wholesale financial markets, and is chaired by a Credit Suisse representative. people are taken properly into account. In conjunction with independent  economiesuisse This umbrella organization represents the interests of Swiss businesses in the political process and works to create an optimal operating environment. Credit Suisse is represented on consulting firms, we also regularly con­ its Board of Directors and plays a role in expert commissions and committees. duct a survey of all our employees to  European Financial Services Round Table (EFR) The EFR aims to facilitate a truly single European assess their views on topics such as market for financial services and supports the development of internationally consistent financial regulation. the working environment and opportuni­  Institute of International Finance (IIF) The IIF represents the interests of globally active financial ties for professional development. In institutions. Credit Suisse is represented on its Board of Directors and in various committees and an effort to continuously enhance our working groups, including the Special Committee for Effective Regulation. feedback culture, we decided in 2010  International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) As a member of the ICC, Credit Suisse is committed to modify the format of the survey to promoting free international trade and participates in a working group that addresses energy and climate issues. so that we can analyze our employees’  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) This association, of which ­level of satisfaction with their role at Credit Suisse is a Board member, aims to develop policies to strengthen the financial markets and to Credit Suisse even more effectively and promote the availability of capital, job creation and economic growth. can rapidly initiate improvements  Swiss Bankers Association (SBA) This umbrella organization, which represents the interests of banks ­w herever necessary (see page 33). in Switzerland, is committed to improving the framework for the Swiss finance industry. Credit Suisse is represented on the SBA Board of Directors and various specialist committees. Society Science and research As an active member of society, Credit Credit Suisse promotes the transfer of knowledge so that theoretical know-how can be applied in Suisse cultivates relations with regula­ practice and supports the development of a progressive education system. tors, politicians, legislators and NGO s.  We have been partnering with the ETH Zurich Foundation since 2008 to help extend the leading position of the Swiss Institute of Technology ( ETH) in Zurich. In conjunction with Swiss universities, we present Our efforts in this field include our the Credit Suisse Award for Best Teaching through our Jubilee Fund. Together with the SBA, we support support for business organizations and the Swiss Finance Institute, which combines the research institutions of several Swiss universities. We are also a member of research bodies such as the Institut International d’Etudes Bancaires and the our involvement in various networks International Center for Monetary and Banking Studies. and initiatives that promote discussions about economic, political and business Non-governmental organizations issues (see table).  In 2010, Credit Suisse hosted a conference that brought together 23 banks that have signed the Equator Continued on page 50 Principles and 15 NGO to exchange their views about the challenges that exist following the Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, as well as the further development of the Equator Principles.  In the course of 2010, we extended our cooperation with the WWF. As well as participating in WWF campaigns such as Earth Hour and the “newTrees” project (see page 39), we hosted the Sustainable For­ estry Investment Forum in conjunction with WWF Hong Kong, Greenpeace ­China and ASrIA. We also sponsored the public screening of a documentary about the harmful effects of overfishing. 50 Sustainability Networks and Initiatives Credit Suisse participates in specialist discussions about a broad range of sustainability-related topics in our capacity as a member of national and international working groups and associations:  United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) More than 190 financial services providers are involved in this initiative with the aim of encouraging the financial sector to take greater account of sustainability issues. Credit Suisse ­became one of the first signatories of the initiative back in 1992 and we regularly participate in UNEP FI meetings and play an active role in its project groups. In 2010, we attended the 10 th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on ­Biological Diversity in Nagoya in conjunction with the UNEP FI. This conference represented the highlight in the International Year of Biodiversity (see page 39).  UN Global Compact Credit Suisse was one of the first signatories of the UN Global Compact in 2000 and – together with more than 5,300 other companies – has pledged to promote a more socially and environmentally responsible approach to ­globalization. As an active member, we report annually on our progress, participate in the national Global Compact networks in Switzerland and Singapore and support events relating to the initiative (see page 51).  Equator Principles We conduct our project finance activities in emerging economies and developing nations in accordance with the Equator Principles. By signing up to these voluntary industry standards, around 70 international banks have pledged to minimize the negative impacts of major projects. As one of the first signatories of the initiative, which was launched in 2003, we play a part in various working groups and have been a member of the Equator Principles Association Steering Committee since 2010.  Swiss Association for Environmentally Conscious Management (öbu) This network comprises around 370 Swiss ­companies that work together to promote the sustainable development of Switzerland’s economy. It focuses on company-specific initiatives and projects relating to economic policy, as well as promoting the exchange of knowledge and ideas between its members.  Association for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in Asia (ASrIA) ASrIA strives to promote sustainable investing in Asia. As a member of this initiative, we want to contribute to the exchange of information about sustainable investments in the region. Continued from page 49 Contributing to the Public Debate Credit Suisse regularly publishes studies and specialist articles and participates in conferences about current economic, political and social issues. We make our extensive experience and expertise available as part of our efforts to sup­ port the formation of public opinion. In 2010, we once again participated in various national and international Credit Suisse Barometer Investment Research conferences. For example, we contrib­ For more than 30 years, Credit Suisse has con­ In view of the increasing complexity of the capital uted our expertise at a global level ducted an annual Worry Barometer survey, which markets, Credit Suisse economists, strategists, examines the issues that are of greatest concern and investment specialists deliver a global in the context of the Asian Investment to the Swiss public. Unemployment, pension economic assessment and a market outlook on Conference and the World Economic provision and healthcare are the issues that Swiss a monthly basis. These publications are primarily voters worry about most. Confidence in the geared toward our clients but also attract a Forum (see pages 38 and 49), thus helping economy as a whole has risen. In 2010, the Worry broader readership. Based on these analyses, different parties to form an opinion and Barometer was extended to include a survey of specific investment ideas are also presented. The young people – the Youth Barometer. It revealed investor magazine Global Investor is published assisting in the formulation of solutions. that the common interests of young people not regularly and, in 2010, covered topics such as In Switzerland, we continued our only include aspects of the cyberworld such ­inflation and urbanization. The publication also work with Osec in the role of a premium as SMS, Facebook, e -mail and smartphones but ­examines global megatrends such as sustainability, also Italian food and TV series (see page 20 ). the multi-polar world and demography. partner at the Forum for Swiss Foreign Trade and Investment, and we con­­Credit Suisse Research Institute bulletin and In Focus tri­b uted to the success of the third na­ The Credit Suisse Research Institute compiles In addition to our economic analyses, Credit tional ­M inergie -P Day, where interested analyses of global social, economic, scientific, ­S uisse produces a series of other publications parties were able to find out more about ecological and demographic trends. It works with that are geared toward a broad readership. a body of leading experts, research institutes The client magazine bulletin examines different the advantages of constructing build­ and specialist committees as well as the extensive feature topics – in 2010, they included: neighbors, ings according to this energy-efficient Credit Suisse research team consisting of 400 an­ south, movement, consumption, and youth – alysts around the world. The knowledge gained along with reports on business, society, invest­ standard. is made available to all business areas and inter­ ment, business practices, culture and sports.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ ested members of the public. The institute has Our weekly online magazine In Focus provides society examined a number of themes, including govern­ our clients and the public with timely reporting ment debt, the distribution of wealth, investment on a range of topics. in education, technology, and health. Dialogue and Transparency 51 Reporting on Corporate Responsibility This ­C orporate Responsibility Report forms part of Credit Suisse’s annual Our Corporate Responsibility Report ­r eporting suite (see inside cover) and is designed to inform our stake­holders ­c overs the ­p eriod from January to ­D ecember 2010 . Its contents focus on about the principles that guide us five themes relating to corporate rein our daily work and to illustrate how sponsibility: banking, society, employer, environment and dialogue. Given that it we address current environ­mental is only possible to portray a selection of and social challenges in our business our wide -ranging activities in the printed publication, we added a multimedia activities. dimension to our reporting for 2010 by launching the Responsibility Chronicle. It contains reports, videos and articles To achieve long-term success, Credit r­ elating to ­c orporate ­r esponsibility and about our international projects and Suisse takes account not only of to provide an overview of our diverse ­initiatives in these five areas, which ­e conomic but also of environmental commitments in this area. At the have been written or produced in a jourand social aspects when conducting same time, we want to provide a transnalistic style. More in-depth information, its activities. The most important parent account of our activities to additional data and articles can also be ­p rinciples governing this approach are ­e nable our stakeholders to engage in found on our website: set out in our Code of Conduct (see a ­d ialogue with us and to provide us  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility page 12) as well as our Group-wide with valuable input on the topic of ­sustainability policy. This report is ­c orporate ­r esponsibility (enquiries can Global Reporting Initiative ­d esigned to inform our stakeholders be sent to: responsibility.corporate@ Our Corporate Responsibility Report about our principles and objectives credit-­suisse.com). reflects the requirements set out in the Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Examples of implementation at Credit Suisse Human rights1 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the  Credit Suisse adheres to the UN Universal Declaration protection of ­internationally proclaimed human of Human Rights rights; and  Signing of UN Global Compact CEO Statement on Human Rights in 2008  Partnership with International Humanitarian Forum in Lucerne (IHRF) Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human  Application of Reputational Risk Review Process rights abuses.  Implementation of sector-specific policies Labor standards2 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of as Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee representation) sociation and the effective ­recognition of the  European Works Council right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and  Progressive working conditions for own staff ­compulsory labor;  Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and  Progressive working conditions for own staff  Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of  Global Diversity and Inclusion employment and occupation. Environment4 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary  Application of Reputational Risk Review Process approach to ­environmental challenges;  Implementation of sector-specific policies Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater  Credit Suisse Cares for Climate (CSCfC) initiative environmental responsibility; and  Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010  ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of  ISO 14001-certified environmental management system ­environmentally friendly technologies.  Offering of environment-related products and services Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in  Wolfsberg Statement against corruption5 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 See pages 12–15; 2 pages 31–35; 3 page 12; 4 pages 12–17 and 37–45; 5 page 15. 52 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI ). This Sustainability Indices internationally recognized voluntary standard defines principles and indicaIndex Brief description Credit Suisse tors for companies wishing to publish Dow Jones Sustainability Global best-in-class approach: Credit Suisse has been a World Index ( DJSI World) the top 10% of the 2,500 ­constituent of the Dow Jones information about the economic, envi­largest companies in the Dow Sustainability World Index ronmental and social aspects of their Jones Global Total Stock since it was launched in 1999. Market Index according to work. The GRI guidelines thus promote ­sustainability criteria. greater transparency and comparability, Dow Jones Sustainability European best-in-class Credit Suisse has been a as well as making it easier to locate ­Europe Index (DJSI Europe) ­approach: the top 20% of ­constituent of the ­European Index ­companies in terms of sustainof the Dow Jones Sustainability specific data. ability criteria of the 600 largest Indices since 2001.1 Detailed information about Credit ­European companies in the Suisse’s GRI indicators can be found at Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gri FTSE4Good Index Series Companies that achieve a top Credit Suisse has been a For this report, Credit Suisse has had ranking in the area of corporate ­constituent of the FTSE4Good its GRI index reviewed and assessed for social responsibility. ­Index Series since it was launched in 2001. the first time. 1 Prior to 2010: Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index ( DJSI STOXX ) Sustainability Indices and Ratings Sustainability ratings assess whether companies fulfill their social and environmental responsibilities and are seen by a growing number of investors as a key indicator of whether these firms are being managed according to a forward-looking approach. The ratings Sustainability Ratings Assigned to Credit Suisse in 2010 also help us to identify opportunities and risks and to constantly optimize  Carbon Disclosure Project (UK): business processes. Credit Suisse regularly achieves 69 points (rating scale: 1 to 100; industry average: 59 ) strong results in sustainability ratings and was once again included in leading  RiskMetrics Group ( US ): sustainability indices such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and the BBB (rating scale: AAA to CCC) FTSE4G ood Index Series in 2010 . In addition, various investment funds that  oekom research (Germany):2 pursue sustainable investment strategies invest in the Credit Suisse share. C Prime (rating scale: A+ to D -; “prime” denotes best in class)  SAM ( US/Switzerland): 78% (economic dimension 86%, ­e nvironmental dimension 73%, social dimension 74%; ­industry average 50%) 2 Rating 2009 Enquiries Credit Suisse AG Investor Relations Tel. + 41 44 333 71 49 investor.relations@credit-suisse.com Credit Suisse AG Corporate Communications Tel. + 41 844 33 88 44 media.relations@credit-suisse.com Photography: Alberto Venzago (Cover, 3, 18 ), iStockphoto (7, 41), Johannes Kroemer ( 8 ), Credit Suisse (10, 20 ), Martin Stollenwerk ( 21), Olav A Saltbones, Norwegisches Rotes Kreuz ( 23 ), Credit Suisse ( 26 ), ­A ndreas Meier ( 29 ), Priska Ketterer, Lucerne Festival ( 29 ), Keith Saunders, Sydney Symphony ( 29 ), Credit ­S uisse ( 29 ), Laurent Burst ( 30 ), Jürg Isler ( 33 ), Cortis & Sonderegger ( 34 ), Jürg Isler ( 34 ), Credit Suisse ( 35 ), Laurent Burst ( 36 ), Martin Stollenwerk (43 ), Dirk Altenkirch (43 ), Credit Suisse (44 ), Dirk Altenkirch (45 ), Laurent Burst (46, Backcover); ­Focus Themes: Elizaveta Timasheva ( 3 ), Opportunity International ( 5 ), ­M artin Stollenwerk ( 6 ), Fran Black, LCD (Backcover) Design: www.arnold.inhaltundform.com Printer: Swissprinters Zürich AG , Zurich Paper: Trucard Ice FSC, single-page mirror finish, 280 gm2 wood-free (cover) Dominant Plus FSC, offset, white, matt, 90 gm2, wood-free (content and booklet) neutral Printed Matter No. 01-11-704850 – www.myclimate.org © myclimate – The Climate Protection Partnership Objectives 2011 Banking Employer (continued)  Continue to refine the tools used to examine  Strengthen our presence on university campuses sustainability-related risks in our business globally to increase the number of people we hire transactions and work on their implementation. at entry level from schools and universities – with the mid-term goal of such talent accounting for half  Foster cross-divisional collaboration through the of the annual intake. Simultaneously improve the Green Business Initiative (GBI), the purpose of assessment of talent and systematically develop into which is to help coordinate efforts in the areas of managerial and expert roles. clean energy, water and sustainable commodities.  Embed client skills deep in the organization.  Develop innovative solutions and services to link the top with the base of the wealth pyramid and continue to actively support the responsible Environment ­development of the microfinance industry.  Continue to engage in the climate change debate and to explore the potential impacts of climate Society change on our business while also building awareness for climate issues.  Sharpen the strategic direction of the three focus themes Employee Engagement, Education and  Raise awareness for biodiversity risks and oppor­ ­Microfinance Capacity Building. tunities, also in connection with the International Year of Forests (2011).  Expand the support of activities and partnerships in emerging markets.  Implement further improvement measures based on our ISO 14001-certified Environmental  Work more closely and systematically with ­Management System – with special focus on departments and raise awareness of volunteering ­reducing our carbon emissions. opportunities that enable employees to use their competencies to add value to our partners and our communities. Dialogue  Further improve the Access to Quality Education  Continue dialogue and engagement with important programs through measures which– depending stakeholders to recognize global trends as early as on the regions – focus on building infrastructures, possible and to jointly work on solutions through our ­providing scholarships and advancing excellent involvement in networks and initiatives as well as teaching in order to prepare young people for through selected publications. subsequent education attainment or employment.  Further increase dialogue with NGOs and IGOs and continue implementation of partnerships with Employer ­selected organizations.  Translate Credit Suisse’s refined global HR strategy into tangible actions and behaviors, fostering ­diversity and inclusion. Enable further development of employees through a new forward-looking ­approach to reviewing and managing performance. Continue to be an innovative leader in learning and development.  Deepen our committed partnership culture by ­empowering leadership and collaboration at all levels CREDIT SUISSE AG and across divisions to serve our clients’ needs. ­Reinforce the understanding that every employee Paradeplatz 8 is an important driver of the bank’s long-term 8070 Zurich ­performance and that managers are accountable for proactively developing their people. Switzerland Tel. +41 44 212 16 16 Fax +41 44 333 25 87 5511064 www.credit-suisse.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Credit Suisse
