Global compact Communication On Progress Presented By: Al BAYAN GROUP Chairman and CEO 2011‐JULY‐06 WWW.BAYAN‐GROUP.COM Al BAYAN – GROUP It’s a pleasure to us to start talking about our gratitude to all our partners, suppliers, workers, employees those who we deal with Al BAYAN and will be in the coming future. For that I find it appropriate to give a quick review about founding “AL BAYAN” and its companies more like how it started , its’ points of strength ,challenges encountered through its history. Now day we can say that “AL BAYAN GROUP” the Ads. Agency and printing house rapidly became an indispensable name for the industry in Aleppo to reach more than half of the market share in Aleppo and Syria. More than a decade ago in 1992, the Deiri Family had a vision of pioneering the printing market and they proudly launched one of the most revered printing houses in the City of Aleppo. By Offering cutting‐edge technology, and unparalleled high quality work, in the printing market, Bayan Printing House rapidly became an indispensable name for the industry in Aleppo. Soon a er, in 1993, the company under the name of Bayan‐Group started its journey of expansion into the world of unlimited creativity by offering an extensive range of advertising, marketing, and graphic design services. In 1996, Bayan‐Group successfully started its independent advertising agency. Bayan‐Group expansion as a company both inside and outside Syria continues till today. Bayan‐Group’s faithful and unmatched commitment to satisfying the wants and needs and its solid experience in the local market has made the company itself a brand name in Syria In 1999, The Syrian European Business Center provided Bayan‐Group with a subsidy from the European Union to restructure the company management and train the staff on the European Union Standards in the work environment. Bayan‐Group has become the first company in Syria to apply the EU standards. Now, Bayan‐Group accounts for more than half of the market share of the industry in Aleppo and the Company takes legitimate pride for being described as one the most relied on companies for Syrian businesses and business activities. Our ultimate objective at Bayan‐Group is to guide your business needs from the early stages of conceptualization of ideas through the process of actualization and implementation. Bayan – Group in a snapshot: 2006 Syria Al‐Ghad Radio Station exclusive agent in northern Syria. ‐ 2004 Bayan‐Group builds its own LOOK billboard company of 40 networks each with 5 adver sing faces. ‐ 2003 Bayan‐Group a step out of Syria becomes an exclusive agent for many Radio Stations Sawt El‐Ghad, Radio One Lebanon, and Syria FM Sawt El‐Shabab. ‐ 2003 Exclusive agents for SAAB Interna onal Diaries. ‐ 2002 Bayan‐Group the first agent of Arab Advertising Association. ‐ 2001 Bayan‐Group sponsored the art director to attend courses in the business of art in the United States. ‐ 2000 Par cipa on in First Engineering Exhibi on, Agricultural Exhibition, Food and Packaging Exhibition, and the third comprehensive International Economic Exhibition in Syria. ‐ 2000 Second Fashion Exhibi on. ‐ 1999 Subsidy by the EU through the Syrian European Center to restructure Bayan‐Group according to the EU standards. ‐ 1999 Bayan‐Group Staff is retrained in marketing, finance, and sales under the Supervision of the Syrian European Business Center. ‐ 1999 Expansion of the Creative Department and the Printing House to design and print Kawalies Billboard Ads. ‐ 1998 Designing and prin ng the monthly magazine of the Aleppo Association of Engineers. ‐ 1998 Medical Adver sing Department under the supervision of specialized physician. ‐ 1998 First Fashion Exhibi on in Aleppo. ‐ 1997 Snob Lebanese Journal approves Bayan‐Group Designs. ‐ 1997 Kawalies exclusive agent in northern Syria. ‐ 1996 the Establishment of Bayan‐Group Advertising Agency. ‐ 1993 the Establishment of Digitized Graphic Design Department. ‐ 1992 the Establishment of Bayan Prin ng House as the first stone of the Bayan. Although there is one key to Al Bayan Group competitive strength is our various work force that include people from different cultural backgrounds ,we comply with all applicable labor and employment laws, we follow the principle for fair treatment and non‐discrimination to ensure that our employees are well trained and fair treated and safe in their work places. So I would like to thank all of the groups’ employees for achieving the marvelous reputation and trust for the company to those who we are dealing with. Feras Deiri Chairman, CEO support for the united nation global compact Al Bayan Group Supports The 10 Principles Of The United Nations Global Compact, In So Many Different Ways, Human Right, Labor Right, Protection Of The Environment, Anti Corruption In So Many Different Ways To Promote To A Higher Level Of Professionalism. We implement our global compact programs through many of the our compliance programs, for example, to address the issue of human right we audit our management to ensure that there is no child or slave labor involved and that wages and working conditions are acceptable, in our own operation we have fair employment programs to make sure our employees are in a safe and healthy environment and in condition that comply with all applicable standards as to employment . Humman right seection: Princiiple 1: our o busineess support and respect r th he proteection of inteernationally proclaimed p human rightts. Princiiple 2: we make sure that we are a not com mplicit in anny human n right abusees. We ha ave implem mented a syystem for checking an nd recordinng that all a employeees are paid minimum m wage an nd to avoiid excesssive overtim me hours. And this system s traccks violatio on and installed ba ack‐paymentt system of o wages. Employmen nt contra act stating the termss and cond ditions of services arre made available to t all employees and we have installed an a indepeendent m monitoring programm regard ding labo or conditiions and recceive an annual reporting. When it comes to salaryy differencees between n men an nd women n the grou up has defiined the sa alary margiins for each c employyment categorye ;this mean tha at each tea am membeer regarddless of his h / her gender g is paiid based on the quality of work and a the result of 360 ͦeva alua on. Labo or right section: c Princiiple 3: our group resspects the freedom of associatio on and upholds the t effectivve recognittion of th he right to t collecctive bargain ning; Principle i 4: we don’t allow forced or o compulso ory labor in i any aspect within n our operatiion or supplyy chain. Princiiple 5: we don’t allow w child labo or within our operatio on or suppply. Princiiple 6: we don’t allow discrimin nation within our worrk place in i respect off employmen nt and occuppation The grroup introduced a new approach to personal p andd professsional development based on our va alue diversityy to equally apprecciate our simmilarities and d differencess. Fosterss direct com mmunication between ma anagement and employyees based on o an “open door” policyy. Facilita ates continuual participattion in decisiion making and a strategyy shapinng through different d enggagement meethods. Assesssment Surveyys, Personal Developmen nt Plans (PD DP) and occasio onal strateg gic meetings with senior staff or all employees. e Environmental section: Principle 7: we take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly. Due to sensitivity and responsibility toward society and environment the company is committed to encourage and support a clean environmental and to implement appropriate measure within production. We have worked actively to reduce power consumption in our facility. The focus has been on enhancing the expertise to our property management staff, making more efficient use of lighting and heating, turning down heating at night, heating recovery and installing heat pumps. For internal correspondence our employees use recycled paper and recycle extra papers from printing We placed the rational energy use label in all of our offices ‐ Be rational with the energy! It serves as a reminder that each employee should check energy‐using appliances (air‐ conditioning, IT equipment, electricity) before leaving the office. In addition, each day the last person remaining in the office checks if all energy‐using appliances are properly shut down (turned off). During the summer period, employees proposed opening windows instead of using air‐ conditioning. This initiative led to electricity saving. Anti ‐ Corruption section: Principle 10: businesses should work against corrup on in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption sabotages policies and programs that aim to reduce poverty, so attacking corruption is critical to the achievement of overarching mission of poverty reduction. We believe that an effective anticorruption strategy builds on few elements: 9 Hiring and promotion of public officials 9 Remuneration of public officials 9 Regulation on conflicts of interest and conduct in office 9 Conflict of interest regarding the exercise of economic or political activities. 9 Regulation concerning gifts and hospitality 9 Conflict of interest arising from post service employment. 9 Guidance and training on ethical conduct and risks of corruption. 9 Enforcement of codes of conduct. 9 Duties to report on assets and liabilities. 9 Rotation of officials. 9 Auditing of procedures and institutions. 9 Increasing public administration’s accountability through surveys. To reduce the corrosion impact of corruption in a sustainable way, it is important to go beyond the symptoms to tackle the causes of corruption. Mission Faithful work, high quality and commitment and creativity are the heart of BAYAN‐GROUP’s mission statement. We care for the clients wants and needs and we work day and night to ensure transferring their ideas to the real world, our ultimate pleasure is to offer high quality services and solutions that make your business satisfied. Vision We establish and maintain lifelong customer relationship through superior graphic communication services and printed products. We strive for excellence in all we do and treat everyone with dignity and respect. Many companies have a vision statement, we make everything we do a vision statement. Our believe is that in a highly competitive marketing environment there is an increasing need, to move products from shelves into the faces of consumers in a way that value success. Value Our value and what we stand for: Our customers: Bayan‐group expect that every customer to be treated equally and regardless of their size of their account value. Our team: Bayan‐Group encourages promote from within wherever possibility making a continuous investment in our personnel. Our resource: are to be fully used to fulfill our customers’ needs. Occupational health and safety: Bayan‐Group is constantly striving to sustain and improve the health and safety of all employees, by reducing the possibility of any work place injury or illness. Privacy: Bayan‐Group is committed to protecting the privacy of the personal information of our customers’ employees, suppliers, and other stakeholders. Strength points of AL BAYAN ‐ GROUP Al bayan‐ Group the largest printers in Aleppo city highest quality products available for our customers. Offset printing. Being exclusive agent for private and governmental media outlet inside and outside Syria. Short delivery me: up to 15 days for urgent orders. Being the exclusive agent for different radio station. Our account planners are always at the top of the latest media development. 15 years experience in prin ng, adver sement, consulting, PR. Thank you… Presented by: AL BAYAN GROUP
