The United Nations Global Compact JIFU Metallic/ Wisefull Technology endorsed the idea of the UN Global Compact advocated by the United Nations. Under the UN Global Compact, companies voluntarily proclaim to comply with 10 globally accepted principles in four areas ─ human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Human rights: Comply with local minimum age laws and requirements, no child labor is ever being/ will be employed. In our recruitment policy and actual recruitment practices, discrimination based on race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, ethnicity, religion, disability, union membership or political affiliation is prohibited. Labor standards: We compensate our workers with wages and benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum. In addition, we set up rewarding program to recognize workers who demonstrate strong work ethics, efficiency and productivity. No salary payment delay had even happened/ will even occur. In 2007, the Labor Union is established to serve as a voice for all workers in the facility, an advocate for respect and better benefits at work. We respect the rights of workers to organize in labor unions in accordance with local laws and established practice. We held labor tours to the Expo 2010 Shanghai between Aug. and Sep. 2010, the child toy room for our labors’ children. Also we provide the scholarship and grants for our labors’children study in local school twice every year. Environment: l Using recycled water for the following usage: toilet flush, air conditioning, and other cleaning activities in the facility, and successfully lower 30% of the annual water usage. l Our annual electricity usage decline 30% due to some major renovation: 1) Equip our lighting system completely with energy saving light bulbs ; 2) Consolidate and streamline our circuit system with new material; and 3) adapt solar system to power the water heating system in the dormitory. l Provide free dormitory to our employees and host entertaining and travel programs to strength employee engagement. l We keep eyes on healthy food and clean for the labor restaurant, and set up the waste air purifying equipment for the cooking oil air. Anticorruption: We are dedicated to ensuring full compliance with all anticorruption laws and regulations. No payment or gift of any kind may be made, promised or offered by our supplier to any of our employees. Any employee found to be violating this policy will be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination. A statement by chief executive officer: We will continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and principles. Identifies targets, define performance indicators and measure outcomes: l There is no labor under 18 ages, and follow Labor Law of the People's Republic of China. l In 2011, we paid ￥430,000.00 for the labor tours and ￥56,600.00 for the scholarship and grants for our labors’children study in local school. l Until now, we paid ￥900,000.00 for upgrade the waste air purifying equipment to reduce the oil and smelling.
