UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2010 GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary NIRAS was founded in 1956. Today, NIRAS consultancy company with over 1200 is one of the leading consultancy compaemployees located in offices in Europe, nies in Denmark. Our domestic market is Asia and Africa. the Baltic region where we work from companies in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Our business is to provide impartial Poland, Estonia, Russia and Ukraine. We consultancy within the fields of construchave completed projects in over 180 tion, infrastructure, public utilities, countries and have companies and offices environment, energy, planning, socioecoin a number of countries in Europe, Asia nomics, management, IT and development and Africa in order to support our consulting. Our special trademark is an international projects. inter-disciplinary and innovative approach to projects and we take pride in transformWe are not attached to contractors, manuing clients’ visions or challenges into facturers or suppliers and are a member of sustainable solutions. the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). Page 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Carsten Toft Boesen Chief Executive Officer It is fundamental to NIRAS that employees and have improved our information on and customers can rely on our business stress and how to handle it. In addition, ethics and concern for the environment. we have extended our employee satisfacAt NIRAS, we are aware of our corporate tion survey to include the largest NIRAS social responsibility and consider it a companies, i.e. NIRAS Denmark and NIRAS natural step to join the Global Compact. Sweden. During 2010, we invested a great deal of NIRAS is taking the environment and effort in redefining our values, mission and climate change into consideration in an vision, and this resulted in the umbrella increasing number of client projects. We concept of the ‘NIRAS Fundamentals’. have invested in the development of As part of this process, we are taking IT-based support tools with a view to action to ensure that the NIRAS Fundareducing the consumption of fossil fuels mentals become deeply rooted within our for transport. organisation. NIRAS has initiated a risk management We have defined a type of behaviour that process and has employed a group lawyer is formulated in the NIRAS Fundamentals to attend to cross-border legal matters. and stipulates the way in which we live our values and work at NIRAS. We have improved the efficiency of the Carsten T. Boesen organisation of our working environment Chief Executive Officer Page 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES REFERENCE TO POLICIES 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally NIRAS supports the United Nations proclaimed human rights. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, abuses. making space for “the whole person”. The aim is for this to be reflected in the way in ACTIONS AND OUTCOME which we relate to and act towards one NIRAS is constantly on the lookout for another. Thus, our values encompass the changes in the current situation, identifyfollowing: ing any need for action, especially when working in developing countries. Our –– We are human, receptive and dedicated, project managers on international projects as well as committed to our work and have been specifically informed about open towards our colleagues. NIRAS’ participation in the United Nations Global Compact, its principles and the –– Job satisfaction and good cooperation implications of this participation. permeate our daily lives. NIRAS believes that personal growth and, –– We have a great degree of freedom and hence, the growth of our company will we take responsibility for the interests of prosper if there is an open and trusting our colleagues, the customer and the relationship between managers and company. employees, and we encourage this in many different ways on a continual basis. Page 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES REFERENCE TO POLICIES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Employment Conditions recognition of the right to collective NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into bargaining. associations and to enter into collective 4. Businesses should uphold the eliminabargaining with management. All NIRAS tion of all forms of forced and employees have individual contracts, and compulsory labour. the employment conditions comply with 5. Businesses should uphold the effective current national legislation and requireabolition of child labour. ments. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Occupational health and safety employment and occupation. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where employees have good ACTIONS AND OUTCOME job satisfaction and good potential for NIRAS has set up a system for occupatiodevelopment. nal health and safety, comprising health­ care, psychological working environment Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and and crisis management. The system in-house operations must be performed includes regular inspections of workplaces, such that the health, safety and welfare of satisfaction surveys and meetings with the affected human beings are ensured to employee representatives in order to retain the greatest possible degree. a high standard and continually improve performance. Diversity and discrimination NIRAS considers diversity to be a business In 2010, NIRAS improved the efficiency of advantage that ensures our customers a the organisation of our working environbetter quality of service and promotes ment as well as our information on stress inspiration in house. and how to handle it. NIRAS ensures all present and future Furthermore, our employee satisfaction employees equal opportunities, regardless survey was extended to include the of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, employees of NIRAS Sweden, and we have ethnic and social origin, disability, political intensified our coordination across the or sexual orientation and family status. NIRAS Group. The culture and values at NIRAS are based NIRAS does not employ children who are on respect for the individual and this also under age. implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and customers. We are open minded and welcome employees and business partners with different cultural, political and religious backgrounds. Page 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 7. Businesses should support a precautioNIRAS supports initiatives that are able to nary approach to environmental reduce carbon emissions and, in 2010, we challenges. invested in the following IT-based support 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives tools that help reduce the consumption of to promote greater environmental fossil fuels for transport: responsibility. –– “Transportalen.dk” which is a web 9. Businesses should encourage the application developed by NIRAS to make development and diffusion of environthe coordination of car pooling easy and mentally friendly technologies. efficient –– An online-meeting system that can help ACTIONS AND OUTCOME reduce the need to travel on official NIRAS develops methodologies, design business. manuals and integrated, environmentally friendly technologies for an increasing REFERENCE TO POLICIES number of client projects relating to buildings, construction in general and NIRAS accepts responsibility for the society industry as well as water, energy and and the environment. wastewater systems. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with In developing countries, NIRAS provides customers and stakeholders and seeks technical assistance regarding the environsolutions that are compatible with the ment, climate change, natural resource principles of sustainable development. management, watershed management, water supply and sanitation, and health. NIRAS supports the International Federation of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) In addition, NIRAS develops methodolorecommendations on the environment and gies for measuring carbon footprints and sustainable development. applies Joint Implementation (JII), Clean Development (CDM) and Emission Trading to several projects. Page 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE REFERENCE TO POLICIES 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including NIRAS has a Business Integrity Policy as extortion and bribery. well as an internal Business Integrity Management System, which is a tool for ACTIONS AND OUTCOME the prevention of corrupt behaviour and Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ the promotion of integrity. Business Integrity Policy are strongly emphasised in all contracts with emploNIRAS agrees with and has adopted the yees, managers, sub-consultants and Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct as agents. defined by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). In 2010, NIRAS initiated a risk management process and employed a group lawyer to ensure that the companies within the NIRAS Group comply with legal regulations. Page 7 NIRAS A/S Sortemosevej 2 3450 Allerød, Denmark T +45 4810 4200 F +45 4810 4300 www.niras.com
