United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress CEO of Landsbankinn Steinthór Pálsson Statement of continued support Landsbankinn wishes to probankinn has focused on solving for the Global Compact mote sustainable development the financial issues of household in society by integrating ecoand corporate debt through loan Landsbankinn is the market nomic, social and environmental restructuring. Many Icelanders leader in the Icelandic financial concerns in its operations. Early faced financial difficulties after sector with a market share of in 2011 the Bank appointed a CSR the economic meltdown in 2008 approximately one third in both specialist to oversee the creation and powerful reaction was called the retail and corporate sector. and implementation of a new CSR for. The Bank is currently finalisHeadquartered in Reykjavík, the policy. In May 2011 the Bank ing the restructuring of houseBank is based on the domestic published a Corporate Social hold mortgage debt and other operations of old Landsbanki Responsibility policy the main loans to individuals in order to Íslands (hereafter LBI) and offers guidelines of which were based align debt service with borrowuniversal banking services in upon the UN Global Compact’s ers’ payment capacity. These acIceland. principles on human rights, tions were made possible by the labour rights, the environment Bank’s strong financial position. The Icelandic financial system and anti-corruption. Implementacollapsed in an unprecedented tion of the CSR policy shall be In adhering to the principles of way in October 2008 with the completed no later than year-end the Global Compact, it is Landscorresponding destruction of 2015. bankinn’s goal to play a strong financial assets. On 7 October Landsbankinn has, through open role in the re-vitalisation of the 2008, the Icelandic FSA (FME) meetings throughout Iceland Icelandic economy. To that end, took over LBI and appointed a and a special action plan made the Bank has undertaken finanResolution Committee. Subsepublic, shown a strong dedication cial restructuring of corporate quently, domestic deposits, as to engage in an open dialogue debt, enabling companies to take well as significant assets relatwith customers and stakeholders. part in the re-building of the ing to Icelandic operations, were In the first half of 2011, around economy. Landsbankinn believes transferred from LBI to Lands2000 individuals attended the that these actions not only benefit bankinn hf. open meetings and other meetcustomers but further, that they ings on personal and corporate help the Bank in build ing a susLBI had previously joined the finances hosted by the Bank. tainable financial environment UN Global Compact in 2006 for the future. and a new Board of Directors of Building on a new strategy Landsbankinn hf. has since 2008 that strongly emphasises social continued to renew its commitresponsibility and outstanding ment to the UN Global Compact. service to customers, LandsCEO 2 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 3 About Landsbankinn Landsbankinn hf. is a leading Icelandic financial instituBalance sheet 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 Change in 2010 tion with approximately one third market share in both Total assets 1.081.133 1.061.101 20.032 the retail and corporate financial sectors. Loans to customers Loans to financial institutions 592.954 91.882 667.122 83.129 -74.168 8.753 Bonds 161.559 165.721 -4.162 Equities 29.429 23.411 6.018 Deposits from customers 371.558 452.655 81.097 The Bank offers a full range of financial services Shareholders of Landsbankinn hf. are the Icelandic Deposits from financial institutions 147.478 98.228 49.250 and is the market leader in the Icelandic financial State with 81.33% ownership and the holding Borrowings 261.313 306.493 -45.180 service sector with the largest branch network. company Landskil with 18.67%. Landskil is fully Equity 184.866 157.592 27.274 Focused on commercial banking, Landsbankinn owned by Landsbanki Íslands hf. (LBI hf.). Equity ratio 19.5% 15.0% 4,5% provides retail and corporate banking services, Number of employees 1.146 1.161 -15 capital markets services and asset and wealth On 22 January 2010 the Bank’s capitalisation was management for private banking clients. completed following agreement with the creditors of Landsbanki Íslands hf. Customers and branches 2010 Income Statement 2010 2009 Change in 2010 Retail customers 97,000 Profit after taxes 27.231 14.332 12.899 Corporate customers 7,300 ROE after taxes 17.3% 10.0% 7,3% Number of branches 34 Cost-income ratio 36.4% 54.9% -18,5% Number of employees 1,146 4 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 5 Loans and advances by industry sectors Human rights 2% 1% 1% 4% Individuals 27% Services 11% 11% 27% Public entities 2% Information, technology Fisheries 23% and communication 1% 6% Construction and real Manufacturing 4% 6% estate companies 17% Agriculture 2% 2% Holding companies 6% Other 1% 17% 23% Retail blar 6% Funding profile Landsbankinn adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to principles 1 and 2 of the UN Global Compact. It is Landsbankinn’s aim to ensure 15% 19% Deposits from financial institutions non-discrimination in its dealings with all individuals, Deposits from cumstomers Borrowing (LBI) companies and other customers. 29% 37% Equity Equity ratio Corporate Ombudsman and not been satisfactorily resolved by Women’s Empowerment 25% Customer Ombudsman the Bank, can refer their cases to the Principles Corporate or Customer Ombudsman Landsbankinn has appointed both a who are charged with reviewing all Landsbankinn has signed the 20% Corporate Ombudsman and a Custocases referred to them objectively. Women’s Empowerment Principles 19.5% mer Ombudsman. The new positions Equality means Business of the UN 15% are a part of Landsbankinn’s effort Global Compact and UN Women. to improve services to customers Ethical guidelines The bank’s goal is to work with UN 15% 10% 13% who feel they have not received fair Women in Iceland in implementing treatment in their dealings with the Landsbankinn has made public a the principles. Bank. Customers of Landsbankinn, Covenant of Ethical Conduct 5 who feel that their complaints have which is available online. 0 31.12.2008 31.12.2009 31.12.2010 6 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 7 Labour rights Landsbankinn adheres to princione Single Market governed by collective bargaining on wages Human Resource Policy by the Bank’s Head of Human Bank and its subsidiaries by yearples 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the UN Global the same basic rules in the area of and other terms of employment. and Gender Equality policy Resources. To ensure compliance end 2013. In so doing the Bank Compact. The Constitution of the free movement of goods, capital, This system has a long tradition with the Gender Equality policy, has adopted the goals set forth in Republic of Iceland requires that services and labour. Iceland is a in Iceland and provides the social the Equal Rights Committee the partnership agreement of the everyone shall be equal before member of various international partners with a legal framework Landsbankinn is committed to shall make periodic assessments Icelandic Association of Women the law and enjoy h uman rights organisations such as the Interwhich deals with certain ascompliance with laws and to genon factors relating to the policy. Entrepreneurs, the Confederation irrespective of sex, religion, opinnational Labour Organization pects of collective bargaining, der equality. The Bank’s Gender For example, a review of grants, of Icelandic Employers and the ion, national origin, race, colour, (ILO), the World Trade Organizathe right to strike and dispute Equality policy is integral to attendance to education offered Icelandic Chamber of Commerce property, birth or other status. tion (WTO) and the Organization resolution. In addition there are its human resource policy. The by the Bank, the gender composidated May 2009. Representafor Economic Co-operation and a number of employment laws in main goal is to recruit and retain tion of applicants etc. The Bank tives of all political parties in the Iceland is a member of the EuroDevelopment (OECD). areas such as equal rights of men excellent staff and support them shall seek to adopt the same salAlthingi are also signatories to pean Economic Area (EEA) which and women, pension schemes, pain their work. The key criteria is ary certification in co-operation the agreement. unites the EU Member States and The Icelandic labour law rental leave and health and safety that each employee is evaluated with the external auditors of the the three EFTA States (Iceland, enacted by the parliament in the workplace. individually and that everyone Bank. Landsbankinn has balanced the Liechtenstein and Norway) into Althingi supports a system of receive equal opportunities Landsbankinn has made a congender ratio among the execuregardless of gender, age, origin, certed effort to achieve gender tive team of Landsbankinn and sexual orientation, disability, reliequality among its leaders and the directors of its subsidiaries. gion or other cultural status. ensure, in accordance with a deciThe Bank’s Board of Directors Gender division and gender based earnings in management positions Female Male The Bank has an Equal Rights sion by the Board of Directors in is composed of two women and Committee, comprised of three February 2010, that both genders three men. Women’s earnings as a percentage members appointed by the have at least 40% representation Executives of men’s earnings. employee association and three in the management teams of the 50% 50% 100% Managers 77% 23% 98% Gender division in headquarters and branches Deputy managers Female Male 33% 67% 99% 450 Branch managers 400 72% 28% 105% 350 300 250 200 Gender ratio in newly-hired staff in 2010 Gender ratio of employees 150 100 50 63% 37% 61% 39% 0 Headquarters Branches 8 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 9 Age and Gender of Landsbankinn’s employees Environment Female Male 250 200 150 Landsbankinn is committed to support principles 7, 8 100 and 9 of the UN Global Compact to reduce the environ50 mental impact of its activities. 0 20-29 years 30-39 years 40-49 years 50-59 years 60+ years Landsbankinn will publish its air travel and domestic company suppliers and service providers. Environmental Policy before the car use since 2010. In monetary The Bank co-operates positively end of 2011. The Bank has taken terms, the offset amounted to with these parties and endeavours several steps to reduce transportISK 480,000 in 2010. The amount to ensure fairness, non-discrimrelated CO₂ emissions. was paid to Kolvidur, the Iceland ination and moderation in all The subsidiaries of Landsbankinn Bank has signed an agreement loans to women in business which Carbon Fund. The Fund’s goal is to dealings to the benefit of the Bank are Avant hf., Horn Investment with UN Women Iceland to work are jointly guaranteed by the reduce the level of carbon dioxide and the community as a whole. Company ehf., Hömlur ehf., with the Bank towards implefund and the Bank. Landsbankinn Reducing carbon in the atmosphere by sequestering Landsbankinn’s transactions with Landsvaki hf., Reginn ehf., Rose mentation of the principles in its guarantees half of loan amounts emissions carbon in vegetation and soil. In suppliers and service providers are Investment and SP Fjármögnun operations. and the fund the other half, carbon-offsetting travel on its beguided by environmental and CSR hf. Landsbankinn has had a In signing WEPs, Landsbankinn ensuring easier access to funding As a part of the Bank’s policy half, the Bank takes direct responpolicies. clear policy that gender equality commits itself to further gender to female business operators and for protecting the environment sibility for the emissions caused by should be achieved on the boards equality within the company and increasing the opportunity for Landsbankinn encourages emits operations. Furthermore, the Bank encourages of those companies. The Directors conduct its business in accordwomen to establish companies. ployees to utilise environmentally these parties to increase enviin these companies now number ance with the principles of corpoThe partnership agreement is friendly modes of transportation. In 2010, international flights on ronmental consciousness in their 27, 14 of which are female and 13 rate social responsibility. WEPs part of Landsbankinn’s efforts to Landsbankinn’s employees are behalf of Landsbankinn numbered operations. Landsbankinn seeks to male. Despite this achievement, is comprised of 7 principles that boost the economy and encourage offered the opportunity to sign a 259 and the Bank’s vehicles were purchase goods and services from there is still some work to be done are intended to guide empowerinnovation domestically. Transportation Agreement with driven 441,000 km. According to local providers whenever possible, to attain gender balance within ment of female employees and the Bank. There is a financial initithe Kolvidur’s CO₂ calculator, the having due regard for financial these companies. boost participation by women in ative to sign, i.e. the repayment of Bank’s cars emitted 0.27 kg/km advantageousness and business industry. Covenant of Ethical Principles bus fees. The purpose of the Transper vehicle last year and air travel concerns. Landsbankinn selects portation Agreement is to encourgenerated 121 tonnes of carbon the most financial advantageous UN Women’s Empowerment All of Landsbankinn’s employees age employees to use eco-friendly dioxide. suppliers and goods. Principles Landsbankinn supports have signed the Covenant of modes of transportation to travel innovative women Ethical Principles. to and from work, as well as when Landsbankinn has signed the travelling for work purposes. The Landsbankinn’s policy on Women’s Empowerment PrinciLandsbankinn has signed a partproject was launched alongside relations with suppliers and ples – Equality means Business nership agreement with Svanni the “Bicycle to Work” campaign. procurement (WEPs) of the UN Global Compact Women’s Loan Guarantee Fund All employees are encouraged to and UN Women. Furthermore the to the effect that the Bank issues familiarise themselves with the Landsbankinn adheres to a policy Transportation Agreement. on relations with suppliers and procurement based on strong Landsbankinn has offset its carbon CSR guidelines. Landsbankinn emissions caused by international conducts business with numerous 10 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 11 Anti-corruption Support for the community The Banks governance, transparency and anti-corrupLandsbankinn has a long history of support for the tion strategy are important instruments for Landscommunity but the main focus now is on the revitalizabankinn to achieve its goal to rebuild trust and impletion of the economy. Support for innovation is a part of ment CSR policy in its operations. Landsbankinn adheres that process. The Banks presence in the local community to the principle 10 of the UN Global Compact in fighting is of great importance as is working with local entreprecorruption and fraud, such as money laundering. neurs, local municipalities and local companies in order to support an enterprising culture and job creation all over Iceland. A Covenant of Ethical Conduct has been penned by social responsibility (ISO 26000), the principles of the Landsbankinn supports innovation and for Landsbankinn and its employees. All employUN’s Global Compact and rules issued by the Icelanees have signed the Covenant. The new Covenant dic Competition Authority. Innovation is seen as important to the joint future of grants. Landsbankinn’s aim in awarding innovaof Ethical Conduct functions as the cornerstone of the Bank and the community. Landsbankinn contribtion grants is to afford pioneers the opportunity to good business practice. It is one of the key elements Landsbankinn’s main objective in setting the policy utes to innovation by offering a new service to startdevelop business ideas and new products, as well as of Landsbankinn’s new strategy and a guideline for is to conform to good business practices and to up and innovation companies and with its innovation market old ideas to new regions. ethical behaviour in questionable circumstances. The continue to sell appropriated assets as promptly as Covenant will be reviewed regularly in accordance possible via an open and transparent sale process. with Landsbankinn’s strategy and future vision. In working in accordance with a clearly defined sale Landsbankinn’s Community Fund The code of ethical conduct set forth in the Covenant process, Landsbankinn aims to safeguard the interest is written from the point of view of general employof its customers and other relevant stakeholders. Direct financial support for the community is part tarian, cultural and sports ventures Landsbankinn ees and describes their work practices and behaviour of the Bank’s policy on corporate social responsibilis part of throughout Iceland. Among grants that are in order to reinforce the message that responsibility ity. Financial support in the form of grants from the awarded each year are innovation grants, community lies with every single individual. Measures to prevent money laundering Community Fund supplements the many humanigrants and environmental grants. Landsbankinn has furthermore made its corStrict rules prescribe measures to prevent money porate governance procedures available to the laundering and terrorist financing, both in Iceland Culture public online. and abroad. Act No. 64/2006, on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, was Landsbankinn has been an active participant of adopted in 2006. The purpose of the Act is to prevent the festival “Culture Night” in Reykjavik since its Landsbankinn’s policy for the sale and treatmoney laundering and terrorist financing by obliging inception and has both opened its doors to guests ment of appropriated assets parties who undertake activities that may be used to and been a sponsor of the festival. The Bank set up a launder money and finance terrorism to know their fund with Reykjavik City that annually issues modLandsbankinn has published a Policy for the sale customers and the business they conduct. est grants to artists and groups that organise events and treatment of appropriated assets. Implemen» Rules of Landsbankinn hf. on Due Diligence at the festival. Landsbankinn has also supported tation of the policy is part of Landsbankinn’s efforts on Customers (KYC) many other local festivals around the country to integrate corporate social responsibility in the » Rules of Landsbankinn hf. on Actions to through its branch network. Bank’s operations. In formulating the policy, LandsCombat Money Laundering and Terrorist bankinn takes into consideration the International Financing Organization for Standardization’s guidelines for „Culture Night“ in the banks main branch. 12 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 13 New Colours for the Community New Colours for the Community is the title of a new approach to support sports teams. The goal is to connect the Bank’s support for sports to support for humanitarian ventures. The philosophy of the policy is innovative: Landsbankinn waives the right to any markings or labels on the jerseys of the sports teams Humanitarian labels on sports team jerseys. Financial literacy Growth and Progress Landsbankinn regards financial literacy a crucial teens intended as financial and social education for 15 part of personal prosperity. to 16 year olds. With “Reality”, students gain insight Regular courses and presentations on financial matinto the financial decisions that ordinary citizens 2012: Development ters are held throughout Iceland for customers with need to take in their lives. In 2005 the game won the the aim of enhancing financial literacy. The Bank award of the Nordic Council of Ministers as the best maintains a financial blog where employees share material for consumer affairs. Restoration of industry and resolution of household indebtedness well advanced their knowledge and advice on financial matters. The Strong team that listens, learns and serves and enjoys the trust of customers Bank has an online interactive simulation game for Successful settlement with Old Landsbanki Íslands hf. 2013: Leadership 2015: Benchmark Customers’ first choice Flagship of the Icelandic corporate sector Premier bank in Iceland with an Comparable with the most respected banks increasing market share in the Nordic countries Cost-efficiency and profitability restored Robust corporate culture Access to credit markets regained Constant streamlining of operations Broad shareholder base Winners of „Reality“, the Banks online financial game. 14 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn 2011 15 Landsbankinn landsbankinn.is/english Austurstræti 11 155 Reykjavík
