2010 Corporate Responsibility Report At Intel, we never stop looking for bold ideas in technology, business, manufacturing, and corporate responsibility. Amazing things happen with Intel Inside.® In this report, we discuss our corporate responsibility performance during 2010, including our strategic approach to key environmental, social, and governance indicators. We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, and we self-declare the report at the GRI Application Level A. On the cover: The “visibly smart” 2nd generation “Corporate social responsibility is no longer optional for business leaders. I am very proud of Intel’s Intel® Core™ processor family features built-in long history of transparency and leadership in this area, and for the actions taken by employees graphics that enable a richer, higher in 2010 to push to higher levels of performance; we continue to extend our impact worldwide, performance computing with our education programs and driving energy efficiency in our products.” experience while efficiently managing Jane E. Shaw, Chairman of the Board power use. L e t t e r f r o m o u r C EO Throughout Intel’s history, we have pushed the boundaries of what’s possible to improve how people work, live, and play. Our vision for the next decade is even more ambitious: to create and extend computing technology to connect and enrich the lives of every person on earth. A key determinant of our success will be our ability to innovate and advance our leadership in corporate responsibility. At Intel, we don’t separate corporate responsibility from our business. One of the four $1 billion to improve education globally, partnering with educators, governments, and other objectives in our global strategy is, “Care for our people and our planet, and inspire the next companies to develop a range of transformative programs and technology solutions. In 2010, generation.” Every person at Intel has a role in achieving this objective, whether they design in conjunction with U.S. President Barack Obama’s “Educate to Innovate” campaign, Intel our products, work in our factories, or interface directly with our customers or suppliers. Our announced a $200 million commitment to advance math and science education in the U.S. employees’ ongoing focus and achievements create value for Intel and for society. In February 2011, I was honored to host President Obama on a visit to our Oregon site, where we discussed our shared commitment to improving education, and its critical importance to Care for our people. We work to cultivate a safe, respectful, and ethical work environment fueling innovation and sustainable economic development. that enables employees to thrive both on the job and in their communities. We invest heavily in mentoring, training, and leadership development programs, including targeted initiatives Looking ahead, we will continue to address challenges in reducing water use and chemical aimed at increasing the number of women and under-represented minorities in our managewaste in our operations as we grow, and to drive leadership in supply chain responsibility. rial ranks. By investing in our employees, we empower them to build stronger communities; in As part of our effort to operate with the gentlest environmental footprint possible, we will 2010, close to half of Intel’s workforce donated more than 1 million hours of service in schools explore new ways that we can apply our technology—along with the considerable energy and nonprofit organizations globally. and talents of our employees—to improve economic and environmental sustainability, and to transform education and technology access around the world. Care for the planet. Development of energy-efficient computing technologies is a key part of our efforts to help our customers conserve energy and address the issue of climate While the world faces huge social and environmental challenges, I am proud to be part of a change. Our new Intel® Xeon® processor 5600 series for servers, for example, can increase company that can—and is—making a difference. I encourage you to read this report and give performance by up to 40% while also saving power compared to the previous-generation us your feedback and ideas. Working together, we can make our world a better place for Intel® Xeon® processor 5500 series. For the past three years, Intel has been the largest voleveryone. untary purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In 2010, we also opened our first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-certified building, a design center in Israel. Inspire the next generation. We believe that a solid math and science foundation coupled Paul S. Otellini with key skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, and collaboration are the foundation President and Chief Executive Officer for innovation. Over the past decade, Intel and the Intel Foundation have invested more than C o n t e n t s Overview E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 79 Supply Chain About This Document 5 Corporate Profile 32 Environment 80 Our Approach to Supply Chain Look for these icons throughout this document Responsibility 33 Our Approach to to learn more. 9 Strategy and Management 84 2010 Assessment and Audit Environmental Sustainability Approach Summary Click on image to watch video. 36 Climate Change and Energy 10 An Integrated, Strategic Approach Efficiency 86 Conflict-Free Minerals ? Click on icon for more information. 43 Water Conservation 87 Supplier Diversity 11 Management and The information contained here is 48 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 88 Supplier Environmental Impact interactive. Use your mouse to roll over Decision-Making 91 Performance Summary & Goals select content to get more details. 12 Stakeholder Engagement 50 Reducing Air Emissions 51 Energy-Efficient Performance Recommended Software 16 Sustainability Trends: Key 92 Contributions to Society Challenges and Opportunities and Product Ecology • Adobe Acrobat,* Version 7.0 and above. 93 Our Approach 53 Applying Technology to • QuickTime* 17 Performance Summary 95 Education Transformation Environmental Challenges 18 Corporate Responsibility 100 Community Engagement and Note: References to “Intel” throughout this Goal Summary 55 Performance Summary & Goals document pertain to Intel Corporation. Intel Employee Volunteerism Foundation is a separate entity. 19 Awards and Recognitions S o cial Fac t o r s 104 Entrepreneurship and 58 Workplace Social Innovation Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 59 Our Approach to Empowering 107 Empowering Girls and Women 20 Financial Performance Employees 109 Performance Summary & Goals and Economic Impact 63 Career Growth and Development A pp e n d i x 21 2010 Financial Performance 65 Communication and Recognition 111 About This Report/Approach 23 Economic Impact 66 Workforce Diversity and Inclusion to Assurance 70 Compensation, Benefits, 112 GRI Content Index 25 Governance, Ethics, and Work/Life Effectiveness and Public Policy 119 UN Global Compact— 74 Health and Safety, Communication on Progress 26 Governance and Ethics and Employee Wellness 29 Public Policy and Advocacy 78 Performance Summary & Goals 31 Political Accountability O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance Corporate Profile and Economic Impact Intel is committed to pushing the boundaries of 25 Governance, Ethics, technology to make the lives of people everywhere more and Public Policy exciting, fulfilling, and manageable. We enable innovation E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s across a spectrum of computing devices by building 32 Environment successive generations of microprocessors that can cost less to manufacture, have improved performance and S o cial Fac t o r s energy efficiency, and offer more capabilities. 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Mouse over numbers to see more images. 1 2 3 Key Corporate links: Intel 2010 Annual Report and 90 61 10 Form 10-K ~ % % Quintillion Intel Investor Relations Intel Sponsors of Tomorrow.™ Intel© Products Percentage of 2010 Percentage of wafer Number of transistors Access the Report Builder revenue derived from manufacturing (including that Intel Technology Leadership 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report products that did not exist microprocessors and chipsets) shipped in 2010 Innovation at Intel www.intel.com/go/responsibility at beginning of year that took place at our U.S. sites as of year-end 2010 5 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel is the world’s largest semiconductor chip maker, New categories of compute devices such as smartphones, smart TVs, 9 Strategy and Management based on revenue. We develop advanced integrated digital tablets, in-vehicle systems, and more are connecting to the Internet and Approach becoming more intelligent—and Intel is at the center of this trend. We technology, primarily integrated circuits, for industries such Governance and shipped our 80 millionth Intel® Atom™ processor into the netbook market Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s as computing and communications. Our goal is to be the segment in 2010, and our products are being designed into more than 35 20 Financial Performance preeminent computing solutions company that powers the tablets, many of which are expected to launch in 2011. In 2010, we introand Economic Impact worldwide digital economy. duced nine products for the smart TV market segment, 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy for televisions, Blu-Ray* players, and set-top boxes. For We are transforming from a company with a primary focus on the design more information, visit our Products web site or our 2010 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and manufacture of semiconductor chips for PCs and servers to a comput32 Environment Annual Report and Form 10-K. ing company that delivers complete solutions in the form of hardware and S o cial Fac t o r s software platforms and supporting services. We serve customers in more Customers 58 Workplace than 120 countries, and at fiscal year-end 2010 we had 82,500 employees We sell our products primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) 79 Supply Chain in more than 50 countries. To learn more about Intel’s history of innovation, and original design manufacturers (ODMs). We also sell our products to 92 Contributions to Society visit our Corporate Timeline web site. other manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial and A pp e n d i x Products communications equipment. Our customers include those who buy PC 111 About This Report/Approach Our products include microprocessors, chipsets, motherboards, and wirecomponents and our other products through distributor, reseller, retail, and to Assurance less and wired connectivity products, as well as platforms that incorporate OEM channels throughout the world. In 2010, Hewlett-Packard Company 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— software to enable and advance these components. We strive to optimize accounted for 21% of our net revenue and Dell Inc. accounted for 17% Communication on Progress the overall performance of our products by improving energy efficiency, of our net revenue (these percentages were unchanged from 2009). No seamless connectivity to the Internet, and security features. other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. In 2010, 80% of our revenue came from outside the Americas. Most of our revenue is from the sale of microprocessors and chipsets, and the majority of our microprocessors are manufactured using our Operating Segments 32-nanometer (nm) second-generation Hi-k metal gate silicon process Intel has multiple operating segments spanning the continuum of com­ technology. In December 2010, we introduced the 2nd generation Intel® puting products and services. In the first quarter of 2011, we completed Core™ processor family (formerly code-named Sandy Bridge), a new microthe acquisition of McAfee Inc. to accelerate and enhance our hardware architecture based on our 32nm process technology that 1 and software security solutions, improving the overall security of our represents the largest increase in computing performance platforms; and the Wireless Solutions business of Infineon Technologies and capabilities over any previous generation in our hisAG to expand our capabilities in the area of connectivity. tory. Members of this family incorporate over 1.1 billion transistors. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility Microarchitecture refers to the layout, density, and logical design of a microprocessor. 1 6 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile In 2010, 69% of Intel’s revenue was attributable to the PC Client Group, Intel Operating Segments as of Year-end 2010 9 Strategy and Management 20% to the Data Center Group, 7% to the Other Intel Architecture Group, Approach Operating Segment Description 1% to the Software and Services Group, and 4% to All Other. Governance and PC Client Group Delivering microprocessors and related chipsets Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Subsequent to year-end 2010, we divested our Digital Health Group by and motherboards designed for the notebook and desktop (including high-end enthusiast PCs) market 20 Financial Performance forming an equally owned joint venture that will focus on independent segments; and wireless connectivity products. and Economic Impact living and delivery of health-related services via telecommunications. The Data Center Group Delivering microprocessors and related chipsets 25 Governance, Ethics, new company, Intel-GE Care Innovations, LLC, was formed by combining and motherboards designed for the server, workand Public Policy station, and storage computing market segments; assets of the General Electric Company’s GE Healthcare Home Health and wired network connectivity products. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s division and Intel’s Digital Health Group. Other Intel Architecture Group 32 Environment Intel Mobile Delivering mobile phone components such as S o cial Fac t o r s Global Operations Communications baseband processors, radio frequency transceiv58 Workplace As of the end of fiscal 2010, 61% of our wafer fabrication, including microers, and power management chips. 79 Supply Chain processors and chipsets, was conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Embedded and ComDelivering microprocessors and related chipsets munications Group for embedded applications. 92 Contributions to Society Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and Massachusetts. The remaining 39% of Netbook and Tablet Delivering microprocessors and related chipsets A pp e n d i x our wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at our facilities in Group for the netbook and tablet market segments. 111 About This Report/Approach Israel, Ireland, and China. Our facility in Dalian, China began wafer manufacDigital Home Group Delivering Intel architecture-based products for to Assurance turing in the fourth quarter of 2010. next-generation consumer electronics devices. 112 GRI Content Index Ultra-Mobility Group Delivering low-power Intel architecture-based Following the manufacturing process, the majority of products for the next-generation handheld 119 UN Global Compact— market segment. Communication on Progress our components are assembled and tested at facilities in Malaysia, China, Costa Rica, and Vietnam. Our Vietnam Software and Services Group facility began production in the first half of 2010. To McAfee Wholly owned subsidiary delivering software products for endpoint, system, consumer, and augment capacity, we use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain network security; and risk and compliance. products, primarily chipsets and networking and communications products. Wind River Wholly owned subsidiary delivering device softIn addition, we have sales and marketing offices worldwide. Software Group ware optimization products to the embedded and handheld market segments, serving a variety of hardware architectures. As of the end of fiscal 2010, the majority of our microprocessors were Software and Delivering software products and services that manufactured on 300mm wafers using our 32nm process technology. In Services Group promote Intel architecture as the platform of the second half of 2011, we expect to begin manufacturing microproceschoice for software development. sors using our 22nm process technology. The benefits of moving to each All Other succeeding generation of process technology can include using less space Non-Volatile Memory Delivering advanced NAND flash memory prodSolutions Group ucts for use in a variety of devices. per transistor, reducing heat output from each transistor, and/or increasing Corporate Revenue, expenses, and charges such as: a porthe number of integrated features on each chip. These advancements can tion of profit-dependent compensation and other Access the Report Builder result in microprocessors that are higher performing, consume less power, expenses not allocated to the operating groups; and/or cost less to manufacture. For more information about our products, divested businesses and the results of seed busi2010 Corporate Responsibility Report nesses that support our initiatives; and acquisicustomers, and operations, see the Intel 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. tion-related costs, including amortization and any www.intel.com/go/responsibility impairment of acquisition-related intangibles and goodwill. 7 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel Worldwide Operations 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance Ireland and Economic Impact Chengdu Oregon Massachusetts 25 Governance, Ethics, Dalian Arizona and Public Policy New Mexico E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Vietnam 32 Environment Costa Rica Penang, Kulim S o cial Fac t o r s Israel 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x Wafer Fab Assembly/Test 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance This map shows the location of Intel’s wafer fabrication facilities (fabs) and assembly and test facilities around the world. 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Countries with More Than 50 Employees1 Communication on Progress Location Activities Employees Location Activities Employees Argentina SD, SM 179 South Korea SD, SM 123 Belgium OS, SM 60 Malaysia A, L, SM, SY 9,109 Brazil OS, SM 147 Mexico C, OS, R, SM 541 Canada R, SD, SM 108 Netherlands L 178 China A, C, F , OS, R, SD, SM 2 7,302 Poland OS, R, SM 527 Costa Rica A, OS 2,701 Russia OS, R, SD, SM 923 France C, OS, SM 226 Singapore OS, SM 150 Germany C, R, SD, SM 422 Spain R, SM 76 Hong Kong OS, SM 175 Sweden R, SM 58 India OS, R, SD, SM 2,614 Taiwan OS, R, SM 553 Ireland F, L, OS, R, SD, SM 2,531 United Kingdom C, OS, SM 738 Israel C, F, OS, R, SD, SM 5,696 United States A, C, F, L, OS, R, SD, SM 43,759 Access the Report Builder Japan OS, R, SD, SM 525 Vietnam A2 500 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report A Assembly and Test C Communications F Fabrication L Logistics OS Other Support R Research and Development SD Software Design SM Sales and Marketing SY Systems Manufacturing www.intel.com/go/responsibility 1 As of December 31, 2010. 2 Our wafer fabrication facility in Dalian, China and our assembly and test facility in Vietnam both began operations in 2010. 8 Intel is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and incorporated in the state of Delaware. We have over 300 facilities located in more than 50 countries. Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach An Integrated, Strategic Approach Management and Decision-Making Stakeholder Engagement Strategy and Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges and Opportunities Management Performance Summary Approach Corporate Responsibility Goal Summary At Intel, corporate responsibility is Awards and Recognitions not separate from our business; it is a core part of our global strategy Governance and and helps us create long-term Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 1 2 3 business value. Our approach to 20 Financial Performance corporate responsibility is rooted Mouse over and Economic Impact numbers to see in our unwavering commitment to more images. 25 Governance, Ethics, ethics, transparency, collaboration, and Public Policy and innovation. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Key Corporate 112 GRI Content Index Responsibility Links 119 UN Global Compact— 10 80 3 Corporate Responsibility at Intel Communication on Progress > Intel Values Awards and Recognitions UN Global Compact Number of corporate Awards and recognitions Number of years that we Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder responsibility reports received for our have linked a portion of every 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Intel has published corporate responsibility employee’s compensation to www.intel.com/go/responsibility performance in 2010 environmental metrics 9 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile An Integrated, Strategic Approach Intel’s Vision and Global Strategy 9 Strategy and Management Approach By incorporating corporate responsibility into our strategy Our vision is to create and extend computing technology to connect and enrich the lives of every person on earth, by focusing on the following key > An Integrated, Strategic and objectives, we manage our business more effectively strategic objectives: Approach Management and and identify ways to apply our technology and expertise • Grow the PC and data center business with new users and uses. Decision-Making to benefit the environment and society and create shared Extend Intel’s PC platform leadership and develop exciting innovations to Stakeholder Engagement deliver new user experiences; and lead the transformation to open data value. Our focus on responsible business practices helps us centers and cloud computing. Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges and Opportunities mitigate risks, reduce costs, protect brand value, and iden• Extend Intel solutions into adjacent markets. Transform the embedPerformance Summary tify new market opportunities. ded industry with Intel® architecture (IA) in new market segments; and Corporate Responsibility launch and ramp IA solutions in smartphones, tablets, smart TVs, and Goal Summary For decades, the backbone of our corporate culture has been our Intel vehicles. Awards and Recognitions Values: Customer Orientation, Discipline, Quality, Risk Taking, Great Place to • Create a continuum of personal computing. Expand IA differentiation Work, and Results Orientation. These values define who we are and how with new capabilities across devices; excite leading software developers Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s we act as employees and as a company. They move us forward toward to create the best user experiences and applications on IA; and deliver common goals—in both business and corporate responsibility. new usage models with multi-communications connectivity. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact • Care for our people and the planet, and inspire the next generation. We are committed to operating with transparency, as it holds us account25 Governance, Ethics, Cultivate a workplace where employees can thrive both on the job and in and Public Policy able and encourages two-way dialogue with our employees and other their communities; develop technology solutions to address major global stakeholders. As highlighted throughout this report, we focus on building problems while reducing our environmental impact; and accelerate educaE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s tion transformation worldwide through technology, program, and policy 32 Environment relationships and partnerships with external organizations to help improve leadership. our performance and increase the impact of our programs and initiatives. S o cial Fac t o r s Since 2008, to drive clarity and focus on our global strategy, Intel leaders created 58 Workplace a one-page corporate strategy document. The strategy was updated in 2010, and Our Global Strategy corporate responsibility is again a key component of our approach. 79 Supply Chain Our vision is to create and extend computing technology to connect 92 Contributions to Society Frameworks such as the United Nations Millennium Development Goals and enrich the lives of every person on earth. The number and variety of A pp e n d i x (MDGs) help inform our corporate responsibility strategy and approach. devices connected to the Internet are growing, and computing is becoming 111 About This Report/Approach While we keep all of the MDGs in mind, we focus on two areas where we an increasingly personal experience. End users value consistency across to Assurance devices that connect seamlessly and effortlessly to the Internet and to believe Intel is especially well suited to play a transformative role: educa112 GRI Content Index each other. We will help to enable this experience by innovating around tion quality and access (especially for girls and women) and environmen119 UN Global Compact— three pillars of computing: energy-efficient performance, connectivity, and tal sustainability. We believe that our technology can play a significant Communication on Progress security. To meet these objectives, we are using our core role in improving education, and that we can combine information and assets: our silicon and process technology, our architeccommunications technology (ICT) with our experience in environmental ture and platforms, our global presence, our strong relamanagement to help improve energy efficiency and address critical chalAccess the Report Builder tionships across the industry, and our brand recognition. lenges such as climate change. Other frameworks also inform our thinking We rolled out the 2010 update of our vision and strategy for our employon corporate responsibility. Intel is a member of the United Nations Global 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility ees through a campaign that included videos from our senior leaders, trainCompact, and our Human Rights Principles reference external human rights ing materials, and intranet communications. and International Labour Organization standards. 10 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Management and Decision-Making We have long believed that a strategic and integrated approach to cor9 Strategy and Management porate responsibility and sustainability results in clear benefits for both Approach At Intel, we never view corporate responsibility and susour company and our stakeholders. In recent years, investors have been An Integrated, Strategic tainability as “finished”; we maintain a focus on continuous increasingly interested in the connection between corporate responsibility Approach > Management and improvement, taking steps each year to further integrate performance and the creation of business value. Decision-Making these concepts into our decision-making, corporate culture, We have engaged in a number of planning sessions and have also disStakeholder Engagement and compensation practices. cussed this topic externally with investors and research organizations. Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges and Opportunities Working with a team from our corporate finance organization, we develIntel’s Board of Directors—specifically the Board’s Corporate Governance Performance Summary oped a framework and supporting finance tools to better assess how corand Nominating Committee—provides oversight for corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility porate responsibility factors create business value and to further integrate and sustainability issues at Intel. Our global Corporate Responsibility Office Goal Summary these factors into our decision-making. Our focus on designing products acts as an internal business advisor to a number of groups and cross-funcAwards and Recognitions with improved energy-efficient performance helps us meet new customer tional Management Review Committees (MRCs), which manage corporate Governance and needs and indentify market expansion opportunities; our investments Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s responsibility and sustainability activities across the organization. in energy efficiency in our operations help us reduce our emissions and 20 Financial Performance Corporate Responsibility Management Structure energy costs; and our training, diversity, and benefits programs enable us and Economic Impact CEO and The Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and to attract and retain a talented workforce. 25 Governance, Ethics, Board-Level Nominating Committee receives briefings from our and Public Policy Oversight Corporate Responsibility Office twice a year, in addiIntegrated Value Framework E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s tion to updates on specific corporate responsibility issues as needed. Our CEO receives regular corporate 32 Environment License to Operate & Governance responsibility updates from executive management. Risk • Regulatory risk (i.e., environmental) S o cial Fac t o r s Management MRCs bring together senior executives from across Management • Community engagement 58 Workplace Review the company to review performance and set strat• Supply chain responsibility 79 Supply Chain Committees egy in specific areas. For example, our Corporate Cost Savings & Continuous Improvements (MRCs) Responsibility MRC reviews emerging issues across a • Operational efﬁciency 92 Contributions to Society Operations range of focus areas, and our Eco-MRC reviews Intel’s • Management quality A pp e n d i x • Employee engagement approach to environmental management. 111 About This Report/Approach Reputation & Goodwill Business Multiple business groups have dedicated teams that • Differentiation to Assurance Group and address corporate responsibility issues within their Brand • Trusted partner 112 GRI Content Index Cross-Functional organizations, helping to develop plans and set goals • Goodwill Teams in support of Intel’s overall strategy and objectives. 119 UN Global Compact— Growth & Innovation Those groups include, but are not limited to, Environ• Market expansion Communication on Progress Revenue mental Health and Safety, Eco-Technology Program • Product innovation Office, Ethics and Compliance Program Office, Corpo• New customer needs rate Affairs, Global Public Policy, Human Resources, Corporate Diversity, Supply Chain, and Information Integrating corporate responsibility and sustainability into our business and decisionTechnology. In addition, cross-functional teams Access the Report Builder making creates value for Intel in four main ways, as it helps us: reduce risk and protect coordinate efforts that span business groups. For our license to operate; improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations; 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report example, our Eco-Stakeholder Council brings together protect and build brand value; and drive revenue growth through innovation and www.intel.com/go/responsibility representatives from across Intel to develop clear and identification of new market opportunities. We will continue to refine this framework, consistent strategies for improving our environmental which was based on a number of external frameworks, including one from McKinsey performance and engaging employees. and Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship. 11 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Stakeholder Engagement We also held a stakeholder panel to gain input for the development of our 9 Strategy and Management 2020 environmental goals. This session, convened by Business for Social Approach We derive significant value from our diverse stakeholders Responsibility, included investors, peer companies, and representatives An Integrated, Strategic and maintain formal management systems to engage with, from non-governmental organizations. Priority issues identified in this Approach Management and listen to, and learn from them. We take their feedback serisession included: water, climate change and energy conservation, transparDecision-Making ously, and, when appropriate and relevant to our business, ency and reporting, supply chain responsibility, and using Intel technology > Stakeholder Engagement incorporate it into our thinking and planning. to address environmental challenges. Feedback from these meetings has Sustainability Trends: Key informed improvements in our reporting and goal-planning processes. Challenges and Opportunities We prioritize our stakeholders and their concerns by looking at both the Performance Summary We work with community stakeholders to consider the impact of our operrelevance of the stakeholder’s relationship to our business and the imporCorporate Responsibility ations at all phases: entering, operating, and exiting. When entering a comtance of the issue being raised. We evaluate our community programs Goal Summary munity, we work with third parties to conduct needs assessment studies based on local input, and we work to adapt our reporting methodology and Awards and Recognitions to prioritize our community engagement activities. We also begin working the content of this report to meet the needs of our stakeholders. Governance and with community organizations to develop programs and initiatives prior to Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s We have developed a number of tools and processes that provide valuable, commencing operations. When making the difficult decision to close a facil20 Financial Performance ongoing feedback on our performance and strategy. In addition to faceity, we try to minimize the impacts on employees and the local community and Economic Impact to-face meetings, we generate discussion through web tools and social by collaborating with local officials and providing severance packages and 25 Governance, Ethics, media. We maintain an e-mail account on our Corporate Responsibility web job search support for employees. and Public Policy site that enables stakeholders to share their issues, concerns, and comE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s During our operating phase, we work to build relationships with local stakements directly with members of our corporate responsibility team. Through 32 Environment holders through informal meetings, community advisory panels (CAPs), this account, we receive and respond to hundreds of messages each year S o cial Fac t o r s working groups, and community perception surveys (usually completed by on a wide variety of topics. 58 Workplace third parties). CAP members provide constructive input on a broad range 79 Supply Chain In addition, we have an external CSR@Intel blog, where members of our of issues, such as education, environmental impact, health and safety, and 92 Contributions to Society corporate responsibility team and leaders across Intel discuss their views emergency response and management. and opinions, and receive and respond to comments made by other blog A pp e n d i x For example, the Intel New Mexico Community Environmental Working participants. In 2010, we continued to expand our use of other social 111 About This Report/Approach Group (CEWG) meets monthly to discuss concerns about Intel’s environto Assurance media channels, such as Twitter, to reach new audiences with information mental impact. The CEWG is chaired by John Bartlit, chairman of New 112 GRI Content Index on our corporate responsibility performance. Mexico Citizens for Clean Air and Water, and is facilitated by a third party. 119 UN Global Compact— For more than 10 years, we have completed an annual “SRI road trip” CEWG meeting minutes and agendas for the last six years are posted on Communication on Progress to meet with leading environmental, social, and governance research the CEWG web site. In 2010, we also conducted third-party-administered firms and socially responsible investors (SRIs) to review our Corporate community focus groups and surveys to understand the concerns and Responsibility Reports, gain a better understanding of emerging issues, priorities of the local community. In early 2011, we launched a pilot in New Access the Report Builder help set priorities, and gather feedback on our performance. In 2010, we Mexico for a new transparency web site, “Explore Intel,” which provides met with representatives of more than 20 firms in three cities. Key discusreal-time disclosure, monitoring, and videos for the local community. The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report sion topics included: water conservation, political accountability, conflict web site also features a blog and e-mail account where community memwww.intel.com/go/responsibility minerals and supply chain responsibility, and reporting best practices. bers can engage with our environmental managers. 12 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Stakeholder Engagement Activities (continued) 9 Strategy and Management Approach Stakeholders Tools and Processes Benefits and Results An Integrated, Strategic Employees Approach Management and Open-door policy designed to give employees access to management at all levels. Multiple processes support direct communication Decision-Making up and down the organization. OHS results allow us Employee surveys, including our Organizational Health Survey (OHS). to track our performance in key areas and identify > Stakeholder Engagement Circuit News, our daily intranet “newspaper,” which includes direct feedback tools. gaps on a regular cadence. For more detail, see the Sustainability Trends: Key Workplace section of this report. Challenges and Opportunities Quarterly Business Update Meetings for all employees, and Executive Open Performance Summary Forums and webcasts that include Q&A sessions. Corporate Responsibility Goal Summary Customers Awards and Recognitions Customer Excellence Program (CEP), a structured program that uses a web-based Objective customer feedback enables us to survey administered by a third-party market research firm to obtain and prioritize identify areas for improvement. In 2010, employees Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s customer feedback on the quality of Intel’s products and services. A portion of Intel received two additional days of pay based employees’ annual variable compensation is tied to CEP results. on the high customer satisfaction levels under 20 Financial Performance the CEP. For more information, refer to the and Economic Impact Consumer Support web site. Intel Quality System Handbook. 25 Governance, Ethics, External blogs, such as Technology@Intel, with discussions of interest to customers. and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Suppliers 32 Environment Intel’s Supplier Site. Setting consistent expectations for our suppliers reduces risk and improves efficiency across our S o cial Fac t o r s Intel Supplier Day conference, which brings together hundreds of our top suppliers supply chain. In this year’s report, based on stake58 Workplace for training. holder feedback and benchmarking research, we 79 Supply Chain Participation in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). have provided additional detail in the Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society section. A pp e n d i x Communities 111 About This Report/Approach Community advisory panels and working groups, two-way forums where Maintaining an open dialogue with our comto Assurance community members and Intel representatives collaborate to address community munities has allowed us to build positive and 112 GRI Content Index issues and concerns. Community perception surveys and needs assessments constructive relationships at the local level. For 119 UN Global Compact— conducted as needed. more detail on our community engagement activiCommunication on Progress ties, see the Contributions to Society section of Intel Community web site, which includes feedback mechanisms. this report. Placement of Intel employees on local nonprofit boards and commissions. Extensive working relationships with educators and educational institutions worldwide, and third-party evaluations of our education programs. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report (continues on next page) www.intel.com/go/responsibility 13 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Stakeholder Engagement Activities (continued) 9 Strategy and Management Approach Stakeholders Tools and Processes Benefits and Results An Integrated, Strategic Investors Approach Management and Regular face-to-face meetings with social responsibility-oriented fund Feedback and benchmark data drive improved Decision-Making managers and analysts. performance and help us identify emerging issues and concerns. In response to feedback from these > Stakeholder Engagement Timely interaction with investors and research firms through e-mail exchanges, groups in 2010, we adopted a new Intel Water Sustainability Trends: Key conference calls, and detailed investor surveys. Policy. We amended the charter of the Board’s Challenges and Opportunities Corporate Governance and Nominating CommitOnline stockholder forum, launched in 2009, featuring investor surveys on Performance Summary tee (which already included reference to corporate a range of issues, and information on corporate responsibility. Corporate Responsibility responsibility) to include language clarifying that Goal Summary Intel Corporate Responsibility e-mail account, Intel Investor Relations e-mail the committee is responsible for reviewing sustainAwards and Recognitions account, and CSR@Intel blog. ability issues. Governance and Governments and Policy Makers Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Active engagement in policy and legislative efforts worldwide through individual Our efforts in policy development foster credible, 20 Financial Performance discussions and exchanges with joint industry and government committees. trustworthy relationships; strengthen regard for and Economic Impact Intel as a valued corporate citizen; and create a 25 Governance, Ethics, Intel Global Public Policy and Intel Corporate Affairs working with policy makers. supportive public policy environment. For more and Public Policy information, see “Public Policy and Advocacy” in Policy@Intel web site and blog. this report. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) S o cial Fac t o r s Issues meetings, formal dialogues and projects, and multi-sector efforts. Intel’s interactions with NGOs promote mutual 58 Workplace understanding on environmental issues, regional education priorities, technology options and 79 Supply Chain solutions for developing countries, supply chain 92 Contributions to Society management issues, and other topics. Details on A pp e n d i x our collaborations with NGOs in our main corporate responsibility focus areas are covered in other 111 About This Report/Approach sections of this report. to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 14 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis 9 Strategy and Management Approach An Integrated, Strategic Identify Prioritize Approach Identify issues from a wide range of Use a consistent set of ﬁlters to determine the signiﬁcance of each issue and develop a list of the stakeholders and sources. most material issues. Management and Decision-Making Primary Sources Issues Key Criteria Materiality Matrix > Stakeholder Engagement • Employee blogs and • Climate change • Business continuity High Reducing Financial/ forums • Water conservation • Impact to brand/ Energy Economic Sustainability Trends: Key • Customer concerns reputation Use Health • Air emissions/quality Challenges and Opportunities • Corporate Responsi• Applicability to • Education Performance Summary bility web site e-mails multiple regions • Fair compensation Water Use Energy• Results of community • Alignment with Efﬁcient Corporate Responsibility advisory panels • Stock price Intel’s business Products performance Goal Summary and community strategies Importance to Multiple Stakeholders perception surveys • HIV/AIDS Awards and Recognitions • Impact on the Supporting • Meetings/feedback • Antitrust community Education and Recycling and sessions with • Health concerns Technology Governance and • Ability to attract E-waste mainstream and related to wireless and retain talent Access Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s socially responsible Medium technology investors • Regulatory impacts 20 Financial Performance • Energy Human • Proxy resolution and Economic Impact negotiations • Nanomaterials Rights in This materiality Supply Chain Worker Safety 25 Governance, Ethics, • Labor unions HIV/AIDS • Ethics and Compliance matrix illustrates and Public Policy Oversight Committee • Materials restrictions the topics that we Diversity • Strategic chemical • Employee health believe are of Political E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s review process greatest interest Contributions • Privacy to our stakeholders, • Community relations • Political contributions 32 Environment who want to make Supporting • Corporate responsi• Taxes/incentives informed decisions Local S o cial Fac t o r s bility/sustainability about Intel’s Communities • Diversity Taxes conferences environmental, 58 Workplace • Market research on • E-waste social, and economic Low Medium High reputation issues • EHS/human rights performance. 79 Supply Chain in the supply chain Impact on Intel’s Business • Meetings with 92 Contributions to Society government ofﬁcials • Extractives sourcing Environment Social Economic concerns • Review of external A pp e n d i x standards • Human right to water 111 About This Report/Approach • Participation in to Assurance industry working Review groups 112 GRI Content Index Embed the process in internal decision-making and external review. 119 UN Global Compact— Internal Review External Review Decisions Communication on Progress • Board of Directors and Corporate • Outreach to socially responsible • Set new performance goals Responsibility Management investors • Initiate new projects or develop Review Committee (MRC) reviews • Corporate Responsibility Report new policy • Corporate strategic discussions review • Communicate with stakeholders • Business group MRC/planning • SustainAbility participation and • Include in Corporate Responsibility benchmarking Report, site/local reports, Access the Report Builder Corporate Responsibility web site 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility We have used the Sustainability Materiality Framework developed by the research firm AccountAbility to define corporate responsibility materiality, both for this report and for our strategy development. (Note that “materiality” in this context does not refer to financial materiality.) 15 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges Recycling and Electronic Waste 9 Strategy and Management In 2010, we continued to recycle a significant percentage (over 75%) of the Approach and Opportunities solid and chemical waste generated in our operations. However, in the past An Integrated, Strategic Approach Climate change, water, education, labor standards, and supthree years, our chemical waste on a per chip basis has increased, despite Management and ply chain responsibility are among the major sustainability our reduction and recycling efforts. In recent years, companies have also Decision-Making been increasing their efforts to manage electronic waste (e-waste). Intel’s areas that present challenges and opportunities for Intel. Stakeholder Engagement products are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and > Sustainability Trends: Key other companies that produce finished products. While our components Challenges and Opportunities Climate Change and Energy Efficiency are not typically subject to recycling or e-waste laws, we work with OEMs, Performance Summary As impact to climate and energy have become major focus areas for retailers, and others to identify shared solutions for end-of-life product Corporate Responsibility businesses and governments, we have taken steps to reduce absolute Goal Summary management and address this challenge. emissions from our operations—even as we grow—and to address the Awards and Recognitions climate change impact of our products. We continue to work on lowering Labor Standards and Supply Chain Responsibility Governance and our normalized and absolute emissions, with the goal of a 20% reduction in Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s In our industry and others, companies are taking a more active role in absolute emissions by 2012 from 2007 levels, and improving the energy20 Financial Performance pushing for improvements in the labor and safety practices of their supefficient performance of our products. Worldwide efforts to reduce and Economic Impact pliers. We have engaged with other companies to promote collaboration emissions and address climate change also present potential market 25 Governance, Ethics, and shared processes for accountability in the electronics supply chain. and Public Policy opportunities for Intel technologies, including smart grids and home We have also taken steps in the past year to promote transparency and E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s energy management systems. accountability in our supply chain, such as disclosing our top suppliers, 32 Environment increasing the number of completed assessments and audits, and proWater Use S o cial Fac t o r s actively working with our gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten suppliers to Sustainable water management is a key focus at Intel and is increasingly 58 Workplace address significant challenges related to the traceability of conflict metals important to our external stakeholders. Intel has developed innovative 79 Supply Chain in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. water conservation solutions that we share with local governments and 92 Contributions to Society other companies. Still, we continue to face challenges in reducing our water A pp e n d i x Workforce Diversity use as our manufacturing processes become more complex. We have 111 About This Report/Approach In recent years, we have significantly improved the diversity of our workexpanded our disclosure on our water use and conservation efforts, and to Assurance force in a number of key categories, including increasing the number of continue to engage with external organizations to understand emerging 112 GRI Content Index women at the vice president level by 24% since 2004. The overall percentbest practices. In addition, in early 2010 we adopted a new water policy 119 UN Global Compact— age of women in our global workforce, however, has remained relatively Communication on Progress that reinforces our commitment to conservation and to the respect for flat over the past five years. We continue to work to increase the number the human right to water. of under-represented minorities and technical females in our workforce— especially at management and senior leadership levels—through initiatives Education Transformation and the Digital Divide such as global education and scholarship programs aimed at building the Access the Report Builder Global economic health and Intel’s success depend on young people havtalent pipeline in engineering and technical disciplines. ing access to a quality education and technology. As a leading technology 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility company, we believe that we can help governments around the world achieve their economic development and educational goals by effectively 16 integrating technology into their programs and strategies. Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Performance Summary 9 Strategy and Management Approach The following table provides a high-level summary of our key economic, environmental, and social indicators. Click on the headings in the table for details An Integrated, Strategic that appear in other sections of this report. Approach Management and Key Indicators Decision-Making Economic 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Stakeholder Engagement Net revenue (dollars in billions) $43.6 $35.1 $37.6 $38.3 $35.4 Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges and Opportunities Net income (dollars in billions) $11.5 $4.4 $5.3 $7.0 $5.0 > Performance Summary Provision for taxes (dollars in billions) $4.6 $1.3 $2.4 $2.2 $2.0 Corporate Responsibility Research and development spending (dollars in billions) $6.6 $5.7 $5.7 $5.8 $5.9 Goal Summary Awards and Recognitions Capital investments (dollars in billions) $5.2 $4.5 $5.2 $5.0 $5.9 Environment Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent)1 2.12 2.05 2.75 3.85 4.02 20 Financial Performance Energy use (million kWh—includes electricity, gas, and diesel) 5,192 5,113 5,649 5,757 5,793 and Economic Impact Total water withdrawn (millions of gallons) 8,152 7,923 7,713 7,517 7,651 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Chemical waste generated (tons) 31,265 24,665 28,486 23,260 29,951 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Chemical waste recycled/reused 75% 71% 84% 87% 64% 32 Environment Solid waste generated (tons) 51,345 44,484 83,822 58,746 60,917 S o cial Fac t o r s Solid waste recycled/reused 83% 80% 88% 80% 74% 58 Workplace Social 79 Supply Chain Workplace Employees at year end 82,500 79,800 83,900 86,300 94,100 92 Contributions to Society Women in global workforce 28% 28% 29% 29% 30% A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach Investments in training (dollars in millions) $254 $267 $314 $249 $380 to Assurance Safety—recordable rate2 0.56 0.48 0.46 0.48 0.43 112 GRI Content Index Safety—days away case rate2 0.11 0.11 0.12 0.13 0.11 119 UN Global Compact— Organizational Health Survey scores— proud to work for Intel 85% 82% 83% 75% —3 Communication on Progress Supply Chain Supplier self-assessments and audits completed 756 574 358 —3 —3 Society Employee volunteerism rate 48% 38% 54% 38% 38% Worldwide charitable giving (dollars in millions)4 $126 $100 $102 $109 $96 Access the Report Builder Charitable giving as percentage of pre-tax net income 0.8% 1.8% 1.3% 1.2% 1.4% 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Teachers trained through Intel® Teach Program (millions, cumulative) 9 7 6 5 3.9 www.intel.com/go/responsibility 1 Including renewable energy credit purchases. 2 Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year. 3 Information not available for this year. 4 Includes total giving (cash and in-kind) from Intel Corporation and the Intel Foundation. 17 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Corporate Responsibility Goal Summary 9 Strategy and Management Approach Based on feedback from stakeholders, we have incorporated the discussion of our performance to goals and future goals into each relevant section of this An Integrated, Strategic report. The following table provides a high-level summary of our company-wide goals in the key corporate responsibility areas. Click on the headings in the Approach table for more detail on our goals in other sections of this report. Management and Decision-Making Goals Stakeholder Engagement Report Section 2010 Performance to Goals Goals for 2011 and Beyond Sustainability Trends: Key Challenges and Opportunities Environment At the beginning of 2008, we set new five-year goals related to In 2011, we will continue to work toward achieving our 2012 Performance Summary global-warming emissions, energy, water use, waste reduction, environmental goals, with a targeted focus on energy and water recycling, and product energy efficiency. While we have achieved conservation, and identifying new ways to reduce the generation > Corporate Responsibility Goal Summary significant reductions in emissions and energy, we have faced chalof chemical waste. lenges in areas such as water conservation and chemical waste. Awards and Recognitions We are at risk for not meeting our chemical waste generation goal. Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Workplace We continued to improve our performance in organizational health, We will continue to drive key improvements in diversity and hire as measured by our employee Organizational Health Survey. We at full availability for technical under-represented minorities and 20 Financial Performance partially achieved our 2010 diversity goal. Although the overall perwomen. We will also focus on improving our organizational health and Economic Impact centage of women in our global workforce remained flat, we saw as measured by our employee Organizational Health Survey. In the 25 Governance, Ethics, gains in the number of women in senior leadership roles. Our safety area of workplace safety, we will continue to work toward improvand Public Policy performance continued to be world-class compared to industry ing early reporting of injuries and drive further reductions in our benchmarks. However, we did not meet our aggressive goal for our recordable rate. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s recordable rate. 32 Environment Supply Chain We made significant progress in integrating corporate responsibility In 2011, we will continue to work to improve assessment and audit S o cial Fac t o r s factors into our supplier management systems. We met our supprocesses and have committed to complete a minimum of 50 58 Workplace plier diversity goal and increased the number of risk assessments audits in 2011. We will also continue to focus on supplier diversity 79 Supply Chain and third-party supplier audits completed. We made significant and further integrating corporate responsibility factors into our progress on our efforts to address the issue of conflict minerals in processes and systems. 92 Contributions to Society the supply chain. A pp e n d i x Society Our global volunteer rate exceeded our 40% goal, at 48%. The We will deepen the impact of our Intel Involved program through 111 About This Report/Approach total number of volunteer hours remained strong, at over 1 million a new engagement campaign called “I’m In.” For 2011, we will conto Assurance hours, and we saw an increase in our skills-based volunteer hours. tinue our work to advance education transformation through stra112 GRI Content Index We met our impact targets for the Intel® Teach Program and Intel® tegic collaborations and development of technology solutions. We 119 UN Global Compact— Learn Program, and expanded Intel’s reach and impact with the will also continue to expand our entrepreneurship programs and Communication on Progress addition of the new Intel® Teach Elements curriculum. We also met initiatives to improve education opportunities for girls and women, our goal of completing 100,000 PC donations to jump-start eduand promote social innovation by empowering people to use techcation programs in developing markets. nology to solve social programs. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 18 Back Next Previous View O v e r v i e w 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Awards and Recognitions 9 Strategy and Management Approach Third-party recognition gives us valuable feedback on our programs and practices, and helps us drive continuous improvement over time. Below is a An Integrated, Strategic selection from more than 80 corporate responsibility awards and recognitions that Intel received in 2010. For more information, visit our Awards and Approach Recognitions web site. Management and Decision-Making 2010 Selected Awards and Recognitions Stakeholder Engagement Overall Corporate • Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. Listed on North America and World indexes (12th year) Sustainability Trends: Key Responsibility • Corporate Knights. Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World (6th year) Challenges and Opportunities • Fortune magazine. World’s Most Admired Companies (1st in CSR in our industry) and Blue Ribbon Companies lists Performance Summary • CRD Analytics and Justmeans. Global 1000 Sustainable Performance Leaders (8th overall) Corporate Responsibility • FTSE Group. Listed on the FTSE4Good Index (10th year) Goal Summary • Covalence. Ethical Ranking 2010 (2nd overall) > Awards and Recognitions • Corporate Responsibility magazine. 100 Best Corporate Citizens 2010 (2nd overall) (U.S.) • Corporate Citizenship Committee. Five-Star Best Corporate Citizenship Award (China) Governance and • MAALA Corporate Responsibility Index. Platinum rating (7th year) (Israel) Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s • Boston College and Reputation Institute. 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Index (12th overall) (U.S.) 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Environment • Newsweek. 2010 Top 500 Green Companies in America (5th overall) • U.S. EPA. A Green Power Partner of the Year (3rd consecutive year) (U.S.) 25 Governance, Ethics, • Computerworld. Top IT Green Vendors 2010 (global) and Public Policy • Korea Ministry of the Environment. Environmental Excellence Award E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s • International Charter. Committed to the Environment Award (global) 32 Environment Business/Workplace • Bloomberg Businessweek magazine. World’s Most Innovative Companies (12th overall) S o cial Fac t o r s • Fortune magazine. Best Companies to Work For 2010 (U.S.) • Great Place to Work (GPTW) Institute. Top Ten Employers in Argentina 58 Workplace • Hewitt Associates. Best Employers in Poland 79 Supply Chain • Epoca Magazine. Most Admired Companies in Brazil 92 Contributions to Society • The Marker magazine. 50 Best Companies to Work For in Israel • GPTW Institute and The Economic Times. India’s Best Companies to Work For 2010 A pp e n d i x • Working Mother magazine. 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers (U.S.) 111 About This Report/Approach • Human Rights Campaign. Corporate Equality Index (8th year with perfect score) (U.S.) to Assurance • National Business Group on Health. Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles–Platinum level (U.S.) 112 GRI Content Index • National Insurance Institute. Preventico Award for Workplace Safety (Costa Rica) • NISO/NISG Organizational Health and Safety Awards. Distinction Award (Ireland) 119 UN Global Compact— • AMR Research. Top 25 Supply Chains (global) Communication on Progress Society • Points of Light Institute. 2010 Engagement Award of Excellence (U.S.) • Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy. Chairman’s Award (U.S.) • China Ministry of Education. Outstanding Contribution to China Education Award (7th year) • National Governors Association. Public-Private Partnership Award (U.S.) Access the Report Builder • Colombia Ministry of Education. Simon Bolivar Medal • Mexican Institute of Philanthropy (CEMEFI). Best Practices Award for CSR in Education 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report • National Council for Youth. Recognition for Intel® Learn Program (Egypt) www.intel.com/go/responsibility • Vietnam Ministry of Education. Recognition Award for Intel® Teach Program • Global View magazine. CSR Role Model Award in Education (Taiwan) 19 • Korea Economic Daily. Grand CSR Award (for Intel’s education programs) Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Financial Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance Performance and and Economic Impact 2010 Financial Performance Economic Impact Economic Impact Intel reported its best financial results ever in 2010. Strong growth in the business and consumer PC market segments, 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy the continued build-out of the data center, the leadership of our product portfolio, and improvements to our cost structure E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s all contributed to making 2010 the most profitable year in 32 Environment our history. S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Mouse over 112 GRI Content Index numbers 119 UN Global Compact— to see more Communication on Progress images. 1 2 3 Key Financial Performance and Economic Impact Links 43.6 80 80 Intel 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K $ Billion % > Million Intel Investor Relations Intel® Products Intel revenue in 2010 Percentage of Number of Intel® Atom™ Technology Leadership Access the Report Builder revenue from outside processors shipped 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report the Americas into netbook market segment www.intel.com/go/responsibility as of year-end 2010 20 Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 2010 Financial Performance We are committed to investing in world-class technology development, 9 Strategy and Management particularly in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits. Our Approach 2010 was a record year for Intel. Broad-based demand research and development (R&D) expenditures in 2010 were $6.6 billion, Governance and for our products across all regions and market segments and our capital expenditures were $5.2 billion. Investments such as these Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s continued, contributing to revenue of $43.6 billion, up help Intel maintain its position as the most advanced semiconductor manu20 Financial Performance 24% compared to 2009. facturer in the world. and Economic Impact > 2010 Financial Performance Operating income for 2010 rose to $15.6 billion, net income to $11.5 billion, Net Revenue Economic Impact and earnings per share to $2.01. Our continued focus on factory reuse and 43.6 25 Governance, Ethics, 40 and Public Policy efficiency drove costs down again in 2010, helping to increase our gross 38.8 38.3 37.6 35.4 35.1 margin to a record 65%. The cash-generating power of our business was 34.2 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 30 30.1 evident in 2010, with $16.7 billion of cash from operations. Our total diviDollars in Billions 32 Environment 26.5 26.8 dend payout for the year was $3.5 billion. S o cial Fac t o r s 20 58 Workplace 2010 marked the first year in which more than 1 million PCs were sold per 79 Supply Chain day, and for the year the PC segment grew approximately 17% worldwide. 10 92 Contributions to Society Part of that growth is driven by the increasingly “personal” nature of PCs, A pp e n d i x which is causing a shift from one PC per household to one or more PCs per 111 About This Report/Approach person in many mature markets. PC growth also continues at a strong pace 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 to Assurance in most emerging markets. As millions more people join the global online 112 GRI Content Index community, demand for high-performance servers continues to increase. In 119 UN Global Compact— 2010, we delivered Intel® Xeon® processors and Intel® Itanium® processors Geographic Breakdown of Revenue Communication on Progress that give servers significantly higher performance as well as new reliability 100 and security features, helping to boost our Data Center Group revenue 9% 10% 10% 35% over 2009. Diluted Earnings Per Share 80 13% 24% 21% The computing landscape is changing. New categories of compute devices 2.00 2.01 20% such as smartphones, smart TVs, tablets, in-vehicle systems, and more 60 19% Dollars Percent are connecting to the Internet and becoming more intelligent. Intel is 1.50 41% aggressively pursuing opportunities to expand our business in new device 40 1.18 categories with the Intel® Atom™ processor family. We closed 2010 with 1.00 0.92 57% 0.86 1,700 design wins for embedded Intel Atom processors and over 4,900 20 50% 0.77 total design engagements in the embedded market segment. Our prod0.50 26% ucts are also being designed into more than 35 tablets, many of which are Access the Report Builder expected to launch in 2011. In 2010, we also introduced nine products 2000 2005 2010 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report for the smart TV market segment, for televisions, Blu-ray* players, and Japan 2006 Europe 2007 2008 Americas 2009 2010 Asia-Paciﬁc www.intel.com/go/responsibility set-top boxes. Past performance does not guarantee future results. 21 Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Diluted Earnings Per Share 9 Strategy and Management “2010 was a year for the record books. Our revenue, Approach 2.00 2.01 operating profit, net income, and gross margin Governance and were all the highest in Intel’s history. Growth Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance 1.50 opportunities, our strong product lineup, and and Economic Impact 1.18 our industry lead in manufacturing process Dollars > 2010 Financial Performance 1.00 0.86 0.92 0.77 tech­nology give me confidence that 2011 will Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, 0.50 be even better.” and Public Policy Paul S. Otellini, President and Chief Executive Officer E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Research and Development S o cial Fac t o r s 6.6 58 Workplace 6.0 5.9 5.8 Dividends Per Share Paid 5.7 5.7 79 Supply Chain Dollars in Billions 0.63 92 Contributions to Society 0.60 4.0 0.56 A pp e n d i x 0.45 0.55 0.40 0.40 2.0 111 About This Report/Approach Dollars to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 0.20 119 UN Global Compact— 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Communication on Progress 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Income Before Taxes and Provision for Taxes 16.0 15 Capital Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment Dollars in Billions 6.0 5.9 10 9.2 5.2 5.2 7.7 5.0 7.1 4.5 4.5 5.7 5 4.6 Dollars in Billions 2.0 2.2 2.4 1.3 3.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1.5 Income Before Taxes Provision for Taxes Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility For more information on our financial performance, products, customers, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 technologies, opportunities, and key challenges, see the Intel 2010 Annual 22 Report and Form 10-K. Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Economic Impact investments, for a total of about $327 million, with approximately 56% 9 Strategy and Management going to companies in the U.S. and Canada. Approach Intel provides high-skill, high-paying jobs at sites around With support from other corporations and venture capital firms, Intel is Governance and the world. We also impact economies through our sourcing Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s leading the Invest in America Alliance, an initiative to support investment in activities, consumer spending by Intel employees, and tax 20 Financial Performance U.S.-based, growth-oriented industries. As part of the alliance, launched in and Economic Impact revenue. In addition, the company makes sizable capital 2010, Intel and 17 other technology and corporate leaders have committed 2010 Financial Performance investments and provides leadership in public-private initiato increase their hiring of college graduates, a group whose unemployment > Economic Impact tives to spur economic growth and innovation. rate has been significantly higher than the national average. The Invest 25 Governance, Ethics, in America Alliance also includes a commitment from Intel Capital and 24 and Public Policy Investing in the Innovation Economy venture capital firms to invest $3.5 billion in U.S.-based technology compaE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s nies over a two-year period. These investments include a $200 million Intel Even during the strained economic climate of the last few years, Intel has 32 Environment Capital Invest in America Technology Fund, which targets key innovation continued to invest, stimulating economic and job growth. In February S o cial Fac t o r s 2009, we announced a $7 billion upgrade to our manufacturing facilities and growth segments, such as clean technology, information technology, 58 Workplace in Oregon, Arizona, and New Mexico—projects that are helping to mainand biotechnology. Intel Capital has already invested the original $200 mil79 Supply Chain tain approximately 7,000 high-wage, high-skilled U.S. jobs while providing lion commitment, and in early 2011 pledged to invest an additional $200 92 Contributions to Society 4,000 contract jobs for technicians and construction workers. In 2010, we million in U.S. technology companies in support of a new White House A pp e n d i x announced that we would spend an additional $6 billion to $8 billion over initiative, Startup America. Intel Capital has also joined the Startup America 111 About This Report/Approach the next several years to bring next-generation manufacturing technology Board of Advisors. to Assurance to several existing factories across the U.S. and to build a new develop112 GRI Content Index Intel provides resources and hosts events for small and medium-sized busiment factory in Oregon. This investment will support approximately 6,000 119 UN Global Compact— nesses to help them scale their operations using technology. For example, to 8,000 additional U.S. construction jobs during the building phase, and Communication on Progress in 2010, Intel Israel hosted the Local Small Business Conference for some will eventually add up to 1,000 Intel jobs. 150 businesses from southern Israel. In China, our local teams worked In February 2011, in conjunction with U.S. President Barack Obama’s visit to with others to host sessions on intellectual property training for small our Oregon site, Intel President and CEO Paul Otellini announced additional and medium-sized Chinese companies to help support innovation. We also Intel investments in the U.S., including plans to hire 4,000 U.S. employees announced the expansion of our Digital Transformation Initiative in the during 2011 and to build a new $5 billion high-volume manufacturing facilMiddle East, which focuses on improving education, supporting start-up ity in Arizona. The Arizona project, scheduled for completion in 2013, will companies in the high-tech sector, and building opportunities for R&D in result in thousands of construction and full-time manufacturing jobs. In the region. conjunction with the announcement, President Obama named Otellini to serve on the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. Evaluating Our Impact We periodically conduct local assessments to better understand Intel’s Intel’s global investment organization, Intel Capital—one of the largest direct and indirect economic impact on the communities where we operAccess the Report Builder venture capital organizations in the world—seeks out and invests in promate. These assessments have been important resources in discussions ising technology companies. Since 1991, Intel Capital has invested over 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report with local stakeholders and governments about long-term community www.intel.com/go/responsibility $9.8 billion in more than 1,100 companies. In 2010, Intel Capital made 119 viability, including but not limited to our two largest operating sites, Intel Oregon and Intel Arizona. 23 Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile • Intel Oregon. With over 15,000 employees, Intel Oregon is our largest effects of Intel’s own operations, and the fourth layer considered pro9 Strategy and Management site. It had a payroll of $1.8 billion in 2010, making it the state’s largest ductivity gains throughout the economy that stem from the use of Intel® Approach private employer. Intel Oregon is also the largest property tax payer microprocessors. Governance and in Washington County, with payments of approximately $28 million Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s a year. Since first acquiring property in Oregon in 1974, Intel’s capital Four Layers of Economic Impact 20 Financial Performance investments in the state have exceeded $20 billion, and additional and Economic Impact 2010 Financial Performance investments are planned. Intel, Intel Foundation, and Intel employee Direct Indirect Induced Productivity investments in local education and community giving exceeded Impact Impact Impact Impact > Economic Impact Intel sells Intel pays Consumer The use of 25 Governance, Ethics, $2 million in 2010. products, suppliers and spending by Intel® products and Public Policy provides creates business Intel employees and our • Intel Arizona. In 2010, Intel employed approximately 9,700 employees above-average for resellers, and supplier and technology E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s wages to who in turn partner leadership at our sites in Chandler, Arizona. Since 1996, Intel has invested more than employees, generate employees result in 32 Environment $12 billion in high-tech manufacturing capability in the state and spends and pays employment. stimulates productivity S o cial Fac t o r s taxes. additional ecogains in the over $450 million each year on R&D. Intel contributes more than $2.6 bilnomic activity. economy. 58 Workplace lion in economic impact to Arizona, including over 20,000 non-Intel jobs 79 Supply Chain that result from our operations in the state. In 2010, more than 4,000 This illustration was adapted from an IHS Global Insight report graphic. To create the 92 Contributions to Society Intel Arizona employees volunteered in the local community, resulting assessment, IHS Global Insight used the IMPLAN methodology, an industry-standard A pp e n d i x in over $1 million in matching grants from the Intel Foundation to area approach for determining the economic ripple effect caused by the production of a product or service. 111 About This Report/Approach schools and nonprofit organizations. In addition, through our annual Intel to Assurance Community Giving campaign, Intel Arizona employees donated $4.2 milThe study found that between 2001 and 2007, Intel contributed $758 bil112 GRI Content Index lion in 2010, resulting in a total contribution of $7.2 million for qualified lion to the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). Of this total, $458 billion was 119 UN Global Compact— schools and nonprofit organizations, including $3 million in matching stimulated by Intel’s operations, and $300 billion was attributable to our Communication on Progress funds from the Intel Foundation. productivity-based impact. The study also revealed that Intel contributed $247 billion (€177 billion) to the European Union GDP over the 2001–2007 Intel’s non-U.S. sites also significantly impact the economies of countries period. Of this total, $28 billion (€20 billion) came from the operations around the world. For example, our operations in Costa Rica have provided of Intel and its extended ecosystem, and $219 billion (€157 billion) from more than 2,800 jobs and support for local industries such as electronics productivity-based gains. and construction. Our economic impact on Costa Rica has also been a catalyst for direct investments from other countries. We also recognize the impact that Intel’s investments in education have in helping countries advance economic development and improve comIn 2008, we commissioned IHS Global Insight to conduct an independent petitiveness. In addition, we have published white papers examining the study of Intel’s economic impact in the U.S. and Europe, including our direct economic impact of broadband Internet connectivity in developing nations, and indirect roles in fueling economic growth, creating jobs, and enhancing strategic ICT spending, and e-Learning environments. For more informaproductivity across multiple industries. In the study, “The Economic Impact tion, see the Contributions to Society section of this report. Access the Report Builder of Intel Corporation in the United States and European Union, 2001–2007,” calculations of Intel’s economic contributions were based on four layers 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility of impact. The first three layers measured the direct, indirect, and induced 24 Back Next Previous View G OVERN A N C E A ND E C ONOM I C F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Governance, Ethics, and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, Public Policy and Public Policy “ Conduct business with uncomproGovernance and Ethics mising integrity and professionalPublic Policy and Advocacy ism.” This statement, part of the Political Accountability formal Intel Values, expresses E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s our commitment to upholding the 32 Environment highest standards of corporate governance and business ethics in S o cial Fac t o r s our day-to-day activities at Intel and 1 2 3 58 Workplace in our engagement with external Mouse over 79 Supply Chain stakeholders. We work continuously numbers to see more images. 92 Contributions to Society to develop a strong culture of trust A pp e n d i x through open and direct commu111 About This Report/Approach nication, and we are committed to to Assurance accountability and transparency in 112 GRI Content Index our work on public policy issues. 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Key Governance Links Intel Governance and Ethics 90 30 13 Intel Code of Conduct % % Human Rights Principles Intel Public Policy Percentage of Percentage of women Number of languages Competition in the Innovation Access the Report Builder independent directors on our Board at in which the Intel Code of Economy 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report on Intel’s Board the end of 2010 Conduct is available Political Accountability www.intel.com/go/responsibility Guidelines 25 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Governance and Ethics change—and the company’s public reporting in this area. Information on our 9 Strategy and Management director nomination processes is available in the committee’s charter and Approach Our corporate governance structure, formal Code of in our Proxy Statement, including information about our approach to board Governance and Conduct, and Ethics and Compliance Program help to diversity. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s ensure that we maintain the highest standards of 20 Financial Performance Intel received Corporate Secretary magazine’s 2010 Corporate Governance and Economic Impact integrity in everything we do. Award for most effective shareholder communications, in recognition of 25 Governance, Ethics, our innovative use of technology and social media to promote engagement Our Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors and Public Policy and transparency. For many years, stockholders who could not attend the > Governance and Ethics membership, Board committee charters, and Human Rights Principles Intel annual stockholders’ meeting in person have had the opportunity to Public Policy and Advocacy are available on our Corporate Governance and Ethics web site. Detailed attend via the Internet. Over the past two years, we have expanded this Political Accountability executive compensation information is included in our most recent functionality to allow stockholders to submit questions online prior to Proxy Statement. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s the meeting, and to cast votes online during the meeting. View the most 32 Environment Corporate Governance recent Intel annual stockholders’ meeting. S o cial Fac t o r s As of the end of 2010, Intel’s Board included President and CEO Paul 58 Workplace Intel Corporate Governance at a Glance Otellini and nine independent directors. Jane Shaw, a non-executive 79 Supply Chain • Independent non-executive Chairman of the Board independent director, assumed the role of Chairman in May 2009. The 92 Contributions to Society • Nine of our 10 Board members are independent directors Chairman presides over all meetings of the Board, independent directors, A pp e n d i x • All of our Board committees (other than the Executive Committee) and stockholders; prepares Board meeting agendas; and manages the 111 About This Report/Approach are made up of independent directors Board’s process for annual director self-assessment and evaluation of to Assurance the Board. • Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters are 112 GRI Content Index publicly disclosed 119 UN Global Compact— Directors are not paid for any service to the company other than their • Majority vote practices have been voluntarily adopted Communication on Progress director compensation. We rely on them for their diverse knowledge, • Board-approved CEO succession plan is in place personal perspectives, and solid business judgment. They meet individu• Policy limits directors to no more than four external board seats ally with senior management, attend and participate in employee forums, • Board self-assessment process and individual director annual and—unaccompanied by senior management—visit Intel sites around the performance reviews are in place world to assess local issues. A number of directors have expertise and • 30% of Board directors are female backgrounds in key corporate responsibility areas, including corporate gov• Charter dictates Board committee responsibility for corporate ernance, education, and energy efficiency. Director biographies are availresponsibility and sustainability issues able on our Biographies web site. • Corporate responsibility and climate change information has been The Board’s Audit, Compensation, Compliance, Corporate Governance integrated into our annual report and Nominating, and Finance committees consist solely of independent • Employee and executive compensation are linked to corporate Access the Report Builder directors who provide objective oversight of the company’s management. responsibility factors 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for www.intel.com/go/responsibility reviewing and reporting to the Board on our corporate responsibility and sustainability performance—including environmental topics such as climate 26 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel Code of Conduct Ethics and Compliance Program 9 Strategy and Management The Intel Code of Conduct guides the behavior of our employees, ofﬁcers, Our Ethics and Compliance Program advances a culture of the highest levApproach non-employee directors, and suppliers, and serves as a cornerstone of Intel els of business ethics and legal compliance. The Board reviews implemenGovernance and culture. The Code’s business principles and guidelines seek to promote tation of ethics and compliance programs and continuously assesses the Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s honest and ethical conduct, deter wrongdoing, and support compliance integrity of senior management. Intel’s CEO sets the tone for our ethical 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact with applicable laws and regulations. The principles embodied in the Code culture and holds the senior management team accountable for addressing 25 Governance, Ethics, also express our policies related but not limited to conﬂicts of interest, ethics and compliance risk; role-modeling ethical behavior and holding their and Public Policy nondiscrimination, antitrust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, privacy, health managers accountable; communicating policy and conduct expectations; > Governance and Ethics and safety, and protecting our company’s assets and reputation. The Code and overseeing business group ethics and compliance systems. Public Policy and Advocacy directs employees to consider both shortand long-term impacts on the At the beginning of each year, our CEO communicates with employees and Political Accountability environment and the community when they are making business decisions. senior managers the importance of ethics and legal compliance. This “tone E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s All employees are expected to complete training on the Code of Conduct from the top”—combined with our annual ethics training, regular communi32 Environment when they join the company and annually thereafter. The Code is availcations throughout the year, and educational resources on our employee S o cial Fac t o r s able in 13 languages, and training sessions incorporate real case scenarios. intranet site—help to create an ethical and legally compliant culture. 58 Workplace Employees are encouraged to raise ethical questions and issues, and have 79 Supply Chain We maintain distributed responsibility for managing ethics and complimultiple channels to do so—anonymously, if they prefer. Employees assert 92 Contributions to Society ance, with a number of cross-functional teams and leaders in place to adherence to the Code through an annual disclosure process for targeted drive awareness and accountability throughout the company. Intel’s Legal A pp e n d i x populations across the company. Compliance organization ensures world-class compliance programs for 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance In 2010, we added a series of questions to our Organizational Health government laws, regulations, and decrees relevant to our global business 112 GRI Content Index Survey to assess our employees’ knowledge of ethics and compliance. activities. Our Ethics and Compliance Oversight Committee (ECOC) includes 119 UN Global Compact— Our employees reported that the Code of Conduct expectations had senior representatives from across the company and is chartered by and Communication on Progress been clearly communicated to them and that they understand the con­ reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. The ECOC is co-chaired by sequences of not adhering to the Code. the Director of Internal Audit and the Vice President, Director of Corporate Legal. Each quarter, the ECOC invites various organizations within Intel to Depending on their roles and geographical locations, certain employees are assess and report on ethics and compliance in their respective businesses, assigned more in-depth ethics and compliance training courses, including and reviews risk topics that span business groups. those covering anti-corruption, import-export compliance, insider trading, and antitrust. Approximately 16,000 employees were trained on our Our Ethics and Compliance Program Office is responsible for the day-toanti-corruption policies and procedures in 2010. Intel has also published a day administration of Intel’s Ethics and Compliance Program. Integral to set of Human Rights Principles to complement the Code of Conduct and the success of the program are the many Ethics and Compliance Business express our commitment to human rights and responsible labor practices. Champions across the company, who are responsible for advocating The Code, our policies and guidelines, and the annual Code training course and monitoring ethics and compliance within their groups. We also have Access the Report Builder cover these principles. regional leadership forums that bring managers together to review issues and program effectiveness. Support organizations such as Finance, Audit, 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility Human Resources, and Legal provide expertise to help management and employees execute to the company’s ethics and compliance expectations. 27 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our 2010 focus areas included: reinforcing a culture in which issues are them to review with the leaders of their respective business groups. The 9 Strategy and Management raised and addressed effectively; promoting ethics and compliance leaderlargest categories of verified cases in 2010 included corporate travel card Approach ship; tracking emerging regulations; and updating our Code of Conduct, misuse, expense reporting misconduct, falsification of employment creGovernance and policies, and training accordingly. In 2010, our senior management team dentials, and misuse of assets. Given our commitment to maintaining the Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s had in-depth conversations with their staff members on the importance of highest levels of ethics and compliance, we addressed these concerns at a 20 Financial Performance role-modeling ethical behavior related to the ethics and compliance risks of systemic level through senior management discussions and our employee and Economic Impact their business unit. communications, and corrective action measures at an individual level. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy In 2010, six Intel business groups and one Intel site completed a compreIn 2011, as we continue to expand into new markets and businesses, > Governance and Ethics hensive risk assessment review with the ECOC. Business groups monitor complete acquisitions, and ramp new factories, we will continue to assess Public Policy and Advocacy their performance (including training, management tone, risk assessment, risk and execute our training and ethics programs consistently for all curPolitical Accountability and more) on a quarterly basis and send the results to the Ethics and rent and new employees, to ensure that we demonstrate uncompromised E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Compliance Program Office. The business groups also conduct self-assessintegrity in our actions worldwide. 32 Environment ments and put in place action plans and training. In 2010, we also impleS o cial Fac t o r s mented an ethics and compliance model for standalone subsidiaries. Antitrust Issues 58 Workplace In May 2009, Intel incurred a $1.45 billion fine as a result of the European In 2010, we launched the Intel Ethics and Compliance Excellence Awards 79 Supply Chain Commission’s conclusion that Intel had violated competition law in Europe. program, which is designed to recognize teams and individual employees 92 Contributions to Society We believe that the decision was wrong and are appealing it. In 2009, the for their contributions to Intel’s ethical and compliant environment. Award A pp e n d i x New York Attorney General filed an antitrust lawsuit against Intel. We disrecipients made significant contributions to the development and deploy111 About This Report/Approach agree with the plaintiff’s allegations and claims. We believe that Intel has to Assurance ment of our tone and accountability programs, Code of Conduct training competed fairly and lawfully, and we intend to conduct a vigorous defense 112 GRI Content Index and surveys, and risk and controls systems. We also launched a successof this lawsuit. 119 UN Global Compact— ful internal Ethics and Legal Compliance speaker series and newsletter in Communication on Progress 2010. Themes included export compliance, antitrust, anti-corruption, prodIn November 2010, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) publicly uct security, and government contracting. announced final approval of a settlement between Intel and the FTC that fully resolves a 2009 FTC lawsuit against Intel. Among other provisions, We maintain a robust process for reporting misconduct, including online the agreement includes a statement that the agreement does not constireporting channels, and have a non-retaliation policy that we clearly comtute an admission that Intel has violated the law or that the facts alleged municate to employees. In 2010, we enhanced communications with in the complaint are true, as well as provisions with respect to the treatemployees on available channels for raising issues. From 2008 through the ment and extension of certain intellectual property agreements between end of 2010, employee use of our “Ask Ethics” portal for answers to ethical Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Intel and NVIDIA Corporation, and dilemmas increased 100%. Intel and VIA Technologies, Inc. Intel continues to disagree with the FTC’s Intel’s processes for informing senior management and the Board about allegations that Intel has violated any law. Nevertheless, Intel believes that misconduct issues include periodic reports of overall misconduct statistics, the settlement is in the best interests of its stockholders, employees, and Access the Report Builder as well as communication of details about key investigations while they are customers. Based on our current understanding and expectations, we do 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report in progress and after they have been completed. A quarterly investigative not believe that any changes in our business practices to comply with the www.intel.com/go/responsibility package is provided to our Ethics and Compliance Business Champions for agreement will be material to our financial position, results, or cash flows. 28 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile In the spirit of transparency, we created the Competition in the Innovation the location of our facilities can be substantially affected by the tax and 9 Strategy and Management Economy web site, which includes information and regular updates on economic development policies of host countries. An increasing share of Approach these matters. Additional information is also available in the Intel 2010 Intel’s revenue comes from outside the Americas (80% in 2010), requiring Governance and Annual Report and Form 10-K. us to locate at least some facilities overseas near our customers. Creating Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s competitive tax and other conditions in the U.S. will help Intel maintain its 20 Financial Performance high number of well-paid employees in the U.S. and Economic Impact Public Policy and Advocacy 25 Governance, Ethics, Trade. Intel supports trade agreements and rules that facilitate general and Public Policy Our goals in working on policy topics are to engage as a commerce between countries and expand the high-tech industry’s access Governance and Ethics trusted advisor, to fully understand different perspectives, to world markets. We work proactively to support the development of free > Public Policy and Advocacy and to educate legislators on the effects that regulations trade agreements (FTAs) on a worldwide (via the WTO), regional (e.g., the Political Accountability have on our industry, customers, and employees. Central American FTA), and bilateral (e.g., the pending U.S.-Korea FTA) basis. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Such FTAs improve Intel’s access to markets by eliminating tariffs on prod32 Environment The following is a brief summary of our key areas of interest and engageucts, increasing IP protections that are critical to innovation and investment in the public policy arena. For more information, visit our Public Policy S o cial Fac t o r s ment, and ensuring a more open and transparent regulatory and standards 58 Workplace web site and our public policy blog. environment. 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society Innovation and Competition Workforce. To ensure that the U.S. has access to the highly skilled talent Intel seeks to promote innovation and competition by engaging in policy needed to remain competitive, we advocate for immigration reforms to A pp e n d i x advocacy in the following areas: enable businesses to recruit, hire, and retain highly skilled foreign nationals 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance in job fields that have a shortage of qualified U.S. workers. Import/Customs. We support customs and trade facilitation policies that 112 GRI Content Index foster administrative ease, cost-effectiveness, speedy and barrier-free Environment and Energy. As an environmentally responsible manu119 UN Global Compact— entry, predictability, fair enforcement, and transparency with respect to facturer of energy-efficient products, Intel reaches out to governments Communication on Progress exporting and importing products. worldwide to help identify policies that address government and stakeholder concerns while preserving our industry’s ability to operate and Intellectual Property and Patent Reform. Intel depends on sound market its products. Intel has led industry efforts to implement voluntary patent systems worldwide to protect intellectual property (IP) and measures that can make regulation unnecessary, such as pulling together enable the development and deployment of new technologies. We work an industry commitment to reduce emissions of high global-warming to improve the quality and reliability of patents, help new World Trade gases. We have also led a project with governments to eliminate the vast Organization (WTO) members conform their patent laws to WTO requiremajority of the industrial use of potentially harmful chemicals, known as ments, develop procedures to lower the costs of resolving patent disputes, PFOS. Intel is also helping to shape government policies that recognize the and ensure that the interests of patent holders and good-faith manufacrole that semiconductors and other high-tech devices can play in improvturers are properly balanced through fair litigation rules. ing energy efficiency—and thus helping to address climate change issues Tax. Intel supports measures that enhance the ability of innovative comthroughout the world. For more information on our environmental policy Access the Report Builder panies to compete in the global marketplace and, in turn, produce economic initiatives, see the Environment section of this report. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report prosperity. Our business is highly cost-conscious and capital-intensive, and www.intel.com/go/responsibility 29 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Education. We collaborate with international ministries of education, the Security and Privacy. Intel works to create user trust in information 9 Strategy and Management U.S. Department of Education, states, local school districts, and other assotechnology, and a policy environment that fosters innovation and empowApproach ciations to help improve education—particularly in the areas of math, sciers users to protect the integrity of their systems and data. Trust in the Governance and ence, engineering, and technology. In 2010, we also commissioned a white global digital economy is contingent upon providing robust security and a Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s paper on the role of information technology in transformative education high level of privacy protection. Intel works to inform policy stakeholders in 20 Financial Performance policy. For more information, see the Contributions to Society section of the legislative, regulatory, standards, and academic arenas about the future and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, this report. of technology, and then takes the results of these discussions back to our and Public Policy product developers, who design security and privacy into our products Governance and Ethics Technical Policy and Standards and services. Intel is a member of the International Association of Privacy > Public Policy and Advocacy To advance a forward-thinking technical policy and standards environment, Professionals, and with additional organizations celebrated annual Data Political Accountability we engage in the following policy areas: Privacy Day, aimed at promoting privacy awareness and education, parE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s ticularly among teenagers. We also host events and collaborate on other Communications and Broadband. Intel promotes policies that encour32 Environment projects, including employee volunteer initiatives. In Argentina, for example, age the deployment of wireless and wired broadband services to improve employee volunteers developed a privacy education program called S o cial Fac t o r s communications and technology access for customers and businesses. 58 Workplace Tu Privacidad Online, which had reached 5,000 students, parents, and To help bridge the digital divide, we also promote policies that expand the 79 Supply Chain teachers by the end of 2010; and in Israel, Intel hosted the International allocation of universal service/access funds to include broadband access, 92 Contributions to Society Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners at our site. To especially in remote regions where it has previously been cost-prohibitive. read Intel’s privacy policy for our own business, visit the Intel Privacy Policy A pp e n d i x Personal Health and Health Information Technology. Through the web site. 111 About This Report/Approach recent global healthcare reform and economic stimulus programs, Intel to Assurance Standards. Intel advocates for information and communications technol112 GRI Content Index partners with policy makers to drive public policies that increase the use of ogy standards that provide benefits to industry, consumers, and govern119 UN Global Compact— information technology (IT) in healthcare worldwide as a means to reduce ments worldwide, including interoperability and consistency in quality. Communication on Progress costs, increase accuracy and effectiveness, and expand access to remote areas. This includes improvements in medication adherence monitoring, Media and Content. We support media and content policies that expand early detection and prevention of chronic diseases, and mobile monitoring. markets for digital products while respecting IP rights and consumer interWe support policies that provide incentives to increase alternatives to traests. Such policies include support for design freedom and technical innoditional hospitals and other institutional care facilities; establish standards vation, as well as content flexibility, portability, and choice for consumers. that will enable the exchange of electronic medical records across international borders; and remove regulatory barriers that present challenges in the shift to home healthcare, such as practitioner licensure regulations restricting the use of telemedicine across state, national, and international Increased use of IT in healthcare worldwide has borders. the power to help reduce costs, increase accuracy and effectiveness, and expand access Access the Report Builder to remote areas. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 30 Back Next Previous View G o v e r n a n c e a n d Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Political Accountability During 2010, significant controversy surrounded the U.S. Chamber of 9 Strategy and Management Commerce’s public statements and actions on the topic of climate change, Approach In the past few years, stakeholders have requested including opposition and lobbying against provisions in proposed climate Governance and greater disclosure regarding corporate political legislation. Some stakeholders asked Intel and other companies to clarify Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s contributions. their positions on climate change or to pull out of the organization alto20 Financial Performance gether. After continued review of the issue, Intel decided to remain a and Economic Impact Intel’s Political Accountability Guidelines outline our approach to making member of the Chamber, because the organization provides a strong 25 Governance, Ethics, political contributions, including details about accountability at the senior and Public Policy industry voice on a wide range of policies that affect our business, not management and Board of Directors levels. In drafting the guidelines, we Governance and Ethics only in the U.S., but around the globe through Chamber affiliates and other referred to the Center for Political Accountability’s Model Code of Conduct Public Policy and Advocacy organizations. > Political Accountability for Corporate Political Spending. In early 2011, we updated our guidelines to provide additional transparency and clarification on certain practices The Chamber has a diverse membership, and we are not aligned 100% E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s regarding independent expenditures. with the group on all policy matters. Likewise, our positions do not always 32 Environment align with those of other industry and trade organizations to which we S o cial Fac t o r s On an annual basis, we report Intel’s corporate political contributions for belong. To ensure that stakeholders understand our policies on various 58 Workplace the previous year. In 2010, our corporate contributions to state and local matters, including climate change, we post our positions on our Corporate 79 Supply Chain candidates, campaigns, and ballot propositions totaled $151,900. We also Governance and Ethics and Public Policy web sites. 92 Contributions to Society contributed $210,480 to local chambers of commerce. For a list of our A pp e n d i x contributions, visit Intel 2010 U.S. Corporate Contributions. On a quarterly Intel Political Action Committee 111 About This Report/Approach basis, Intel files reports with the Secretary of the U.S. Senate and the The Intel Political Action Committee (IPAC) was created in 1980 as a way to Assurance Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives detailing our lobbying activito enable employees to support candidates whose legislative goals align 112 GRI Content Index ties. These reports can be found on the Senate’s Lobbying Disclosure Act with Intel’s public policy priorities. Although Intel pays the administrative 119 UN Global Compact— Database. In 2010, our reported lobbying expenditures totaled $3.7 million, expenses of IPAC, corporate funds are not contributed to the IPAC fund, Communication on Progress compared to $3.9 million in 2009. and all employee contributions to it are voluntary. An IPAC Executive Committee made up of Intel employees reviews and evaluates candidate Trade Association and Business Coalition requests. U.S. congressional and some state legislative candidates are Memberships eligible to receive IPAC contributions and are evaluated on many factors, Our memberships in industry and trade associations help us work collaboramost importantly their support for Intel Values. Whenever possible, IPAC tively with other companies and groups to address key public policy issues. donations are made directly to candidates rather than through leadership The five organizations that received the largest contributions from Intel PACs and 527 organizations. For the 2010 election cycle, the sum of politiin 2010 were the Semiconductor Industry Association, the Information cal contributions from IPAC to federal candidates was $434,560. For a list Technology Industry Council, the National Association of Manufacturers, of contributions, see Intel PAC Contributions—2010 Cycle. the Technology CEO Council, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Information on trade association payments is included in the list of Intel Access the Report Builder 2010 U.S. Corporate Contributions. We also have increased transparency 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report by providing a breakdown of dues payments to our top associations that www.intel.com/go/responsibility are applied toward political activities in this list. 31 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Environment Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s We incorporate environmental performance goals 20 Financial Performance throughout our operations, seeking continuous and Economic Impact improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, 25 Governance, Ethics, resource conservation, and other areas. Recognizing that and Public Policy consumer use of our products accounts for the largest portion E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s of our overall carbon footprint, we focus on improving the 32 Environment energy-efficient performance of our products and collaborating with others to develop innovative ways that technology Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability can help address long-term sustainability challenges across other industries. Key Issues & Priorities Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Water Conservation Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reducing Air Emissions Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Mouse over Applying Technology to numbers Environmental Challenges to see more images. 1 2 3 Performance Summary & Goals S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x Key Environment Links 111 About This Report/Approach Intel Environment Site 1 40 136 to Assurance Product Energy Efficiency 112 GRI Content Index Billion $ Million Technology for Environment 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Intel’s Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy Intel is the largest Gallons of water saved Cost savings from 11 employee Access the Report Builder voluntary purchaser of “green” as a result of our projects that received Intel’s Climate Change Policy 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report power in the U.S., according conservation efforts Intel Environmental Excellence Intel’s Water Policy www.intel.com/go/responsibility to the U.S. EPA since 1998 Awards in 2010 32 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our Approach to Environmental materials that we use in our products. We seek alternatives for hazardous 9 Strategy and Management materials, and when we must use them, we take rigorous steps to ensure Approach Sustainability that they are handled safely from the time they enter our operations until Governance and Building and designing the world’s most sophisticated they are properly disposed of or recycled. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance products in a sustainable manner requires careful manageProduct energy efficiency has become increasingly important in our indusand Economic Impact ment of energy consumption, air emissions, and resource try, given the growing demand for more powerful electronics, the increas25 Governance, Ethics, conservation. We incorporate Design for the Environment ing cost of energy, and the corresponding impact on the environment. We and Public Policy principles throughout all phases of our product developare focused on reducing the environmental impact of our products, includE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s ing efforts to drive new levels of energy-efficient performance. Although ment process. 32 Environment our components generally make up only a small portion of an electronic > Our Approach to We address the environmental challenges of each new generation of device sold to a consumer, we believe that we can play a significant role Environmental Sustainability technology long before manufacturing begins. Our teams consider enviin helping to minimize the environmental impact of electronic products by Key Issues & Priorities ronmental impact when we perform site selections, design Intel buildings, designing our products with higher energy efficiency, removing environClimate Change and Energy set performance levels for manufacturing tools, and establish goals for mentally sensitive materials, and collaborating on industry initiatives. Efficiency new production processes. Intel supports a cautionary approach to the Water Conservation Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reducing Air Emissions Intel® Product Life Cycle and Value Chain Mouse over diagram elements for additional information. Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Applying Technology to Research Supply Chain Manufacturing Environmental Challenges and and and Product Use End of Life Performance Summary & Goals Development Logistics Facilities S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance We consider environmental impact throughout the different stages of our product life cycle, from investing in research and development to energy-efficient performance and materials selection to end-of-life management. 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Research About the Performance Graphs: Throughout Supply Chain this section, Manufacturing we have included graphs for some of the key indicators that we use to manage our environmental, health, and and safety performance. For close to 20 years, our and senior managers have reviewed these and indicators on a regular basis.Product Useperformance both inEnd We report our of Life absolute terms and on Access the Report Builder the basis of a “per unit Development of production” or “per chip” normalized Logistics production index (NPI). The Facilities NPI is derived directly from our worldwide wafer production and is indexed to a baseline year of 1999 (NPI = 100 for baseline year 1999), with the exception of our greenhouse gas emissions and energy use indicators, which use a baseline year of 2000. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report With this direct correlation to Intel’s global manufacturing levels, the NPI enables year-to-year comparisons and supports trending comparisons. References to “per chip” www.intel.com/go/responsibility assume a typical chip size of 1 cm2, but actual chips vary in size depending on the specific product. In 2009, manufacturing output was significantly reduced to match lower demand, a result of the worldwide economic downturn. Because of this, many of the normalized environmental indicators that we track saw steep increases in 2009, leading to atypical results in that year. Underlying data for the performance graphs is available for download using the Report Builder on our Corporate Responsibility Report web site. 33 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile We have joined forces with businesses and governments worldwide to Human Resources, Corporate Affairs, Global Public Policy, Intel Labs, and 9 Strategy and Management find and promote additional ways that technology can be used to address Supply Chain—meet regularly as part of our Eco-Stakeholder Council Approach environmental challenges across all sectors of the economy. We recognize to coordinate business group strategies and employee engagement Governance and that this represents a market opportunity for Intel and are helping to drive initiatives. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s initiatives aimed at using technology for data collection, analysis, and mod20 Financial Performance For a decade, Intel has maintained a multi-site, third-party-verified ISO eling, to enable better energy management and actions to reduce environand Economic Impact 14001 registration. The registration evaluates the effectiveness of our mental impact. 25 Governance, Ethics, environmental management system (EMS). A major achievement in 2010 and Public Policy was Intel’s company-wide certification for OHSAS 18001, the internationE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Managing Environmental Performance ally recognized standard for occupational safety and health management Our commitment to environmental sustainability is embodied in the Intel 32 Environment systems. As a result, in 2010 we successfully completed fully integrated > Our Approach to Code of Conduct and Intel’s Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 audits at several of our manufacturing sites, Environmental Sustainability For more detailed information about our commitments in the areas of in addition to an annual audit of our Corporate EHS Group, which oversees climate change and water conservation, see Intel’s Climate Change Policy Key Issues & Priorities key elements of our EHS management systems. All audits were conducted Climate Change and Energy and Intel’s Water Policy. In 2010, we continued to work to make progress by the National Standards Authority of Ireland (NSAI), an independent Efficiency against the 2012 goals that we set at the beginning of 2008. We also third-party registrar. Intel’s fully integrated multi-site registration (MSR) to Water Conservation establish clear environmental expectations for our suppliers and have initiboth ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 extends through December 31, 2013. Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle ated a number of sustainable purchasing and supplier footprinting initiaReducing Air Emissions tives. For more information, see the Supply Chain section of this report. As new sites are added, we will continue to complete the necessary certifiEnergy-Efficient Performance cation audits to add them to our integrated ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and Product Ecology Multiple groups across Intel play critical roles in driving strategy, operational multi-site registration. Going forward, Intel will complete initial certification Applying Technology to and product improvements, and policy initiatives related to environmental Environmental Challenges audits for our new manufacturing operations in Vietnam and China. responsibility. Our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) organization Performance Summary & Goals has primary responsibility for managing our environmental compliance Green Building Design S o cial Fac t o r s and driving performance improvements in our operations. Product-related Our engineers have incorporated green design standards and building con58 Workplace sustainability is managed by a number of groups across the company. The cepts into the construction of our facilities for many years. Intel now has 79 Supply Chain sustainable design of our products is driven by the Corporate Products a policy of designing all new buildings to a minimum Leadership in Energy 92 Contributions to Society Regulations and Standards Group, working with our EHS and Technology and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver level. A design center in Haifa, A pp e n d i x Development groups. Our Eco-Technology Program Office promotes the Israel—completed in 2010—is our first LEED-certified building and was the 111 About This Report/Approach importance of energy-efficient performance in our products and identifies first building in Israel to receive LEED Gold certification. We also achieved to Assurance new opportunities for our technologies. 112 GRI Content Index basic LEED certification in 2010 for an Intel factory and office building in 119 UN Global Compact— The Eco Management Review Committee, led by our senior vice president Kulim, Malaysia, as a result of improvements made to our 14-year-old facilCommunication on Progress and general manager of Manufacturing and Supply Chain, comprises senior ity at that location. In 2010, we submitted an application to the U.S. Green leaders from across the company and meets monthly to review environBuilding Council to get our first wafer fabrication facility (fab) LEED certiAccess the Report Builder mental sustainability, performance, and strategy. A broad cross-section of fied. In March 2011, we achieved LEED for Existing Buildings Silver certifica2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Intel organizations—including Corporate Services, Information Technology, tion for our entire Ocotillo manufacturing campus in Chandler, Arizona. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 34 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile We continue to invest in facility improvements in support of our great issues in their local communities. In 2010, Intel provided $100,000 in 9 Strategy and Management place to work objectives. In 2010, we renovated 1 million square feet of funding for 13 employee projects—including the creation of a proof-ofApproach office space, cafes, and fitness centers. The renovations included LEED concept model to demonstrate how boiler emissions (from boilers that Governance and criteria such as use of low-VOC paints, low-flow faucets and toilets, noserve the fab) could be captured and used to grow algae, which could Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s adhesive carpets, and furniture that contains recyclable content and is then be converted into biofuel. The results of the project, which is being 20 Financial Performance recyclable at end-of-life. completed in collaboration with globally renowned algae researchers and and Economic Impact analysts at Arizona State University and Science Foundation Arizona, are 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Engaging Employees detailed in our “Zero Emission Fabs” video. Other projects included a waterIn 2010, we further encouraged our employees to help reduce Intel’s enviconservation demonstration garden in California, solar PC E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s ronmental footprint through a number of programs. labs in Costa Rica and Bangladesh, a composting project 32 Environment > Our Approach to in Malaysia, a streetlight monitoring system in Ireland, Linking Compensation to Environmental Performance. Since 2008, Environmental Sustainability and a coral reef documentation project that uses Intel we have linked a portion of every employee’s variable compensation—from technology. Key Issues & Priorities front-line employees to our CEO—to the achievement of environmental Climate Change and Energy sustainability metrics. The 2010 metrics focused on carbon emission Intel Environmental Excellence Awards. Since 2000, Intel has Efficiency reductions in our operations and energy-efficiency goals for new products. presented these awards to employees who have helped reduce Intel’s Water Conservation While the environmental component represents a relatively small portion of environmental impact. In 2010, 62 individuals and teams from around Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle the overall Employee Bonus (EB) calculation, we believe that it helps focus the world were nominated for their work to promote recycling and waste Reducing Air Emissions employees on the importance of achieving our environmental objectives. reduction, lower the environmental impact of our products and processes, Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Benchmarking and discussions with external stakeholders reveal that it and educate others on sustainability topics. Contributors to the 11 winning Applying Technology to is rare for companies to link compensation to sustainability goals for all projects from seven countries received monetary awards and/or trophies. Environmental Challenges employees. Environmental metrics for our 2011 EB calculation will focus Their projects included achieving LEED certification for a 14-year-old buildPerformance Summary & Goals on energy efficiency in our operations and our products. ing in Malaysia, using rain water in cooling towers in India, improving Intel’s S o cial Fac t o r s internal data center efficiency, conducting research to enable consumer Employee Sustainability Groups. Intel supports employee-initiated 58 Workplace electronic devices to operate in a low-power state, and eliminating sulfuric grassroots efforts, including the Intel Employee Sustainability Network 79 Supply Chain acid from a fluoride treatment process. (IESN), a chartered employee group. IESN, in place at Intel since 2004, pro92 Contributions to Society vides employee networking, volunteering, and educational opportunities In addition to yielding environmental benefits, these employee projects A pp e n d i x that align with our corporate environmental focus areas. The group’s activifrequently save money for Intel. Estimated cost savings from all of the 111 About This Report/Approach ties have included Northwest Earth Institute discussion group courses winning projects totaled $136 million. For example, employees in Ireland to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index delivered at several Intel sites around the world. were able to reduce the number of filter changes needed on scanner 119 UN Global Compact— tools used in our factories, saving some 350,000 gallons of water per Sustainability in Action Grant Program. Through this program, Communication on Progress year, along with over $500,000 related to waste reduction and improved employees can apply for funding for innovative environmental projects. productivity. To learn more about another winning project, see the Supply Access the Report Builder Employees are encouraged to include external stakeholders in their projChain section of this report. ects, and many often focus their efforts on addressing environmental 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 35 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Online Communities. To increase awareness and engage employees in Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 9 Strategy and Management discussions about sustainability initiatives, in 2009 Intel launched an enviApproach ronmental employee portal and an interactive online employee community, We consider climate change an important environmental Governance and “Green Intel.” Today, more than 1,600 employees are members of the comissue, and many years ago began taking steps to mitigate Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s munity, where they can connect with local green teams and projects at our impact and publicly report on our carbon footprint. 20 Financial Performance their sites. and Economic Impact Intel believes in a portfolio approach to emissions reduction and energy 25 Governance, Ethics, Community and Biodiversity Impacts management. Through a wide variety of efforts—including but not limand Public Policy We are committed to collecting input from local communities about our ited to conservation, energy efficiency, solar installations, green power E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s environmental performance. Transparency and open communication guide purchases, and efficient building designs—Intel has built a strong and 32 Environment our approach. Regular reports from our Arizona and New Mexico commusustainable approach to buying and using energy in an economical and Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability nity environmental groups, for example, are posted on our web site. In early environmentally conscious manner. As part of our commitment to transpar2011, we launched Explore Intel, a pilot interactive web site with real-time ency, since 2003 we have disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions and Key Issues & Priorities environmental reporting for our New Mexico operations. climate change risk through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). To view > Climate Change and Energy Efficiency our public submissions, visit the CDP web site. In addition, the Intel Annual Our employees participate in environmentally focused volunteer projects Report and Form 10-K includes a discussion of climate risk, and our Climate Water Conservation in communities around the world, and a number of our education programs Change Policy outlines our formal position on global climate change. Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and competitions, such as the Intel International Science and Engineering Reducing Air Emissions Fair and the Intel + UC Berkeley Technology Entrepreneurship Challenge, Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology encourage study and innovation on environmental sustainability topics. In 1996, Intel and other U.S. semiconductor manufacturers entered into Applying Technology to For more information, see the Contributions to Society and Stakeholder a voluntary agreement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Environmental Challenges Engagement sections of this report. (EPA) to reduce emissions of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), materials used in Performance Summary & Goals Based on analysis and mapping, we do not believe that any of our manusemiconductor manufacturing that are known to have high global-warming S o cial Fac t o r s facturing or assembly and test operations are located near or have direct potential. The agreement later expanded into a worldwide semiconductor 58 Workplace impact on protected areas on the United Nations List of Protected Areas. industry agreement to reduce PFC emissions 10% below 1995 levels by 79 Supply Chain Some of our operations are located in areas considered by some to be rich 2010, representing what we believe is the world’s first voluntary industry 92 Contributions to Society in biodiversity, but we know of no major negative impacts from our operagreenhouse-gas reduction commitment. In 2010, Intel met this goal, reducA pp e n d i x ing PFC emissions 45% in absolute terms and over 80% on a per chip basis tions on threatened species or protected areas. In recent years, we have 111 About This Report/Approach from the 1995 baseline. to Assurance undertaken voluntary biodiversity efforts at our sites. For example, since 112 GRI Content Index 1994 Intel has been a sponsor of conservation measures to protect the In 2006, Intel joined the EPA’s Climate Leaders program, an industry119 UN Global Compact— River Rye, a tributary to the River Liffey in Ireland and an important salmon government partnership working to develop strategies to reduce overall Communication on Progress spawning ground. During the last decade, studies have indicated improveclimate change. In conjunction with the program, we set a goal to reduce ments in water quality and in salmon and brown trout density as a result of Intel’s greenhouse gas emissions by 30% per unit of production from 2004 Access the Report Builder the restoration activities. The conservation area is also home to the whorl through 2010. As of the end of 2010, we had met our goal, having reduced 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report snail species, which appears on the Irish Red List published by the National emissions by approximately 45% below 2004 levels on a per chip basis. In www.intel.com/go/responsibility Biodiversity Data Centre. 2007, Intel joined the Chicago Climate Exchange, North America’s only cap 36 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel’s Climate Awareness Timeline 9 Strategy and Management Approach Intel announces plans to increase its purchase of renewable energy credits to 2.5 billion kWh, equivalent to 85% of the company's projected 2011 U.S. energy use. Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Intel leads industry Intel announces plans for eight additional solar projects at our facilities in four U.S. states. 20 Financial Performance initiative on PFC reduction with the ﬁrst voluntary agreement and Economic Impact to reduce global-warming Intel becomes largest corporate purchaser of “green” power in the U.S. under U.S. EPA Green Power gases. Intel starts public Partnership; sets new absolute emissions reduction goal; and founds Digital Energy Solutions Campaign. 25 Governance, Ethics, reporting of total energy use. and Public Policy Intel establishes Intel joins U.S. EPA Climate Leaders E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s energy conservation program and commits to reduce per goal: average 4% chip global-warming gases 30% 32 Environment per year reduction from 2004 baseline by 2010. on a per chip basis. Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability Intel joins Intel begins public PFC agreement adopted Intel begins CO2 emissions Chicago Climate Intel founds environmental by World Semiconductor participating in are regulated at Exchange Intel Open Key Issues & Priorities reporting. Council. Industry-wide Carbon Disclosure Ireland site; Intel and co-founds Energy > Climate Change and Energy goal set to reduce PFC Project. starts participating Climate Savers Initiative. emissions 10% below in European Union Computing Efficiency 1995 baseline by 2010. trading program. Initiative. Water Conservation Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Reducing Air Emissions Ahead of the Curve Transparency and Disclosure Driving Industry-Wide Continuous Improvement Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Since the mid-1990s, we have taken voluntary steps and set aggressive goals to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges and trade system for six greenhouse gases. Members made a voluntary we completed a research paper, “Developing an Overall CO2 Footprint for Performance Summary & Goals but legally binding commitment to reduce their aggregate emissions by 6% Semiconductor Products,”1 published by the IEEE, which analyzed the S o cial Fac t o r s by 2010, compared to a baseline of average annual emissions from 1998 Scope 3 impacts from our industry, including embedded CO2 in the supply 58 Workplace to 2001. After achieving these goals in 2010, both the Climate Leaders and chain. In this research, we primarily focused on activities that directly sup79 Supply Chain Chicago Climate Exchange disbanded. We also continued our participation port manufacturing operations, and did not include potential impacts from 92 Contributions to Society in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme during 2010. other support operations or assess the embedded CO2 impact from capital A pp e n d i x goods such as buildings or manufacturing equipment. In 2008, we set a goal to reduce the absolute global-warming gas foot111 About This Report/Approach print from Intel operations 20% below 2007 levels by 2012. As of the end While the calculation of an overall CO2 footprint still contains many uncerto Assurance of 2010, we hadResearch reduced our absolute emissions more than 40% below tainties, our research confirmed previous findings that the largest CO2 112 GRI Content Index and Development 2007 levels. As greenhouse gas regulations emerge in the U.S. and elseimpact from semiconductors comes from consumer use. Excluding product 119 UN Global Compact— We can signiﬁcantly Communication on Progress where, we continue reduce tothe footprintways to reduce emissions and work with evaluate consumer use, semiconductor manufacturing has the greatest impact, of our products and regulators to ensure thatbynew processes rules can achieve environmental goals while considering accounting for approximately 60% of the CO2 impact, with the balance Access the Report Builder environmental impact allowing semiconductor manufacturers the flexibility they need to operate. attributable to logistics, supply chain, and commute and business travel. at the research and 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report development phase. For additional information about our supply chain footprint, see the Supply We continue to engage in research to better understand our carbon www.intel.com/go/responsibility Chain section of this report. footprint, so that we can best prioritize our reduction efforts. In 2009, 37 ©  2009 IEEE. Reprinted with permission. 1 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2010 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reported by Type 9 Strategy and Management Approach Scope Emissions1 Notes 4.0 80 Governance and Scope 1 Emissions 930,000 Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 3.5 70 Scope 2 Emissions2 1,190,000 20 Financial Performance Normalized Production Index (Year 2000=100) Million Metric Tons of CO2 Equivalent (MMtCO2e) and Economic Impact Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 3,120,000 25 Governance, Ethics, 3.0 60 (excluding RECs) and Public Policy Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 2,120,000 2.8 2.8 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 2.5 50 (including RECs) 2.8 32 Environment Scope 3 Emissions (estimated) Our Approach to 2.0 40 Environmental Sustainability • Direct materials supplier emissions 1,000,000 1.9 Key Issues & Priorities 1.5 30 • Transportation and distribution of inputs 500,000 > Climate Change and Energy and waste generated in operations 1.5 1.5 Efficiency • Use of goods and services sold 42,000,000 1.0 0.2 20 Water Conservation 0.2 0.2 • Business travel 95,000 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 0.5 0.1 10 Reducing Air Emissions 1.0 0.9 0.1 1 Reported in metric tons of CO2e 0.7 2 Including RECs Energy-Efficient Performance 0.4 0.5 and Product Ecology Related Links: World Resources Institute (WRI) Global Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) Mobile Combustion Applying Technology to 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 CO2 Emissions Calculation Tool Environmental Challenges Energy Perﬂuorocompounds (PFCs) GHG Protocol CO2 Emissions from Business Travel Tool Performance Summary & Goals Inventory of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990–2004 Other Greenhouse Gases Greenhouse Gas S o cial Fac t o r s Emissions—Normalized In addition to the summary data provided above, a more detailed breakdown and 58 Workplace discussion of our emissions by country and by type is available in our publicly available Intel’s absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were up 3% in 2010 compared to 2009, 79 Supply Chain CDP response. Note that slight variations between data in this report and our final CDP while emissions on a per chip basis were down 17%. Our purchase of renewable energy filing may exist, due to additional data received following publication of this report and 92 Contributions to Society credits (RECs) contributed to the significant decrease in absolute emissions from 2007 based on differences in the treatment of RECs under the CDP methodology and the to 2008. The RECs resulted in a reduction of approximately 1 million MMtCO2e in Scope A pp e n d i x timing of certain changes in the GHG Protocol. 2 emissions from 2008 through 2010. The table on this page shows our emissions data 111 About This Report/Approach with and without taking into account our REC purchases. In 2010, our REC purchases to Assurance represented approximately 51% of our U.S. energy use. 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 38 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Energy conservation projects. In 2010, we continued to allocate Intel’s Carbon Footprint 9 Strategy and Management funds for resource conservation and efficiency projects aimed at reducing Approach energy use in our operations. Projects included installation of more effiBreakdown of Intel Scope 1, 2, 3 Emissions: Governance and 46 Million Metric 2.2% cient lighting and smart system controls; boiler and chilled water system Tons of CO2 0.2% 1.1% Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Equivalent 4.6% improvements; and cleanroom heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and 20 Financial Performance (MMtCO2e) heat recovery improvements. Since 2001, Intel has invested more than and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, $45 million and completed over 1,500 projects, saving more than 790 and Public Policy million kilowatt-hours (kWh) of energy, or the approximate CO2 emissions E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s from the electricity use of more than 69,000 average U.S. homes for one 32 Environment year1. These investments have enabled Intel to reduce energy costs by Our Approach to an average of approximately $23 million per year. In the first half of 2011, Environmental Sustainability 92% we approved an additional $13 million for energy-efficiency and resource Key Issues & Priorities Products Business Air Travel Transportation conservation projects. We will also run two smart-building pilots: one at > Climate Change and Energy Operations Supply Chain and Logistics our assembly and test facility in Costa Rica, and one at our design center in Efficiency Guadalajara, Mexico, to identify new opportunities to reduce energy use. Water Conservation Breakdown of Intel Operations: Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 2.1 MMtCO2e Energy Use 0.1% 6.4% Reducing Air Emissions 9.4% Energy-Efficient Performance 6 120 Normalized Production Index (Year 2000=100) and Product Ecology Applying Technology to 1.0 5 1.0 1.0 110 Environmental Challenges 24.8% 59.3% 0.9 0.9 Performance Summary & Goals Billion Kilowatt-Hours 4 100 S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace Electricity Natural Gas Other 3 90 79 Supply Chain PFCs Diesel Chemicals 92 Contributions to Society 4.8 4.7 4.6 2 4.2 4.3 80 A pp e n d i x Energy-Efficient Operations 111 About This Report/Approach Many of the major trends in semiconductor manufacturing inherently 1 70 to Assurance improve energy efficiency. For example, the industry’s move from 200mm 112 GRI Content Index to 300mm wafers increased manufacturing energy efficiency by about 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress 20%, primarily because more chips could be produced at a time. The trend 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 toward smaller Percentages 1 chips, such asbased were estimated theonIntel® Atom™ 2008 data. processor, Breakdowns generates savings did not change signiﬁcantly for 2009. Natural Gas Electricity Access the Report Builder for similar reasons, as do advancements through Moore’s Law that enable Diesel Energy Use—Normalized 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report the sizes of features on chips to shrink over time. www.intel.com/go/responsibility In 2010, energy use in our operations increased 2% from 2009 on an absolute basis and decreased 24% on a per chip basis. The significant increase in the 2009 per chip figure was due primarily to lower manufacturing levels. 39 1 Source: U.S. EPA Green Power Equivalency Calculator. Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Role-modeling Information Technology (IT) Sustainability. Intel In 2010, we more than tripled the number of Intel meeting rooms with 9 Strategy and Management IT’s Sustainability Framework uses data center, compute, and office infravideoconferencing capabilities, including the addition of videoconferencApproach structure, as well as our client compute offerings, to collectively contribute ing rooms in 11 new countries. We estimate that videoconferencing saved Governance and to Intel’s emissions reduction goal. Our IT organization has met growing employees 57,000 hours of travel time in 2010—a 27% increase over Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s computing demands while reducing Intel’s consumption of IT-related and 2009—and saved Intel more than $26 million in travel expenses. In addi20 Financial Performance office energy—resulting in energy cost savings of $5.8 million in 2010 (up tion, the reduction in travel helped prevent the release of 22,500 metric and Economic Impact from $4 million in 2009) and the avoidance of more than 60,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy tons of CO2 emissions. In recognition of Intel IT’s sustainability achieve1 To read more about our IT group’s efforts to reduce E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s ments, Intel was named to Computerworld’s 2010 list of “Top Green-IT Intel’s energy use, read the Intel IT Performance Report 32 Environment Organizations.” 2010–2011 and access videos and case studies. Our Approach to Intel IT recently developed an innovative application that analyzes server Environmental Sustainability utilization, enabling us to substantially reduce the number of servers used Investing in Renewable Power Key Issues & Priorities in our design operations. The reduction in servers reduced energy conSince 2008, Intel has been the largest voluntary purchaser of green > Climate Change and Energy sumption by more than 8 million kWh, saving $645,000 in energy costs, power in the U.S., under the U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership program. Efficiency avoiding 4,200 metric tons of CO2 emissions, and earning Intel an InfoWorld We initially committed to purchase renewable energy credits (RECs) to Water Conservation 2010 Green 15 Award for the second year in a row. support the generation of more than 1.3 billion kWh per year as part of Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle a multi-year contract. That purchase placed Intel at the top of the Green Reducing Air Emissions Our data center engineering team also worked with 80 Intel data center Power Partnership’s “National Top 25” and “Fortune 500 Challenge” lists. In Energy-Efficient Performance managers and facilities engineers to implement Intel IT’s energy-efficiency and Product Ecology January 2010, we increased our purchase commitment by 10%, to over 1.43 methodology across Intel data centers in 20 locations. The team’s work Applying Technology to billion kWh of RECs per year—equivalent to 51% of our projected annual Environmental Challenges on more than 75 sustainability-focused projects saved 9 million kWh of U.S. electricity use. For our actions, and leadership, Intel received an EPA Performance Summary & Goals energy, reduced energy costs by approximately $700,000, and enabled us Green Power Partner of the Year Award in 2010, the third year in a row. to avoid the release of 4,800 metric tons of CO2 emissions. S o cial Fac t o r s In February 2011, we announced that Intel would increase its REC pur58 Workplace We also significantly reduced our server footprint in 2010 by 28,000 chase for 2011 to 2.5 billion kWh—equivalent to approximately 85% of our 79 Supply Chain metric tons of CO2 emissions, by executing to our four-year server refresh projected 2011 U.S. energy use—a 75% increase over our 2010 purchase. 92 Contributions to Society policy and implementing virtualization technologies. Over the past two According to the EPA, our purchase commitment—which includes a portfoA pp e n d i x years, Intel IT has been able to balance reduction with incremental demand lio of wind, solar, small hydroelectric, geothermal, and biomass sources—has 111 About This Report/Approach and reduce our IT-related CO2 footprint by 10%. the equivalent environmental impact of eliminating the carbon dioxide to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index emissions from the annual electricity use of nearly 218,000 average “ Intel’s REC purchases, support for solar installations, American homes or nearly 202 million gallons of gasoline consumed1. Intel’s 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress and other clean energy investments will continue renewable energy efforts are intended to provide leadership and help spur to be priorities for us as we search for effective Access the Report Builder sustainability opportunities around the globe.” 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Brian Krzanich, Senior Vice President and General Manager, www.intel.com/go/responsibility Manufacturing and Supply Chain 40 1 Includes savings from direct IT hardware energy-saving projects (i.e., server refresh, video conferencing, and other projects). Back Next Previous View 2 Source: U.S. EPA Green Power Equivalency Calculator and World Resources Institute (WRI) commercial travel assumptions. ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile the market and make renewables cheaper and more accessible over the Improving Product Energy Efficiency 9 Strategy and Management long-term to reduce the overall carbon emissions from electricity generaAs noted in the Intel Product Life Cycle and Value Chain illustration earlier Approach tion. Intel’s 2011 REC purchase will be handled by Sterling Planet, a supplier in this section, consumer use of our products represents the largest porGovernance and of renewable energy, energy-efficient, and low-carbon solutions in the tion of our overall carbon footprint. As a result, we have invested signifiEc o n o m ic Fac t o r s U.S. All purchases will be certified by the nonprofit Center for Resource cant resources in recent years to drive higher levels of energy efficiency in 20 Financial Performance Solutions’ Green-e* program, which certifies and verifies green power our products. For a detailed discussion, see “Energy-Efficient Performance and Economic Impact products in order to meet the requirements of the EPA’s Green Power and Product Ecology.” 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Purchasing Program. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Solar Installations. In 2010, we partnered with third parties to complete Climate Leadership Activities and Public Policy 32 Environment According to Gartner Research, about 2% of the world’s emissions come nine solar electric installations at Intel locations in Arizona, California, New Our Approach to from the information and communications technology (ICT) industry. In Mexico, Oregon, and Israel—collectively generating more than 3.8 million Environmental Sustainability addition to the need to drive greater computing-related energy efficiency, kWh per year of clean solar energy. The projects include a 1-megawatt Key Issues & Priorities the ICT industry has an important role to play in reducing “the other 98%” solar field that spans nearly six acres of land on Intel’s Folsom, California > Climate Change and Energy of global emissions. The “Smart 2020: Enabling the Low Carbon Economy campus; four rooftop installations; and four solar support structures in Intel Efficiency in the Information Age” report, published in 2008 by The Climate Group parking lots. Each of the U.S. installations, which were completed and are Water Conservation and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, estimated that the ICT sector operated by SolarCity, currently ranks among the 10 largest solar instalWaste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle could reduce up to 15% of business-as-usual emissions globally by 2020. A lations in its respective utility territory. The RECs generReducing Air Emissions follow-up report put the potential reduction in the U.S. even higher—to as Energy-Efficient Performance ated by these installations are typically transferred to the much as 22% by 2020. Intel collaborates on initiatives with multiple stakeand Product Ecology local utility to support their regulatory obligations and holders to reduce ICT-related emissions, and to identify ways that the ICT Applying Technology to programs. Environmental Challenges industry can help reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions across Performance Summary & Goals In addition to these new installations, we had previously installed solar other sectors of the global economy. energy systems in India, New Mexico, and Oregon. Solar hot water systems S o cial Fac t o r s Energy Star. In the 1990s, Intel worked with the U.S. EPA to develop in India now supply nearly 100% of the hot water used at our two largest 58 Workplace energy-efficiency standards. Since 2005, that work with the Energy Star* campuses in that country, saving approximately 70,000 kWh annually. 79 Supply Chain program and the EPA has included helping to establish product, data center 92 Contributions to Society Cleantech Investments. Intel Capital, Intel’s global investment organiza(buildings), and alternative energy specifications. In 2009, Intel extended A pp e n d i x tion, has invested more than $150 million in the solar energy sector since collaboration on product energy efficiency by helping to establish the 111 About This Report/Approach 2008 to accelerate innovation in 20 start-up companies that are developEnergy Star Program Requirements for Computers Version 5.0 specificato Assurance ing alternative power sources. In September 2010, Intel Capital announced tion, which defines a transition to monitoring energy consumption instead 112 GRI Content Index new investments in intelligent grid software and services to support IT of power levels, and the Energy Star Program Requirements for Computer 119 UN Global Compact— and data center efficiency. Servers specification, which establishes energy standards for servers in Communication on Progress addition to promoting power management techniques. We also helped Access the Report Builder author industry implementation guidelines. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 41 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel works with worldwide agencies to establish methodologies comDigital Energy Solutions Campaign (DESC). Intel founded and co9 Strategy and Management mon to Energy Star for energy-efficiency policies in different regions. For chairs DESC, a coalition of ICT companies, non-governmental organizations Approach example, we provide technical insight on Energy Star test methods for (NGOs), and trade associations dedicated to promoting adoption of public Governance and energy-efficiency programs in Australia, China, Europe, India, and Japan. policies that will enable ICT to realize its full potential to improve societal Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Harmonization on product energy metrics allows the industry to focus on energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. DESC advocates directly 20 Financial Performance technology advancement instead of chasing divergent evaluation methwith government leaders and through public education, workshops, and and Economic Impact ods. Intel is currently working with industry stakeholders and the Standard targeted research. In 2009, Intel also helped launch DESC in India, and in 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC) to develop energy-efficient 2010, the group released a white paper outlining ICT-related opportunities E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s performance tools for servers that could be used in Energy Star and other to help India achieve its climate goals. A chapter of DESC also was founded 32 Environment programs. in 2010 in China and includes more than a dozen members. DESC China and Our Approach to DESC India engage with their respective governments to identify ways Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI). Intel, Google, and the Environmental Sustainability that ICT can help address climate change via improved energy efficiency. World Wildlife Fund jointly launched CSCI in June 2007, with the goal of Key Issues & Priorities building awareness and encouraging the use of more efficient compoIntel Open Energy Initiative. Founded in 2009, the Intel Open Energy > Climate Change and Energy nents and power management features to reduce computer-related CO2 Initiative aligns and mobilizes Intel and its partners around the application Efficiency emissions. The initiative is unique in that it unites industry, consumers, of technology and open standards to accelerate the global transition to Water Conservation government, and conservation organizations—securing commitments from smart energy. Specifically, Intel is working to accelerate the integration of Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle manufacturers to produce and sell more energy-efficient products and and synergy between intelligent renewable energy sources, smart grids, Reducing Air Emissions Energy-Efficient Performance encouraging consumers to purchase computers with better efficiencies. smart buildings, and empowered energy consumers. Intel’s actions include: and Product Ecology policy influence; collaboration in relevant government programs, standards At the end of 2010, CSCI had more than 650 members in 53 countries. Applying Technology to bodies, consortia, and coalitions; partnerships with utilities on energy effiEnvironmental Challenges Members take a leadership role in deploying smarter computing practices ciency and smart grid programs; and strategic investments via Intel Capital. Performance Summary & Goals and improving the energy efficiency of their computing fleets, and thereby eliminating significant energy waste and carbon emissions. In July 2010, The Green Grid. Intel serves on the board of the Green Grid, a global S o cial Fac t o r s CSCI announced that through collective industry efforts, the IT sector has consortium founded in 2007 made up of companies dedicated to energy 58 Workplace reduced annual CO2 emissions by 32 million metric tons since 2007. To help efficiency in business computing ecosystems. The Green Grid provides 79 Supply Chain drive further reductions, CSCI has expanded its charter to improve network industry-wide recommendations on best practices, metrics, and technolo92 Contributions to Society device and infrastructure efficiency. Intel also helped launch CSCI in India, gies to improve overall data center energy efficiency. Recent Green Grid A pp e n d i x with a goal of cutting computer power consumption in half and avoiding activities include creating sustainability metrics for data centers around 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 4 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2012. carbon and water usage effectiveness, with Intel representatives serving 112 GRI Content Index as key contributors and editors. 119 UN Global Compact— Through the Digital Energy Solutions Campaign, Communication on Progress Intel collaborates with other ICT companies, NGOs, Access the Report Builder and trade associations to promote the adoption 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report of public policies that enable ICT to realize www.intel.com/go/responsibility its full potential to drive improvements in energy efficiency and reduce emissions. 42 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Water Conservation reuse strategy, we harvest as much water from our manufacturing pro9 Strategy and Management cesses as possible and direct it to equipment such as cooling towers and Approach We continue to focus on sustainable water management at scrubbers. In addition, at some of our locations, we have arrangements to Governance and our sites worldwide, to meet our business needs as well as take back gray water from local municipal water treatment operations for Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s those of our communities. use at our campuses. In 2010, we internally recycled approximately 2 billion 20 Financial Performance gallons of water, equivalent to 25% of our total water withdrawals for and Economic Impact We consider efficient and environmentally sound water management the year. 25 Governance, Ethics, throughout all stages of our operations, including reviewing access to and Public Policy sustainable water sources as a criterion when selecting a site for an Intel While our ultimate vision is to achieve the continuous reuse of water in E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s semiconductor manufacturing, we currently discharge water from our facility. Water and energy experts at our locations around the world help us 32 Environment operations in compliance with local permits. In 2010, we sent an estimated manage and research opportunities for reductions, such as incorporating Our Approach to 80% of the water used at our sites back to municipal water treatment Environmental Sustainability water conservation elements into the design of our facilities and establishing specific water goals for new process technologies. We also work to operations, where it could be treated for reuse for irrigation or other purKey Issues & Priorities poses in the community or returned to the water source. The balance was understand the potential impact of our water use at the community level, Climate Change and Energy lost to evaporation (roughly 20% of incoming supply, or 1.4 billion gallons). Efficiency and engage in discussions about responsible water use and the human > Water Conservation right to water. For more information about our commitment to water conOur water discharge methods vary by site, based on the needs of the Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle servation and responsible water management, read the Intel Water Policy. community. While we work with local water management agencies to Reducing Air Emissions determine different solutions for each manufacturing location, we estabEnergy-Efficient Performance Investing in Responsible Water Management lish wastewater goals for each element based on the site with the most and Product Ecology Since 1998, we have invested more than $100 million in water conserstringent standards. For example, if a particular element is most stringently Applying Technology to vation programs at our global facilities. To date, our comprehensive and Environmental Challenges regulated in Oregon, we will apply Oregon’s standard across all of our other aggressive efforts have saved nearly 40 billion gallons of water—enough manufacturing sites worldwide. Performance Summary & Goals for roughly 370,000 U.S. homes for an entire year1. We estimate that it S o cial Fac t o r s takes 16 gallons of water to produce a single chip2; by comparison, producTo set our goals, we complete a comprehensive review for each element 58 Workplace ing one pair of jeans takes 2,900 gallons, one hamburger takes 634 galbased on a number of aspects, including but not limited to permit limits 79 Supply Chain for our sites and municipal treatment plants, activated sludge inhibition lons, and one cup of tea takes 9 gallons3. 92 Contributions to Society criteria, receiving stream water quality, and sludge protection. We use a Over time, we have improved the efficiency of the process used to create number of key tenets derived from the U.S. Clean Water Act to guide our A pp e n d i x the ultra-pure water (UPW) required to clean silicon wafers during fabricaactions globally, including never causing pass-through or interference at 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance tion. In the past, we needed almost 2 gallons of water to make 1 gallon local municipal treatment plants or impacting their ability to reuse their 112 GRI Content Index of UPW, but today we can make 1 gallon of UPW from between 1.25 and wastewater or sludge. 119 UN Global Compact— 1.5 gallons of water. After we use UPW to clean wafers, the water is suitCommunication on Progress able for industrial purposes, irrigation, and many other needs. Our factories In recognition of our proactive approach to goal setting, wastewater disare equipped with complex rinse-water collection systems, with separate charge, and related policies, we presented at a March 2011 regional training Access the Report Builder conference of the Pacific Northwest Clean Water Association in the U.S. drains for collecting lightly contaminated wastewater for reuse. With this 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report for municipal wastewater operators and regulators. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 1 Equivalency estimate based on information from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Water. 2 Based on our estimated Scope 1, 2, and 3 water use. References to “per chip” assume a typical chip size of 1 cm2, but actual chips vary in size depending on the specific product. Note that in our 2009 report, we reported 43 an estimated 12 gallons per chip. For this year’s report, we recalculated our per chip water use to exclude the impact from renewable energy credit purchases in order to be more conservative in our estimate. Back Next Previous View 3 Source: Water Footprint Network. ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Water Footprint Analysis Water Withdrawals for Operations Use 9 Strategy and Management Universally accepted step-by-step instructions on how to calculate a Approach Normalized Production Index (Year 1999=100) water footprint are not yet available, but in 2009 we drew on a number of 10 110 Governance and emerging frameworks and research to complete a detailed water footprint Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s assessment1. Our findings suggested that the largest impact on water use 8 7.9 8.1 100 20 Financial Performance 7.7 7.5 7.7 and Economic Impact (66%) was from our direct operations, the area where we have historically Billions of Gallons 25 Governance, Ethics, focused our water conservation investments and where we have achieved 6 90 and Public Policy significant savings to date. Recent studies and publications have found E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s a direct correlation between water consumption and the production of 4 80 32 Environment electricity—referred to as the “energy-water nexus.” In our 2009 water Our Approach to footprint assessment, we found that water associated with our energy 2 70 Environmental Sustainability use and generation represented our second largest use of water. We also Key Issues & Priorities completed an initial estimate of water use related to direct materials supClimate Change and Energy pliers that provide the raw materials (such as chemicals, wafers, and gases) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Efficiency used in our manufacturing process. This supplier consumption represented Water Use Water Use—Normalized > Water Conservation the smallest portion of our total water use. Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle We have set a goal to reduce water use per chip below 2007 levels by 2012. In 2010, Reducing Air Emissions ©  2010 IEEE. Reprinted with permission from “Performing a Water Footprint Assessment for a water use increased 3% from 2009 levels on an absolute basis, and decreased 23% 1 Semiconductor Industry.” on a per chip basis. The spike in the 2009 per chip use figure was due in part to low Energy-Efficient Performance manufacturing levels related to economic conditions. and Product Ecology Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges Intel’s Operational Water Footprint Performance Summary & Goals Mouse over diagram elements for S o cial Fac t o r s additional information. Evaporative Loss (Estimated) 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 1.4 Billion 92 Contributions to Society Intel Operations 6.7 Billion A pp e n d i x Water Supply 8.1 Billion Water Discharge (Scope 1) 0.89 Billion1 111 About This Report/Approach 210 Million 13 Million 0.4 Billion 0.52 Billion 5.8 Billion to Assurance 2 Billion 112 GRI Content Index Energy Providers Tier 1 Suppliers Irrigation Groundwater Replenish 119 UN Global Compact— (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Recharge Water Sources Communication on Progress 1 Reclaimed water from the municipal water treatment operations in Chandler, Arizona for use at our site. This amount includes 450 million gallons in our manufacturing operations, such as in cooling towers Access the Report Builder and air scrubbers, and 440 million gallons by a farmer who we lease land to on our campus in order to help control soil erosion and dust. Note that the 0.89 billion gallons is not additive to irrigation, recharge, or replenishment because this water comes from non-Intel discharges to the municipal water treatment facility. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 Intel worked with the City of Chandler to fund construction of a reverse osmosis facility, which since 1996 has resulted in over 4.5 billion gallons of water being put back into the aquifer. This strategy supports a key Chandler effort to store water in the underground aquifer to assure that the needs of local citizens and businesses are met for many years to come. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 44 Back Next Previous View 3.4 Billion ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile In early 2011, we began work on a follow-up study, partnering with Quantis Comparison of Water Inventory and 9 Strategy and Management on a new IEEE paper to further analyze and test assumptions related to 1 Water Stress Assessment by Location Approach our Scope 2 and Scope 32 water use. Since a number of our operations are 5,761 Governance and located in arid regions—including China, Israel, Arizona, and New Mexico— Ronier Acres, OR 43 Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s one of the areas we focused on was completing a “water equivalency” 5,526 20 Financial Performance Rio Rancho, NM 1,589 analysis, which adjusts total water use by site based on the location’s and Economic Impact 5,435 water stress level and incorporates more qualitative impacts related to Ocotillio, AZ 1,563 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy human health. In addition, water impact associated with the product use Leixlip, Ireland 3,770 34 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s phase was added to the assessment. 2,422 Dalian, China1 696 32 Environment In this new study, we found that water use associated with manufactur2,422 Our Approach to Qiryat-Gat, Israel 696 ing energy use and our direct suppliers was lower than in the first analysis. Environmental Sustainability 1,052 Water related to manufacturing energy use accounted for 2.58%, and our Penang, Malaysia 33 Key Issues & Priorities direct supplier footprint accounted for less than 1% of our operational 908 Aloha, OR 7 Climate Change and Energy water footprint. In addition, the study found that our sites with the greatEfficiency 874 est absolute water use were not necessarily the sites with the highest Hudson, MA 31 > Water Conservation potential impact. Finally, water use associated with electricity used in the Kulim, Malaysia 836 Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 26 consumer-use phase of our products was significant, representing close Reducing Air Emissions Santa Clara, CA 579 to 100% of Intel’s overall water footprint (with the balance in operations, 166 Energy-Efficient Performance 579 and Product Ecology electricity use, and supply chain). This finding indicated that Intel’s continChengdu, China 4 Applying Technology to ued focus on driving energy-efficient performance in our products has a 579 Environmental Challenges Ho Chi Minh City2 153 critical role to play in helping to reduce our overall water footprint. Future Performance Summary & Goals 511 research on water-related impacts from the product-use phase could help Chandler, AZ 147 S o cial Fac t o r s to identify new opportunities to reduce impact and improve the quality of 477 San Jose, Costa Rica 8 58 Workplace water footprinting in the semiconductor industry and beyond. 439 79 Supply Chain Folsom, CA 126 92 Contributions to Society Bangalore, India 68 20 A pp e n d i x In light of the findings on the energy and water 111 About This Report/Approach connection in the product-use phase, Intel’s 0 2,000 4,000 6000 to Assurance continued focus on driving energy-efficient Water inventory: x103 m3 of water 112 GRI Content Index Simpliﬁed water stress assessment: x103 m3 of water equivalent performance in our products has a critical role 119 UN Global Compact— 1 Water usage for the Dalian site is taken to equal that of Qiryat-Gat. Communication on Progress to play in helping to reduce our overall 2 Water usage for the Ho Chi Minh City site is taken to equal that of Chengdu. water footprint. Access the Report Builder The top bar shows total cubic meters of water used at each site in 2010. The bottom bar shows an “equivalent of water” figure adjusted for the water stress of the location 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report using qualitative factors. This analysis confirms that we should prioritize our efforts www.intel.com/go/responsibility and investments at our top four arid locations: New Mexico, Arizona, Israel, and China. ©  2011 IEEE. Reprinted with permission from “A Semiconductor Company’s Examination of Its Water 1 Footprint Approach.” 45 2 Scope 2 relates to water use associated with our energy use. Scope 3 relates to water use associated Back Next Previous View with our direct suppliers and also the consumer product-use phase. ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Local Water Use and Impact In 2010, Intel funded a pilot with the Bonneville Environmental Foundation 9 Strategy and Management In addition to taking internal actions, we partner with others to address to purchase water restoration certificates (WRCs) in Oregon, and to explore Approach opportunities related to WRCs in the southwestern U.S. WRCs are volunsustainable water issues at the local level. For example, in Arizona we Governance and partnered with the City of Chandler to implement a progressive water tary, market-based mechanisms that provide economic incentives for water Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s management system that has reduced Intel Arizona’s daily water demand rights holders to leave water (that they would otherwise use) in critically 20 Financial Performance by up to 75%. In Israel, we partnered with Numonyx B.V. to install a $20 dewatered ecosystems. and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, million advanced membrane bioreactor (MBR) to treat wastewater from our and Public Policy factory. MBR effluent is extremely clean and suitable for reuse, including in Collaboration and Opportunity agricultural irrigation. We regularly benchmark our performance on water use and reuse with E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s other semiconductor companies to identify and share best practices. We 32 Environment At our new wafer fabrication facility in Dalian, China, which opened in late Our Approach to actively participate in environmental performance benchmarking activi2010, we have incorporated processes and systems that we estimate will Environmental Sustainability ties with other members of the World Semiconductor Council (WSC), the save 68 million gallons of city water per year. At our sites in India, through Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), and the International SEMATECH Key Issues & Priorities our water treatment and reuse plan, we currently recapture and reuse Climate Change and Energy Manufacturing Initiative (ISMI), which enable us to better understand how 100% of the water that we would otherwise discharge as wastewater; Efficiency Intel compares to others in the semiconductor industry on total normalized we further capture stormwater for use in our cooling towers. > Water Conservation water and UPW use. In 2010, Intel was included in a benchmark report on Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle In 2003, our Hudson, Massachusetts site established a $1.5 million Intel water reporting and risk disclosure published by CERES, receiving the secReducing Air Emissions Assabet Groundwater Recharge Fund to support projects that help replenond highest score in our sector. Energy-Efficient Performance ish the nearby river and its tributaries. Grants are awarded each year to and Product Ecology Intel is a founding member of the Washington, D.C.-based Water municipalities and nonprofit organizations up to a project maximum of Applying Technology to Innovations Alliance, an industry association that focuses on developing Environmental Challenges $500,000. By the end of 2010, more than $773,000 in grants had been funding, reducing regulatory barriers, increasing collaboration, and raising Performance Summary & Goals established for projects that collectively redirect water and recharge aquiawareness of cutting-edge water technologies and the problems they fers—instead of losing it to runoff or stormwater systems. In 2011, an addiS o cial Fac t o r s address. As water resources become more constrained, the need for tech58 Workplace tional $300,000 grant will be used to fund a groundwater recharge project nologies that promote water conservation is likely to grow and may pres79 Supply Chain at a local school. ent a business opportunity for Intel. For more information, see “Applying 92 Contributions to Society Technology to Environmental Challenges.” A pp e n d i x In 2011, Intel will also participate in the development of the Global 111 About This Report/Approach Environmental Management Initiative (GEMI) Local Water Tool, which when to Assurance At our sites in India, through our water treatment 112 GRI Content Index completed will be a free, publically available tool to help companies underand reuse plan, we currently capture and stand their local water challenges. 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress reuse 100% of the water that we would otherwise discharge as wastewater. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 46 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Local Water Use Data 9 Strategy and Management The following table details the fresh-water sources for our larger sites around the world. However, most of the water that we use in our operations is Approach returned to the local water system. As mentioned above, approximately 80% of the water used at our sites is sent back to municipal water treatment Governance and operations, where it is treated so that it can be reused for other purposes. See our water footprint diagram for additional details. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance 2010 Water1 Use by Manufacturing Location and Economic Impact Location Water Water Internal Estimated Water Primary Water Source2 25 Governance, Ethics, Withdrawn Discharged Water Lost to and Public Policy Recycled Evaporation E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s China 32 Environment Chengdu 153 109 29 44 Surface: Fuhe River Our Approach to Dalian 3 293 192 8 101 Surface: Biliu and Yingna Rivers Environmental Sustainability Costa Rica San Jose 126 66 0 60 Ground: Colima Superior Aquifer Key Issues & Priorities India Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Bangalore 18 7 7 11 Surface: Kabini River > Water Conservation Ireland Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Leixlip 996 975 171 21 Surface: River Liffey Reducing Air Emissions Israel Energy-Efficient Performance Qiryat-Gat 640 414 244 224 Surface and ground: Lake Kinneret, Coastal Aquifer, Mounand Product Ecology tain Aquifer (Yarkon-Tininim), and local desalinization plant Applying Technology to Jerusalem 21 20 4 2 Surface and ground: Lake Kinneret, Coastal Aquifer, Mountain Aquifer (Yarkon-Tininim), and local desalinization plant Environmental Challenges Malaysia Performance Summary & Goals Kulim 221 151 19 70 Surface: Muda River S o cial Fac t o r s Penang 278 181 5 97 Surface: Muda River 58 Workplace United States 79 Supply Chain Chandler, Arizona 135 104 10 31 Surface and ground: Salt and Verde Rivers, local aquifer 92 Contributions to Society Ocotillo, Arizona4 1436 1234 361 203 Surface and ground: Salt and Verde Rivers, local aquifer A pp e n d i x Folsom, California 103 26 0 77 Surface: American River 111 About This Report/Approach Santa Clara, California 153 147 9 7 Surface: Tuolumne River to Assurance Hudson, Massachusetts 231 169 156 62 Ground: Assabet River Basin Aquifer 112 GRI Content Index Rio Rancho, New Mexico 1460 1280 820 180 Ground: Santa Fe Aquifer 119 UN Global Compact— Aloha, Oregon 240 221 0 19 Surface: Tualatin River Communication on Progress Ronler Acres, Oregon 1522 1,327 303 195 Surface: Tualatin River Vietnam Access the Report Builder Ho Chi Minh City3 113 68 10 45 Surface: Dong Nai River 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 In millions of gallons. Figures represent water use/withdrawals by site. For each water source, our 2010 water use did not exceed 5% of that source. 3 Opened in 2010. 4 In addition to 1,436 million 2 www.intel.com/go/responsibility gallons of fresh water used at the site, we used 890 million gallons of gray water from the local municipal water treatment facility for use on our campus, further reducing our use of fresh water. 47 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Solid Waste Recycled 9 Strategy and Management Approach Each year, we recycle a high percentage of the waste from 17% Governance and our operations. In 2010, our employees continued to iden35% Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s tify new opportunities to minimize waste and recycle or 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact reuse materials, from large-scale process improvements to 23% 25 Governance, Ethics, everyday actions. and Public Policy 7% 2% 15% E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Solid Waste Landscape and Food Waste Metal Plastic 32 Environment Since 2007, we have recycled at least 80% of the solid waste generated Cardboard, Fiber, and Paper Comingled Wood Our Approach to in our operations each year. Waste generated during construction makes Environmental Sustainability We recycled 83% of our solid waste in 2010 (with the balance disposed of in landfills), up a significant portion of our solid waste. We have implemented several exceeding our corporate-wide goal of 80%. Landscape and food waste are turned into Key Issues & Priorities programs to reduce, reuse, and recycle the solid waste resulting from conmulch and compost, respectively. Food waste may also be donated to pig farms. Chart Climate Change and Energy struction activities and other Intel operations. In 2010, for example, we does not include donations (i.e., office supplies and surplus equipment) or electronic Efficiency waste. They are tracked separately. recycled or donated 2,225 tons (equivalent to the weight of 1,511 cars1) of Water Conservation materials, including 250 tons of recycled or reclaimed carpeting and 1,977 > Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Solid Waste Generated/Recycled tons of recycled or reused office furniture, as part of our renovation of Reducing Air Emissions Normalized Production Index (Year 1999=100) 1 million square feet of office space. 100 125 Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology In 2010, our waste reduction programs enabled Intel to save more than 83.8 Applying Technology to 80 100 $5 million. To reinforce the value of recycling for our employees, during Environmental Challenges Performance Summary & Goals the past five years, we have applied funds saved through our recycling 60.9 Thousand Tons 60 58.7 75 activities to provide rebates in our cafeterias, purchase employee fitness S o cial Fac t o r s 51.3 center equipment, and make other site improvements. 44.5 58 Workplace 40 50 79 Supply Chain We have instituted composting programs for our cafeteria waste at a 88% 92 Contributions to Society number of our sites. At Intel Malaysia, for example, food scraps are fed to 80% 20 74% 83% 25 80% A pp e n d i x worms and transformed into nutrient-rich compost that is used to fertilize 111 About This Report/Approach the site’s garden and landscapes, and is made available to employees for to Assurance home use. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 112 GRI Content Index In 2010, we sold about 25 tons of silicon wafers that could not be used Solid Waste Recycled Solid Waste Generated— 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress for production. The wafers provided raw material for the solar industry— Solid Waste Generated Normalized enough to manufacture solar cells that could potentially add more than 2.5 Solid waste generated was up 15% on an absolute basis and down 13% on a per chip Access the Report Builder megawatts of clean energy to the power grid every year. Since 2008, we basis in 2010 compared to 2009. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report have donated a total of 115 tons of silicon wafers for reuse. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 48 1 An average car weighs 2,945 pounds. Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Chemical Waste Chemical Waste Generated/Recycled Normalized Production Index (Year 1999=100) 9 Strategy and Management In 2008, we announced a goal to reduce our generation of chemical waste Approach per chip by 10% by 2012 compared to 2007 levels. To date, our chemical 40 200 Governance and waste has actually increased since 2007, due to increasing complexity in Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 31.3 our manufacturing processes. 30 30.0 28.5 150 20 Financial Performance Thousand Tons and Economic Impact 24.7 In 2010, we took steps to reduce two of our largest chemical waste 23.3 25 Governance, Ethics, 20 100 streams: dissolved metallic copper and corrosive solvent. We installed a and Public Policy new system that will enable us to recover dissolved metallic copper on-site, E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 10 84% 75% 50 and plan to install a second one in 2011. The new systems will eliminate 64% 87% 71% 32 Environment off-site shipment of this chemical waste stream and associated transOur Approach to portation emissions. In addition, by optimizing feed control systems to Environmental Sustainability 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 reduce excess lime and sulfuric acid in the calcium fluoride, we reduced the Key Issues & Priorities Chemical Waste Recycled Chemical Waste amount of calcium fluoride waste generated in our treatment system. Climate Change and Energy Chemical Waste Generated Generated—Normalized Efficiency We have also reduced chemical waste associated with indium, a thermal Water Conservation interface material used to absorb heat generated by our products. Since Chemical waste generated was up 27% on an absolute basis and down 4% on a per chip > Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle basis in 2010 compared to 2009. In 2009, the per chip basis was higher than in other 2006, we have worked with our supplier to reclaim and recycle over 6,500 years, in part because of lower manufacturing volumes. Our 2010 chemical waste Reducing Air Emissions kilograms of indium, generating cost savings of more than $2 million from recycling rate was 75%, below our goal of 80%. The closure of a U.S. recycling facility Energy-Efficient Performance 2006 through the end of 2010. and reduced recycling opportunities in Israel contributed to our difficulty in achieving and Product Ecology this goal. Applying Technology to Despite these achievements, we expect to face continuing challenges Environmental Challenges in reducing chemical waste in our operations, and therefore will continue Chemical Waste Management Methods Performance Summary & Goals 6% to focus on recycling as much of this waste as possible. Multiple groups S o cial Fac t o r s 11% across Intel are committed to addressing these challenges in 2011 and 58 Workplace beyond. 8% 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 75% 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Recycled Incinerated Landﬁll Treated 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— The recycled amount also includes chemicals directly reused, chemicals recycled, Communication on Progress and fuel-blending activities. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 49 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Reducing Air Emissions NOx and CO Emissions Normalized Production Index (Year 1999=100) 9 Strategy and Management 214 Approach Through careful design of our production processes, we 200 120 Governance and have reduced our absolute air emissions since 2000, while 170 168 Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 164 159 164 169 expanding our operations more than two-fold. 150 90 20 Financial Performance 138 140 and Economic Impact We work to minimize our emissions of both volatile organic compounds 135 Tons 25 Governance, Ethics, 100 60 (VOCs) and hazardous air pollutants (HAPs). Where we cannot eliminate and Public Policy VOCs and HAPs entirely, we install thermal oxidizers and wet scrubbers to E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 50 30 neutralize and absorb gases and vapors. Thermal oxidizers first concen32 Environment trate VOCs and then oxidize them into carbon dioxide and water vapor. The Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability heat used in this process is passed through a heat exchanger to preheat 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the incoming air and make the unit more efficient and use less fuel. Wet Key Issues & Priorities Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Carbon Monoxide (CO) scrubbers re-circulate water that contains a neutralizing agent to remove Climate Change and Energy NOx Emissions—Normalized CO Emissions—Normalized Efficiency acidic gases and other contaminants. Water Conservation Intel eliminated the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) from manuAbsolute CO emissions were up 4% and per chip CO emissions were down 21% in 2010 compared to 2009. Absolute NOx emissions were up 40% compared to 2009 and per Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle facturing in the 1990s. We have also eliminated the use of Class I ODSs chip NOx emissions were up 5%. > Reducing Air Emissions from refrigerant systems. Although some of our refrigerant systems still Energy-Efficient Performance use Class II ODSs, the units are managed in accordance with the U.S. EPA’s VOC and HAP Emissions and Product Ecology refrigerant management standards and other local requirements to ensure Normalized Production Index (Year 1999=100) Applying Technology to 254 250 247 50 Environmental Challenges that emissions are minimized. Performance Summary & Goals In 2010, we saw sizable increases in both our NOx and HAP emissions from 211 200 40 S o cial Fac t o r s 2009 levels. NOx emissions were up 40% due to bringing on new facilities. 182 58 Workplace HAP emissions were up 38% as a result of new process changes. Our long162 150 30 79 Supply Chain term trend is positive, however; as we have achieved absolute reductions 92 Contributions to Society Tons in HAP emissions compared to 2000 levels. 100 20 A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 50 10 112 GRI Content Index 23 21 19 21 15 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Access the Report Builder VOC Emissions HAP Emissions VOC Emissions—Normalized HAP Emissions—Normalized 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report . www.intel.com/go/responsibility In 2010, absolute VOC emissions were up 13% and HAP emissions were up 41% compared to 2009. VOC emissions were down 15% and HAP emissions were up 4% on a per chip basis. 50 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Energy-Efficient Performance and Intel’s 32nm silicon technology with second-generation Hi-k metal gate 9 Strategy and Management transistors delivers greater energy efficiency than previous generations, Approach Product Ecology because Hi-k metal gates reduce transistor power and increase transistor Governance and Through our Design for the Environment principles, density. Higher transistor densities drive system-level integration, higher Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s we strive to minimize the environmental impact of our productivity, and lower energy consumption. For example, the Intel® Xeon® 20 Financial Performance processor L5640 (released in early 2010) provides the same performance and Economic Impact products at all phases in their life cycle: development, as the previous generation Intel® Xeon® processor X5570, with up to 30% 25 Governance, Ethics, production, use, and ultimate disposal. Energy-efficient and Public Policy lower system power usage1. We project that replacing 15 five-year-old performance is a key element of our product design and servers with a single Intel® Xeon® processor-based server would cut annual E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s overall environmental footprint reduction efforts. energy costs by 95%. To learn more, access the Intel® Xeon® Processor32 Environment Our Approach to based Server Refresh Savings Estimator tool. Environmental Sustainability Improving Product Energy Efficiency In December 2010, we introduced the 2nd generation Intel® Core™ procesTransistors are the building blocks of the electronics industry, so the creKey Issues & Priorities sor family, a new microarchitecture based on our 32nm process technolClimate Change and Energy ation of more energy-efficient transistors leads to more energy-efficient ogy. For personal computers, this advancement eliminated the need for Efficiency computers. With each new generation of process technology, we can fit discrete graphics components in volume computer systems, saving nearly Water Conservation more transistors onto Intel® processors, while also reducing the energy 25% of the platform power budget. The new family of processors also Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle required to power them. Moore’s Law describes the pace of these trends, brings significant energy-efficient performance improvements for servers. Reducing Air Emissions which—when combined with Intel® architecture and circuit design innova> Energy-Efficient Performance For example, with the Intel® Xeon® processor E3 platforms, Intel projects tions—have enabled us to reduce the amount of energy consumed per and Product Ecology a 20%−30% performance increase within the same power envelope. The transistor by a factor of approximately 1 million over the past 30 years. Applying Technology to new processor’s energy-efficiency improvements for laptops include: Environmental Challenges Our goal is to drive energy-efficient performance across all of our major Performance Summary & Goals • 25% lower average power consumption with 20%−70% more perforproduct lines—from netbook and embedded processors to those used mance than the 2010 processor. S o cial Fac t o r s in laptops, desktops, and servers. We estimate that Intel technology will 58 Workplace enable the billion PCs and servers installed between 2007 and 2014 to • A 30% reduction in thermal design power (TDP) compared to previous79 Supply Chain consume half the energy and deliver 17 times the compute capacity of generation processors with discrete graphics cards. 92 Contributions to Society the first billion PCs and servers (installed between 1980 and 2007). • A 10-fold reduction in energy use when Intel® vPro™ technology is A pp e n d i x Each new generation of processors brings important benefits for consumapplied, compared to the energy consumption of unmanaged PCs 111 About This Report/Approach ers and the environment. We estimate that the conversion to the energypurchased in 2006. to Assurance efficient Intel® Core™ microarchitecture saved up to 26 terawatt-hours 112 GRI Content Index In early 2011, we introduced the Intel® Centrino® Advanced-N 6230 wire119 UN Global Compact— of electricity between 2006 and 2009, compared to the technology it less card for laptops, which combines WiFi and Bluetooth* capabilities on Communication on Progress replaced. That is equivalent to eliminating the CO2 emissions associated a single card. A laptop equipped with the new card requires less material with the annual electricity use of more than 2 million U.S. homes. for manufacturing and can use less energy compared to a laptop equipped Access the Report Builder with two separate wireless cards. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 51 1 Source: www.intel.com/performance/server/xeon/summary.htm Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Intel has pioneered a diverse set of hardware and software technologies with industry, governments, and NGOs to balance environmental protec9 Strategy and Management that help measure and optimize energy use in computers and data centers. tion with workable technical solutions for the pending revision of the RoHS Approach The Intel® Intelligent Power Node Manager and Intel® Data Center Manager Directive. Intel has also worked to help China develop a regulation restrictGovernance and (Intel® DCM) allow IT managers to monitor the energy consumption of their ing the use of the same materials as the EU’s RoHS regulation of 2006. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s servers, potentially resulting in increased rack density and lower power For details, visit our RoHS/Lead (Pb) Free Solutions web site. 20 Financial Performance consumption. A proof of concept completed with the BMW Group showed and Economic Impact While legislation does not require the elimination of halogenated flame that use of the Intel Intelligent Power Node Manager and Intel DCM can 25 Governance, Ethics, retardants, Intel has taken steps to reduce our use of these materials. We and Public Policy lower server power consumption by 18% and increase server efficiency have played a role in facilitating industry consensus around low-halogen E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s by approximately 19%. Power management technologies practices and chairing industry standards committees on materials selec32 Environment are also helping our public sector customers. Also read the tion and eco-design. Most of our 45-nanometer (nm) processors and all Our Approach to case study on how Intel technology helped the Swedish of our 65nm chipsets and 32nm processors use low-halogen packaging Environmental Sustainability Public Employment Service reduce its costs and environtechnology. Key Issues & Priorities mental impact. Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) is an Climate Change and Energy In 2010, Intel developed a prototype of a personal office energy manager Efficiency EU regulation that went into effect in 2007, affecting the use of approxi(POEM) in collaboration with the Positive Energy Building Consortium Water Conservation mately 30,000 chemical substances. As part of REACH, registration is (GIE Enjeu Energie Positive). POEM reads sensors in a modern office PC Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle required for all existing chemical substances manufactured or imported network and displays the energy “footprint” of an individual, as well as Reducing Air Emissions into the EU in quantities greater than 1 ton per year. The process requires a > Energy-Efficient Performance the aggregate energy of the office floor and entire building. It uses the “re-registration” by the manufacturer or importer for many substances that and Product Ecology visual metaphor of a garden of flowers to convey a sense of electricwe use. To prevent supply chain interruption, we are collaborating with Applying Technology to ity consumed by PCs, printers, and other equipment. POEM helps reduce Environmental Challenges suppliers to ensure that they meet REACH requirements. Under certain overall energy consumption by informing individual office workers of their Performance Summary & Goals conditions, REACH regulates chemical substances of very high concern electricity consumption and providing tips about how to reduce it. To learn (SVHC) within products. We have reviewed our products against the initial S o cial Fac t o r s more about this project and other initiatives to improve the efficiency of SVHC list, have met current obligations, and will continue to monitor the 58 Workplace computing, read the white paper. list as other substances are added. 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society Product Ecology Electronic Waste A pp e n d i x We work to reduce the environmental footprint of our products from Managing electronic waste (e-waste), such as computers, televisions, and 111 About This Report/Approach design through disposal, which includes evaluating the environmental mobile phones, is a global concern. Since 2005, the EU’s Waste Electrical to Assurance impact of the materials used in our processes and working with others 112 GRI Content Index and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive has required producers of ceron responsible management of electronic waste (e-waste). 119 UN Global Compact— tain electrical and electronic equipment to develop programs that allow Communication on Progress Over the last decade, Intel has worked with suppliers and customers, and consumers to return products for recycling. Most of our products—includparticipated in several industry consortia, in an effort to eliminate lead and ing motherboards, microprocessors, and other components—are generAccess the Report Builder halogenated flame retardants from our products. We have now shipped ally not considered to be within the scope of the directive until they are 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report over 500 million lead-free components worldwide. The European Union incorporated into a final product, generally by an OEM. Although the final www.intel.com/go/responsibility (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive sets limitations assembly and configuration of our chassis-level server products are comon the use of six materials, including lead. We have taken a leadership role monly completed by commercial customers, Intel considers the products to 52 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile be within the scope of the directive and provides ways to recycle them. In Intel has been a leading participant in the development of the Electronic 9 Strategy and Management some countries, our distributors provide recycling options for products covProduct Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT*), a rating system Approach ered by the directive. Intel has also facilitated recycling of our digital health designed to help purchasers in the public and private sector evaluate, comGovernance and products in the EU. Information is available on the Intel WEEE Directive pare, and select laptops, desktops, and monitors based on environmental Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Recycling Program web site. attributes. The tool was developed through a multi-year, multi-stakeholder 20 Financial Performance effort that included representatives from the IT industry, the EPA, federal and Economic Impact While our components are not typically subject to recycling or e-waste and state purchasers, recyclers, and non-governmental environmental 25 Governance, Ethics, laws, we work with OEMs, retailers, customers, and others to identify and Public Policy organizations. The EPEAT system provides consistent criteria for product shared solutions for used electronics. As a components manufacturer, E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s evaluation, including energy performance, recyclability, and packaging. we believe that the biggest impacts on a product’s environmental foot32 Environment We provide information to channel partners and customers about EPEAT print occur at the design phase. Intel recently participated in an initiative Our Approach to through our Intel® Reseller Center web site. to develop an international Design for the Environment standard for IT Environmental Sustainability products–IEC 62075 Environmentally Conscious Design (IEC-62075). We Key Issues & Priorities are working to integrate the elements of IEC-62075 into our own design Applying Technology to Environmental Climate Change and Energy practices, and are completing internal studies of design-related opportuniEfficiency Challenges ties to improve recyclability. More information on the standard is available Water Conservation at the International Electrotechnical Commission web site. People are using technology to help solve environmental Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reducing Air Emissions challenges around the world. Through technology, individuInformation on recycling options for Intel products is available through the Energy-Efficient Performance Intel Product Recycling Program web site. We continue to support the U.S. als, families, companies, and governments gain information and Product Ecology that can empower them to drive more sustainable pracEPA’s Plug-In To eCycling campaign, which is designed to build public and > Applying Technology to Environmental Challenges private support for proper recycling of used electronics. Over the past six tices in homes and across industries—helping to reduce Performance Summary & Goals years, Intel has collected more than 7.7 million pounds of e-waste at comthe environmental footprint of cities and countries. munity collection events, helping communities recycle their used electronS o cial Fac t o r s ics responsibly. Collected materials—computers, printers, monitors, TVs, Today, nearly every segment of industry is either in the 58 Workplace and more—are sent to qualified recycling facilities for materials recovery. In process of (or beginning to explore) transforming their 79 Supply Chain 2010, we hosted or sponsored community electronics recycling events in energy management and IT practices in order to achieve 92 Contributions to Society Costa Rica and in three U.S. states, collecting over 90,000 pounds of used new levels of energy and environmental efficiency. A pp e n d i x electronics. Since many U.S. states now provide opportunities for e-waste Intel continues to explore opportunities to design, develop, and deliver new 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance recycling, we are shifting our focus and reducing the number of collection technologies to address sustainability challenges. Our focus areas include: 112 GRI Content Index events held each year. transforming to a low-carbon economy (energy, transportation); coping 119 UN Global Compact— Our PC Services department manages our internal assets. Products that with climate change (water, air, modeling, extreme event preparation and Communication on Progress response); and promoting transparency (providing data on embedded carcan no longer be used within the company but are in working order may be sold or donated. Electronic equipment that is obsolete is processed by bon, materials, toxics, etc.). In each of these areas, systems are becoming Access the Report Builder qualified recyclers. Intel’s surplus electronic equipment, such as idle manuinfused with IT that measures (senses), models (analyzes), and manages 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report (controls) these man-made and natural systems. www.intel.com/go/responsibility facturing tools, may be donated or sold as part of Intel’s equipment surplus program. 53 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our researchers are developing whole-system energy management solu• Intel Labs, together with researchers at Sandia National Laboratories, 9 Strategy and Management tions for commercial buildings, homes, data centers, and utility distribuused gaming technology to help teach people about water consumption Approach tion networks. We are also working with leading scientific institutions to and encourage their participation in public policy discussions on sustainGovernance and develop high-performance computational models to enable more accurate ability. The “Water Wars” game enables players to assume the roles of Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s climate and weather predictions. In addition, we are conducting research water systems managers and users, farmers, gardeners, 20 Financial Performance into the use of sensors, analytics, modeling, and decision support systems retailers, and consumers, and take actions when faced and Economic Impact for urban and rural water management. with water scarcity. The gaming simulation can help 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy policymakers understand how decisions affect diverse The following are a few of the ways that Intel is involved in using technolE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s stakeholders. ogy to solve environmental challenges: 32 Environment • The Eco-Technology Program Office conducted research in 2010 into • In 2010, we released the Intel® Intelligent Home Energy Management Our Approach to assessing technology opportunities related to water. The group will comEnvironmental Sustainability System proof of concept based on the Intel® Atom™ processor. The plete pilot studies in 2011 in partnership with water utilities and agriculsystem’s central dashboard helps family members stay connected and Key Issues & Priorities tural users in India and other locations to explore opportunities to apply make informed decisions about energy use, home maintenance, and Climate Change and Energy Intel technology to the global water challenge. Efficiency home security. Capgemini, a global technology and consulting leader, has Water Conservation announced that it will offer a home energy dashboard for its utility cus• In West Oakland, California, Intel Labs teamed up with a local environWaste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle tomers using the Intel proof of concept. To learn more, access the demo mental group, West Oakland Environmental Indicators Project (EIP), to Reducing Air Emissions on our web site. test new platforms for environmental monitoring. West Oakland resiEnergy-Efficient Performance dents are exposed to poor air quality and particulate matter, yet the area and Product Ecology • The Intel Labs research group completed a reference design for a wirehas only one air-quality monitoring system. The Common Sense project > Applying Technology to less energy sensing technology (WEST) to help consumers better underEnvironmental Challenges aimed to add multiple mobile phone sensors to act as air-quality monistand their electricity bills, identify devices that consume high amounts Performance Summary & Goals toring devices throughout the area. EIP volunteers and local students of energy, and better manage and reduce energy costs. The WEST referhelped test device prototypes and collected data that was uploaded to S o cial Fac t o r s ence design was demonstrated in multiple research forums in 2010, and Intel servers for analysis. 58 Workplace 100 beta test units have been produced for pilots in 2011. 79 Supply Chain • In New Mexico, Intel Labs has established a collaborative energy systems • Intel Labs Europe drives collaborative sustainability research projects 92 Contributions to Society research center with participants in the New Mexico Green Grid Initiative. across a number of domains, including smart grids, electric vehicles, A pp e n d i x One of the center’s first projects involves installation of a high-efficiency smart buildings, smart cities, smart manufacturing, data center energy 111 About This Report/Approach direct current (DC) lighting proof of concept, which is 200%−400% more efficiency, and marine ecosystems. One of the group’s projects, the to Assurance efficient than current practices. Project findings will be published in a SmartBay project, in partnership with the Marine Institute, focuses on 112 GRI Content Index white paper comparing DC lighting to AC lighting in commercial spaces, understanding and managing oceans in a sustainable manner through 119 UN Global Compact— and will be shared with Intel facilities managers for potential use in our Communication on Progress technologies that can detect pollution or naturally occurring toxins and office redesigns. monitor long-term shifts in ocean conditions that may be caused by Access the Report Builder global climate change. For more information and examples of how Intel technology is being used 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report to address environmental challenges, visit our Technology for Environment www.intel.com/go/responsibility web site. 54 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Performance Summary and Goals 9 Strategy and Management In 2010, we continued to take steps to reduce our carbon footprint. We remained the largest purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Approach EPA, made new investments in energy-saving projects in our operations, and linked variable compensation to energy reduction goals to further encourage Governance and our employees to take action. We continued to face challenges in achieving reductions in both water use and chemical waste generated, and continued to Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s take steps reverse these trends. We achieved our product-related environmental goals, including energy-efficiency targets, and collaborated with others in 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact our industry to develop a new energy-efficiency performance metric. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Environment Goals and Performance E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 2012 Goals 2010 Progress Against Goals 32 Environment Reduce water use per chip1 below 2007 levels by 2012. Tracking against our 2007 baseline, our water use was up 14% on a per Our Approach to chip basis. We took steps in 2010, and will continue to work in 2011, to Environmental Sustainability reverse this trend, and still expect to meet our 2012 goal. Key Issues & Priorities Reduce absolute global-warming gas footprint by 20% by 2012 from Total emissions were down 44% on an absolute basis compared to our Climate Change and Energy 2007 levels. 2007 baseline. Efficiency Reduce energy consumption per chip 5% per year from 2007 through Per chip energy use was down 6% compared to our 2007 baseline Water Conservation 2012. average of 2% per year. We will continue to work to achieve an average Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle annual reduction of 5% by 2012. Reducing Air Emissions Reduce generation of chemical waste per chip by 10% by 2012 from Chemical waste generation on a per chip basis was up 41% over our 2007 Energy-Efficient Performance 2007 levels. baseline due to increased complexity in our manufacturing processes. and Product Ecology We are putting measures in place to change this trend but are at risk of Applying Technology to not meeting our 2012 goal. Environmental Challenges > Performance Summary & Goals Recycle 80% of chemical and solid waste generated per year. We recycled 83% of our solid waste, but our chemical waste recycling rate was 75%. We will work in 2011 to improve our chemical waste recycling rate. S o cial Fac t o r s Achieve engineering and design milestones to ensure that Intel® products We met our energy-efficiency and product ecology targets in 2010. 58 Workplace maintain the energy-efficiency lead in the market for our next two prod79 Supply Chain uct generations. 92 Contributions to Society Achieved Partially Achieved Not Met A pp e n d i x 1 Assuming a typical chip size of approximately 1 cm2 (chips vary in size depending on the specific product). 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Subsequent to setting new 2012 environmental goals at the beginning of 2008, we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business in exchange for an ownership 112 GRI Content Index interest in Numonyx B.V. To avoid the possibility of overstating reductions by including amounts that would be attributed to the sale of these operations, we created a revised 2007 baseline for the goals, with the Numonyx data removed. We believe that using this revised baseline allows us to better track results arising from the direct actions that we 119 UN Global Compact— are taking in our operations to reduce our environmental footprint. Percentages in the table show our progress as of the end of 2010 against the revised 2007 baseline; tables, Communication on Progress graphs, and data in the rest of the report use historical 2007 figures. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 55 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Compliance Information and Reporting 9 Strategy and Management In 2010, we continued to maximize our EHS performance through our comprehensive compliance assurance program. In addition to the third-party audits Approach for our ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, our site operations conduct program self-assessments that are the backbone of effective compliance Governance and assurance. The self-assessments cover environment, safety, industrial hygiene, ergonomics, and health and wellness programs, and are periodic, planned, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s in-depth reviews of programs or targeted risk areas. The assessments are designed to validate all aspects of compliance and effective implementation. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Another key aspect of our assurance program are internal compliance audits completed by senior EHS professionals independent of site operations and 25 Governance, Ethics, under the direction of EHS Legal counsel. These formal audits include evaluation of areas related to EHS business risk and management systems, and and Public Policy include in-depth interviews, documentation reviews, and physical inspections related to applicable EHS compliance programs. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment On an annual basis, we report our releases to air, transfers off-site, and treatment of reportable chemicals in the U.S. in accordance with U.S. EPA regulaOur Approach to tions. For our most recent SARA Title III Reportable Chemicals by Site report, access the Report Builder on our Corporate Responsibility Report web site. Environmental Sustainability Environmental, health, and safety officials from various regulatory agencies made approximately 75 visits (including audits and inspections) to Intel site Key Issues & Priorities operations in 2010. Intel received two Notices of Violation (NOVs) in 2010, totaling $27,400 in financial penalties. Intel self-identified and proactively Climate Change and Energy reported one of the items to the local regulatory agency to ensure effective resolution and to role model corporate responsibility. In addition to the NOVs Efficiency listed, in 2010 the EPA identified one area of non-compliance related to emissions calculations, and several areas of concern following completion of an Water Conservation inspection of our Rio Rancho, New Mexico facility. The results of the inspection and findings are not yet final and are subject to change; the final outcome Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle will be included in our next Corporate Responsibility Report. Reducing Air Emissions Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Inspections and Compliance Applying Technology to Location Type Violation Fine Intel’s Corrective Action Environmental Challenges Rio Rancho, Environmental The New Mexico Environmental Department $25,200 The affected emissions reports were updated > Performance Summary & Goals New Mexico (NMED) issued a notice of violation for a chemito include the correct chemical information S o cial Fac t o r s cal constituent not listed on quarterly air emisand submitted to NMED. Intel updated chemi58 Workplace sions reports. Intel self-identified the missing cal management applications and systems chemical constituent and notified NMED to to ensure the effective tracking of regulated 79 Supply Chain ensure resolution. materials. 92 Contributions to Society Parsippany, Environmental The New Jersey Department of Environmental $2,200 Intel improved the environmental permit review A pp e n d i x New Jersey Protection issued a notice of violation related processes for the due diligence phase of merg111 About This Report/Approach to procurement of operational permits for boiler ers and acquisitions. to Assurance and emergency generator installations at a 112 GRI Content Index leased Intel office building. 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 56 Back Next Previous View ENV I RONMENT A L F A C TORS 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Five-Year Compliance Summary (EHS-Related Notices of Violation) 9 Strategy and Management Approach 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Governance and Number of NOVs 6 6 4 5 2 Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Fines $300 $800 $1,794 $1,620 $27,400 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Many of the Notices of Violation (NOVs) recorded did not have any fines or penalties associated with them. Corrective actions were put in place and tracked to completion for all 25 Governance, Ethics, identified concerns. Details on these NOVs are available in our previous Corporate Responsibility Reports. and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s In 2011, we will continue to work toward achieving the five-year goals that we set at the beginning of 2008, placing a strong emphasis on energy conser32 Environment vation and reducing our water use and chemical waste. We will also focus on identifying opportunities to increase our chemical waste recycling rate. We Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability will continue our collaborations with external organizations on sustainability issues, particularly in identifying the role that ICT can play in addressing global environmental challenges. We will also finalize our 2020 environmental goals and publish them in the second half of 2011. Key Issues & Priorities Climate Change and Energy 2012 Environmental Goals Efficiency Water Conservation Reduce water use per chip1 below 2007 levels by 2012. Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reduce absolute global-warming gas footprint by 20% by 2012 from 2007 levels. Reducing Air Emissions Reduce energy consumption per chip 5% per year from 2007 through 2012. Energy-Efficient Performance and Product Ecology Reduce generation of chemical waste per chip by 10% by 2012 from 2007 levels. Applying Technology to Recycle 80% of chemical and solid waste generated per year. Environmental Challenges > Performance Summary & Goals Achieve engineering and design milestones to ensure that Intel® products maintain the energy-efficiency lead in the market for our next two product generations. S o cial Fac t o r s 1 Assuming a typical chip size of approximately 1 cm2 (chips vary in size depending on the specific product). 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 57 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Workplace 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy For over 40 years, Intel employees have been making history— E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s collaborating to tackle some of 32 Environment the world’s toughest challenges S o cial Fac t o r s and developing technical inno58 Workplace vations that have improved Our Approach to Empowering lives everywhere. Our success Employees depends on recruiting and cul1 2 3 tivating the best talent. Intel is Key Issues & Priorities Mouse over known for its technology, but the Career Growth and Development numbers to see people behind the technology are more images. Communication and Recognition what make the company great. Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life Effectiveness Health and Safety, and Employee Wellness Performance Summary & Goals 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Key Workplace Links 112 GRI Content Index Intel Values 254 4,267 24 119 UN Global Compact— Innovation at Intel Communication on Progress $ Million % Life at Intel Diversity at Intel Amount invested in Number of Intel Increase in number Chartered Employee Groups Access the Report Builder Intel employee employees who took paid of women in technical Compensation and Benefits 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report training in 2010 sabbaticals in 2010 midto senior-level www.intel.com/go/responsibility Intel jobs since 2004 58 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our Approach to Empowering Employees Our “open door” policy enables employees to speak directly with all levels 9 Strategy and Management of management about their ideas, concerns, or problems, and to collaborate Approach Our goal is to cultivate a safe and respectful work environwith managers to address workplace issues. Quarterly Business Update Governance and ment where employees can thrive, create, and innovate. Meetings provide two-way communication venues where employees can Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s We offer competitive compensation packages, a broad ask questions and share their views about our business directly with senior 20 Financial Performance range of benefits, and career and leadership development leaders. Feedback from regular employee surveys provides real-time inforand Economic Impact programs. mation and data to drive continuous improvement over time. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy People at Intel grow by continuously learning—on the job, in the classroom, E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Our Global Workforce and by connecting with others. Regular conversations between employ32 Environment As of December 25, 2010, Intel had approximately 82,500 employees ees and their managers help identify new opportunities and development S o cial Fac t o r s worldwide, approximately 55% of whom were located in the U.S. Our workobjectives. Through our Intel University program, employees connect with 58 Workplace force is highly educated, with employees holding an estimated 42,000 one another, acquire new skills, and share their knowledge as volunteer > Our Approach to Empowering technical degrees, as well as 12,000 master of science, 4,000 PhD or instructors. Celebrating the accomplishments of our employees is a top priEmployees equivalent, and 3,800 master of business administration degrees. ority, from everyday thank-yous to formal reward programs. We have made Key Issues & Priorities significant investments in the development of strong leaders, recognizing Career Growth and Development Global Workforce as of Year-End 2010 that having skilled managers throughout the organization is critical to our Communication and Recognition success. We conduct succession planning, provide development opportuniWorkforce Diversity and Inclusion ties, and set clear management and leadership expectations. 26% Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life Effectiveness Promoting Innovation Health and Safety, 55% As a prolific inventor of technologies that solve real-world challenges, and Employee Wellness 14% Intel was granted 1,657 patents in 2010. Driven by our ongoing pursuit of Performance Summary & Goals 79 Supply Chain 5% Moore’s Law, innovation has always been an integral part of Intel’s culture. 92 Contributions to Society At Intel, innovation isn’t simply something we pursue; it’s who we are. U.S. Americas EMEA APAC A pp e n d i x APAC = Asia-Paciﬁc EMEA = Europe, Middle East, Africa In 2010, BusinessWeek and Fast Company magazines both named Intel on 111 About This Report/Approach their lists of the 50 most innovative companies. We believe that innovato Assurance Our employees’ faces reflect those of our customers, vendors, and colleagues in the Our employees’ faces reﬂect those of our customers, vendors, and colleagues in the global global market. This worldwide perspective makes it possible for us to anticipate and tion depends on correctly defining challenges, setting aggressive goals, market. This worldwide perspective makes it possible for us to anticipate and provide for the 112 GRI Content Index providegrowing for theneeds growing needs of of a changing a changing marketplace. marketplace. and putting the right people on the right problems. Innovation also means 119 UN Global Compact— removing barriers—the ones between research and development and Communication on Progress Our Philosophy and Management Practices between development and manufacturing—and giving employees the One of the six Intel Values is “Great Place to Work,” which reinforces the appropriate mix of autonomy and direction. Intel researchers are working importance of positive employee relations as a key component of our sucin the field—at universities and at our laboratories around the world—to Access the Report Builder cess. We support this value by cultivating open and direct communications, advance knowledge in areas such as energy conservation, biotechnology, Americas EMEA APAC U.S. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report rewarding and recognizing our people, and investing in career development and optical communications. Our product development teams and manu(Europe, Middle (Asia-Paciﬁc) www.intel.com/go/responsibility and leadership. In 2010, our workplaceEast, Africa) practices earned Intel a spot on facturing engineers, in turn, transform research into an array of products Fortune magazine’s annual “100 Best Companies to Work for” list. that are improving every facet of life. 59 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile We conduct an ongoing dialogue with employees about our innovation In 2010, some 58,000 people—about 73% of our employees—responded 9 Strategy and Management goals and investments, and provide resources for managers on innovationto the 42-question OHS during late November and early December. OHS Approach related best practices, methods, and tools, including how to encourage scores for 90% of the questions improved in 2010 compared to 2009. For Governance and creative behavior and foster innovation in their teams. We use recognition the 2010 survey, we had dropped a number of questions for which we Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s and reward programs, leadership resources, and interactive forums to crehad consistently scored very high, so we could focus on areas where we 20 Financial Performance ate the cultural support for risk taking and the open exchange of ideas had greater opportunity for improvement. As a result of the survey, we are and Economic Impact that are essential to sustained innovation. Our IdeaZone employee intranet focusing on the following key areas in 2011: reducing bureaucracy, increas25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy portal describes concrete methods to use at each stage of the innovaing employee development opportunities, and finding new ways to recogE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s tion process, and our online Innovation Engine tool serves as a repository nize people and reward great performance. 32 Environment of employee ideas for product design enhancements, business process improvements, and more. To meet some of our innovators, visit the Our Selected Organizational Health Survey Results S o cial Fac t o r s Innovators web site. 2010 2009 2008 2007 58 Workplace > Our Approach to Empowering I am proud to work for 85% 82% 83% 75% Employees Measuring Our Progress Intel Managing a complex, geographically dispersed workforce is extremely chalKey Issues & Priorities I would recommend Intel 80% 74% 73% 61% lenging, so we have instituted a number of ways to regularly assess the as a great place to work Career Growth and Development health of our overall organization and business groups, and obtain feedCommunication and Recognition My job makes good use of 76% 74% 74% 70% Workforce Diversity and Inclusion back so that adjustments can be made as needed. my skills/strengths Compensation, Benefits, Organizational Health Survey. Our Organizational Health Survey (OHS) I have the flexibility to 79% 77% 77% 72% and Work/Life Effectiveness tells us what employees think about our workplace. This assessment balance the needs of my Health and Safety, work and personal life and Employee Wellness provides insight into current business-specific issues, historical trending Performance Summary & Goals on a core set of questions, and comparisons to external benchmarks. It I hope to continue work75% 77% 76% 67% helps us identify strengths and areas for improvement in our business ing at Intel for another 79 Supply Chain five years or more 92 Contributions to Society groups and geographies, and provides data for planning and improvement. Survey results (company-wide and business-unit level) are openly shared Open and direct com78% 77% 78% 74% A pp e n d i x munication is practiced 111 About This Report/Approach with employees, and our CEO uses OHS data to help determine variable effectively in my work to Assurance compensation for his direct staff. Results are presented in nine broad catgroup 112 GRI Content Index egories: business process, teamwork, performance, climate, development, In my business group, 76% 73% 73% 70% 119 UN Global Compact— organizational direction, commitment, engagement, and environment. innovation and creative Communication on Progress thinking are actively encouraged “ We want to make Intel the place to be. We have At Intel, I am treated with 83% 85% 85% 83% worked hard over the last several years to improve dignity and respect1 Access the Report Builder our organizational health.” 1 In 2010, we replaced our previous diversity question, “I understand why a diverse workforce 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report is important to Intel’s success,” with this new question to more broadly measure respect for Richard Taylor, Vice President and Director, Human Resources www.intel.com/go/responsibility diversity in our culture. Percentages shown are for “favorable” responses to these statements. Through 60 benchmarking, we have found that 80% represents world-class performance levels. Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Workforce Data 9 Strategy and Management Intel has a history of transparency in workforce data, having published comprehensive statistics in our Corporate Responsibility Report since 2002. Approach Governance and 2010 Employee Data Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Type of Employee Employee Category Americas APAC EMEA U.S. Total 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Regular1 25 Governance, Ethics, Exempt Full Time 2,375 13,823 8,892 33,017 58,107 and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Exempt Part Time 4 8 107 106 225 32 Environment Total 2,379 13,831 8,999 33,123 58,332 S o cial Fac t o r s Non-Exempt Full Time 1,333 7,344 2,689 10,630 21,996 58 Workplace Non-Exempt Part Time — — 32 6 38 > Our Approach to Empowering Employees Total 1,333 7,344 2,721 10,636 22,034 Key Issues & Priorities Regular Total 3,712 21,175 11,720 43,759 80,366 Career Growth and Development Intel Contract Employees and Interns Communication and Recognition Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Exempt Full Time 180 1,139 97 626 2,042 Compensation, Benefits, Exempt Part Time 72 32 1,501 66 1,671 and Work/Life Effectiveness Health and Safety, Total 252 1,171 1,598 692 3,713 and Employee Wellness Non-Exempt Full Time 50 1,062 358 686 2,156 Performance Summary & Goals 79 Supply Chain Non-Exempt Part Time 1 — 139 73 213 92 Contributions to Society Total 51 1,062 497 759 2,369 A pp e n d i x Contract/Intern Total 303 2,233 2,095 1,451 6,082 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Grand Total 4,015 23,408 13,815 45,210 86,448 112 GRI Content Index APAC = Asia-Pacific EMEA = Europe, Middle East, Africa 119 UN Global Compact— 1 Regular employees only. Regular employee definition does not include Intel contract employees and interns. Communication on Progress At the end of 2010, the breakdown of total employees (including Intel contract employees and interns) was: 55% in the U.S., 26% in APAC, 14% in EMEA, and 5% in the Americas, which is consistent with the regional breakdown in 2009. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 61 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Turnover by Region1 9 Strategy and Management Approach Region Year-End Turnover Turnover (%) Turnover (%) Turnover (%) Turnover (%) Headcount 2010 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Greater Americas 3,680 222 5.7% 6.9% 9.8% 11.1% 20 Financial Performance Greater Asia 21,175 1,305 5.9% 4.8% 6.6% 10.5% and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, Greater Europe 11,720 411 3.3% 2.7% 4.7% 8.2% and Public Policy United States 43,791 1,073 2.4% 2.1% 4.3% 6.8% E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Total 80,366 3,011 3.6% 3.1% 5.3% 8.2% 32 Environment 1 Regular employees only. Does not include Intel contract employees and interns, or terminations due to divestiture, retirement, or redeployment. Redeployment is the movement of employees to areas of greater S o cial Fac t o r s return when there has been a change in business conditions. Intel’s redeployment program provides job-search time and support for eligible employees whose jobs have been eliminated. Redeployment is generally not a layoff, as employees have the opportunity while in redeployment to look for other positions within the company at their regular pay and benefits, or they can choose a separation package. Turnover related 58 Workplace to divestiture, retirement, or departures out of redeployment totaled 1,301 employees in 2010. > Our Approach to Empowering Employees In 2010, our turnover rates remained low across all regions, with slight increases due in part to improving economic conditions. Regular monitoring of turnover by performance rating (top, middle, and low) helps us spot and address issues and trends swiftly. Key Issues & Priorities Career Growth and Development Communication and Recognition Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Total Number of Employees1 Compensation, Benefits, 100 and Work/Life Effectiveness 94.1 Health and Safety, 86.3 83.9 82.5 and Employee Wellness 80 79.8 Performance Summary & Goals Our workforce is highly educated, with employees 79 Supply Chain 60 Thousands 92 Contributions to Society holding an estimated 42,000 technical degrees, A pp e n d i x 40 as well as 12,000 master of science, 4,000 111 About This Report/Approach PhD or equivalent, and 3,800 master of to Assurance 20 business administration degrees. 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— 0 Communication on Progress 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1 Employee ﬁgures in this graph are from our 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K, and are slightly different from the totals in other tables in this section, as the totals include interns and students, in addition to Intel regular employees. Access the Report Builder We began restructuring efforts in 2006 aimed at creating a more efficient organization 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report and reducing operating costs. Our efforts included a significant reduction in the size of www.intel.com/go/responsibility our global workforce. 62 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Career Growth and Development When employees are ready to try new challenges, they can “test-drive” 9 Strategy and Management short-term assignments by providing coverage for employees on sabbatiApproach Our employees grow by continuously learning—on the cal leave or by taking advantage of one of our rotation programs. They Governance and job, in the classroom, and by connecting with others. We can also use our internal global job-posting system to learn about and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s encourage employees to work with their managers to align apply for new positions at Intel. Many employees pursue career growth by 20 Financial Performance their job assignments with their strengths and interests, taking assignments in other countries, where they are exposed to unique and Economic Impact as well as with the needs of the organization. cultural experiences while acquiring new business skills; approximately 900 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy employees were on global assignment in 2010. We also tailor development Recognizing that a strong development culture requires a mix of resources programs to promote career growth in particular markets. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and learning methods, our development model is a holistic approach with 32 Environment Our career development workshop is designed to help employees at all three main focus areas: S o cial Fac t o r s levels think strategically about their career development plans, and to 58 Workplace • Learn. Provide employees with a robust range of resources and tools, facilitate discussions with their managers. Some 40,000 employees have Our Approach to Empowering including Intel University courses focused on skills and role-based participated in the workshop since its launch in 2008, and they have proEmployees requirements, such as manager development, external professional vided positive and helpful feedback. Key Issues & Priorities certification resources, and access to world-class institutions via tuition > Career Growth and Development reimbursement. Management/Leadership Development Communication and Recognition We set clear, consistent expectations for our managers and leaders, and • Connect. Encourage employees to connect with managers, senior leadWorkforce Diversity and Inclusion give them opportunities to gain critical skills and knowledge by attending ers, and one another through Open Forums, quarterly events, mentoring Compensation, Benefits, internal and external courses, connecting with other managers, and takand Work/Life Effectiveness relationships, employee groups, and online and social media channels. ing on new challenges. In 2010, Intel was recognized by the Hay Group Health and Safety, • Experience. Give employees opportunities to expand their skills through for our development of current and future managers and leaders, placing and Employee Wellness rotational, temporary, or sabbatical coverage assignments. Our sabbatithird on the firm’s “20 Best Companies for Leadership” list. Many of our Performance Summary & Goals cal program creates regular opportunities for 90-day rotations and has management and leadership development programs focus on supporting 79 Supply Chain contributed to a corporate culture that views rotations as a positive and employees during transition periods, such as when they assume leadership 92 Contributions to Society standard practice in which employees are able to apply for corporateroles for the first time or advance to more senior positions. We have seen A pp e n d i x wide opportunities. continuous improvement in our manager and leader performance to expec111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Although every employee goes through an annual review process, perfortations since we began implementing these programs: 112 GRI Content Index mance management and career development at Intel is a continuing conNew Managers. “New to Management” is a program designed for first119 UN Global Compact— versation between employees and their managers. Managers meet with time managers to support a successful transition during their first year Communication on Progress each employee at least quarterly to review the prior quarter’s goals, the of leading people. New managers attend workshops facilitated by senior employee’s development and performance against expectations, and the leaders, take advantage of self-study resources, and have access to tranupcoming quarter’s priorities and goals. These meetings provide opportunisition coaching. Throughout the year, they have a strong support network Access the Report Builder ties for recognition and discussion of performance issues, and contribute that enables them to lead highly engaged teams and obtain great busi2010 Corporate Responsibility Report to improvement in a team’s performance, execution, and business results. ness results. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 63 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Experienced Managers. To support the ongoing development of our Intel University 9 Strategy and Management seasoned managers and leaders, we offer 20 core instructor-led courses, In 2010, Intel invested approximately $254 million in employee training and Approach as well as online performance training and support modules that provide development, including instructor-led and e-learning courses. That amount Governance and “just-in-time” help. An online Manager Dashboard tool includes resources translates to an investment of approximately $3,200 and an average of Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s to help managers run the “people” side of their business. 34.6 hours of training per employee. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Senior Leaders. Leading for Extraordinary Results (LER) is an intensive Intel University provides a comprehensive development curriculum, includ25 Governance, Ethics, five-day residential program that helps leaders develop clarity of vision and ing new employee orientation, cultural integration, skills training, profesand Public Policy personal leadership, so they can create new possibilities for their people sional certification, and external education. Training programs cover a E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and Intel. In addition to LER, our senior leadership curriculum includes sevbroad range of topics, such as project management, problem-solving, 32 Environment eral key courses that cover personal leadership, execution, strategy, and effective decision-making, cross-cultural training, and technical subjects. S o cial Fac t o r s organizational leadership. The courses are offered globally, and Intel execuTraining magazine again recognized our strong focus on employee devel58 Workplace tives teach many of them. We also offer action learning programs that opment by ranking Intel number 37 on its list of the top 125 global training Our Approach to Empowering blend strategic business needs with senior leader learning and growth. organizations in 2010. Employees These programs focus on current business challenges to ensure that real Key Issues & Priorities work is accomplished during leadership development. In addition, we have 2010 Intel University Statistics > Career Growth and Development an executive coaching program that links senior leaders with professional Total learning hours delivered1 2,626,687 Communication and Recognition internal and external coaches. Total number of training attendees 1,053,954 Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Compensation, Benefits, Manager and Leader Feedback Survey. Through this survey, adminNumber of employee volunteer instructors 4,742 and Work/Life Effectiveness istered twice a year, employees evaluate how well their managers are 1 Includes a mix of training methods, such as instructor-led/classroom, virtual classroom, web-based, Health and Safety, communicating, motivating, and developing their teams. Managers share and other (multimedia/on-the-job activity). and Employee Wellness the survey results—both strengths and areas for improvement—with their Most of Intel University’s internal courses are led by employee volunteers, who Performance Summary & Goals teams and develop action plans. We also factor the results into our annual leverage their skills and knowledge of a particular subject to teach other employees. 79 Supply Chain manager performance reviews. In 2010, more than 85% of managers and 92 Contributions to Society leaders received constructive feedback through this process. Tuition Assistance A pp e n d i x Our Tuition Assistance Program provides financial assistance to eligible 111 About This Report/Approach U.S. employees who are completing job-related degree programs or to Assurance Training programs cover a broad range of topics, coursework. In 2010, we invested $8.1 million in the program, helping 112 GRI Content Index such as project management, problem-solving, more than 1,266 employees—2.8% of those eligible—pursue educational 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress effective decision-making, cross-cultural opportunities. training, and technical subjects. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 64 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Communication and Recognition We also strive to embed a culture of recognition and appreciation. From 9 Strategy and Management simple and sincere personal thank-yous to formal banquets, we offer multiApproach Open and direct communication has been a hallmark of ple levels of recognition that reward employees for their accomplishments. Governance and Intel culture since the company’s founding. Employees Recognition ranges from corporate-wide programs to local programs creEc o n o m ic Fac t o r s report that they value getting the straight scoop from ated by individual business groups to acknowledge the achievement of 20 Financial Performance their leaders and managers, and appreciate being able specific goals. and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, to speak freely about issues that concern them. Formal programs recognize employees for their performance to Intel and Public Policy Values, years of service, volunteerism, Intel University instructor contribuIntel’s open door philosophy gives employees access to all levels of manE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s tions, and environmental efforts to conserve energy, prevent pollution, and agement to address work-related concerns. Employee surveys indicate 32 Environment bring environmental innovation to our operations. that this philosophy promotes two-way communication, contributes to S o cial Fac t o r s organizational health, improves productivity, and decreases turnover. Corporate-wide Recognition Programs 58 Workplace Our Approach to Empowering Because Intel’s success depends on all employees understanding how Intel Quality Award IQAs are given annually to a few Intel Employees their work contributes to the company’s overall business strategy, we use (IQA) organizations that have made long-term commitments to operational excellence and Key Issues & Priorities a broad range of electronic and interpersonal channels to keep employees have demonstrated performance to Intel Values. Career Growth and Development informed. Those channels include intranet news articles, Open Forums, Organizations complete applications that are > Communication and Recognition webcasts, collaborative webjams, cyber-chats, quarterly Business Update presented to a panel of executive judges, who Workforce Diversity and Inclusion select the winners. Winning organizations are Meetings, small-group executive roundtables, and informal brown-bag expected to act as role models and mentors Compensation, Benefits, lunches. Our overall goal is to ensure that employees receive timely inforfor groups that subsequently enter the IQA and Work/Life Effectiveness mation and candid answers to their questions. application process. Health and Safety, and Employee Wellness Circuit, our employee intranet portal, provides corporate and local Intel Achievement The IAA is the company’s highest honor for Performance Summary & Goals Award (IAA) personal and small-team accomplishments. Less Intel news, and information about workplace services and beneﬁts. than one-half of 1% of all employees receive 79 Supply Chain Approximately 90% of our employees use Circuit as their web browser’s an IAA each year. Winners are rewarded with 92 Contributions to Society home page. We also reach employees through an expanded network of company stock and an invitation to a banquet hosted by Intel President and CEO Paul Otellini. A pp e n d i x digital video screens that broadcast news and information in our factories, 111 About This Report/Approach lobbies, and cafeterias. Division Recognition DRAs recognize employees for reaching to Assurance Award (DRA) critical milestones or completing projects that 112 GRI Content Index Employees are encouraged to utilize Intel’s internal social media channels, demonstrate a strong commitment to Intel such as blogs, wikis, and online forums, for both business and collaboration Values. DRAs are presented to employees 119 UN Global Compact— in front of their peers at quarterly Business Communication on Progress purposes, and to build a sense of community across our global sites. Senior Update Meetings. leaders and other employees publish personal essays to open dialogue Spontaneous Spontaneous recognition can be given at any about business issues, challenges, and opportunities. Employees have the Recognition Award time to show appreciation to a peer, subordinate, Access the Report Builder opportunity to comment on news articles and features, adding their valu(SRA) or manager, and may include cash, a gift card, or able knowledge and perspectives to the corporate dialogue. According to other reward. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report industry benchmarks, few other major companies embrace employee use We celebrate the accomplishments of business organizations, teams, and individuals www.intel.com/go/responsibility of social media and welcome employee commentary as openly as we do. through company-wide recognition programs. 65 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Increasing Leadership Diversity. We have improved the diversity 9 Strategy and Management of Intel’s workforce in several key categories in recent years. Since the Approach Our ability to innovate depends on ideas, and great ideas creation of Intel’s Women’s Initiative in 2004, for example, the number of Governance and come from great people. The wide range of perspecwomen in technical midto senior-level Intel jobs has grown by 24%. In Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s tives that we gain by hiring and developing talent from a addition, 30% of the members of the Intel Board of Directors are women. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact diverse, global labor pool gives us a better understanding Still, we continue to work on increasing the number of under-represented 25 Governance, Ethics, of the needs of our customers, suppliers, and communities, minorities and technical females in managerial and senior leadership and Public Policy positions. As such, we have key initiatives designed to improve recruitand helps us advance our leadership in both technology ment, retention, and development of African Americans, Hispanics, Native E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and corporate responsibility. 32 Environment Americans, and technical women in leadership positions. S o cial Fac t o r s Diversity is an integral part of Intel’s competitive strategy and vision. We have three leadership councils made up of Intel’s most senior African 58 Workplace Studies show that employees working in a diverse environment tend American, Hispanic, and female leaders, who serve as visible role models, Our Approach to Empowering to feel more fulfilled, creative, and productive on the sponsors, and passionate voices for employees at Intel. They are each Employees job, resulting in increased productivity, efficiency, and actively engaged in activities focused on hiring, retaining, and developing Key Issues & Priorities innovation. We strive to continuously advance a work our diverse talent. Career Growth and Development environment that honors, values, and respects all of our employees. Managers regularly hold in-depth career discussions with employees, chalCommunication and Recognition lenging them to take on assignments that increase their capabilities and > Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Intel respects, values, and welcomes diversity in its workforce, as well as opportunities for growth. In addition to customized internal career developCompensation, Benefits, in its customers, its suppliers, and the global marketplace. Intel will comment and training, we offer employees external leadership training opporand Work/Life Effectiveness Health and Safety, ply with applicable laws and provide equal employment opportunity for tunities at places such as the African American Leadership Institute and and Employee Wellness all applicants and employees without regard to race, color, religion, sex, the Latino Leadership Institute, which are both located at the University of Performance Summary & Goals national origin, ancestry, age, disability, veteran status, marital status, California at Los Angeles. 79 Supply Chain sexual orientation, gender identity, or genetic information. Intel also makes 92 Contributions to Society reasonable accommodations for disabled employees. Intel prohibits harassA pp e n d i x ment of any individual on any of the bases listed above. “ We seek to attract the best talent, and once they 111 About This Report/Approach Our goal is to be world-class in diversity, and we develop annual diversity are at Intel, we work hard to ensure that every to Assurance action plans that are monitored quarterly, with rigorous indicators related employee has opportunities to thrive and make 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— to recruitment and performance management. We have been recognized it to the top without cultural, gender, or Communication on Progress for our diversity practices, including being named to Working Mother magaracial barriers to impede their progress.” zine’s “100 Best Companies” list, and have earned a perfect score on the Rosalind Hudnell, Director, Global Diversity and Inclusion Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for nine consecutive years for our policies and practices that support our lesbian, gay, bisexual, Access the Report Builder and transgender employees. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 66 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Cultivating a Supportive Network. We provide managers with tools Urban League, and National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering. By 9 Strategy and Management and resources for rewarding and recognizing diversity efforts within their establishing Intel as a trusted advisor and by building strong relationships Approach groups. We also encourage employees—from recent college graduates to with external organizations, we continue to enhance our own learning, Governance and Intel veterans—to join one of 20 chartered Intel employee affinity groups. help to achieve our diversity goals, share our best practices with others, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s These groups are organized around racial groupings, national origin, reliand advance diversity beyond our own organization. 20 Financial Performance gious beliefs, gender, sexual orientation, or gender identity, as well as and Economic Impact We are continuing to evolve our diversity practices to ensure a genuine 25 Governance, Ethics, other affinities such as parenthood and disability. They provide a powerful focus on global diversity and inclusion, and will continue to implement new and Public Policy means of support and integration for employees, and opportunities to programs based on a global assessment—not one developed primarily from E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s participate in a variety of programs, such as cultural awareness events, a U.S.-centric point of view. For regular updates and newsletters from our 32 Environment mentoring, and community involvement activities. Intel provides funding Diversity leadership team, visit our Diversity web site. for group activities; dedicated support staff; space for meetings, study, or S o cial Fac t o r s prayer; and communications vehicles. Intel Women’s Initiative 58 Workplace Our Approach to Empowering Investing in Intel’s Technical and Leadership Pipelines. In order A number of Intel programs are designed to support the development Employees to build stronger pipelines for employees who are pursuing technical and and retention of female employees, especially in technical and leaderKey Issues & Priorities leadership careers, Intel provides a variety of development experiences, ship areas. The following are a few examples. Career Growth and Development including site-based leadership training and a networking series targeted • Women Principal Engineers (PEs) and Fellows Forum. This Communication and Recognition for African American, Hispanic, and female employees. Internal and external 100% technology-focused forum is designed to offer women PEs, > Workforce Diversity and Inclusion research has validated the importance of providing experiences for various Compensation, Benefits, Intel Fellows, and those likely to be promoted to PE opportunities populations who might be isolated in the environment. and Work/Life Effectiveness to present their work in front of a highly technical audience. These programs deliver specific leadership tools; careerHealth and Safety, and Employee Wellness enhancing strategies; and access to peers, coaches, and • Women’s Leadership Exchange. Site-based luncheon forums Performance Summary & Goals some of Intel’s most senior leaders and technologists. presented by the Women’s Leadership Council provide opportuni79 Supply Chain ties for female employees to connect and receive high-level coachBuilding Multicultural Awareness. Several Intel programs are designed 92 Contributions to Society ing and mentoring. Over the past three years, the council has held to promote cultural awareness among employees. For example, frequent numerous events at Intel sites, reaching more than 800 of our A pp e n d i x company events give employees opportunities to share their heritages senior female leaders. 111 About This Report/Approach and connect with others. We provide intercultural training, such as to Assurance “Microinequities” and “Gender Differences in Communication,” and numer• Women at Intel Network. This employee group has 16 chapters 112 GRI Content Index ous discussion forums within our employee communications portal that worldwide and hosts six development conferences a year. 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress foster respectful dialogue between and among employees. • Intel Global Women’s Initiative Portal. In 2010, we launched an Building External Alliances. Intel is active on the boards and industry interactive portal for all employees where they can connect with committees of national diversity organizations, such as the Anita Borg women around the world and interact with female leaders at Intel Access the Report Builder Institute, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, Society of Women through blogs and discussion forums. Engineers, National Society of Black Engineers, American Indian Society 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility of Engineers and Scientists, Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, National 67 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Diversity Data 9 Strategy and Management We continue to focus on efforts to increase the representation of women in our global workforce, including investments in the talent pipeline for women Approach in engineering and technical disciplines. Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 2010 Worldwide Workforce by Gender 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact Female Male Total 25 Governance, Ethics, U.S. Workforce 10,580 33,202 43,782 and Public Policy 24.2% 75.8% E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Non-U.S. Workforce 11,526 24,983 36,509 32 Environment 31.6% 68.4% S o cial Fac t o r s Worldwide Total 22,106 58,185 80,2911 58 Workplace Average % Worldwide 28% 72% Our Approach to Empowering Employees 1 Regular employees only. Total differs slightly from other regular employee totals in this section due to some individuals not reporting gender. Key Issues & Priorities This table shows our worldwide workforce by gender. Despite our continued investments and improvements in recruiting and retention programs, the overall percentage of women has remained relatively flat since 2006. The worldwide percentage of women was 28% in 2009, 29% in 2008, 29% in 2007, and 30% in 2006. Career Growth and Development Communication and Recognition 2010 U.S. Workforce by Reporting Category > Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Compensation, Benefits, African Asian/Paciﬁc Caucasian Hispanic Native Other1 Total and Work/Life Effectiveness American Islander American Health and Safety, Workforce and Employee Wellness Female 390 3,448 5,664 917 80 82 10,581 Performance Summary & Goals 3.7% 32.6% 53.5% 8.7% 0.8% 0.8% 100.0% 79 Supply Chain Male 1,148 8,889 19,890 2,581 209 484 33,201 92 Contributions to Society 3.5% 26.8% 59.9% 7.8% 0.6% 1.5% 100.0% A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach Total 1,538 12,337 25,554 3,498 289 566 43,782 to Assurance Ofﬁcials and Managers 112 GRI Content Index Female 18 263 761 42 6 15 1,105 119 UN Global Compact— 1.6% 23.8% 68.9% 3.8% 0.5% 1.4% 100.0% Communication on Progress Male 80 1,730 4,463 195 18 55 6,541 1.2% 26.4% 68.2% 3.0% 0.3% 0.8% 100.0% Total 98 1,993 5,224 237 24 70 7,646 Access the Report Builder 1 “Other” includes employees who reported as multi-racial and those who did not report race. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility This table provides a high-level summary of our U.S. workforce by reporting category. To access detailed U.S. demographic statistics, use the interactive U.S. Employment Demographics (EEO -1) tool on our Diversity web site, where you can sort data by position type. 68 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 2010 U.S. Hiring Data 9 Strategy and Management Approach Year Total Number of Employees Hired Minorities as Percentage of U.S. Hires Females as Percentage of U.S. Hires Governance and 2010 2,354 57% (1,336 of 2,354 hires) 24% (576 of 2,354 hires) Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 2009 1,676 42% (701 of 1,676 hires) 24% (396 of 1,676 hires) 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact 2008 4,060 56% (2,275 of 4,060 hires) 31% (1,246 of 4,060 hires) 25 Governance, Ethics, 2007 3,045 52% (1,587 of 3,045 hires) 26% (787 of 3,045 hires) and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 2006 3,056 50% (1,530 of 3,056 hires) 29% (882 of 3,056 hires) 32 Environment In 2010, we made progress toward our goal of hiring more minorities as a percentage of total hires. The percentage of females as a percentage of total hires remained flat from 2009. S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace 2010 Worldwide Senior Management and Governance Bodies Our Approach to Empowering Employees Board of Directors Corporate Officers Top 50 in Total Compensation Key Issues & Priorities Male Career Growth and Development African American ­— — — — — — Communication and Recognition > Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Asian/Pacific Islander — — 5 19% 7 14% Compensation, Benefits, Caucasian 7 70% 16 59% 30 60% and Work/Life Effectiveness Health and Safety, Hispanic — — — — — — and Employee Wellness Native American — — — — — — Performance Summary & Goals Unidentified — — — — 4 8% 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society Female A pp e n d i x African American — — — — — — 111 About This Report/Approach Asian/Pacific Islander — — 1 4% — — to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index Caucasian 3 30% 5 19% 8 16% 119 UN Global Compact— Hispanic — — — — — — Communication on Progress Native American — — — — — — Unidentified — — — — 1 2% Access the Report Builder Total 10 100% 27 100% 50 100% 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report This table provides 2010 year-end diversity information for Intel’s Board of Directors, corporate officers, and top 50 executives in terms of compensation worldwide. The position www.intel.com/go/responsibility of Chairman has been held by a woman since May 2009. At our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in May 2011, if all of the director nominees are elected, the percentage of women on the Board will remain at 30%. 69 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life The Employee Cash Bonus Program (ECBP) pays cash incentives to 9 Strategy and Management employees twice a year, allowing them to share in Intel’s success. On top Approach Effectiveness of their ECBP payouts, employees may receive an additional two days of Governance and Intel’s comprehensive compensation and benefits propay each year based on the results in our Customer Excellence Program Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s gram is designed to attract, retain, and reward the people (CEP), which is explained in the Intel Quality System Handbook. CEP mea20 Financial Performance sures overall customer satisfaction and drives corporate or business unit and Economic Impact responsible for the company’s long-term growth and conimprovement actions. In 2010, employees received the additional two 25 Governance, Ethics, tinuing record of innovation. We strive to provide tools and Public Policy days of pay under the program as a result of the company receiving a and benefits that support the work/life needs of different record 91% “Delighted” score from customers. Intel has exceeded the 75% E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s employees—from working parents and those with elder“Delighted” score goal since 2006, enabling employees to receive two 32 Environment care responsibilities to those in the military reserves. extra days of pay for five years in a row. S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace In addition to ECBP, Intel shares profits with employees worldwide by payOur Approach to Empowering Compensation ing annual incentive cash payments through our Employee Bonus (EB) Employees Intel’s Total Compensation, or “T-Comp,” approach aligns company, plan. The formula for determining EB payouts is based on three equally employee, and stockholder interests, and provides employees with incenKey Issues & Priorities weighted components: relative financial performance, absolute financial Career Growth and Development tives to focus on meeting or exceeding business objectives. T-Comp is performance, and operational performance. Since 2008, we have included Communication and Recognition based on five guiding principles that support our philosophy of rewarding criteria related to environmental sustainability metrics, and in 2010 also Workforce Diversity and Inclusion both individual performance and corporate success: meritocracy and egaliadded other metrics related to corporate responsibility, such as perfor> Compensation, Benefits, tarianism, market competitiveness, alignment with business performance, mance on the OHS and external reputation measures. For more informaand Work/Life Effectiveness promotion of health and welfare, and balance between employee and tion, see the Environment section of this report. Instead of the EB program, Health and Safety, stockholder needs. and Employee Wellness eligible sales and marketing employees participate in our Commission proPerformance Summary & Goals Intel targets employee cash compensation (base pay plus bonuses) at gram, which provides incentives linked to sales performance. 79 Supply Chain above-market averages, as long as the company’s performance is compa92 Contributions to Society rable to or better than the performance of our peer companies. In 2010, Employee Cash Bonus Program Employee (ECBP) Bonus (EB) Plan A pp e n d i x we also invested in communications and education efforts to increase transparency of our pay competitiveness and design principles, resulting in Year Annual Payout % of Pay EB Multiplier 111 About This Report/Approach in Days of Pay to Assurance improved perceived value of pay and benefits for existing and prospective 112 GRI Content Index employees. For more information on compensation and benefits at Intel 2006 15.1 5.8% 2.33 119 UN Global Compact— locations worldwide, visit our Compensation and Benefits web site or read 2007 17.3 6.7% 3.49 Communication on Progress our most recent annual report and proxy statement. 2008 15.2 5.9% 2.66 Our bonus programs are cornerstones of the T-Comp philosophy, linking 2009 16.7 6.4% 3.92 employees’ compensation directly to Intel’s financial and operational perAccess the Report Builder 2010 26.4 10.2% 4.24 formance metrics. Higher level employees, who have a wider job scope and 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report greater ability to affect the company’s performance, receive a higher perThis table illustrates our historical ECBP payout and EB multipliers. The EB multiplier is www.intel.com/go/responsibility applied to each eligible individual employee’s target amount. If an employee’s target in centage of their compensation at risk through our bonus programs. 2010 was $1,000, the employee’s payout would have been 4.24 x $1,000, or $4,240. 70 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Equity Programs expensive or intensive actions, access nurse advice lines for supportive 9 Strategy and Management To enable employees to share in Intel’s success and align employee interguidance, or visit on-site clinics and urgent care centers before seeking Approach care in the emergency room, we can help them spend on average about ests with those of our stockholders, we grant equity to more than 90% of Governance and our employees annually, including restricted stock units (RSUs) and stock 35% less than employees enrolled in traditional plans, while receiving the Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s options. Share-based compensation totaled $917 million in 2010. same level of coverage and quality of services. Intel shares these savings 20 Financial Performance with employees in the form of no or low monthly premiums. and Economic Impact Through stock options and RSUs, employees may receive an equity inter25 Governance, Ethics, est in the company, acquire a stake in Intel’s long-term growth, and potenWe also extend medical and dental benefits coverage to same-sex domesand Public Policy tially benefit from capital appreciation. Although all employees who receive tic partners. In addition, we provide autism, infertility, transgender, and E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s adoption benefits to our employees. stock grants receive RSUs, our more senior-level employees generally 32 Environment receive a percentage of their grants in the form of stock options. Regular Our total spending on healthcare benefits in 2010 was $404.8 million, S o cial Fac t o r s full-time and part-time employees are eligible to receive RSU and/or stock including medical coverage for active employees, prescription drug cov58 Workplace option grants at the time of hire, and may be recommended for additional erage, and dental insurance. Intel’s health premium spending averages Our Approach to Empowering grants during annual or mid-year performance reviews. Employees approximately $796 per month per employee, boosting each employee’s Under our Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees can purchase stock compensation package by approximately $9,554 annually (individual Key Issues & Priorities through payroll deductions at 85% of Intel’s stock price at the lower of the amounts vary depending on the plan and usage). We also offer an Career Growth and Development beginning or the end of a subscription period. All regular full-time and partEmployee Assistance Program that provides free short-term professional Communication and Recognition time employees and interns are eligible to participate in this plan. counseling services to help employees and their dependents through difWorkforce Diversity and Inclusion ficult times. See “Wellness Programs” for information on our award-winning > Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life Effectiveness Health Benefits Health for Life wellness program. Health and Safety, Intel’s innovative approach to healthcare focuses on providing compreand Employee Wellness hensive plan coverage to employees and their families to ensure a healthy, Retirement Benefits Performance Summary & Goals Planning for retirement is a shared responsibility between Intel and each productive, and engaged workforce. Our basic benefits package includes 79 Supply Chain employee. We encourage our employees to leverage all possible resources medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug benefits. Our healthcare pro92 Contributions to Society to create a savings and investment strategy that will provide a secure and grams provide 100% coverage for preventive services as well as financial A pp e n d i x protection against a serious illness. Intel has developed a strategy that comfortable retirement. Our benefits vary by country but can include post111 About This Report/Approach recognizes the varying coverage needs of our employees and focuses on retirement medical benefits as well as: 401(k) savings, Intel contributions to to Assurance controlling costs by engaging our workforce with appropriate financial employee retirement plans, and defined benefit plans. Eligibility for these 112 GRI Content Index incentives to foster cost-conscious choices. Today, Intel offers choice plans varies by country, legal requirements, and employee tenure. Intel con119 UN Global Compact— through five different medical plans (Copayment, Coinsurance, High siders market practice, retirement readiness, regulatory requirements, and Communication on Progress Deductible, Consumer Driven, and HMO); each offers comparable coverage company affordability when funding employee retirement plans. In the U.S., and quality. in 2010 we contributed 6% of eligible earnings to an employee’s retirement accounts irrespective of the employee’s ability to save. For employees who Access the Report Builder Intel has been a leader in offering consumer-based health plans; approxiretire from Intel in the U.S., we also provide funds based on tenure, which mately 65% of our employees now participate in such plans. By encour2010 Corporate Responsibility Report enable employees to purchase retirement medical coverage. www.intel.com/go/responsibility aging our employees to use available decision support tools, find less 71 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Special Leave Programs including extending the duration of this benefit to up to two years per 9 Strategy and Management Intel provides special paid time off in addition to our vacation and personal deployment. The U.S. government has publicly recognized Intel for its comApproach mitment and continuing efforts in this area. In 2010, 111 employees used absence policies. Our approach creates a robust leave program for employGovernance and ees through a combination of federal and state leave entitlements and this benefit. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Intel’s leave guidelines. 20 Financial Performance Intel Benefits and Work/Life Programs at a Glance and Economic Impact Sabbatical Program. Full-time employees in the U.S. and Canada receive 25 Governance, Ethics, • Paid sabbatical benefit for U.S. and Canadian employees an 8-week paid sabbatical upon completion of each seven years of service. and Public Policy • Multiple leave programs, including personal, pregnancy, bonding, Annual vacation time can be added to sabbaticals, resulting in up to 12 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and military weeks of paid time off. Employees can apply to extend their sabbatical up 32 Environment • Near-site childcare centers and back-up childcare programs to six months to teach, volunteer, or complete educational opportunities • Elder-care and adoption assistance programs S o cial Fac t o r s that significantly enhance our business or benefit the community. In 2010, • Voluntary benefits, including long-term care insurance, critical 58 Workplace 4,627 employees took sabbaticals, returning refreshed and revitalized. Our Approach to Empowering illness insurance, and group legal insurance Employees Pregnancy Leave. Through a combination of legal requirements and • Comprehensive health benefits, including medical, dental, vision, Intel’s own leave guidelines, female employees can take advantage of and employee assistance programs Key Issues & Priorities Intel’s Pregnancy Leave benefit. Although unpaid, it allows employees to • Multiple retirement plan options, including 401(k), retirement con­ Career Growth and Development Communication and Recognition take time off when their doctors say they are unable to work. Employees tribution, defined benefit, and post-retirement medical benefits Workforce Diversity and Inclusion often supplement their income during Pregnancy Leave with short-term • Employee discount programs for online and local shopping, as well > Compensation, Benefits, disability benefits. In 2010, 603 female employees used our Pregnancy as Intel products and Work/Life Effectiveness Leave benefit. Additionally, either parent may take leave to bond or care for • On-site fitness and recreation facilities and programs Health and Safety, a newborn or adopted child, or a child placed with them through foster care. • Free fruit and beverages at multiple locations and Employee Wellness • Commute reduction options Performance Summary & Goals Personal Leave. U.S. employees who are experiencing compelling per• Employee use of Intel facilities for book clubs, music events, birth79 Supply Chain sonal situations may be eligible for unpaid Personal Leave. Employees can day parties, baby showers, etc. 92 Contributions to Society apply for Personal Leave to handle family crises or emergencies, provide • Scholarships for dependents of Intel employees (nearly $2.4 million A pp e n d i x care for an ill family member (i.e., when such leave is not otherwise covered in scholarships were awarded to over 600 recipients in 14 countries 111 About This Report/Approach by the Family Medical Leave Act), or address certain situations not covin 2010) to Assurance ered under Intel’s other leave programs. In 2010, 148 employees used our • “Live Homework Help” for employees’ families, which included 112 GRI Content Index Personal Leave program. 25,000 tutoring sessions in 2010 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Military Leave of Absence and Adjustment Pay. Intel supports • Family fun events, which reached over 85% of our employees and employees who serve in the U.S. uniformed services or National Guard. their families in 2010 Military Adjustment Pay compensates for the difference between • Employee Marketplace: An online forum for Intel employees where an employee’s base pay and military pay. Intel has expanded Military they can exchange items with their colleagues (about 400 items Access the Report Builder Adjustment Pay for service in Iraq and Afghanistan and other emergencies, are sold or traded every month) 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 72 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Work/Life Effectiveness employees and their families. We also provide on-site caregiver training 9 Strategy and Management Intel is committed to fostering a culture that reduces barriers to work/ for employees who are caring for an elder relative, and we maintain an Approach elder-care intranet site with easy access to resources such as a nationwide life effectiveness. Our commitment to flexibility is driven by the demands Governance and of our global business environment, which require ongoing collaboration elder-care support and referral service. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s across multiple locations and time zones. Program options may vary by Resources. Our intranet site includes a wide variety of work/life 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact business unit and job type, and are tailored for each country based on marresources, and our Global Work/Life team sponsors ongoing seminars on 25 Governance, Ethics, ket needs and statutory requirements. Our work/life effort focuses on four topics such as weight management, coping with depression, identity theft, and Public Policy major areas: managing stress, caring for elder relatives, and working parent strateE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s gies. Our Employee Assistance Program provides employees with online Flexibility. To help employees manage their work and personal responsi32 Environment resources and articles on a variety of work/life topics, as well as 24/7 bilities, we support a wide range of flexible work options, including alternaS o cial Fac t o r s tive start/stop times, compressed work weeks, part-time schedules, job access to consultants. 58 Workplace sharing, flex time, compensatory time off, and telecommuting. Corporate Services and Conveniences. Several discount programs offer employOur Approach to Empowering guidelines govern each of these options, and managers and employees Employees ees reduced pricing on products and services, such as computers, cars, cell have discretion in developing solutions that meet both business and phones, home mortgages, banking, and home solar energy systems. We Key Issues & Priorities employee needs. Because most of these arrangements are negotiated also have on-site cafeterias, fitness centers, ATMs, dry-cleaning services, Career Growth and Development directly between employees and their managers, Intel does not track and private rooms for nursing mothers. More than 90% of our employees Communication and Recognition usage centrally. However, surveys indicate that about 20% of our employin the U.S. have access to commute reduction options, such as vanpool Workforce Diversity and Inclusion ees work a compressed work-week schedule, and more than 80% telecomand transit subsidies and carpool matching services, as well as air shuttles > Compensation, Benefits, mute on a regular or temporary basis using company-provided laptops and between major sites. and Work/Life Effectiveness Health and Safety, remote access to the corporate network. We strive to provide comfortable, attractive work spaces that promote and Employee Wellness Child and Elder Care. Our childcare programs are customized to meet collaboration among employees. To that end, over the past two years, we Performance Summary & Goals the specific needs and market conditions at each site. Intel sponsors 15 have redesigned more than 1 million square feet of office space, replac79 Supply Chain near-site childcare centers in the U.S. that offer priority enrollment, back-up ing tall gray cubicle walls with brightly colored, lower walls. We have added 92 Contributions to Society childcare, and holiday care. We also provide up to $50 a day (five days a glass-walled conference rooms, and open lounges with flat-screen TVs, A pp e n d i x year) for back-up childcare reimbursement to all U.S. employees. In addition, armchairs, and kitchens, where free fruit and beverages are available 111 About This Report/Approach we sponsor family childcare networks at our Arizona, New Mexico, and throughout the day. The redesigned areas promote innovation, with plenty to Assurance Oregon sites. To meet the scheduling needs of our manufacturing workof space for people to work in groups. We also have incorporated “green” 112 GRI Content Index force, many family childcare network providers offer extended-hours care. design principles into the plans. For more information, see the Environment 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Through our Dependent Care Assistance Program, employees can set section of this report. aside up to $5,000 in pre-tax funds each year to pay for dependent care For firsthand accounts of the Intel workplace, visit the Life at Intel web expenses. Employees can be reimbursed up to $5,000 per adoption, with site, where employees share their experiences of working at Intel, including Access the Report Builder a lifetime maximum of $15,000 (three adoptions). Intel is committed to our work/life programs. supporting employees who have children or other dependents with special 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility needs, and we provide a comprehensive intranet site with resources for 73 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Health and Safety, and Employee Wellness Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy to “provide a safe and injury9 Strategy and Management free workplace.” We want more colleagues to go home injury-free during Approach Our safety and wellness programs help employees enjoy 2011, and we will continue to focus on core safety programs, injury reducGovernance and a better quality of life. They also contribute to Intel’s suction initiatives, and the next steps on our safety culture journey. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s cess, since employees who are physically and mentally fit 20 Financial Performance Employees and contractors receive a wide range of safety training, startand Economic Impact can be more productive. ing with orientation sessions and continuing on the job. Instructor-led and 25 Governance, Ethics, web-based training classes are available to help employees understand and Public Policy 2010 Safety Update their safety responsibilities, and to cover materials needed for specific E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Our days away case rate remained flat compared to 2009, but we recorded jobs (such as electrical safety, ergonomics, control of hazardous energies, 32 Environment reductions in the severity and the impact of employee injuries, with a 27% and chemical safety). Courses are available in multiple languages, and are S o cial Fac t o r s reduction in the total number of lost days and a 31% reduction in the numdesigned to be tailored for different Intel locations as needed. In 2010, 58 Workplace ber of restricted days. Our recordable rate increased by 17% in 2010, the there were 147,713 attendees at our EHS training courses, which included Our Approach to Empowering result of increases in both cumulative trauma disorders (CTDs) and acute 60 web-based and 91 instructor-led classes. Employees injuries within our manufacturing and platform organizations. Intel ended We continued to build on our Everybody, Everywhere, Everyday! (E3!) Key Issues & Priorities the year with an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) safety culture strategy in 2010 to reinforce our expectations about Career Growth and Development recordable rate of 0.56, which is three times better than the U.S. semiconmaintaining a strong safety culture. Through the 2010 E3! Safety Culture Communication and Recognition ductor industry average. Survey, almost 25% of Intel’s employees were invited to provide feedback Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Although we work proactively to prevent the onset of CTD symptoms on their organization’s safety culture. The survey tool is based on our eight Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life Effectiveness through employee training and awareness campaigns, CTDs continue to be core expectations of a positive safety culture. Surveyed organizations > Health and Safety, the most frequent recordable type of injury at Intel. We recently introduced used the feedback to identify their two or three priority safety culture and Employee Wellness software that reminds employees to take rest breaks, and describes spefocus areas and supporting tactics for the next two years. The majority of Performance Summary & Goals cific steps to take to reduce risks associated with computer use. In addithe organizations prioritized opportunities for continuous improvement in 79 Supply Chain tion to proactive initiatives to prevent CTD injuries, we advocate that our the areas of management safety leadership and actions, supportive com92 Contributions to Society employees report CTD symptoms as early as possible, so they can minimize munications, and employee engagement. A pp e n d i x injury severity by obtaining early care and addressing the root cause. With 111 About This Report/Approach this focus on early reporting, Intel’s overall cumulative trauma injury report Safety Focus Areas for 2011 to Assurance rate increased 15% worldwide in 2010, but we recorded a 48% reduction • Grow Intel’s safety culture: Everyone, Everywhere, Everyday! (E3!) 112 GRI Content Index in CTD cases that involved lost or restricted time—an indication that early • Deliver effective, efficient global programs and standards to enable 119 UN Global Compact— reporting is helping to minimize injury severity for our employees. environmental, health, and safety success and compliance Communication on Progress While our 2010 safety performance compared to our peer companies is • Deliver quality customer service by building valued partnerships, still exceptional, we are committed to improvement, guided by the Intel supporting site needs, and tackling emerging issues Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 74 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Recordable and Days Away Case Rates Health and Safety Management Systems 9 Strategy and Management 2010 marked a major milestone for Intel, as we achieved company-wide Approach 0.60 certification for OHSAS 18001, the internationally recognized standard Governance and 0.56 for occupational safety and health management systems. As a result, Intel Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 0.50 now maintains a fully integrated multi-site registration to both ISO 14001 20 Financial Performance 0.48 0.48 0.46 and Economic Impact and OHSAS 18001 that extends through December 31, 2013. In 2010, we Rate Per 100 Employees1 0.43 25 Governance, Ethics, 0.40 did not receive any safety-related notices of violation as a result of EHS and Public Policy regulatory visits or audits. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 0.30 As new sites are added, we will continue to complete the necessary cer­ 32 Environment tification audits to add them to our integrated ISO 14001 and OHSAS S o cial Fac t o r s 0.20 18001 multi-site registration. Going forward, we will complete initial cer58 Workplace 0.13 tification audits for our new manufacturing operations in Vietnam and 0.11 0.12 0.11 0.11 Our Approach to Empowering 0.10 China. For more information about our EHS management systems and Employees compliance and self-assessment activities, see “Managing Environmental Key Issues & Priorities Performance” and “Compliance Information and Reporting,” respectively, Career Growth and Development 2006 2007 2008 2009 2 2010 in the Environment section of this report. Communication and Recognition Recordable Rate Days Away Case Rate Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Health and Safety Benchmarks 1 Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year Compensation, Benefits, 2 Figures restated due to new cases reported after close of reporting period 4.3 and Work/Life Effectiveness 4.0 Rate Per 100 Employees1 > Health and Safety, Intel’s recordable rate for injury and illness increased by 17% in 2010, while our days and Employee Wellness away case rate remained flat. We believe that all workplace injuries are preventable, and we will continue to focus our efforts in 2011 on reinforcing a strong safety culture. 3.0 Performance Summary & Goals 79 Supply Chain 2.0 92 Contributions to Society 1.8 A pp e n d i x 1.0 1.0 111 About This Report/Approach 0.56 to Assurance 0.4 In 2010, Intel achieved certification for 0.11 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— OHSAS 18001, the internationally recognized 2009 OSHA2 2009 OSHA3 2010 Intel Communication on Progress standard for occupational safety and Recordable Rate Days Away Case Rate health management systems. 1 Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year 2 Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rate for U.S. manufacturers 3 OSHA rate for U.S. semiconductor manufacturers Access the Report Builder Each year, Intel compares its health and safety performance with established 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report benchmarks relative to the latest data available for all U.S. manufacturers and www.intel.com/go/responsibility U.S. semiconductor manufacturers. We continue to outperform both benchmarks in terms of injury prevention. External data is from the U.S. Bureau of Labor. 75 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Wellness Programs Intel was among 66 employers that received a 2010 Best Employers for 9 Strategy and Management Intel is committed to developing a culture in which employees and their Healthy Lifestyles award at the Leadership Summit, sponsored by the Approach National Business Group on Health’s Institute on Innovation in Workforce families are healthy, productive, and engaged in living wellness-oriented Governance and lifestyles every day. We have created a portfolio of health benefit plans Well-being. We earned a platinum award—the highest level given—in recogEc o n o m ic Fac t o r s and wellness programs designed to encourage employees to evaluate, nition of our wellness programs. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact improve, and maintain their health and the health of their families. We were also honored to receive recognition for the Intel Health for Life 25 Governance, Ethics, Intel’s Health for Life program is designed to inspire and motivate employprogram from URAC and the Global Knowledge Exchange Network (GKEN) and Public Policy ees to take action toward achieving their best possible health and quality on Healthcare. URAC is a well-known, independent nonprofit organizaE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s tion and a leader in promoting healthcare quality through its accreditation, of life. The program includes on-site primary care (providing employees 32 Environment education, and measurement programs. Intel’s Health for Life program was with convenient access to quality care at low cost), on-site biometrics, S o cial Fac t o r s annual health assessments, fitness programs, wellness seminars, flu preone of only six workplace award entries selected by a prestigious panel of 58 Workplace vention, and personalized wellness coaching. These programs are deployed judges in the inaugural URAC and GKEN International Health Promotion Our Approach to Empowering through Health for Life Centers at Intel’s major U.S. and international sites. Awards competition. Employees The centers are designed to be hubs for corporate and site-level wellness Key Issues & Priorities activities. Career Growth and Development Communication and Recognition The program’s 3-Step Wellness Check is now available in nine countries. It Workforce Diversity and Inclusion provides biometric screening, which includes cholesterol and glucose testCompensation, Benefits, ing, basic measurements of blood pressure and body mass index, a health and Work/Life Effectiveness risk assessment, and wellness coaching. In 2010, 56% of Intel employees > Health and Safety, “ The [Health for Life] Centers are here to help participated in the Wellness Check, receiving critical knowledge about their and Employee Wellness employees take care of themselves and manage health status. Intervention programs, such as weight management, fitness, Performance Summary & Goals and stress management, are available for lifestyle behavior modification. their health. We want to provide our employees 79 Supply Chain with access to convenient and high-quality care.” 92 Contributions to Society Expanding our focus on employee well-being and preventive healthcare, Brian Krzanich, Senior Vice President and General Manager, A pp e n d i x we opened a new on-site digital fitness center at our Chandler, Arizona Manufacturing and Supply Chain 111 About This Report/Approach campus in 2010. The center offers state-of-the-art, Intel® embedded techto Assurance nology-based and Internet-connected machines that communicate fitness 112 GRI Content Index information to users and provide an engaging, customized 119 UN Global Compact— workout experience. The center enables employees to Communication on Progress proactively manage their health and fitness, and serves as a pilot for future corporate wellness centers. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 76 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Other Health Initiatives conditions. We strive to ensure that affected employees have the same 9 Strategy and Management We collaborate regularly on research and leadership initiatives as well as working conditions and performance requirements as other Intel employApproach ees. We have also developed employee education programs, and our other health-related issues that may impact our industry or our workforce. Governance and employees have initiated community outreach efforts related to HIV/AIDS, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s SIA Health Study. Starting in 2005, we participated with the with particular emphasis in areas of the world where we operate that have 20 Financial Performance Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), other member companies of the limited access to information on this topic. and Economic Impact SIA, and a research team from Vanderbilt University on a multi-company 25 Governance, Ethics, study evaluating causes of death in employees who had worked in wafer and Public Policy Crisis Management fabrication facilities. The study, including over 100,000 semiconductor Intel Crisis Management (ICM) is our end-to-end response to crises and E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s industry workers who were followed for up to nearly 30 years, was a retromajor business disruption events. The ICM vision is to “save lives, property, 32 Environment spective epidemiological study designed to determine if wafer fabrication revenue, and business opportunity by leading prudent preparedness, S o cial Fac t o r s workers had an increased cancer risk compared to other semiconductor appropriate response, and rapid recovery from natural and man-made 58 Workplace industry workers and to the general population. In 2010, the study was disasters and disruptions.” ICM sets the standards and provides oversight Our Approach to Empowering completed, and the results were published in the November issue of the Employees for our Emergency Management (EM) program and our Business Continuity Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine. The researchers (BC) program across Intel, and requires every Intel organization to embed Key Issues & Priorities found no association between work in wafer fabrication cleanrooms and BC into their core business practices. This enables Intel to maintain and Career Growth and Development either overall cancer mortality or mortality from any specific form of cancer. regularly test business continuity plans for all of its sites, facilities, and Communication and Recognition Nanoelectronics Safety. Intel is collaborating with multiple stakeholder operations. Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Compensation, Benefits, groups to further define, characterize, and manage the EHS implications of As a global corporation with locations and suppliers all over the world, and Work/Life Effectiveness nanoelectronics—the manufacture of extremely small transistor devices—in Intel must be prepared to respond to a wide range of disasters and keep > Health and Safety, the semiconductor industry. Intel is also taking the lead in developing EHS and Employee Wellness the business running. The EM program is designed to quickly respond and standards on the use of nanomaterials in manufacturing, and is currently Performance Summary & Goals ensure the safety of our personnel, safeguard our facilities, and begin the convener of the International Standards Organization (ISO) Technical 79 Supply Chain the recovery of our business back to “normal operations.” In the event of Committee charged with developing international EHS standards on the 92 Contributions to Society a business disruption, our BC plans are designed to enable us to continue use of nanomaterials. We continue to support the International Council on critical business functions, such as handling customer orders, overseeing A pp e n d i x Nanotechnology, a multi-stakeholder group of industry, academic, and gov111 About This Report/Approach production and deliveries, and managing our supply chain. The strong parternment institutions dedicated to promoting the sound use of nanomaterito Assurance nership, leadership, and linkage of EM and BC have made Intel an industry als in future applications. 112 GRI Content Index leader in these areas, and have helped facilitate our corporate response 119 UN Global Compact— HIV/AIDS. We believe that employees affected by Acquired Immune capabilities to a range of crises in recent years, such as the earthquake Communication on Progress Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) in China (Chengdu), the H1N1 pandemic, volcanic ash, political protests in do not present a health risk to other employees under normal working Egypt, loss of critical suppliers, flooding, fires, and other events. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 77 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Performance Summary and Goals 9 Strategy and Management Approach In 2010, our Organizational Health Survey results remained strong and provided valuable feedback in the areas where we have made significant improvements over the past few years, as well as the areas where we still can improve. We were recognized by a number of external groups for our leadership, Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s training, and diversity programs. While we saw improvements as a result of our investments aimed at increasing the pipeline of women and minori20 Financial Performance ties in the technology industry, we still faced challenges in increasing the overall percentage of women and under-represented minorities in our global and Economic Impact workforce. In the area of health and safety, we made good progress on improving early reporting of injuries and continued to expand our Health for Life 25 Governance, Ethics, wellness program to reach more employees at our sites around the world. We also completed workplace redesigns at a number of our sites, based on and Public Policy successful pilots in 2008, to create more open and flexible workspaces that facilitate employee collaboration. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment Workplace Goals and Performance S o cial Fac t o r s 2010 Goals 2010 Performance 58 Workplace Drive key improvements and hire at full availability for technical While the overall percentage of females in our global workforce declined Our Approach to Empowering under-represented minorities and women. slightly, we saw an increase in the representation of women in senior leaderEmployees ship positions. We will continue to invest in both internal and external initiatives to strengthen the pipeline of talent and advance our diversity objectives. Key Issues & Priorities Career Growth and Development Improve the organizational health of the company, as measured by Scores for 90% of the survey questions improved from 2009 to 2010, with improvements in our company-wide Organizational Health Survey. 73% of employees participating. Communication and Recognition Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Maintain our world-class safety performance by achieving a target Intel’s 2010 recordable rate was 0.56, which is a 17% increase over 2009. safety recordable rate of 0.36. Increases were registered in cumulative trauma disorders (CTDs), where we Compensation, Benefits, and Work/Life Effectiveness were driving and advocating early reporting with our employees, and in acute injuries within our manufacturing and platform organizations. Health and Safety, and Employee Wellness Improve early reporting of ergonomic-related injuries, specifically We did not meet our goal in 2010. Intel’s 2010 CTD First Aid to Recordable > Performance Summary & Goals CTDs, with a targeted First Aid to Recordable Ratio goal of 9:1. Ratio was 6.8:1, compared to 7.1:1 in 2009. During 2010, we saw a 15% worldwide increase in Intel’s overall CTD injury report rate and an increase in CTD 79 Supply Chain recordables. Early detection helped drive a 48% reduction in CTD cases that 92 Contributions to Society involved lost or restricted time from 2009 to 2010. A pp e n d i x Achieved Partially Achieved Not Met 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index In 2011, we will focus on making improvements in key areas identified in our 2010 Organizational Health Survey, including career development, decision119 UN Global Compact— making, and manager effectiveness; driving continuous improvement in workforce diversity; and building on the solid foundation that we have estabCommunication on Progress lished in health and safety performance. Workplace Goals for 2011 Access the Report Builder Drive key improvements and hire at full availability for technical under-represented minorities and women. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Improve the organizational health of the company, as measured by our company-wide Organizational Health Survey. www.intel.com/go/responsibility Maintain our world-class safety performance, achieving a target safety recordable rate of 0.40. Improve early reporting of ergonomic-related injuries, specifically CTDs, with a targeted First Aid to Recordable Ratio goal of 9:1. 78 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Supply Chain 20 Financial Performance Respect for people and our planet. This principle and Economic Impact underlies our business practices, and we expect the 25 Governance, Ethics, companies we do business with to apply the same and Public Policy principle. Because the most reliable, sustainable companies E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s are those that honor their employees and care about the 32 Environment environment, Intel is working to continuously improve transparency and promote corporate responsibility S o cial Fac t o r s throughout the global electronics supply chain. 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain Our Approach to Supply Chain Responsibility Key Issues & Priorities 2010 Assessment and Audit Summary Conflict-Free Minerals Supplier Diversity Mouse over numbers Supplier Environmental Impact to see more Performance Summary & Goals images. 1 2 3 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index Key Supply Chain Links 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Intel Supplier Site 10,000 500 217 Intel Code of Conduct ~ > Intel Human Rights Principles Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Number of Intel suppliers, Number of supplier facilities Tons of paper and plastic that Access the Report Builder in over 100 countries that we completed a we saved through Supplier Ethics Expectations 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report risk assessment or audit packaging and shipment Supplier Environmental Health www.intel.com/go/responsibility for during 2010 redesigns in 2010 and Safety Requirements 79 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our Approach to Supply Chain Our Global Supply Chain 9 Strategy and Management Intel depends on a complex, multi-tiered global supply chain that comprises Approach Responsibility more than 10,000 suppliers in over 100 countries. Our suppliers provide a Governance and Our strategy is to balance our goal of lowering our myriad of parts, equipment, materials, and services for our factories and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s supplier-related environmental and social footprint with offices worldwide. We have suppliers that provide direct materials for our 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact our need to ensure the most stable, cost effective, and production processes, tools and machines for our factories, and logistics 25 Governance, Ethics, and packaging services; we also have suppliers that provide non-producpredictable supply chain for Intel. From respecting human and Public Policy tion materials and services, such as office supplies and travel services. In rights and promoting worker safety to reducing environE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 2010, we were again recognized in Gartner’s AMR Supply Chain Top 25 mental impact, we look for leadership and collaboration list for excellence in supply chain management, including our efforts to 32 Environment opportunities to bring about lasting change. improve customer responsiveness and apply supply chain principles across S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace the company to reduce costs and improve efficiency. As a major supplier to other leading electronics companies, we know 79 Supply Chain that Intel’s actions and those of our suppliers can impact the performance > Our Approach to Supply Chain 2010 Supplier Spends by Region and reputation of our customers and their products. We continuously Responsibility seek to establish a leadership position by proliferating and promoting the 16% Key Issues & Priorities experience we have gained in managing corporate responsibility issues 2010 Assessment and Audit in our own manufacturing operations throughout our supply chain. We Summary proactively scan trends to understand where there are significant risks 44% Conflict-Free Minerals and opportunities for supply chain leadership. Where appropriate, we also Supplier Diversity enlist the help of others to effect broader change throughout the industry. 40% Supplier Environmental Impact Performance Summary & Goals Our approach includes: 92 Contributions to Society Americas APAC EMEA • Setting clear expectations and providing infrastructure, direction, and APAC = Asia-Paciﬁc EMEA = Europe, Middle East, Africa A pp e n d i x tools to help suppliers improve their corporate responsibility perfor111 About This Report/Approach mance. As part of this process, we incorporate requirements and training to Assurance into our management systems, scorecards, assessments, and awards; 112 GRI Content Index • Collaborating with our suppliers on broad initiatives where we “ Supply chain leadership requires setting high 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress believe we can have a lasting impact, such as working with the Electronic expectations for ourselves and our suppliers, and Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and other industry associations, and then holding ourselves accountable to the results. helping to lead efforts to trace and eliminate conflict minerals in the By working closely and transparently across the electronics supply chain; full supply chain, we can achieve lasting and higher • Engaging our employees to further integrate corporate responsibility levels of performance.” Access the Report Builder considerations into purchasing decisions and supplier management Jackie Sturm, Vice President, 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report processes; and Technology and Manufacturing Group, General Manager, www.intel.com/go/responsibility Worldwide Materials • Driving higher levels of transparency in our reporting and supplier engagement activities. 80 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile To continue to promote transparency, we have included a list of our top 75 Our Expectations 9 Strategy and Management suppliers in 2010. We expect our suppliers to actively support Intel’s supplier responsibility Approach goals by: developing a corporate responsibility strategy or policy, setting Governance and Top 75 Production, Capital, and Logistics Suppliers1 aggressive goals, engaging and auditing their own suppliers, and reporting Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Advanced Semiconductor Linde and sharing their ideas and successes. Some of our suppliers may in turn 20 Financial Performance Engineering Inc. LSI Corporation and Economic Impact Advantest Corp. Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. have thousands of suppliers themselves, so it is critical that we set clear AEM Holdings Ltd. MEMC, Inc. expectations with our own suppliers. 25 Governance, Ethics, Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Micron and Public Policy Applied Materials Inc. Microprobe Inc. Intel first codified supplier expectations regarding human resources, enviE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s ASM International N.V. Mitsubishi Gas Chemical ASML Holding N.V. Company, Inc. ronmental management, worker safety, and ethics in 1998. In 2004, we 32 Environment Avantor Performance Materials, Inc. Murata Manufacturing Co. Ltd. adopted the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC Code), which is S o cial Fac t o r s f/k/a Mallinckrodt Baker Inc. Muratec Automation Co. LTD consistent with Intel’s own Code of Conduct and Human Rights Principles. Cymer, Inc. Nan Ya PCB Corp. 58 Workplace Our EICC Commitment Letter, Code of Conduct, Human Rights Principles, Daifuku Co., Ltd. Nanometrics Inc. 79 Supply Chain Dainippon Screen Mfg Co. Ltd. Nidec Corporation Statement on Conflict Minerals, and other corporate governance and busi> Our Approach to Supply Chain Delta Design Inc. Nikon Corp. ness ethics documents are available on our Governance and Ethics web site. Responsibility Delta Electronics, Inc. Nordson Asymtek DHL Global Forwarding Novellus Systems, Inc. We expect our employees and suppliers to comply with the EICC Code, Key Issues & Priorities Dupont Air Products Nuflare Technology Inc. 2010 Assessment and Audit Nanomaterials LLC Pegatron Corporation which describes best practices adopted and implemented by major elecEbara Corp. Summary Praxair Electronics tronics companies, our customers, and their supply chains. We also expect Edwards Ltd. Conflict-Free Minerals Quanta our suppliers to ensure that their suppliers abide by the EICC Code. The Essai Inc. Ringchem Company, Inc. Supplier Diversity Federal Express EICC Code sets forth performance, compliance, management system, and Samsung Electro-Mechanics Supplier Environmental Impact Flextronics Schenker Logistics, Inc. reporting guidelines, as well as assessment and audit procedures, across Fujifilm Electronic Materials USA, Inc. Performance Summary & Goals SEH America Ltd. Fujimi Corporation key areas of social responsibility and environmental stewardship. It covers Shinko Electric Industries Co., Ltd. 92 Contributions to Society Gemtek Technology Co., Ltd. human rights issues and labor standards related to: child and forced labor, Siliconware Precision Industries Grohmann Engineering GMBH Co., Ltd. A pp e n d i x freedom of association and collective bargaining, diversity and nondiscrimiHarbor Electronics Inc. Siltronic AG 111 About This Report/Approach Hitachi High Technologies America Stats Chip Pac Ltd. nation, working hours and minimum wages, ethical practices, and worker to Assurance Hitachi-Kokusai Electric Corp Sumco Corp. health and safety. 112 GRI Content Index Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Electron Ltd. Honeywell Electronic Materials Tokyo Ohka Kogyo America, Inc. The EICC Code also embodies principles from external standards, such 119 UN Global Compact— Hoya Corp. USA Tosoh Quartz Inc. Communication on Progress as pertinent International Labour Organization conventions, the United Ibiden Co. Ltd. TSMC Inventec Corp. Ultratech, Inc. Nations Global Compact, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and JSR Micro, Inc. United Van Lines Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp. Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd. Kintetsu World Express Universal Declaration of Human Rights. UTI IMS Inc. KLA Tencor Corporation Varian Semiconductor Equipment KMG Chemicals, Inc. Associates, Inc. Access the Report Builder VWR International 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 As of December 31, 2010 www.intel.com/go/responsibility The suppliers in this list represent approximately 90% of Intel’s purchasing spends in production, capital, and logistics in 2010. Some were recipients of Intel’s 2010 Supplier 81 Continuous Quality Improvement and Preferred Quality Supplier awards. Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Governance and Management We use an industry-standard, risk-based approach to prioritize our supplier 9 Strategy and Management An internal Intel organization is dedicated to managing our supply chain, social responsibility activities. Our commodity managers are responsible Approach for working with our suppliers to assess potential risks, using the following and we have chartered specific leadership teams to focus on integratGovernance and ing corporate responsibility into our management practices, including three-tiered framework: Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s responding to requests from our customers on corporate responsibility 20 Financial Performance topics. The primary leadership team chartered with setting the direction Risk-Based Approach to Supplier Assessments and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, and strategy for supply chain corporate responsibility issues is our Supply and Public Policy Risk Assessment 1 (RA1) Chain Management Review Committee (MRC). This team is made up of High-level (one-page) analysis used to determine whether a E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s representatives from relevant business units across Intel, such as Materials; speciﬁc supplier facility is a potential high-risk facility. The Technology Manufacturing Engineering; Customer Fulfillment, Planning assessment covers a number of risk factors, plus geographic 32 Environment location, product(s) or service(s) provided, and corporate S o cial Fac t o r s and Logistics; Corporate Responsibility; Environmental Health and Safety; responsibility concerns. 58 Workplace Human Resources; and Legal. The MRC is supported by project work High-risk suppliers move to RA2 79 Supply Chain groups focused on EICC Code implementation, environmental sustainability, > Our Approach to Supply Chain supply chain ethics, and global supplier diversity. The MRC also provides Responsibility regular briefings to Intel’s senior vice president and general manager of Risk Assessment 2 (RA2) Key Issues & Priorities Manufacturing and Supply Chain, and to other MRCs as needed. Requires a supplier to respond to an in-depth, online self-assessment questionnaire with more than 300 questions 2010 Assessment and Audit Industry Collaboration. We actively participate in a number of external to determine a facility’s potential high-risk areas. RA2 goes Summary into greater detail than RA1 and covers all sections of the supply chain-related organizations, including the EICC. Intel representaEICC Code. Conflict-Free Minerals tives serve on EICC committees to advance improvements throughout the Supplier Diversity industry, including helping to develop audit processes and tools to track High-risk suppliers move to RA3 Supplier Environmental Impact Performance Summary & Goals assessment data and emissions information. Our EICC representatives pro92 Contributions to Society vide regular updates to Intel’s internal working groups and MRCs to ensure Risk Assessment 3 (RA3) that Intel’s supply chain responsibility priorities align with those of the EICC. A pp e n d i x Consists of an on-site third-party audit conducted for customers. The audit covers all sections of the EICC Code 111 About This Report/Approach In recent years, we have also actively engaged through industry associaand evaluates risk according to the number of compliance to Assurance tions, including SEMATECH and Semiconductor Equipment and Materials concerns and/or critical areas at that location. 112 GRI Content Index International (SEMI), to help set environmental, health, and safety stanAudit completed and corrective action plan put in place 119 UN Global Compact— dards and drive improvements across the sector. Communication on Progress Supplier Selection and Risk-Based Management. Commodity manThis framework allows us to identify areas of potential concern and helps us prioritize agers and buyers are responsible for overseeing Intel’s supplier selection where to complete third-party audits to manage compliance with our standards. process and communicating our corporate responsibility expectations to suppliers. Our request-for-proposal documents and other supplier selection Access the Report Builder processes include corporate responsibility metrics and questions. We also include language in our contracts about our expectations for suppliers on 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility corporate responsibility issues. 82 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Employee Training. For a number of years, Intel commodity managers Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement Program 9 Strategy and Management and buyers who manage our Tier 1 (direct) suppliers have been required to Started in 1987, Intel’s corporate-wide Supplier Continuous Quality Approach attend an internal training course that covers corporate responsibility and Improvement (SCQI) Program utilizes Intel’s supplier management tools and Governance and environmental sustainability. In 2010, we further integrated environmental processes to drive continuous improvements in our suppliers’ performance. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s and social responsibility considerations into our management systems and Our suppliers receive regular feedback through the supplier assessment 20 Financial Performance training, including: process and supplier site visits. and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, • Adding more in-depth discussions to commodity manager training On an annual basis, we publicly recognize suppliers that have demonand Public Policy about human rights, conflict minerals, and environmental sustainability strated outstanding performance. Suppliers are awarded either SCQI or E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s requirements; Preferred Quality Supplier (PQS) status based on Supplier Report Card 32 Environment • Updating two of our supply chain negotiation courses to include sustain(SRC) results; performance against a challenging annual improvement plan; S o cial Fac t o r s active participation in Intel’s supply chain environmental, social, and goverability topics; 58 Workplace nance initiatives; and validated quality and business systems. In addition to 79 Supply Chain • Integrating corporate responsibility content into training and web sites the SCQI and PQS awards, we created a new Achievement Award in 2010 > Our Approach to Supply Chain for employees who use our corporate purchasing cards, high-volume to recognize an extraordinary supplier effort that impacted one of Intel’s Responsibility shopping cards, and Correct Way to Buy tool; key business areas. For a list of recent SCQI and PQS winners, visit our Key Issues & Priorities Supplier Quality Portal. • Creating new purchasing desk scripts that cover corporate responsibility 2010 Assessment and Audit issues, and training our helpdesk staff to better respond to questions In 2010, we continued to improve our internal processes for integrating Summary Conflict-Free Minerals from employees; environmental considerations into the SRC and into the processes that we Supplier Diversity • Adding environmental and social considerations into the strategic sourcuse to request bids and proposals, select new suppliers, and manage supSupplier Environmental Impact ing plans of a number of groups in our supply chain organizations; and plier performance. The SRC now includes sustainability metrics, as well as Performance Summary & Goals metrics in the areas of availability, cost, quality, technology, and customer 92 Contributions to Society • Creating and implementing sustainability curricula in our internal satisfaction. Within the sustainability category, suppliers are assessed on employee training program on supply chain management competencies. A pp e n d i x an Intel Code of Conduct risk assessment, the presence of an environmen111 About This Report/Approach Transparency. In 2010, we took a number of steps to increase the overall tal management program with set goals and performance improvements to Assurance transparency of our supply chain responsibility efforts, including: expandover time, and financial sustainability measures. Starting in 2011, suppli112 GRI Content Index ing disclosure of our top suppliers from 50 to 75, providing regular updates ers subject to the SRC will also be required to provide baseline usage and 119 UN Global Compact— during the year on our actions to address conflict minerals, expanding our historical trend data on carbon, water, and waste, including any applicable Communication on Progress disclosure on our assessment and audit findings, and redesigning our supgoals that the supplier has established. The objective is not to set specific plier web site. We also launched a pilot web site with real-time reporting for improvement expectations for suppliers at this stage, but to determine one of our factories. For more information, see “Stakeholder Engagement” how to drive improvements in the future. in this report. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 83 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Supplier Tools and Education 2010 Assessment and Audit Summary 9 Strategy and Management To ensure that our suppliers are well-informed and compliant with our Approach expectations, we offer training and a number of tools. We believe that the most effective way to improve Governance and corporate responsibility performance across our supply Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Supplier Web Site. Our Supplier Site contains detailed information about chain is to direct our audit and performance improvement 20 Financial Performance our human rights, ethics, and environmental health and safety policies for and Economic Impact activities primarily toward suppliers with the highest suppliers, supplier diversity initiatives, supplier quality and recognition pro25 Governance, Ethics, grams, business continuity, and key contacts. The secure area of the site risk profiles. Our assessments and audits cover a range and Public Policy of labor-related issues as well as environmental, health, features numerous web-based tools designed to promote effective comE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s munications and help suppliers follow proper data collection procedures. and safety factors. 32 Environment The Environmental Health and Safety section of the site includes Intel’s S o cial Fac t o r s In 2010, we improved supplier due diligence by significantly increasing the safety expectations, online safety training tools and manuals, and informa58 Workplace total number of assessments and audits that we completed using our tion about recent supplier safety awards. It also includes our Environmental 79 Supply Chain risk-based assessment process. Product Content Specification, and provides tools for tasks such as screenOur Approach to Supply Chain ing products for restricted chemicals. Responsibility Risk Assessments and Audits Intel Supplier Day. At our Intel Supplier Day conference in March 2010, 2010 2009 2008 Key Issues & Priorities > 2010 Assessment and Audit hundreds of executives came together to receive education, share inforRA1 (high-level self-assessment) 576 500 300 Summary mation, discuss our supplier expectations, and learn about our corporate Conflict-Free Minerals responsibility objectives for the coming year. Sustainability was one of the RA2 (in-depth assessment with 172 74 49 over 300 questions) Supplier Diversity main themes at the event. Keynotes, panels, and many of the interactive Supplier Environmental Impact booths at the conference focused on corporate responsibility and sustainRA3 (on-site third-party audit) 8 0 9 Performance Summary & Goals ability topics. Since 2008, we have completed more than 1,000 supplier self-assessments or audits. 92 Contributions to Society 89% of our production suppliers in our top 75 list have been evaluated using our Ethics Training. We communicate our supplier ethics expectations risk-based assessment process. In 2011, we will continue to expand our assessment A pp e n d i x process across more of our supplier base, including logistics suppliers. throughout the year in supplier meetings and training events, as well 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance as on our Supplier Site. An annual reminder letter to suppliers reinforces 112 GRI Content Index those ethics expectations. We provide ethics training materials in multiple 119 UN Global Compact— languages, including English, Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, Russian, and Communication on Progress Vietnamese. Suppliers are expected to report any ethical concerns to Intel “ Each company can have an impact with an so we can investigate and take appropriate action. Reporting can be done individual supplier, but if you drive change using any of several reporting methods, in English or in their local language. through thousands of suppliers, that can For more information on Intel’s supplier ethics expectations, training matelead to a geometric impact.” rials, or issue reporting, visit the Ethics and Code of Conduct section of our Robert E. Bruck, Vice President, Access the Report Builder Supplier Site. Technology and Manufacturing Group, General Manager, 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Technology Manufacturing Engineering www.intel.com/go/responsibility 84 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile We restarted our audit activity in 2010, completing eight RA3 third-party increase our overall audit activity level. The suppliers in the audits will be 9 Strategy and Management audits in 2010, compared to zero in 2009, when audits were put on hold able to share the results with their customers, as we will be following the Approach while the audit process was refined. Primary areas of concern identified EICC standard audit process. Governance and through the assessments and audits in 2010 included working hours, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s issues related to wages and benefits, emergency preparedness concerns, Supplier Facility Risk Levels Based on RA2 Assessments 20 Financial Performance and insufficient labor and ethics management systems. Examples of findand Economic Impact 4% ings included evidence of employees working longer than 60 hours in a 25 Governance, Ethics, 21% and Public Policy week or not being provided at least one day off in seven, and insufficient E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s training or procedures related to fire safety and drills. Affected suppliers 32 Environment were required to draft corrective action plans to address these issues, and we continue to work with the suppliers to secure documentation of S o cial Fac t o r s actions taken and ensure closure. 75% 58 Workplace 79 Supply Chain In 2010, several workers at one of these supplier sites, Foxconn (also Low risk Medium risk High risk Our Approach to Supply Chain known as Hon Hai), committed suicide at their workplace in Shenzhen, Responsibility We completed 172 RA2 assessments of supplier facilities in 2010. Areas identified as China. Like many other companies in our industry that work with this suppotentially high risk included labor issues, such as systems to prevent child labor and Key Issues & Priorities plier, Intel was deeply concerned about this tragic situation. Executives excessive working hours, and environmental management systems. > 2010 Assessment and Audit from our supply chain organization have been in continuing discussions Summary with Foxconn’s senior management, and we have offered them our assisDistribution by EICC Section of Major Nonconformances in Conflict-Free Minerals 2010 Supplier Audits tance in the form of human resources staff expertise and other general Supplier Diversity 7% 3% support. In addition, we joined the EICC’s employee health and welfare Supplier Environmental Impact 8% 26% taskforce to conduct a root cause analysis, and Intel required that a valiPerformance Summary & Goals dated audit be performed on-site to identify any major and minor non92 Contributions to Society 11% conformances to EICC Code. Foxconn has taken a number of actions to A pp e n d i x address the underlying issues; we are encouraged by their effectiveness 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance to date. In 2011, we will further monitor the issues identified in the audit 20% 25% 112 GRI Content Index to ensure that progress continues to be made. Health & Safety Ethics Environment 119 UN Global Compact— When serious concerns are identified through audits, our approach is to Labor EHS Management General Communication on Progress Labor & Ethics System engage with the supplier to drive improvements in their management sysManagement System tems and controls. However, if suppliers do not make adequate progress on identified areas of concern, we will take disciplinary actions up to and The most common nonconformance findings in 2010 were in the areas of health and safety (including emergency preparedness) and labor and working hours. including termination of their contracts. We plan to complete a total of at least 50 third-party supplier audits in We hold ourselves accountable to meet or exceed the same standards that Access the Report Builder 2011. We remain committed to the EICC shared-audit process, and in 2011 we set for our suppliers. In early 2011, we completed RA2 assessments at 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report our assembly and test facilities and fabs. We intend to make the summary www.intel.com/go/responsibility we will supplement that system with additional third-party audits to results public on our Supplier Site and in our next Corporate Responsibility report. 85 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Conflict-Free Minerals • Visits to the DRC. In late 2010, we sent our lead staffer working on the 9 Strategy and Management conflict minerals issue to the DRC to meet with local groups and work to Approach In 2010, Intel took a number of actions to proactively understand the challenges related to traceability. Governance and address concerns that metals (cobalt, gold, tantalum, tin, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s • Supplier Communications. We continued to reinforce our expectations 20 Financial Performance and tungsten) mined in the Democratic Republic of the with our suppliers, following up on a survey on conflict minerals that we and Economic Impact Congo (DRC) might be used in the electronics supply chain, sent to all suppliers in 2009. 25 Governance, Ethics, and that profits from the sale of these minerals may be and Public Policy • Engagements with NGOs. We continued to meet with NGOs and indifueling human rights atrocities in the eastern region of viduals engaged on this issue. E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s the DRC. 32 Environment • Industry Collaborations and Working Groups. Intel continued to coS o cial Fac t o r s The electronics industry supply chain is deep and wide, with many layers of chair the EICC/Global eSustainability Initiative (GeSI) Working Group on 58 Workplace suppliers in multiple countries. As a result, it is difficult to verify the origin extractives, helping to develop a tantalum audit protocol. We also hosted 79 Supply Chain of all the metals used in our products. Resolution of this issue will require and co-chaired the first industry-wide meeting with the tin supply chain, Our Approach to Supply Chain the commitment and cooperation of businesses, governments, developand financially supported the tin industry’s efforts to create a traceabilResponsibility ity system of metals coming from the region. Intel arranged a Conflictment agencies, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Key Issues & Priorities Free Gold Sourcing Summit in March 2011 with members of the World Throughout 2010, we continued to work diligently to put systems and 2010 Assessment and Audit Gold Council and the Responsible Jewelry Council to share our learnings Summary processes in place that will eventually enable us, with a high degree of from the EICC smelter audit program with leaders in the gold industry. > Conflict-Free Minerals confidence, to declare that our products are conflict-free. Our efforts Supplier Diversity are focused in three main areas: 1) driving accountability and ownership • Policy Work. Where appropriate, we shared our unique experience and Supplier Environmental Impact within our own supply chain through smelter validation audits; 2) partnerknowledge to inform government efforts, both directly and through Performance Summary & Goals ing with key industry associations, including the EICC, Business for Social industry collaborations. The U.S. Congress included provisions to address 92 Contributions to Society Responsibility, and ITRI (the international tin industry association) to drive conflict minerals in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer A pp e n d i x industry-wide action; and 3) working with both government agencies and Protection Act of 2010. We see this as a contribution to an international 111 About This Report/Approach NGOs to drive solutions. solution of multilateral due diligence guidelines and industry efforts to to Assurance develop a system to validate conflict-free sourcing. Our actions in 2010 included: 112 GRI Content Index We have invested significant resources—including staff time and financial 119 UN Global Compact— • Smelter Reviews and Audits. We completed on-site reviews of 25 Communication on Progress support of studies and working groups—to address this issue, and we will smelters in eight countries: Bolivia, Canada, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, continue to do so in 2011 (including the completion of at least 10 more Peru, Thailand, and the U.S. Through these reviews, Intel is determinon-site smelter reviews). Since conflict minerals are an evolving issue, we ing if smelters can verify the mines of origin for the ores they process. are committed to providing regular progress updates and While other companies have since joined us in these visits, Intel was the white papers on our web site, and continuing to educate first company in the electronics supply chain to conduct on-site smelter our suppliers on this topic (as in this video, shown at Intel Access the Report Builder reviews. The smelter reviews laid the groundwork for the EICC to develop Supplier Day). 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report and implement a process for independent third-party smelter audits. www.intel.com/go/responsibility At the end of 2010, the EICC completed two independent, third-party smelter audits, and additional audits are being scheduled for 2011. 86 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Supplier Diversity Intel is a member of the Information Systems Technology Group, a consor9 Strategy and Management tium that defines guidelines, innovative supplier development solutions, Approach As part of our commitment to deliver world-class products and best-known methods to proliferate global supplier diversity for the Governance and and services, Intel has maintained a Corporate Supplier high-tech industry and its supply chain. Through classroom and web-based Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Diversity Program for more than a decade. training, we educate our worldwide procurement employees about global 20 Financial Performance supplier diversity practices, policies, and inclusion. and Economic Impact We understand the importance of working with a diverse supply chain 25 Governance, Ethics, Intel’s Second Tier Program supports our efforts to advance the developthat represents our local markets and contributes innovative ideas to our and Public Policy business, helping us to better understand and serve the needs of varying ment of a healthy supplier diversity initiative by requiring our strategic E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s suppliers to report their spending with diverse suppliers. Our strategic supmarkets and customers. We estimate that in the past three years, Intel 32 Environment pliers that use diverse suppliers reported spending more than $149 million derived more than $40 billion in revenue from customers that require us to S o cial Fac t o r s demonstrate supply chain diversity. We recognize diverse suppliers as busiin 2010. We achieved our 2010 goals of: including historically under-repre58 Workplace nesses that are 51% owned and operated by at least one of the following: sented businesses in 100% of all eligible non-capital bidding opportunities, 79 Supply Chain minorities as defined by the country where the business was established; and participating in international supplier diversity standards adoption and Our Approach to Supply Chain community awareness campaigns. In 2011, we will continue to include women; veterans; service-disabled veterans; persons who are lesbian, Responsibility gay, bisexual, or transgender; or persons with a disability. Within the U.S., under-represented businesses in all eligible non-capital bidding opportuniKey Issues & Priorities we also recognize suppliers that are in Small Disadvantaged Enterprise, ties, and we will collaborate further on the establishment of cross-industry 2010 Assessment and Audit global supplier diversity policies and practices. We will also work to build HUB Zone, and 8A categories, as defined by the U.S. Small Business Summary Administration. greater awareness of the value of supplier diversity throughout the global Conflict-Free Minerals supply chain. > Supplier Diversity Intel collaborates with a number of diversity organizations to help promote Supplier Environmental Impact supplier diversity awareness, set global diversity certification standards, For more information on our supplier diversity initiatives, visit our Supplier Performance Summary & Goals and establish cross-industry diversity auditing policies and practices. Those Diversity web site. 92 Contributions to Society organizations include the National Minority Supplier Development Council A pp e n d i x (NMSDC), the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), 111 About This Report/Approach WEConnect International (WCI), and Minority Supplier Development China to Assurance (MSD China). We also participate in events sponsored by local organizations “ Running any business has its challenges. But small, 112 GRI Content Index dedicated to supplier diversity. diverse businesses face even greater hurdles. 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Intel’s Diversity Supplier program has helped our business prepare for opportunity, open doors, and cultivate new relationships.” Noma Hanlon, President, HB Design Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 87 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Supplier Environmental Impact We also conducted an assessment for an IEEE research paper entitled 9 Strategy and Management “Performing a Water Footprint Assessment for a Semiconductor Industry,”2 Approach We aim to use products in our operations that have been using similar methodologies to estimate water use in our supply chain. We Governance and designed and produced to minimize environmental impact. found that our Tier 1 suppliers accounted for only 6% of total water use, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s To that end, we collaborate with our suppliers on environwhile 66% stemmed from our direct manufacturing operations. About 20 Financial Performance mental management issues and integrate sustainable pur24% of the water use was related to the production of energy. In 2011, we and Economic Impact chasing best practices across our global operations. collaborated with an outside research firm to build on this preliminary esti25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy mate and further refine our methodology. This second paper found that Carbon and Water Footprinting. Many companies in the electronics the supply chain portion of our footprint accounted for less than 1% of our E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s industry outsource much of their manufacturing, so the environmental total footprint when water associated with the consumer-use phase of our 32 Environment impact and carbon emissions of their supply chain can be significantly products was incorporated. S o cial Fac t o r s larger than those from their own operations. That is not the case with Intel, 58 Workplace Over the past few years, we have participated in EICC Sustainability Work since we continue to conduct the majority of our wafer manufacturing in 79 Supply Chain Group activities geared toward decreasing the carbon footprint across our own global factory network. As a result, we place a higher priority on Our Approach to Supply Chain the electronics industry supply chain, including piloting a new EICC carbon Responsibility investments that reduce the environmental impact of our own operations, reporting system. In 2010, we collected emissions data from our top 50 but we also remain committed to finding new opportunities to improve Key Issues & Priorities suppliers. By the end of the year, more than half of these 50 suppliers had sustainability across our supply chain. 2010 Assessment and Audit provided carbon data, and we had also received unsolicited carbon data Summary In 2009, we completed a research paper entitled “Developing an Overall from 22 other suppliers. We have begun an initial analysis of this data, and Conflict-Free Minerals CO2 Footprint for Semiconductor Products,”1 published by IEEE, to gain a in 2011 will use it to inform our supplier engagement strategy and footSupplier Diversity high-level understanding of the environmental impacts from our industry printing methodologies. As noted previously, suppliers subject to the SRC > Supplier Environmental Impact not directly attributable to direct manufacturing operations. We primarare now required to provide baseline usage and historical trend data on Performance Summary & Goals ily focused on activities that directly support manufacturing operations; carbon, water, and waste, including any goals that the supplier has estab92 Contributions to Society we did not include potential impacts from other support operations, and lished. We expect that this data will enable us to establish a much broader A pp e n d i x we did not assess the embedded CO2 impact from capital goods such as picture of our supply chain’s environmental footprint. For more informa111 About This Report/Approach buildings and manufacturing equipment. We collected information on more tion on our activities to reduce our carbon and water footprints, see the to Assurance than 90% (by mass) of the raw materials used in the semiconductor manuEnvironment section of this report. 112 GRI Content Index facturing process and worked with a third-party consultant to create an 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress estimate of the total CO2 equivalent impact. “ From a logistics perspective, where we have The study revealed that supply chain impact represented only about 2.2% driven environmental sustainability improvements, of total emissions. When emissions associated with consumer use of our products were excluded, direct operations accounted for nearly 60% of we have also realized positive bottom-line impact, emissions, and the supply chain represented 23%. The calculation of an so it is good for the environment and good for Access the Report Builder overall CO2 footprint still contains many limitations and uncertainties, and our business.” 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report we are continuing to evolve our thinking in this area. Frank Jones, Vice President, Technology and www.intel.com/go/responsibility Manufacturing Group, General Manager, ©  2010 IEEE. Reprinted with permission from “Developing an Overall CO2 Footprint for Semiconductor Customer Fulfillment, Planning, and Logistics 1 Products.” 88 ©  2010 IEEE. Reprinted with permission from “Performing a Water Footprint Assessment for a 2 Back Next Previous View Semiconductor Industry.” S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Product Packaging and Logistics. Our product packaging and logistics We also redesigned the box that we use to ship small quantities of sample 9 Strategy and Management teams are working to reduce waste generation and emissions through chips to customers, validation labs, and integrated warehouses. We expect Approach better design of the trays and packaging materials used to ship products that the new box will reduce package weight by about 16 tons over three Governance and between Intel sites and to customers. In 2010, we reduced by 217 tons the years, once we begin using it in late 2011. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s amount of paper and plastic used to ship a wide variety of Intel products 20 Financial Performance A team of Intel employees received a 2010 Intel Environmental Excellence through design changes and reduction of packaging size. and Economic Impact Award for collaborating with assembly subcontractors and a tray supplier 25 Governance, Ethics, on a tray reuse project. In addition to boosting process efficiency and cutand Public Policy Savings from Logistics Packaging Reduction Projects in 2010 ting costs, the project resulted in significant benefits, including: E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Material Plastic Corrugated Wood Total Type Paper • The conservation of close to 475 tons of raw materials due to a 4.4 mil32 Environment Tons 21 148 48 217 lion (approximately 50%) reduction in the number of trays manufactured S o cial Fac t o r s in 2009. As the program continues and expands to additional suppliers, 58 Workplace Percentage 10% 68% 22% 100% of Total we project further reductions in raw materials usage. 79 Supply Chain Reductions Our Approach to Supply Chain • The recycling of reject and broken trays. Instead of being sent to landfills, Responsibility We exceeded the internal goal set by our logistics teams to reduce materials packaging unusable trays are now ground up and made into new trays, reducing by 180 tons in 2010. Key Issues & Priorities the need for raw materials by up to 18%. 2010 Assessment and Audit Trays that hold our products account for a large part of the weight of our • Indirect benefits resulting from the conservation of energy and Summary shipments to customers. When we can reduce tray weight, we not only resources throughout the tray supply chain—from the mining of raw Conflict-Free Minerals cut costs, but also save materials resources and reduce transportation fuel materials through the energy required to transport trays to our Supplier Diversity consumption. In 2010, we initiated projects to convert some of our trays assembly factory. > Supplier Environmental Impact from heavier, injection-molded plastic to lighter, more flexible, thermoPerformance Summary & Goals • A 40% reduction in cost from the new tray purchase price, for an formed plastic trays. The conversion generally reduces plastic volume per 92 Contributions to Society tray by approximately 50%. As a result, we project that over the next three estimated savings of $1.9 million over three years. A pp e n d i x years, we will be able to reduce the amount of plastic used for trays by • Prevention of the inflow of potential “counterfeit” trays into the supply 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 2,267 tons—while saving about $8 million. chain, which can be attributed to quality issues in our assembly and 112 GRI Content Index In 2010, we also began redesigning trays to enable denser shipments of test facilities. 119 UN Global Compact— our Intel® Atom™ processors. The newly designed trays, which we expect Communication on Progress to start using in the second half of 2011, will weigh half as much as our existing trays and will take up 27% less space due to their nesting ability. We expect to save 265 tons of packaging material over three years, while cutting costs by $5 million as a result of using the new Intel Atom processor trays. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 89 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Non-production Sourcing Projects. Over the past two years, our Sustainable Purchasing Projects—2010 Highlights 9 Strategy and Management sourcing professionals have found numerous ways to improve the sustainApproach Area Project Results ability of non-production projects, including initiatives in event planning, Paper Use • We reduced paper use by encouraging employGovernance and employee travel, office supplies, and printing. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s ees to opt-in to receiving electronic credit For example, each year Intel sponsors or holds more than 1,000 events— card, stock, retirement, and payroll documents 20 Financial Performance instead of printed statements. and Economic Impact from small department meetings to large-scale customer events. In 2009, 25 Governance, Ethics, we launched a concerted effort to improve the design and planning of • We encouraged employees to print fewer docuand Public Policy ments by requiring them to enter a personal these events to reduce their environmental impact. For the 2009 Intel code at our printers. This process change raised E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Developer Forum (IDF), we selected hotels that would reduce the need awareness about printing volumes and resulted 32 Environment for ground transportation, designed more efficient lighting, procured food in a 27% reduction in paper use, saving 9 million sheets of paper in 2010. S o cial Fac t o r s through local sources, and used more recycled materials. These efforts Travel and Ground • We requested that our travel service supplier 58 Workplace resulted in recognition from IMEX through its annual “green” meeting Transportation label green hotels in the database that employ79 Supply Chain awards. We employed similar strategies and practices at four major Intelees use when booking travel, and instituted a Our Approach to Supply Chain sponsored events in 2010. At just one of these events, IDF in Beijing, China, survey tool to understand the impact of the Responsibility green designations on booking decisions. we estimate that our new sustainability initiatives enabled us to avoid the Key Issues & Priorities equivalent of 6,900 tons of CO2 emissions. • We worked with our car rental supplier to increase hybrid vehicle options and the overall 2010 Assessment and Audit Based on the success of these events, our Corporate Event Marketing fuel efficiency of our rental car fleet, and proSummary mote “smart-way” car rentals in our online travel Conflict-Free Minerals and Corporate Strategic Procurement groups developed a Green Events tool. We also set internal mileage-per-gallon and Supplier Diversity Handbook that covers best practices to improve environmental aspects CO2 targets for both our rental vehicles and our > Supplier Environmental Impact in event planning. The handbook will be piloted with 15 of our largest U.S. leased fleet. Performance Summary & Goals events, and has the potential to eventually impact the planning of some Office Supplies • We completed a pilot with our office supplies vendor to test a set of more sustainable 92 Contributions to Society 1,200 Intel events each year. options and integrated these new items into A pp e n d i x our purchasing catalogs. As a result, we esti111 About This Report/Approach mate that we avoided the equivalent of 30 to Assurance tons of CO2 emissions in 2010. Marketing • We encouraged Intel groups and their suppliers 112 GRI Content Index In 2010, our employees found new opportunities to print marketing collateral and other items 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress to further embed sustainability considerations into closer in location proximity to their final delivery location, thus reducing the carbon emissions their purchasing and planning decisions, from resulting from document transport. the design of Intel-sponsored events to the We continue to look for opportunities to partner with business groups across the selection of “green” hotels and rental cars company to reduce the environmental impact of their purchasing decisions. for business travel. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 90 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Performance Summary and Goals 9 Strategy and Management Approach In 2010, we continued to implement new tools to further integrate corporate responsibility into our management practices. We improved our processes to assess and audit our supply chain and completed eight third-party audits of high-risk suppliers. We invested significant resources to help develop an Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s industry-wide system to address the issue of conflict minerals in the electronics supply chain, including the completion of 25 on-site smelter reviews and 20 Financial Performance two third-party audits, and sending a staff member to visit the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We worked to expand our supply chain environmental and Economic Impact footprinting initiatives, and identified new opportunities to engage employees to further integrate sustainability into their purchasing practices. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy Supply Chain Goals and Performance E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 2010 Goals 2010 Performance 32 Environment Include historically under-represented businesses in 100% of all eligible non-capital We achieved our 100% inclusion target and participated in a S o cial Fac t o r s bidding opportunities, and participate in international supplier diversity standards number of international supplier diversity forums. 58 Workplace adoption and community awareness campaigns. 79 Supply Chain Continue to integrate corporate responsibility factors into supplier awards, Supplier We made significant progress in 2010 to further integrate Our Approach to Supply Chain Report Card, contracts, purchasing specifications, and training. these factors into our management practices and internal Responsibility training. Key Issues & Priorities Achieved Partially Achieved Not Met 2010 Assessment and Audit Summary Conflict-Free Minerals In 2011, we will continue to expand the number of third-party supplier audits and continue to integrate corporate responsibility metrics and considerations Supplier Diversity into our management systems, scorecards, and training processes. In the area of conflict minerals, we will complete additional on-site smelter reviews and Supplier Environmental Impact audits to improve traceability within the four key conflict mineral supply chains. We will also complete projects to further reduce the environmental impact > Performance Summary & Goals of our non-production sourcing activities, transportation, and packaging. We will drive to higher levels of transparency, posting assessment and audit find92 Contributions to Society ings on our supplier web site and encouraging higher levels of transparency by our own suppliers. A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach Supply Chain Goals for 2011 to Assurance Complete a minimum of 50 on-site, third-party supplier audits. 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Complete at least 10 on-site smelter reviews and initiate third-party industry smelter audits across four key conflict minerals: gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten. Communication on Progress Require our top suppliers to provide baseline supplier environmental data on carbon, water, and waste to inform goal setting for 2012 and beyond. Continue to increase corporate responsibility requirements in the Supplier Report Card and criteria for Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement and Preferred Quality Supplier winners, adding additional screens in the selection process. Reduce the weight of our packaging by 30% from 2010 levels. Access the Report Builder Increase “green” purchasing alternatives for employees in the areas of travel and office supplies. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Include historically under-represented businesses in 100% of all eligible bidding opportunities. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 91 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance Contributions and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, to Society and Public Policy Technology plays a pivotal role in addressing many of the leading E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s social challenges that we face 32 Environment today—around the world and in S o cial Fac t o r s our own backyards. From advanc58 Workplace ing global education initiatives 79 Supply Chain and promoting broad economic 92 Contributions to Society development to working hand in 1 2 3 Our Approach hand with neighbors in our local Mouse over communities, Intel is committed to numbers to see Key Issues & Priorities applying technology and the talents more images. Education Transformation of its employees to improve lives Community Engagement and and inspire the next generation of Employee Volunteerism innovators. Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation Empowering Girls and Women Performance Summary & Goals A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index Key Society Impact Links 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Intel’s Education Strategy 9 1 48 Intel® Teach Program > Million $ Billion % Intel World Ahead Program Intel® Learning Series Number of teachers Amount invested in Percentage of Intel Intel in Your Community Access the Report Builder trained through the education transformation employees who Intel Foundation 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Intel® Teach Program over the last decade volunteered in 2010 www.intel.com/go/responsibility 92 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Our Approach a workforce that represents diversity around the world. Through local and 9 Strategy and Management national grants, the Foundation works to fuel classroom innovation and Approach Through collaboration, capacity-building initiatives, creative student interest in math and science, empower women and underserved Governance and application of technology, and strategic giving, we strive to youth, and enable university education and research. The Foundation supEc o n o m ic Fac t o r s transform education, increase economic opportunity, and ports Intel employees’ passion for service by allocating more than half of 20 Financial Performance make the communities where Intel operates better places its annual investments to employee matching gift and volunteer programs. and Economic Impact to live and work. For more information, visit the Intel Foundation web site. 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Our long history of investment and engagement around social issues has Creating Shared Value generated significant value both for Intel and for our stakeholders. We 1 We search for opportunities that create shared value for Intel, our stake32 Environment have created systems, dedicated staff resources, and worked with third holders, and society. The trust, credibility, and goodwill that we have built S o cial Fac t o r s parties to plan and track our social investments and evaluate the longwith governments, neighbors, schools, and others in our communities have 58 Workplace term impact of our efforts. helped create a positive business environment for Intel. When we want to 79 Supply Chain expand an existing Intel campus or build in a new location, we are generally 92 Contributions to Society Management Approach welcomed and supported. Constructive relationships that we have culti> Our Approach Our vice president of Corporate Affairs has overall responsibility for our vated with community members also yield valuable feedback that helps Key Issues & Priorities global community engagement and education programs. Corporate Affairs us improve our performance. In addition, we believe that Education Transformation professionals at our locations around the world give Intel an “on-theengaging our employees in meaningful volunteer experiCommunity Engagement and ground” presence that helps us understand and respond to local comences positively impacts their satisfaction and pride, and Employee Volunteerism munity and education-related needs. These employees work closely with helps us attract and retain talented people. Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation nonprofit organizations, schools, regional leaders, and policy makers—as Intel’s investments in education expand opportunities for young people, Empowering Girls and Women well as other Intel organizations—to identify issues and develop comprewhile also benefiting the company. Education is the foundation of innovaPerformance Summary & Goals hensive initiatives that will have the greatest impact while aligning with tion, and as a technology company, Intel’s success rests on the availability A pp e n d i x our own expertise and values. of skilled workers, a healthy technology ecosystem, and knowledgeable 111 About This Report/Approach The Intel World Ahead Program delivers resources in the form of technolcustomers. In turn, the health of local economies—including those where to Assurance ogy, Internet access, and digital content, and works to implement effective our employees live and work—depends on access to technology and quality 112 GRI Content Index e-learning environments. Our Emerging Markets Platform Group conducts education. International studies show that education plays a pivotal role 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress research and defines, develops, and markets technology platforms designed in fostering labor productivity and economic growth. Our education profor emerging markets, including innovative solutions for education. Intel grams support our long-term corporate diversity objectives by encouraging Labs invests in university research and works to advance collaboration women, girls, and students in underserved communities to pursue careers among academic thought leaders in essential technology areas such as in science, technology, engineering, and math. Applications of technology in visual computing, security, and mobile computing. education also provide market opportunities for Intel. Access the Report Builder Funding for our education and social programs comes from both Intel Intel’s financial and in-kind support—as well as volunteerism by our employ2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporation and the Intel Foundation. The goals of the Intel Foundation— ees—enables governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and www.intel.com/go/responsibility founded in 1989 and funded solely by donations from Intel Corporation— educators to reach their goals more effectively. The net result is shared are to increase interest in math and science education, and to help develop 93 Back Next Previous View 1 References to “Intel” throughout this section refer to Intel Corporation, not the Intel Foundation. S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile social value that ranges from expanding technology access for students 2010 Social Investment Snapshot 9 Strategy and Management in emerging markets to helping local nonprofit organizations serve more Approach Investment Summary Amount people through better use of technology and more efficient processes. Governance and Cash: charitable contributions and community $88,781,421 investments (Intel and Intel Foundation) Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Measuring Social Investment and Impact 20 Financial Performance Estimated value of employee volunteer time $22,840,028 1 Intel, academics, and other companies and organizations continue to find it and Economic Impact difficult to quantify the full effects of community and education programs, In-kind giving (product or services donations) $36,913,3632 25 Governance, Ethics, (Intel Corporation) and Public Policy particularly when assessing long-term impact and change. Intel partners with and supports the research of other organizations that are developing Co-funding secured for three of our strategic ~$36,000,000 E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s education initiatives3 metrics in this area, and we work with independent research organizations 32 Environment 1 Calculation based on 1,085,432 volunteer hours in 2010 and the 2009 Value of Volunteer Time such as SRI International and the Education Development Center’s Center rate of $20.85 per hour, published by Independent Sector. S o cial Fac t o r s for Children and Technology to evaluate our education initiatives and In 2010, in-kind giving increased significantly due to a one-time large donation of surplus fab 2 58 Workplace equipment to a university. As with surplus equipment donations in previous years, that donation activities. We also invest in our own research to measure and quantify the was included at its resale/fair market value. 79 Supply Chain 3 We have inspired other companies and governments to make contributions that amplify the social impact of our education and community programs. A recent study by impact of Intel’s social investments, including co-funding for our Intel® Teach, Intel® Learn, and 92 Contributions to Society Intel Inter­national Science and Engineering Fair programs. the Intel Labs Interactions and Experience Research group looked at how > Our Approach social and cultural forces affect the impact of technology interventions In addition to these investments, a number of groups across Intel are developing Key Issues & Priorities products and solutions and commercial initiatives that address social challenges in developing communities. To access other reports and case studies on Education Transformation in education, healthcare, and the environment. our program evaluation and measurement activities, visit our Evidence of Community Engagement and Impact web site. Employee Volunteerism Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation Strategic Giving Summary Empowering Girls and Women 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Performance Summary & Goals U.S. $60,201,525 $59,722,818 $62,002,262 $66,001,263 $63,253,599 A pp e n d i x Total Foundation Cash $35,250,352 $31,748,951 $29,249,452 $30,432,692 $33,113,168 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Total Corporate Cash $23,642,629 $18,052,440 $24,533,853 $24,496,057 $25,625,670 112 GRI Content Index In-kind Giving $1,308,544 $9,921,427 $8,218,957 $11,072,514 $4,514,761 119 UN Global Compact— International $65,493,259 $40,342,702 $40,471,738 $43,213,066 $33,156,898 Communication on Progress Total Foundation Cash $5,492,679 $5,073,277 $6,601,840 $8,860,188 $7,954,777 Total Corporate Cash $24,399,062 $25,233,768 $23,000,523 $24,674,666 $23,319,929 In-kind Giving1 $35,604,819 $10,035,657 $10,869,375 $9,678,212 $1,882,192 Total Giving $125,698,085 $100,065,520 $102,474,000 $109,214,329 $96,410,497 Access the Report Builder Total Giving as a Percentage 0.8% 1.8% 1.3% 1.2% 1.4% of Pre-tax Net Income 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 In 2010, in-kind giving increased significantly due to a one-time large donation of surplus fab equipment to a university. As with surplus equipment donations in previous years, that donation was included at its www.intel.com/go/responsibility resale/fair market value. 94 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Education Transformation Education Transformation 9 Strategy and Management Approach Countries around the world share the goal of having a Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s vibrant economy sustained by quality education, a skilled Policy 20 Financial Performance workforce, and innovation. Through our education and Economic Impact initiatives and investments, Intel is helping communities 25 Governance, Ethics, build local capacity while preparing the next generation and Public Policy Research & Curriculum & of innovators. Over the past decade, Intel and the Intel Evaluation Assessment E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Education Foundation have invested more than $1 billion to improve Transformation 32 Environment education around the world. S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace Information The United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals call for a full Communications Professional 79 Supply Chain Development course of primary schooling for children everywhere. Intel supports this Technology 92 Contributions to Society goal and believes that to succeed in today’s innovation economy, children Our Approach need a solid math and science foundation coupled with 21st century skills, Key Issues & Priorities such as digital literacy, problem-solving, critical thinking, and collaboration. > Education Transformation Intel’s model combines advocacy for policy reform, curriculum standards This cohesive approach to helping governments improve country competitiveness and Community Engagement and the quality of their education systems has led to successful engagements in multiple and assessment, sustained professional development, information and parts of the world. Employee Volunteerism communications technology (ICT), and support of research and evaluation. Entrepreneurship and We collaborate with governments, policy makers, local Social Innovation Programs to Advance Teaching and Learning Empowering Girls and Women organizations, and other companies to make this model Intel has over 200 programs in 70 countries that provide professional Performance Summary & Goals viable worldwide—through scalable programs and compe­ development for teachers; support student achievement in science, techtitions, technology solutions, and ecosystem support. A pp e n d i x nology, engineering, and math (STEM); enable access to relevant, local 111 About This Report/Approach digitized content; and more. Below is information about a few of Intel’s to Assurance programs that are helping to transform education worldwide. Visit the 112 GRI Content Index “ The [Intel Teach] program is so much more than Intel Education web site for more detail on these and additional programs. 119 UN Global Compact— technology training. It is solid curriculum training. Communication on Progress Intel® Teach Program. Since 1999, the Intel® Teach Program has helped It goes beyond theories and teaches how to teachers integrate technology and create active learning environments develop meaningful technology integration into in their classrooms. Intel Teach offers in-depth professional development core subject areas. The program is very powerful for K−12 teachers, helping them implement real-life projects and make and will change any teacher who embraces it. It has concrete changes in their teaching through the effective integration of Access the Report Builder technology. As of the end of 2010, the program had provided professional definitely shaped the way I taught students, and development for over 9 million teachers in more than 60 countries. Intel is 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report the way I continue to train teachers today.” www.intel.com/go/responsibility on target to train 10 million teachers by the end of 2011. Jennifer Hettler, Education Specialist, Wichita Falls, Texas 95 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Governments align Intel Teach to their professional development offerreceived Intel Teach training. Independent evaluation is integral to the Intel 9 Strategy and Management ings, build support into their staffing and budgets, and agree to support Teach Program. To view survey results, evaluations, reports, and case studApproach localization. In each region, Intel builds capacity and ensures sustainability ies about Intel Teach, visit the Evidence of Impact web site. Governance and of the program and its impacts by training Intel Teach trainers, who, in turn, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Intel® Learn Program. Since its launch in 2003, Intel® Learn has been share their skills with other teachers in the region. Nonprofit organizations 20 Financial Performance providing opportunities for children in underserved communities to acquire provide logistical support, and multilaterals (such as USAID and UNESCO) and Economic Impact technology literacy, problem solving, critical thinking, and collaboration skills. and other for-profit companies help provide funding, staffing, and policy 25 Governance, Ethics, Funded by the Intel Foundation, the program extends learning beyond and Public Policy support. The program has influenced thinking on policies related to ICT classrooms to informal environments in local community centers, and uses E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s and teachers. For example, Intel worked with UNESCO on a teacher policy an engaging, project-centered approach. Intel and the Intel Foundation 32 Environment toolkit, and with the International Society for Technology in Education on provide support for Intel Learn, which has reached more than 1.4 million teacher and administrator technology literacy standards. S o cial Fac t o r s learners in 15 countries. The program includes over 90 hours of curriculum 58 Workplace Intel Teach is highly scalable, enabling systemic change. The program designed to tap into children’s interest in their communities. In 2010, we 79 Supply Chain includes face-to-face and online instruction, and comprises a suite of added a new program unit, “Intel Learn Technology and Entrepreneurship,” 92 Contributions to Society courses and materials that have been translated into 26 languages. To help through which children formulate a business idea, and then use computer Our Approach expand the program’s reach, in 2010 Intel launched Intel® Teach Elements, and Internet skills to research, create, and present a business plan. Read Key Issues & Priorities a series of e-learning courses. Intel Teach Elements courses are availmore Intel Learn stories of impact. > Education Transformation able for free online or on CD, and can stand alone or be used to enhance Community Engagement and other Intel Teach Program offerings. Through the Intel Teach Elements Employee Volunteerism user-friendly animated lessons, educators learn to develop materials and Entrepreneurship and activities designed to engage their students with self-directed, projectSocial Innovation based learning. Current offerings include three courses, each with multiple Empowering Girls and Women “ Rates of completion—about 95%—were astounding modules and lessons, and we expect to add two more courses in 2011. Performance Summary & Goals and almost unheard of for an informal education More than 263,000 teachers have already been trained using Intel Teach A pp e n d i x Elements coursework. program. That speaks to the quality of the 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance [Intel Learn] program.” In many countries, Intel Teach is the primary ICT training program for edu112 GRI Content Index cators, with ministries of education awarding certification, promotions, and Vera Michalchik, Research Social Scientist, SRI International 119 UN Global Compact— salary increases based on course completion. In France, Intel Teach courses Communication on Progress are part of the Ministry of Education’s web portal for all teachers; and in Egypt, the Ministry of Education requires that all teachers take Intel Teach or equivalent computer coursework to be eligible for promotion. In China, over 1.7 million teachers—12% of all K−12 teachers in the country—have Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 96 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile and learning, we hope to encourage young people to pursue advanced Education Programs and Activities by the Numbers 9 Strategy and Management education and careers in math, science, and engineering. Watch the videos Approach Teachers trained through the Intel® 9 million in >60 countries Teach Program since 1999 of 10 Intel ISEF finalists examining 10 global issues. Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Young people reached through the >1.4 million in 15 countries Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF). The 20 Financial Performance Intel® Learn Program since 2003 world’s largest pre-college science competition brought together more and Economic Impact than 1,600 young scientists from nearly 60 countries in May 2010. Each Youths served annually at Intel 25,000 at 100 Computer 25 Governance, Ethics, Computer Clubhouses Clubhouses in 20 countries year, more than 6 million students who take part in local and regional sciand Public Policy Students reached through the >1500 students at Intel ISEF ence fairs within an Intel ISEF-affiliated network vie for E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Intel International Science and the opportunity to attend Intel ISEF. Intel employees often >6 million students at local and 32 Environment Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF) serve as mentors for the young scientists, and also volregional science fairs affiliated in 2010 S o cial Fac t o r s with Intel ISEF unteer at the events. For more information, visit the Intel 58 Workplace Intel® Higher Education Program Investments and programs at ISEF web site. 79 Supply Chain universities in >80 countries In conjunction with Intel ISEF, Intel hosts the Intel ISEF Educator Academy, 92 Contributions to Society PCs donated through Intel ICT in ~100,000 in >40 countries which brings together select groups of educators and government officials Our Approach Education program as of year-end to share resources and explore proven methods of engaging students in 2010 Key Issues & Priorities math and science. In 2010, we added regional locations for the Intel ISEF > Education Transformation Intel and the Intel Foundation have made sustained commitments aimed at improving Educator Academy. At the first Asia Science Educator Academy, in August Community Engagement and the quality of education and technology access worldwide. 2010, 67 national education policy makers, education specialists, curEmployee Volunteerism skoool™ Learning and Teaching Technology. The skoool™ Learning riculum planners, and science professionals from 15 countries developed Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation and Teaching Technology program supports math and science learning for action plans to support STEM education across the region. And at the first Empowering Girls and Women learners 13−15 years old—the age when many young people progress from Latin American Academy for Science Educators, in November 2010, 43 Performance Summary & Goals concrete to more abstract thinking. Skoool.com is a web-based e-learning representatives from 10 countries learned about Costa Rica’s science fair A pp e n d i x portal designed for students working alone or in a classroom setting. The system—a role model for the region—and participated in workshops, poster 111 About This Report/Approach program is available in 25 countries and has reached millions of students. sessions, and panel discussions. to Assurance Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS). Intel STS, the oldest and 112 GRI Content Index Competitions to Inspire Young Innovators most prestigious pre-college science competition in the U.S., provides 119 UN Global Compact— The Intel Foundation is the lead sponsor of two premier science competiCommunication on Progress an opportunity for high school seniors to complete an original research tions, the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF) and project and have it judged by highly regarded professional scientists. The the Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS), which are both programs of Intel Foundation awards more than $1.25 million to winning students and Society for Science & the Public. The competitions encourage students their schools during the annual competition. In 2010, over 1,700 students to solve real-world problems and tackle challenging scientific questions entered the contest, and 40 finalists traveled to Washington, D.C., where through original research. In 2008, the Intel Foundation committed to Access the Report Builder they competed for scholarships ranging from $20,000 invest $120 million to extend its support of Intel ISEF, Intel STS, and related to $100,000. Erika DeBenedictis of Albuquerque, New 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report initiatives for 10 years. Finalists and winners of these events are regularly www.intel.com/go/responsibility Mexico, captured the top award for developing a software invited to meet with presidents and other leaders in their countries. By celnavigation system to improve spacecraft travel through ebrating students’ achievements and encouraging open-minded research 97 the solar system. Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Regional Fairs. Intel and the Intel Foundation also partner with governIntel supports the use of technology in developing coun9 Strategy and Management ments to support local efforts to increase student interest in STEM subtries to create one-to-one (1:1) e-learning environments, Approach jects. In 2010, for example, the Intel Foundation partnered with an NGO to which have a dedicated laptop computer for each student Governance and fund the first science competition in the Arab world. Competitors included and teacher. We have developed the Intel® Learning Series, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 102 “best of the best” young scientists from 10 Arab countries. Fatimah a complete 1:1 e-learning solution for students that includes hardware, 20 Financial Performance Abdulhakim, a young woman from Saudi Arabia, received the Grand award software, services, and support tailored for local needs and delivered by and Economic Impact of $3,000 for her health science project. The Intel-sponsored competition local vendors in each region where it is implemented. At the heart of the 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy in Ireland, SciFest 2010, attracted 2,650 competitors from almost 200 Intel Learning Series are Intel®-powered classmate PCs—affordable, rugged E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s schools. Speaking at the SciFest launch, Conor Lenihan, Ireland’s thennetbooks designed for interactive, collaborative learning in K−6 classes. 32 Environment Minister for Science, Technology, Innovation, and Natural Resources, said, Classmate PCs are giving thousands of children around the world their first “SciFest is a fantastic example of industry, the education sector, and govexposure to computers and the Internet. During 2010, Intel Learning Series S o cial Fac t o r s ernment partnering together to promote science, technology, engineering, solutions were selected for new deployments, including ones in Argentina, 58 Workplace and maths.... SciFest plays a valuable role in helping to encourage young Brazil, Japan, Nigeria, Portugal, Spain, and Turkey. See the case study on the 79 Supply Chain people to pursue opportunities in the smart economy.” Argentine deployment. Watch the videos on classmate PC deployments. 92 Contributions to Society Our Approach In 2010, Intel partnered with Microsoft, Internet provider Safaricom, Equity The Right Technology for Education Key Issues & Priorities Bank, and the Kenya Institute of Education on an initiative designed to Powerful and energy-efficient Intel®-based PCs and servers, combined > Education Transformation make laptop and Internet connectivity more affordable to some 260,000 with software and fast Internet access, help students to acquire 21st Community Engagement and teachers in Kenya. Intel also helped the department of education in South Employee Volunteerism century skills and educators to teach more effectively. Through the Intel Africa to launch the Teacher Laptop Initiative, aimed at enabling 400,000 Entrepreneurship and World Ahead Program, Intel has worked with more than 70 countries on teachers across the country to purchase affordable laptops. Social Innovation over 200 programs aimed at making technology more available, affordEmpowering Girls and Women able, and understandable to first-time users. Intel-backed PC purchase Enabling the Ecosystem Performance Summary & Goals programs enable governments to provide PCs at a more affordable price, As a technology innovator and manufacturer of some of the most complex A pp e n d i x allowing thousands of teachers and students to gain access to them for products in the world, Intel has developed effective decision-making prac111 About This Report/Approach the first time. Intel also supports initiatives to connect millions of people tices and problem-solving capabilities that are applicable to addressing the to Assurance to the Internet with high-speed wireless technologies. huge challenge of global education transformation. To maximize impact, 112 GRI Content Index In conjunction with the Intel World Ahead Program, Intel we share our core competencies as collaborators and partners with oth119 UN Global Compact— has donated 100,000 PCs to over 40 countries—part of a Communication on Progress ers who have visions similar to ours: universities, companies, development commitment to jump-start education in emerging markets. agencies, multilateral organizations, governments, nonprofits, and more. Some of our activities in this area are described below. For more information on our public-private partnerships and strategic alliances in education, visit the Intel Education web site. Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 98 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Government Partnerships. In 2010, in conjunction with U.S. President Implementers,” a course designed for government officials involved in the 9 Strategy and Management Barack Obama’s “Educate to Innovate” campaign, Intel announced a $200 roll-out and integration of ICT in schools and colleges across Africa. Approach million commitment to help advance math and science education in the In addition, Intel serves on the steering board of the Global Education Governance and U.S. Intel was also a founder of “Change the Equation,” a CEO-led initiative Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Initiative (GEI), which is focused on supporting advancement of educadesigned to answer the President’s call to move the U.S. to the top glob20 Financial Performance tion through effective partnerships. GEI—which brings together over 40 ally in science and math education over the next decade. In support of the and Economic Impact companies, 14 governments, and more than 20 NGOs and development 25 Governance, Ethics, initiative, Intel has committed to provide professional development training organizations—has provided millions of dollars in resource support in and Public Policy to 100,000 U.S. teachers over a three-year period. We are also expanding Jordan, Rajasthan (India), Egypt, the Palestinian Territories, and Rwanda E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s the Intel® Math Program, an 80-hour professional development course since 2004, reaching more than 1.8 million students and teachers. In 2010, 32 Environment designed to help K–8 teachers in the U.S. improve their GEI’s continuing efforts included restarting multi-stakeholder collaborastudents’ understanding of math. In early 2011, President S o cial Fac t o r s tion efforts in the Palestinian Territories and helping the government of Obama visited Intel to learn more about our commitment 58 Workplace Rwanda develop and implement a new ICT in Education policy. to innovation and investment in STEM education. 79 Supply Chain Universities. Intel and the Intel Foundation support university programs 92 Contributions to Society Intel’s education partnerships with other governments include working for faculty and students to advance research and education in microOur Approach with the Taiwan government, National Taiwan Normal University, and a processor technology, high-volume manufacturing, computer science, Key Issues & Priorities group of ICT industry partners to convene over 230 teachers and faculty and a variety of other disciplines critical to our industry. The Intel® Higher > Education Transformation to discuss best-known methods for implementing 21st century learning Education Program interacts with universities around the world through Community Engagement and and ICT in classrooms. curriculum programs and research projects. Employee Volunteerism Entrepreneurship and Multi-Stakeholder Collaborations. Intel is a founding member of Intel and the Intel Foundation’s support of universities includes grants, felSocial Innovation ATC21S, a collaboration with Cisco, Microsoft, and the University of lowships, scholarships, and internships for hundreds of university students Empowering Girls and Women Melbourne. This group—made up of 60 top thinkers in academia, governeach year, as well as funding for larger scale university research labs. In Performance Summary & Goals ment, and industry—is developing new approaches to help transform the early 2011, Intel Labs—Intel’s research organization—announced plans to A pp e n d i x teaching, learning, and assessment of skills needed by students to succeed invest $100 million directly into U.S. university research over the next five 111 About This Report/Approach as citizens and workers in the 21st century. years, including the establishment of Intel Science and Technology Centers to Assurance Intel is also a partner in Innovate+Educate New Mexico, a collaboration of at multiple universities. Our university support also includes donations of 112 GRI Content Index leaders from some of the largest U.S. corporations working to test, align, equipment; for example, Intel Turkey is contributing equipment worth $2.5 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress and support new approaches to STEM education. The group is using New million to improve the R&D capabilities and production capacity of a Middle Mexico as a test bed before scaling effective solutions across the country. East Technical University research and application center. Intel also joined with UNESCO, Cisco, International Society for Technology To accelerate the adoption of cutting-edge technology in engineering eduin Education, and Microsoft to develop ICT Competency Standards for cation and prepare students for careers in critical technology areas, Intel Teachers. These standards help educational policy makers and curriculum works with universities to develop and disseminate curricula on advanced Access the Report Builder developers identify the skills that teachers need to harness technology topics, such as the parallel programming models used for Intel’s multi-core 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report in education. In addition, Intel collaborated with Cisco; Education Impact; products. By year-end 2010, more than 4,300 faculty members from at www.intel.com/go/responsibility Microsoft; University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg; and the least 2,000 universities in 93 countries were using our parallel programWorld Bank Institute to create “Certificate in ICT in Education for Policy ming curriculum. 99 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Community Engagement and Employee Through the Intel Involved Matching Grant Program (IIMGP), the Intel 9 Strategy and Management Foundation extends the impact of that service by donating cash to qualiApproach Volunteerism fied nonprofits and schools where Intel employees and retirees volunteer Governance and at least 20 hours in a year. In 2010, our employees earned more than $7.9 One of Intel’s strategic objectives is to cultivate a workEc o n o m ic Fac t o r s place where employees can thrive on the job and in their million for schools and nonprofit organizations, bringing total IIMGP contri20 Financial Performance butions to more than $40.3 million since the program launched in 1995. and Economic Impact communities. Our employees give generously of their 25 Governance, Ethics, time, skills, and technology expertise, donating more than Analysis of corporate volunteering best practices indicates a growing trend and Public Policy 3 million hours of service over the past three years. toward applying employees’ professional skills to help local organizations E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s build capacity. In recent years, our employees have increasingly found 32 Environment We have a long history of engaging with stakeholders near our sites to opportunities to donate the skills that they have honed at Intel—providing S o cial Fac t o r s identify local needs and determine what Intel and its employees can do to legal, human resources, marketing, finance, and information technology 58 Workplace make the communities where we operate better places to work and live. (IT) expertise to schools, nonprofits, and NGOs. During 2010, employees 79 Supply Chain We also recognize that Intel’s presence—particularly where we have large logged an estimated 300,000 hours of skills-based volunteerism. We 92 Contributions to Society manufacturing facilities—has the potential to adversely impact communibelieve that the impact of these hours tends to be significant, in part Our Approach ties, due to traffic, air quality, water usage, noise, lighting, or other issues. because the services provided are those for which schools and nonprofits Key Issues & Priorities We strive to mitigate any negative impacts by collaborating with comwould have to pay higher rates in the marketplace. Our Legal team, for Education Transformation munity members to effectively resolve concerns—whether we are starting example, donated 3,473 hours in 2010, estimated to be valued at over > Community Engagement and operations in a new location, managing an ongoing facility, or exiting a $800,000 (based on a $250 per hour rate from CECP and the Taproot Employee Volunteerism community due to changes in our business plans. Foundation). Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation For a detailed chart outlining the stakeholder tools and processes that Employee Volunteer Rate Empowering Girls and Women we use to manage local impacts and engage with our communities, 54 Performance Summary & Goals see “Stakeholder Engagement” in this report. For information on Intel’s 50 48 A pp e n d i x economic impact on communities, see the Financial Performance and 111 About This Report/Approach Economic Impact section, and to learn how we work to mitigate environ40 40 40 40 38 38 38 to Assurance mental impacts where we operate, see the Environment section. 36 36 112 GRI Content Index 30 119 UN Global Compact— Intel Involved and Skills-Based Volunteering Communication on Progress Percent Our employees generously donate their energy, professional skills, and 20 money to tackle environmental challenges, improve education, and help meet other community needs. In 2010, Intel employees donated over 1 mil10 lion hours of service through the Intel Involved volunteer program—an average of 13 hours per employee—at more than 4,900 schools and nonprofit Access the Report Builder organizations in 38 countries. In 2010, 48% of our employees volunteered, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report exceeding our goal of 40%. www.intel.com/go/responsibility Volunteer Goal Volunteer Rate =5,000 schools and nonprofit organizations in 40 countries. In 2010, nearly half of all of our employees worldwide volunteered in their communities. 100 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Below are a few recent examples of ways that Intel employees helped • In Costa Rica, our corporate investigator for Latin America donated his 9 Strategy and Management to improve communities around the world in 2010. Read more volunteer time to help the government and other local companies develop plans Approach stories on the Intel Involved web site. to prevent workplace violence, sharing his expertise and Intel best Governance and practices. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s • A team of employees in Folsom, California—all recent MBA graduates 20 Financial Performance with a passion for public service—donated their skills to help create a In 2009, we launched the Intel Education Service Corps (IESC), a program and Economic Impact business plan for Plates, a restaurant and catering business run by the that harnesses our employees’ enthusiasm for volunteerism while advanc25 Governance, Ethics, St. John’s Shelter Program for Women and Children. After completing ing Intel’s commitment to improving the quality of education through and Public Policy training programs at Plates, several shelter clients started full-time jobs technology. IESC volunteers receive 30 hours of training, and then travel E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s in their communities. to schools, orphanages, and other locations in developing countries to 32 Environment facilitate installation of Intel-powered classmate PCs, and teach students, • Employees involved in Intel Israel’s flagship community program Think S o cial Fac t o r s teachers, and parents how to use them. In 2010, 10 teams of IESC volunPositive+ helped deliver after-school math, science, and English classes 58 Workplace teers were deployed to Bangladesh, Bolivia, Egypt, India, Kenya, Uganda, to hundreds of high school students. Twelve other high-tech companies 79 Supply Chain and Vietnam. The 52 volunteers partnered with seven NGOs on projects have joined the Think Positive+ initiative, now in its eighth year. 92 Contributions to Society that included deploying over 1,000 Intel-powered classmate PCs; teaching Our Approach • 200 employees attending an Intel conference in Arizona spent an evemore than 2,400 students; and training 100 teachers who, in turn, could ning assembling 90 bicycles for children from the local Boys and Girls train 1,000 additional teachers. The team in Bangladesh also partnered Key Issues & Priorities Education Transformation Club. Tears, screams of joy, and high fives filled the room when the kids with the NGO BRAC to train over 100 adolescent girls to use computers > Community Engagement and arrived to accept their new bikes. and teach thousands of their peers. Employee Volunteerism • Intel Japan employees volunteered at Japan’s Science Research Festival, Entrepreneurship and 2010 Volunteerism by the Numbers Social Innovation a science fair at the Ueno National Science Museum, and along with their family members created 200 picture books for children in refugee camps Number of hours 1,095,445 Empowering Girls and Women Performance Summary & Goals in Afghanistan, Burma, Cambodia, Laos, and Thailand. Number of countries 38 A pp e n d i x • In Oregon, Intel employees serve as mentors and support internships for Percentage of employees who volunteered 48% 111 About This Report/Approach students with disabilities. In recognition of these efforts, Intel Oregon Schools or nonprofits benefiting from the program ~4,900 to Assurance received the 2010 Outstanding Employer award from Incight, a local 112 GRI Content Index Total dollar match under Intel Involved Matching $7.9 million nonprofit organization that empowers people with disabilities to become Grant Program1 119 UN Global Compact— contributing members of society. Communication on Progress Estimated in-kind value of volunteer hours2 $22,840,028 • When arson destroyed most of Merritt Trace 1 Total estimated match based on 2010 employee volunteer hours at eligible organizations. Elementary School near our Santa Clara campus, Intel 2 Calculation based on the 2009 Value of Volunteer Time rate of $20.85 per hour, published by Independent Sector. volunteers pitched in to aid in the cleanup and help teachers ready portable classrooms for the students’ We estimate that approximately 33% of Intel employee volunteer hours in 2010 were related to education activities; 57% to community and civic activities; and 10% to Access the Report Builder return. environmental, health, and safety activities. Actual environment-related hours may be higher, since this estimate does not include additional environment-related volunteer 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report activities at schools and civic organizations. www.intel.com/go/responsibility 101 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Recognizing and Funding Employees’ Initiatives • Intel Russia employees proposed a children’s information laboratory 9 Strategy and Management Through the Intel Involved Matching Seed Grants program, launched equipped with tools for researching natural sciences—biology, ecolApproach ogy, chemistry, and physics—through practical, hands-on study. The in 2010, teams of employees can apply for funding from the Intel Governance and Foundation to get their creative volunteer initiatives off the ground. The employees will help with equipment installation, tutoring, mentoring, Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Intel Foundation awards grants of up to $5,000 to underwrite selected and teacher training. 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact employee-initiated community service projects. The amount of each grant • To expand the horizons of young people at a local high school, volun25 Governance, Ethics, is tied to the number of hours that employees plan to volunteer on the teers from Intel Israel initiated a digital media program. The program and Public Policy project. Projects are selected for grants based on their originality, potential introduces students to digital image editing, composition, and more. In E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s impacts, measurable outcomes, and other criteria. Summaries of a few of addition to planning and setting up the program, volunteers have com32 Environment the project proposals that received seed grants from the Intel Foundation mitted to work weekly with participating students, and to organize an S o cial Fac t o r s in 2010 follow: exhibition of students’ work. 58 Workplace • Employees in Germany proposed building a learning pavilion, raft, and We also extend the impact of Intel volunteers’ efforts and recognize their 79 Supply Chain water lab to use for educational programs alongside a river. The seed extraordinary achievements and impact through the Intel Involved Hero 92 Contributions to Society grant will support the purchase of equipment for the lab. Award program. The annual overall winner of this honor earns a $10,000 Our Approach • Volunteers in Mexico proposed a recreational center at a school to give Intel Foundation grant for his or her favorite school or nonprofit and is Key Issues & Priorities recognized at Intel’s highest level recognition event, the Intel Achievement children a safe place to play, practice sports, and spend time with their Education Transformation Award banquet in San Francisco, California. In 2010, there were two peers. As part of this effort to get kids off the street, the volunteers > Community Engagement and plan to organize games and sports. winners (announced in early 2011)—Amir Davis from Ireland, and Tom Employee Volunteerism He from Chengdu, China—who each earned $10,000 for their volunteer Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation organizations. Empowering Girls and Women Performance Summary & Goals Intel Involved Hero Award Finalists Mouse over countries for more details. A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index Ireland 119 UN Global Compact— Washington Communication on Progress California Arizona China India Israel Malaysia Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility Argentina 102 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Another Intel program, Sustainability in Action, provides funding and supResponding to Natural and Humanitarian Disasters 9 Strategy and Management port for multi-disciplinary employee teams that initiate and carry out When disasters occur around the world, Intel and its employees are quick to Approach environmentally focused service projects. In 2010, Intel funded a range of respond with generous donations of service, cash, and technology. We also Governance and projects, including creating a community water conservation demonstrainvest in long-term recovery efforts and work to measure the impact of Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s tion garden in California, working with homeless youth to our actions over time. Some recent examples follow. 20 Financial Performance build a vegetable garden in Oregon, and building a windand Economic Impact Haiti. In light of the overwhelming devastation caused by the January powered mobile computer lab for remote schools in Costa 25 Governance, Ethics, 2010 earthquake, the Intel Foundation made immediate grants for relief and Public Policy Rica. For more information, see the Environment section and offered an employee matching program to assist with the relief E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s of this report. efforts. Intel Corporation donated significant hardware and expertise, 32 Environment To encourage employees to take responsibility for volunteer projects, Intel including a mobile data center. The Intel Foundation and Intel Corporation S o cial Fac t o r s India launched a Social Initiatives Contest in 2009. Volunteers teamed up are continuing to work with government and NGO partners to grant funds 58 Workplace with NGOs of their choice to develop project proposals and apply for fundcommitted for rebuilding, particularly in the area of schools and education. 79 Supply Chain ing from Intel. In 2010, the second year of the program, employees submitGiving and planned long-term recovery support from Intel, the Foundation, 92 Contributions to Society ted almost 50 applications, proposing a wide range of projects—including and employees totaled more than $3 million. Our Approach transforming trash into art supplies, working to prevent drug abuse among China. Intel launched the iWorld initiative to help to restore education serKey Issues & Priorities youths, setting up technology clubs for children living in slums, and creatvices after the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan Province. Working with other Education Transformation ing multimedia education resources for nurses. Intel awarded cash grants companies, we met our goal of establishing 200 e-classrooms by 2010— > Community Engagement and to enable volunteers to implement 20 projects. Employee Volunteerism benefitting more than 150,000 students. Intel and the Intel Foundation donated $5 million in financial support for the project, and also provided Entrepreneurship and Employee Giving Social Innovation Intel Teach and Intel Learn programs. By the end of 2010, 3,000 employees Every year, we are inspired by the generosity of our employees, who, in Empowering Girls and Women had also contributed over 50,000 volunteer hours to the effort, including addition to volunteering their time, contribute to food, clothing, school Performance Summary & Goals collaborating with Junior Achievement to launch the Laws of Life mentoring supply, and holiday gift drives, and donate millions of dollars to their comA pp e n d i x program at 100 iWorld schools. The program focused on building student munities. Through the annual Intel Community Giving Campaign in the U.S., 111 About This Report/Approach self-esteem and resilience in the wake of the disaster. Students collaboemployees and retirees make contributions to nonprofit organizations that to Assurance rated on projects and wrote essays about their experiences, many of which are matched (up to $10 million) with Intel Foundation funds to the United 112 GRI Content Index were included in a book shared with other students throughout the region. Way. The 2010 campaign generated a record $14 million in employee 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress donations, up 15% over 2009. With the Intel Foundation match, the total India. In late 2009, floods hit the agricultural region of the Bagalkot discontribution amounted to $24.6 million. In 2010, for the third year in a row, trict of Karnataka, causing a tragic loss of lives, homes, and livelihoods. Intel placed in the top 10 United Way corporate campaigns in the U.S., and Intel partnered with local NGOs on a program for long-term recovery, which we received numerous recognitions from local United Way organizations included helping to establish cooperatives to enable farmers to share for our commitment. resources, improve irrigation and farming methods, and market their proAccess the Report Builder duce. To help those who had lost their livestock in the flooding, groups of Intel also has a Matching Gifts to Education program, through which 50% families were given cows or sheep, and the program restored the fishery 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report of each donation that a U.S. employee makes to a K−12 school can be www.intel.com/go/responsibility occupations of over 48 families. The program also created revenue-genmatched by an Intel Foundation grant of up to $5,000 per institution. erating micro-enterprises for women that led to self-sustaining businesses. 103 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation Entrepreneurship Education and Technical Skills. We partner with 9 Strategy and Management educators and governments to encourage the development of entrepreApproach Intel was founded by inventors, and the company’s continneurial teaching, culture, and learning worldwide through curriculum, trainGovernance and ued existence depends on innovation and entrepreneuring, workshops, and leadership seminars. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s ship. Our own history reinforces our belief that innovation 20 Financial Performance The Intel Higher Education Program, in partnership with the Lester Center and Economic Impact is key to driving economic growth and improving social for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the UC Berkeley Haas School of 25 Governance, Ethics, conditions. We are passionate about fostering entrepreBusiness, offers Entrepreneurship Theory to Practice seminars for techniand Public Policy neurship in communities around the world and advancing cal and business university faculty around the world. The seminars demE n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s innovation to address global challenges. onstrate how to build entrepreneurship programs that drive new uses of 32 Environment technology and promote successful technology commercialization. One S o cial Fac t o r s Empowering Entrepreneurs of the goals of the seminars is to accelerate the move of technology out 58 Workplace Since 2005, Intel has invested in a number of initiatives aimed at inspiring, of research labs and into local communities. 79 Supply Chain and providing education and critical skills for young entrepreneurs. Many Our partnership with the Lester Center also includes the Global 92 Contributions to Society initiatives include a social entrepreneurship component that encourages Entrepreneurship Leadership Symposium (GELS), aimed at developing Our Approach students to develop projects or business plans that address social or envia supportive entrepreneurial ecosystem for start-up companies. GELS Key Issues & Priorities ronmental challenges. provides concepts, processes, and tools to enable qualified individuals to Education Transformation Competitions. The global Intel Challenge business plan competition effectively mentor emerging entrepreneurs. Program participants learn Community Engagement and invites university students from around the world to submit plans for turnhow to support entrepreneurial success at the individual level, as well as Employee Volunteerism > Entrepreneurship and ing their technology ideas into business opportunities, and to showcase at national and regional policy and governance levels. Social Innovation those plans to potential investors. The Intel Challenge has regional comIn 2010, we added a new entrepreneurship curriculum to the Intel Learn Empowering Girls and Women petitions—including several new ones added in 2010 in Europe, the Middle Program, a project-based, after-school learning program for children in Performance Summary & Goals East, and Latin America—and culminates in the global finals at the annual underserved communities. The new curriculum introduces young learnA pp e n d i x Intel + UC Berkeley Technology Entrepreneurship Challenge (IBTEC). ers around the world to the basic concepts of entrepreneurship, and 111 About This Report/Approach Competitors benefit from the education that the contest provides, along demonstrates how technology can be used to advance a business idea. to Assurance with introductions to potential investors, publicity, and feedback from Participants use Internet tools and office applications to research and 112 GRI Content Index industry experts. Employees from Intel Capital, Intel’s venture capital orgaformulate a business idea, and then create and present a business plan 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress nization, work as mentors and judges for the competition. In 2010, at the based on that idea. sixth annual IBTEC competition, 27 finalist teams from 19 countries preIn 2010, over 375 young entrepreneurs from 15 Malaysian schools parsented plans for businesses that could positively impact society through ticipated in the Penang Young Enterprise* (YE) Achievers Sales Fair. The the commercialization of new and innovative technologies. First-place event was organized by Intel Malaysia, in collaboration with the American winner, OsComp Systems of the Dominican Republic, received $25,000 Malaysian Chamber of Commerce, to enable students to showcase Access the Report Builder from the Intel Foundation for a plan that would enable energy suppliers their entrepreneurial skills. Through the YE program, students are given 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report to enhance production and cut costs through the use of new natural gas the opportunity to learn the entire process of starting up a company, www.intel.com/go/responsibility compression technology. 104 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile developing a business plan, selling products, and managing a business. technology. In November 2010, Intel and Microsoft announced that they 9 Strategy and Management After nine months of collaboration with numerous corporate sponsors, would contribute resources for cloud-based computing solutions for the Approach students gathered together at the sales fair to showcase their businesses developing world, in support of NetHope’s efforts to accelerate deployGovernance and and sell their products. ment of ICT solutions to help doctors, nurses, teachers, and students in Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s sectors such as micro-finance, agriculture, education, and health. 20 Financial Performance Intel recently launched the Intel® Easy Steps digital literacy program for and Economic Impact adult learners who have little or no experience with computers. The proGrameen Intel Social Business. In 2008, Intel Capital, Intel’s global 25 Governance, Ethics, gram is aimed at helping adults in developing countries learn skills that can investment organization, formed a business venture with Grameen Trust and Public Policy assist them in creating small businesses or micro-enterprises. Participants aimed at applying self-sustaining ICT solutions to address issues related to E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s learn basic computer skills, such as Internet searching, e-mail, word processpoverty, healthcare, and education in developing countries. The business 32 Environment ing, spreadsheets, and multimedia. The program is deployed through partventure combines Intel’s technology innovation and Grameen’s extenS o cial Fac t o r s nerships with NGOs and governments. Following successful pilots in India sive experience in creating opportunities for economic development and 58 Workplace and Pakistan, Intel Easy Steps rolled out formally in the Asia-Pacific region income generation at the village level. In 2010, the organization continued 79 Supply Chain in 2010. In December 2010, Intel signed a memorandum of understanding to develop projects in India and Bangladesh, including: a maternal health92 Contributions to Society with Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, the Indian government’s Ministry of care project that is working to identify high-risk pregnancies in rural areas Our Approach Youth Affairs & Sports, to incorporate Intel Easy Steps into the curriculum using a mobile software solution to collect information and send it over Key Issues & Priorities of a government training program for 50,000 promising youth leaders the Internet to healthcare clinics for analysis; and a soil-testing project that Education Transformation from across the country. These young leaders are empowered to go back helps farmers increase productivity by selecting appropriate seeds and Community Engagement and to their communities to share information about opportunities to particifertilizers. The goal is to develop technology solutions as a means to ecoEmployee Volunteerism pate in government programs and social development initiatives. nomic development using appropriate local skills, knowledge, and partners. > Entrepreneurship and For more details, visit the Grameen Intel Social Business web site. Social Innovation Transforming Ideas into Solutions Empowering Girls and Women Healthcare Solutions. The Intel Health Guide is a comprehensive, nextIntel enables the transformation of innovative ideas into action, by archiPerformance Summary & Goals generation remote health management (RHM) solution that combines tecting solutions, providing training and consultation, and co-creating new A pp e n d i x an in-home patient device with an online interface that allows clinicians products and technology solutions that meet social needs. Our goal is to 111 About This Report/Approach to monitor patients and remotely manage care. The Intel Health Guide support sustainable, local social businesses and partnerships that address to Assurance encourages patients to take a more active and positive role in their own critical community needs and to help scale replicable technology solutions. 112 GRI Content Index care. It also enables more informed and personalized care. Another solution, 119 UN Global Compact— NetHope. NetHope is a consortium of chief information officers, senior the Intel® Reader, enhances independence for people with reading-based Communication on Progress program managers, and technical experts from some of the largest interlearning disabilities such as dyslexia, low vision, or blindness, by providing national NGOs. Intel started collaborating with NetHope in 2008 to help convenient and flexible access to a variety of printed materials. The Intel develop ICT solutions in support of member NGOs’ healthcare, economic Reader’s unique design combines a high-resolution camera with the power development, and disaster relief programs. One of NetHope’s showcase of an Intel® Atom™ processor that converts printed text to digital text, and projects in 2010 was a multi-year initiative launched by the President then reads it aloud. Going forward, these products will be supported by Access the Report Builder of Tanzania to revolutionize his country’s education system through Intel-GE Care Innovations, LLC, formed in early 2011. 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 105 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Building the Ecosystem Tech Awards—Intel Environment Award. Since 2001, Intel has sup9 Strategy and Management In keeping with our belief that public-private partnerships are crucial to ported the Tech Awards (a program of the Tech Museum) by sponsoring Approach the Intel Environment Award, which recognizes individuals and organizaachieving scalable impact, Intel develops alliances with governments, Governance and leading NGOs, and other companies to develop technology solutions to tions working to solve global challenges by creating and using simple and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s support entrepreneurship and social innovation. complex technology. In 2010, The Peer Water Exchange, a project of Blue 20 Financial Performance Planet Network, received the award for helping to support nearly $27 miland Economic Impact Partners for a New Beginning. In September 2010, Intel CEO Paul 25 Governance, Ethics, lion in member water and sanitation projects, bringing safe drinking water Otellini joined the Steering Committee for Partners for a New Beginning, a and Public Policy to nearly 700,000 people. non-partisan, nonprofit organization established by the Aspen Institute to E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Advancing Social Innovation in China. In addition to helping to conharness private sector and civil society resources to advance engagement 32 Environment nect thought leaders and key stakeholders at the global and regional level, with Muslims around the world based on mutual respect and responsibility. S o cial Fac t o r s Steering Committee members have pledged to use their expertise, global we help drive social innovation at the country level. One such example is in 58 Workplace networks, and access to resources to foster projects that advance opporChina, where our corporate responsibility team has aligned key programs 79 Supply Chain tunity in the Muslim world in the areas of economic opportunity, science and initiatives to support the government’s strategic objectives of promot92 Contributions to Society and technology, and education. ing social innovation and the creation of a more vibrant social sector. Our Approach Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship. As a partner In 2010, Intel launched a new Innovation Award for Non-profit and Key Issues & Priorities with the Schwab Foundation, Intel helps to promote social entrepreneurTechnology for Social Innovation with the Ministry of Civil Affairs to Education Transformation ship. Working with academic partners, Intel and Schwab have produced a encourage ICT adoption by nonprofit organizations in the country. Intel Community Engagement and detailed document designed to encourage future business leaders to inteChina also hosted the first Technology for Social Innovation Forum at the Employee Volunteerism > Entrepreneurship and grate community and environmental concerns into their business plans and Intel Developer Forum in Beijing, with 17 winners from among 250 entries Social Innovation promote ethical and responsible business practices. evaluated by a panel of government leaders and leading think tanks. A key Empowering Girls and Women objective of the initiative is to build capacity in the Chinese social sector to Mailafiya Health Program. The Intel World Ahead program recently Performance Summary & Goals help address social challenges more effectively than can be accomplished concluded a project to bring healthcare ICT solutions to Nigeria. A publicA pp e n d i x by the government or companies working alone. private partnership between Intel, the Nigerian Federal Capital Territory 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance Millennium Development Goals Unit, and health officials has helped 112 GRI Content Index increase healthcare delivery to underserved communities by 270%, with 119 UN Global Compact— over 336 settlements and 10,000 patients served, and has registered a “ The Innovation Award for nonprofit collaboration, Communication on Progress 900% increase in disease detection. initiated by Intel, will become an important catalyst Asia NGO Innovation Summit. Intel and the Hope Institute of Korea of the social innovation ecosystem in China. It could united to organize the first Asia NGO Innovation Summit in Seoul, Korea in enable a nonprofit platform economy, and Intel September 2010. The summit brought together 67 leaders, representing definitely plays a critical role in the process.” NGOs from 15 Asian countries, to address the common challenges that Access the Report Builder Yang Tuan, Director, Social Policy Office, Chinese Academy NGOs face when creating and implementing capacity-building and social of Sciences, and a judge for the 2010 and 2011 awards 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report innovation programs. The delegates shared ideas and approaches for overwww.intel.com/go/responsibility coming these challenges. 106 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Empowering Girls and Women about the program, the girls convinced their parents to visit the center, 9 Strategy and Management and, ultimately, the parents permitted the girls to join the program. Based Approach We believe that to foster innovation and drive economic on their strong performance in Intel Learn, the girls were allowed to return Governance and growth, we must enable everyone—especially girls and to school, and Farha began to pursue her dream of becoming a doctor. Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s women—with education and entrepreneurial skills. This is 20 Financial Performance Some 4 million female teachers have participated in the Intel Teach and Economic Impact a goal we share with governments, NGOs, and developProgram, which helps educators integrate technology and project-based 25 Governance, Ethics, ment agencies, because by empowering girls and women, approaches to learning into their classrooms. After a teacher in India comand Public Policy we also improve the lives of their children, families, and pleted the program, she led her students through a project about young E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s communities. children being forced to drop out of school to work. The students used 32 Environment mathematical models to show parents that, over the long run, their chilS o cial Fac t o r s Intel is actively engaged in a number of initiatives to enable girls and dren would earn more if they stayed in school. As a result, seven parents 58 Workplace women to pursue education and entrepreneurship, from education proallowed their children to return to school. 79 Supply Chain grams such as the Intel Learn Program to programs that improve access to technology such as Intel Easy Steps. We are also committed to increasing Another Intel program addresses the problem of math anxiety in women 92 Contributions to Society the representation of women in technical and leadership roles in our own and girls. A study from the University of Chicago indicates that female eleOur Approach workforce. Read more about our programs to advance opportunities for mentary school teachers who are anxious about math may undermine girls’ Key Issues & Priorities confidence in their math abilities. The Intel Math Program helps remedy women at Intel in the Workplace section of this report. Education Transformation this problem by providing teachers with 80 hours of instruction to improve Community Engagement and Employee Volunteerism Educating to Create Opportunity their own math knowledge, along with creative ways to teach the subject. Entrepreneurship and Research has shown that devoting resources to quality education for girls In recent years, top winners in the world’s largest pre-college science Social Innovation is among the best investments that any society can make. A 100-country competitions—Intel ISEF and Intel STS—have been girls, and they have > Empowering Girls and Women study by the World Bank showed that increasing the number of women presented projects with the potential to alter people’s lives. Amy Chyao, Performance Summary & Goals with a secondary education by 1% boosts annual per capita income growth 16-year-old winner of the 2010 Intel ISEF competition, developed a phoA pp e n d i x by 0.3 percentage points. For many years, Intel’s education programs have tosensitizer for an emerging cancer treatment that uses light energy to 111 About This Report/Approach been helping to improve the social and economic standing of females activate a drug that kills cancer cells. Asil Shaar and Nour Alarda, two deterto Assurance around the world. Close to 700,000 girls in underserved parts of the world mined Palestinian girls who won a special award at the 2010 Intel ISEF 112 GRI Content Index have participated in the Intel Learn Program, acquiring technology and life competition, made multiple long trips through several military checkpoints 119 UN Global Compact— skills that enable them to advocate for themselves and their communities. to find the materials they needed to create their project—an obstacleCommunication on Progress But the impact is often best illustrated at the individual level. For example, detecting cane for the blind. 15-year-old Farha from India was pulled out of school by her parents, who Intel and the Intel Foundation also have a long history of providing scholarfeared that her reputation would be ruined if she was allowed to continue ships and research fellowships to women and underserved minorities to her education with boys. Farha learned about the Intel Learn Program at pursue careers in engineering, computer science, and other technical fields. Access the Report Builder her local community center, and without her parents’ knowledge, took her In 2010, the Intel Foundation awarded scholarships and grants totaling 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report sister to learn more about it. Armed with information they had received over $5.5 million to prepare women and underserved youth with better www.intel.com/go/responsibility skills for the innovation economy. 107 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Promoting Inclusion Through Technology farmer call an expert to learn how to save his diseased fruit tree, enabling 9 Strategy and Management In many cases, simply providing access to technology can change the a mother to find out what medicine her sick daughters need, and allowing a Approach man to chat with his cancer-stricken father on the other side of the world. outlook for girls and women. Nancy, a girl from inner-city Boston, visited Governance and an Intel Computer Clubhouse for the first time when she was 12. The Intel Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s Computer Clubhouse Network is a community-based, after-school educaCollaborating for Impact 20 Financial Performance tion program operated by the Boston Museum of Science in collaboration A new global initiative entitled “10X10: Connect the Dots, Educate Girls, and Economic Impact with the MIT Media Lab. Computer Clubhouses offer an environment of Change the World” was unveiled at the Clinton Global Initiative Annual 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy trust and respect where young people can develop technological fluency Meeting in September 2010. Intel is proud to be the founding corporate and collaborative work skills. sponsor of the 10x10 initiative, which consists of a documentary film and E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s social action campaign dedicated to addressing the plight of girls around 32 Environment Nancy’s Computer Clubhouse experience inspired her to go on to colthe world. The upcoming movie (to be released in 2012) tells the inspiring S o cial Fac t o r s lege, studying computer interactions at the University of Michigan. “The stories of 10 girls from 10 countries, shining a light on the importance 58 Workplace Clubhouse was an escape from the turmoil of my foster homes,” Nancy of education and what successful girls can accomplish for their families, 79 Supply Chain said. “I never guessed that those fun things would turn into skills that communities, and countries. 92 Contributions to Society would help me be a creative thinker.” Our Approach Another initiative, TechWomen, was developed by the U.S. State One hundred Intel-powered PCs are being deployed in Computer Key Issues & Priorities Department in 2010 as part of U.S. President Barack Obama’s vision of Clubhouses throughout Asia, operated by the Social and Financial Education Transformation greater collaboration between the U.S. and communities with predomiEmpowerment of Adolescents (SOFEA) project. For 95% of the girls in this Community Engagement and nantly Muslim populations. TechWomen is a professional mentorship and Employee Volunteerism program, the centers provide their first exposure to a PC. The technology, exchange program that will identify women who are emerging leaders in Entrepreneurship and business, and financial skills that the girls are acquiring will help them overtechnical fields in Muslim communities and bring them to the U.S. in the Social Innovation come inequalities due to early marriage, war, domestic violence, and other summer of 2011 for a five-week, project-based mentoring program at > Empowering Girls and Women problems. leading technology companies in Silicon Valley, including Intel. Goals of the Performance Summary & Goals program include strengthening participants’ professional capacity, expandA pp e n d i x Advancing Economic Independence ing and diversifying networks of technology professionals in the Middle 111 About This Report/Approach Just as technology removes walls around the classroom, entrepreneurial East and North Africa, and expanding girls’ interest in tech-based careers to Assurance skills can remove walls around women’s lives. An Intel Foundation grant by exposing them to women role models in the technology field. 112 GRI Content Index led to the opening of the Intel Udyogini School of Entrepreneurship, where 119 UN Global Compact— 3,600 tribal women in insurgency-hit areas of India have received business Communication on Progress management training. Some of the women developed businesses that “ There is overwhelming evidence that investing collect and extract lacquer from insects, and then sell it to industry in the in adolescent girls in the developing world creates region, resulting in economic empowerment for the women. transformative change for families, communities, In Bangladesh, a group of women called the “Info Ladies” take Inteland entire countries.” Access the Report Builder powered classmate PCs with mobile phones and digital cameras to remote Shelly Esque, Vice President, Intel Corporate Affairs; villages, giving these communities their only telephone and Internet access. President, Intel Foundation 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility The Info Ladies earn a living while performing services such as helping a 108 Back Next Previous View S o cial Fac t o r s 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile Performance Summary and Goals 9 Strategy and Management Approach In 2010, we surpassed the milestones of 9 million teachers trained through the Intel® Teach Program and 1.4 million learners reached through the Intel Learn® Program. We broadened the reach of our learning and teacher development programs, and expanded our role as an advocate for improved science, Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s technology, engineering, and math education—especially for girls and women and under-represented minorities. Our employees continued to inspire us, 20 Financial Performance with 48% volunteering over 1 million hours and sharing their skills to develop and implement innovative projects that benefit schools and communities. We and Economic Impact also combined our passion for innovation with our technology to support social innovation and entrepreneurship programs, competitions, and partnerships 25 Governance, Ethics, that lead to the creation of shared value. and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s Society Goals and Performance 32 Environment 2010 Goals 2010 Performance S o cial Fac t o r s Enable teachers to prepare students with 21st century skills by training 10 million At the end of December 2010, we had trained 9 million 58 Workplace teachers by 2011 through the Intel® Teach Program and expanding our portfolio of teachers and are on track to reach our 10 million teacher goal 79 Supply Chain program options to meet local needs. in 2011. We successfully rolled out our new Intel® Teach 92 Contributions to Society Elements program, reaching 263,000 teachers. Our Approach Reach an additional 250,000 learners in 2010 through the Intel® Learn Program. We exceeded our goal, reaching approximately 400,000 Extend the program by adding a new curriculum unit, Intel® Learn Technology and additional learners in 2010 and successfully launching the Key Issues & Priorities Entrepreneurship. new entrepreneurship curriculum. Education Transformation By 2011, reach our goal of 100,000 PC donations to schools in emerging markets We achieved this goal in February 2011, completing the Community Engagement and Employee Volunteerism to improve teaching and learning through ICT use. donation of 100,000 PCs. Entrepreneurship and Maintain at least a 40% employee volunteerism rate globally. Achieved 48% volunteer rate globally and over 1 million Social Innovation volunteer hours. Empowering Girls and Women Continue to engage employees in high-impact, skills-based volunteering opportuniWe continued to expand skills-based opportunities for our > Performance Summary & Goals ties: launch one business group pilot project and integrate skills-based volunteering employees, including business group projects and integration A pp e n d i x information into our career development course. of information into career development resources. 111 About This Report/Approach Achieved Partially Achieved Not Met to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— In 2011, Intel and the Intel Foundation will continue to expand and support the development of our education programs, reaching more teachers and Communication on Progress young people around the world. We will also continue to place a high importance on collaboration with governments and other stakeholders to support systemic change in education, entrepreneurship, and social innovation. We will roll out a comprehensive new employee engagement communications campaign to engage even more employees in our Intel Involved program, including a focus on developing more opportunities to support girls and women. Society Goals for 2011 Access the Report Builder Enable teachers to prepare students with 21st century skills by training 10 million teachers by the end of 2011 through the Intel Teach Program and expanding our 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report portfolio of program options to meet local needs. www.intel.com/go/responsibility Maintain at least a 40% employee volunteerism rate globally and continue to engage employees in skills-based volunteering activities. 109 Back Next Previous View 3 Letter From Our CEO Overview 5 Corporate Profile 9 Strategy and Management Approach Governance and Ec o n o m ic Fac t o r s 20 Financial Performance and Economic Impact 25 Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy E n v i r o n m e n t al Fac t o r s 32 Environment S o cial Fac t o r s 58 Workplace Appendix 79 Supply Chain 92 Contributions to Society A pp e n d i x 111 About This Report/Approach to Assurance 112 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact— Communication on Progress Access the Report Builder 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report www.intel.com/go/responsibility 110 Back Next Previous View A b o u t t hi s R e p o r t About This Report Send questions, comments, or feedback to Suzanne Fallender, Director of CSR Strategy and Communications, or Michael M. Jacobson, Director of Corporate Responsibility, Intel Corporation, Report Scope and Profile 5000 W. Chandler Blvd., CH7-301, Chandler, AZ 85226 USA. You can also use our web-based With the Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, we aim to provide stakeholders with a balfeedback form or the CSR@Intel blog to contact our Corporate Responsibility team. anced view of our corporate responsibility strategy and performance for Intel’s worldwide operations during fiscal year 2010 (ended December 25, 2010). Our previous report was published in May 2010. Approach to Report Assurance The information in our Corporate Responsibility Report is subject to internal reviews and, for We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting selected content, external reviews. On a regular basis, we validate the management systems and Guidelines, and self-declare the report to the GRI Application Level A. A GRI Content Index is proprocesses used to collect the data. We have maintained a multi-site ISO 14001 certification for vided in this appendix. Additional information about Intel’s operations and financial statements is our manufacturing locations since 2001, which requires independent third-party audits at many available in our 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. of our sites each year. Intel Ireland is also accredited to the IS 393 Energy Management Standard We produce our Corporate Responsibility Report in Portable Document Format (PDF). A printed certification. executive summary of the report is available by request, and an electronic version is available As a member of the EPA Climate Leaders program over the past few years, our GHG emissions on our Report Builder web site. Our sites around the world translate and customize the content data has been reviewed against the Climate Leaders GHG Inventory Guidance, which includes of the executive summary for local stakeholders. For a high-level overview of Intel’s corporate reviews of our emissions inventory data and our progress in reaching our GHG emissions goal. responsibility, supporting documents, past reports, and our customized Report Builder tool, visit Even though the Climate Leaders program concluded in 2010, our third-party verification partner, our Corporate Responsibility Report web site. WSP Environment and Energy, on behalf of the EPA, is completing an independent review of Our Corporate Responsibility Report does not include performance information for Intel’s joint our 2010 data. Our intention is to continue to secure third-party verification for our future ventures or firms included in Intel Capital’s investment portfolio, unless specified. In addition, emissions reporting. Our operations in Ireland are covered by the European Union Emissions environmental and social performance data does not include data from our wholly owned subTrading Scheme. sidiaries, Wind River Software Group or McAfee (the latter was acquired in the first quarter of For our 2004–2007 reports, we worked with a team of MBA students, under the guidance of 2011). This year’s report does not reflect any significant changes in reporting scope compared a professor, to procure external assurance, using the AA1000 Materiality standard. Based on to our previous report. Principles and policies apply to all officers and employees of Intel and stakeholder feedback received during our outreach efforts and our analysis of the costs and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. Environmental, health, and safety data includes widely benefits of available external assurance options, we did not complete assurance for our 2008 accepted parameters and units. Financial data is presented in U.S. dollars. References to “Intel” or 2009 reports beyond the data verification and external review measures outlined above. In throughout this document pertain to Intel Corporation. Intel Foundation is a separate entity. 2010, we continued to evaluate trends in assurance and other external verification measures, Corporate-wide emissions are calculated using the Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas (GHG) as well as input from our stakeholders. Based on this review, we plan to engage a third party to Inventory Guidance, which defines how U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Climate complete a “pre-assurance” review of our 2010 report following publication, and use the results Leaders partner companies account for and report their GHG emissions. This Guidance is based to help us prepare for our 2011 report assurance process. We invite readers to provide feedback on the existing GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard developed by the on this topic to inform our assurance strategy for the 2011 report. World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. 111 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index This GRI Content Index is provided to assist readers in understanding how our report aligns with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Guidelines. This index includes all “Core” indicators as well as a number of “Additional” indicators that we have determined are relevant to our business. We self-declare this report at the “A” level. For more information about the GRI guidelines and application levels, visit the GRI web site. GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1–1.2 Statement from the most senior decision maker; Description of key Letter From Our CEO; 3, 9 impacts, risks, and opportunities. Strategy and Management Approach (Strategy) 2. Organization Profile 2.1–2.9 Name of the organization; Primary brands, products, and/or serCorporate Profile; 5, 21 Additional detail available in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. vices; Operational structure of the organization; Location of headquarters; Financial Performance Nature of ownership; Markets served; Scale of reporting organization; and Economic Impact Significant changes during the reporting period. (FP&EI) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Strategy 19 3. Report Parameters 3.1–3.4 Reporting period; Date of most recent previous report; Reporting About This Report 111 cycle; Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Strategy 12 3.6–3.8 Boundary of the report; Limitations on scope and/or report About This Report 111 boundary; Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. Environment; 33, 111 Additional information provided in discussion of indicators throughout About This Report the report. 3.10–3.11 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information About This Report 111 No major changes. Some environmental and safety figures have been provided in earlier reports; Significant changes from previous reporting and individual indicator adjusted. The majority reflect minor changes that occur when new inforperiods. descriptions mation is received after the close of the data collection period. See also 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures in the report. GRI Index 112 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance About This Report 111 for the report. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 112 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1–4.4 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Strategy; Governance, 11, 26, 69 Additional information on Board committees and composition available under the highest governance body; Indication of whether the chair of the Ethics, and Public in 2011 Proxy Statement (p 13). highest governance body is also an executive officer; Number of members Policy (GE&PP); of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-execuWorkplace tive members. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest govEnvironment; 35, 70 For additional details on our approach to linking pay and performance, ernance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization’s Workplace see 2011 Proxy Statement (p 24). performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that GE&PP 26 Additional information provided in 2011 Proxy Statement (p 16). conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the GE&PP 26 Information on process for selecting new directors included in our members of the highest governance body on economic, environmental, 2011 Proxy Statement (p 7). A number of directors have expertise and social (EE&S) topics. in strategic CSR areas of education (Yeary), environment (Hundt), and corporate governance (Yoffie). 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Strategy; GE&PP; 10, 27, 34, See also Governance and Ethics web site. conduct, and principles. Environment; 81 Supply Chain 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Strategy; GE&PP 11, 27, 31 See also the charter of the Corporate Governance and Nominating organization’s identification and management of EE&S performance. Committee on our Governance and Ethics web site. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own GE&PP 26 Additional information provided in 2011 Proxy Statement (p10). performance, particularly with respect to EE&S performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Environment 33 Reference also included in Intel Code of Conduct. or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12. Externally developed EE&S charters, principles subscribed to. Strategy; Environment; 10, 34, 81, Specific charters/principles covered in specific sections of the report Supply Chain 119 by topic. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy organizations. GE&PP; Environment; 31, 42, 67, Memberships covered in multiple sections of report. A list of our major Workplace; Supply Chain; 82, 87, 99, trade association memberships is available on our Report Builder web site. Contributions to Society 106 (Society) 4.14–4.17 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization; Basis Strategy 12 for identification and selection of stakeholders; Approaches to stakeholder engagement; Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 113 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes 5a. Economic Performance Indicators Management Approach Disclosures: Economic Letter from Our CEO; 3, 10, Additional information included in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. Strategy; FP&EI 21 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. (Core) FP&EI; GE&PP; 21, 23, Additional information in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 23). Society 93 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organiStrategy; 16, 36 Climate change risk also covered in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 19). zation’s activities due to climate change. (Core) Environment EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. (Core) Workplace 71 Additional information available in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 82). EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (Core) FP&EI 22 The company’s primary use of incentives and grants is for construction of new facilities. These activities are managed on a local level in the location where they are built, and information is usually disclosed by the government/municipality. Additional details on our tax rate and credits are available in 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 38). EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers FP&EI; Supply Chain 23, 80, Breakdown of spends by region, information on supplier diversity programs at significant locations of operation. (Core) 87 provided. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired Workplace 61, 66 Our recruiting practices are designed to be inclusive, and we hire from the from the local community at significant locations of operation. (Core) diverse populations and communities where we operate. A majority of senior management at our global sites are local hires. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Society 93 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, FP&EI 23 including the extent of impacts. (Additional) 5b. Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach Disclosures: Environment Strategy; 11, 34 Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core) Environment; 33, 80 Our systems are not designed to calculate in totality materials in this way. Supply Chain See our Making Silicon Chips web site for a detailed description of the manufac­turing process and materials used. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. (Core) Environment 52, 88 Given the complexity and size of our products, calculation of percentage of recycled content is not applicable; more significant are our efforts to design out materials such as lead and halogens. Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 114 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core) Environment 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) Environment 39, 41 Data not tracked in this format. Our purchased energy is from multiple public utilities, which include a mix of energy sources. See also Intel’s CDP filing. EN5–EN7 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improveEnvironment 39 ments. (Additional); Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services. (Additional); Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. (Additional) EN8–EN10 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core); Water sources Environment 43, 47 significantly affected by withdrawal of water. (Additional); Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional) EN11–EN12 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Corporate Profile; 8, 36 Major locations and manufacturing sites listed in this report, and owned adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value. (Core); Environment and leased facilities listed in the 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 20). Description of significant impacts on activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value. (Core) EN16–EN18 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment 36, 38 (Core); Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Core); Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved. (Additional) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (Core) Environment 50 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. (Core) Environment 50 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core) Environment 43, 47 Additional information available in SARA Title III Reportable Chemicals by Site. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) Environment 48 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core) Environment 56 No major spills reported in 2010. Other non-compliance issues reported. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Environment 51 services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Environment; 52, 89 Intel does not have data collection processes to track, record, and report reclaimed by category. (Core) Supply Chain this information in this way. However, an estimated 75% of our packaging material is reusable/recyclable. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEnvironment 56 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. (Core) Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 115 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Environment; 38, 88 CO2 emissions of logistics and supply chain and percentage of total CO2 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and Supply Chain emissions are estimated, and we are developing tools to help improve transporting members of the workforce. (Additional) measurement and tracking of our impact in this area. 5c. Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices Management Approach Disclosures: Labor Practices Strategy; Workplace; 11, 59, 82 Supply Chain LA1–LA2 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Workplace 61, 62 Information provided on turnover by region and type. Other turnover and region. (Core); Total number and rate of employee turnover. (Core) information is not provided since it is deemed proprietary. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Workplace 70 Part-time and contract employees have similar access to health and retiretemporary or part-time employees, by major operations. (Additional) ment benefits as full-time employees. Benefits related to life insurance, vacation, and tuition reimbursement are prorated for part-time employees. Contract employees are not eligible for a number of benefits, including long-term disability, equity incentive plan, and tuition reimbursement. Part-time and contract employees are not eligible for sabbatical benefit. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreeThe percentage is zero. ments. (Core) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, Workplace 12, 65 We provide advance notice in accordance with local requirements in the including whether it is specified in collective agreements. (Core) different locations where we operate. We also have regular quarterly meetings with all employees via webcast and provide information on business changes as soon as possible and take steps to mitigate negative impacts. We do not have collective agreements. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Workplace 75 and number of work-related fatalities by region. (Core) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk control programs Workplace 76 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. (Core) LA10–LA11 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee Workplace 64 category. (Core); Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support continued employability. (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Workplace 63 development reviews. (Additional) LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by Workplace 69 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. (Core) Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 116 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. (Core) Workplace 69 Overall ratio not reported, due to information deemed proprietary, but breakdown of top 50 in senior management reported in terms of compensation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave. (Core) Workplace 72 5d. Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights Management Approach Disclosures: Human Rights Strategy; GE&PP; 10, 27, Supply Chain 81 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Supply Chain 82, 84 Our comprehensive site selection process evaluates several criteria, includthat include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights ing human and labor rights considerations. Supplier contracts also include screening. (Core) requirements. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have underSupply Chain 84 gone screening on human rights and actions taken. (Core) HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concernGE&PP; Supply Chain 27, 83 Training on Intel Code of Conduct and other policies and procedures is ing aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the mandatory for every Intel employee and includes content on human rights. percentage of employees trained. (Additional) HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. (Core) Results, while compiled for internal review and action, are not currently publicly reported since this information is deemed proprietary. Information on approach to diversity and ethics and compliance reported. HR5–HR7 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of GE&PP; Supply Chain 27 We operate in a number of countries identified by stakeholders as being association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions at higher risk for labor concerns. We conduct regular Intel Code of Conduct taken to support these rights. (Core); Operations identified as having sigtraining, and have Intel Human Rights Principles in place. We have not nificant risk for incidents of child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, and identified any operations with significant risk for child labor or forced or measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. (Core) compulsory labor. HR10–HR11 Percentage and total number of operations that have been GE&PP; Workplace; 27, 66, subject to human rights assessments and number of grievances resolved. Supply Chain 85 (Core) 5e. Social Performance Indicators: Society Management Approach Disclosures: Society Society 93 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that Strategy; Society 12, 93 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. (Core) SO2–SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for GE&PP 27 risks related to corruption. (Core); Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. (Core) Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report (continues on next page) 117 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x GRI Content Index (continued) Indicator Numbers and Description Status Report Section(s) Page(s) Explanatory Notes SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core) GE&PP 27 Data reported on anti-corruption training and assessment processes. Summary types of findings from our ECOC and typical actions taken also provided. We do not provide detailed information on specific actions taken since this information is deemed to be proprietary. SO5–SO6 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developGE&PP 29, 31 ment and lobbying. (Core); Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. (Additional) SO7–SO8 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiGE&PP 28 See also Competition in the Innovation Economy web site and trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional); Monetary 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K (p 98). value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions. (Core) SO9–SO10 Operations with significant potential or actual impact on local Strategy; Environment; 12, 36, communities and prevention/mitigation activities. (Core) Society 93 5f. Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility Management Approach Disclosures: Product Responsibility Environment 33, 51 Product responsibility topics span multiple sections of the report, from environment to health and safety. PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Environment 33 For more information, refer to Intel Quality System Handbook. services are assessed for improvement. (Core) PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedure, and Environment 51 We also provide our customers with information on the energy efficiency percentage subject to such requirements. (Core) of our products through our web site and publications on our web site. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Zero incidents in 2010. voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcome. (Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Strategy; Workplace 13, 71 For more information, refer to Intel Quality System Handbook. surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional) PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related GE&PP 27 Covered in Intel Code of Conduct. to marketing communications, including advertising. (Core) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Information on Intel’s privacy policy available on our Security and Privacy customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional) web site. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Information on legal proceedings included in 2010 Annual Report and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. (Core) Form 10-K (p 98). Covered in the Report Partially Covered in the Report Not Covered in the Report 118 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View UN G l o bal C o m pac t C O P United Nations Global Compact—Communication on Progress 2010 In June 2009, Intel became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The UNGC principles have been engrained in our approach to corporate responsibility and business practices for many years. As part of our commitment to the UNGC, we have mapped the principles with the relevant discussions in the report, which detail our actions and progress made against the principles during 2010, including our work with other organizations in these areas. In addition to our commitment to promote the UNGC principles in our operations, Intel will continue to support the UNGC in its work to expand country networks. UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internaIntel’s commitment to respect human rights is embodied in the Intel Code of Conduct, Intel Human Rights Principles, and Intel Water tionally proclaimed human rights. Policy, the latter of which covers our respect for the human right to water. In addition, the topic of human rights is covered in the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, adopted by Intel in 2004. For a discussion of our approach to respecting human rights and the Principle 2 Make sure that business is not complicit in steps we have taken during 2010, see the Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy and Supply Chain sections of this report. human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective Intel’s Human Rights Principles incorporate references to the key labor issues identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of child labor recognition of the right to collective bargaining. (Intel has established a minimum age of 16), forced labor, and discrimination. Intel recognizes that in many locations where we operate, employees have the right to freely associate or not associate with third-party labor organizations, along with the right to bargain or Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and not bargain collectively in accordance with local laws. Intel respects those rights and is committed to creating an environment of open compulsory labor. communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, concerns, or problems, and team together to Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor. address workplace issues. For more information, see the Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy, Workplace, and Supply Chain sections of this report. Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionIntel co-founder Gordon Moore, a longtime champion of the environment, instilled a legacy of environmental consciousness at ary approach to environmental challenges. Intel that continues today. We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking continuous improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, resource conservation, and waste reduction. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater We strive to minimize the environmental impact of our products—from design through disposal—and we collaborate with others environmental responsibility. to develop innovative ways that technology can help address long-term sustainability challenges. For more information, see the Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Environment section of this report. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Intel has set clear standards and policies and has put in place training to ensure employee compliance on these topics, including a all its forms, including extortion and bribery. reference in the Intel Code of Conduct. We have a comprehensive Ethics and Compliance program, which is described in detail in the Governance, Ethics, and Public Policy section of this report. Depending on their role and geographical location, certain employees are assigned more in-depth ethics and compliance training courses, including those covering anti-corruption. Approximately 16,000 employees were trained on our anti-corruption policies and procedures in 2010. 119 Intel 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Back Next Previous View For more information, visit www.intel.com/go/responsibility Copyright © 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. Intel, Intel logo, Centrino, Intel Atom, Intel Core, Intel Inside, Intel Sponsors of Tomorrow., Intel vPro, Intel Xeon, Itanium, and skoool are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others. 0611/SPF/LAI/PDF 325471-001US
