Sustainability report 2010 Contents CEO’s statement Contents................................................................. 2 Folksam grew on the property side during Properties – a sustainability challenge............................ 3 the year; properties represent a great . About the 2010 sustainable report................................. 6 challenge in terms of sustainability. Page 3 Customers and markets.............................................. 7 Governance and organisation.....................................10 Operational organisation...........................................12 Our staff................................................................14 Folksam is owned by its customers The impact of our operation........................................18 What customers think and how Folksam handles complaints and wishes from its Everyone’s a winner when the roads are made safer..........22 customers is one of the most important . Results of research project on young female footballers....24 aspects of the company’s operation. Page 7 Environmental efforts................................................25 Responsible Ownership.............................................27 KPA Pension – pension funds for a better future...............31 International cooperation...........................................35 Our staff Awards and distinctions.............................................37 Folksam aims to be an attractive employer Förenade Liv...........................................................38 with committed staff who create customer benefit. In order to achieve this, Folksam Appendix (Environmental data)....................................40 works strategically and purposefully in . About the report and general facts about Folksam............42 several areas, for example on terms of emOrganisation...........................................................43 ployment, recruitment, skills development, Methods of collection and calculations..........................45 leadership, management by output, the Assurance report.....................................................47 working environ­ment and health. Page 14 The impact of our operation The climate impact of our operation relates to business travel, heating properties and consuming water. Page 18 Everyone’s a winner when the roads become safer Road traffic accidents entail heavy losses for public health and the economy but above all for the individual. Folksam has more than 30 years of experience of . research in the area of road safety, with the emphasis on studies of accidents that have actually occurred. . The knowledge provided by Folksam road safety research is applied to save lives on the roads. Page 22 Sustainability report Folksam 2010 2(49) Properties – a sustainability challenge When I met my grandchildren at the weekend I thought, as I often do when I see them, about the world we are handing over. The development we are still seeing in the world today is, despite all the warnings, not particularly sustainable; growth and short-term profit are what receive most attention, at any rate in the media and unfortunately also far too often in boardrooms. According to the UN, sustainable development is defined as development that “meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” So, put simply, what we do today must not deprive our children of what we take for granted – clean air, clean water, security and health. Folksam’s vision, that people should feel secure in a sustainable world, matches this definition well. And that is what guides into the future. If we look at the short-term perspective, there are many good examples in this sustainability report of what we did in 2010. We make strict demands on our suppliers so that what we build and repair has as little adverse impact on the environment and the climate as possible. By using second-hand genuine parts in car repairs we saved a refuse mountain of more than 1,000 tonnes. 3 Sustainability report Folksam 2010 3(49) (99) But sustainability is more than the environment. Sustainability on climate is within heat consumption, and during the year we can mean good health. A person who has been subjected to have become even bigger in property. Our real estate form part physical violence does not feel particularly well, either spiriof the pension portfolios of our savings investors. At the time of tually or physically. Our subsidiary Förenade Liv became the writing we have more than SEK 14 billion in real estate assets. first insurance company in Sweden to offer a crisis insurance policy that also applies in the case of domestic violence, and Real estate represents a real challenge from the point of view others have since followed suit. Nor do we require a report to of sustainability. The environmental requirements are relatibe made to the police for the insurance protection to be utilised vely easy to take into account in new construction. We build in the form of counselling with a psychologist or psychotherawith good materials, in an energy-efficient way and on land pist – this is to ensure that more victims of violence are brave that is close to public transport. But for properties that already enough to take that step. Every year several hundred people exist it is not so easy. Our property portfolio contains everythare injured or killed in road traffic accidents. Our road safety ing from ancient buildings in Stockholm’s old town district to research is continuing to make efforts to reduce this suffering. buildings that are still under construction. We have more than SEK 270 billion under management Here it is a matter of providing the buildings and their tenants for our customers. This is more than the total saved by all with new smart technology. We replace oil with pellets, insuthe households in Sweden last year. Folksam supports the late windows and control staircase lighting with movement UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment and lays down detectors. The people living in the building also have a responsrequirements for the companies in which we invest our custobility, and we therefore install meters for electricity and water mers’ pension contributions. As well as good environmental consumption so that they can see their consumption patterns conduct, these requirements relate to sound remuneration for themselves. schemes, the company taking active measures to counter corruption and ensuring that those who work there have good We are now taking stock of last year’s work on sustainability working conditions – even if the factories are located outside and note that we have done a great deal to ensure that what we Europe. We have also decided that our customers’ pension do today does not compromise the ability of our children and contributions should not be invested in certain things, for grandchildren to meet their needs. Our vision ensures that we will example nuclear weapons and tobacco. continue this work for as long as Folksam remains as a company. Swedish winters are cold, and this winter was no exception. Homes and buildings account for a substantial proportion of energy consumption in the country. Folksam’s greatest impact Anders Sundström, CEO of Folksam 4 Sustainability report Folksam 2010 4(49) (99) About the 2010 sustainability report Folksam’s vision is a sustainable world in which people feel secure. . The sustainability report for the year is intended to provide a picture of what the company has accomplished to date in order to fulfil this vision. This is Folksam’s eighth sustainability report, and it is based as far as possible on the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for sustainability reports. It is also being reviewed externally this year by the audit company KPMG. The sustainability report for the year applies to the whole of Folksam, including subsidiaries. It is not printed and is only available by downloading from folksam.se, kpa.se or forenadeliv.se. Folksam’s understanding is that the report meets application level B+ of GRI, which has also been confirmed by the external auditors. The report also forms part of the reporting under the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). 6 Sustainability report Folksam 2010 6(49) (99) Customers and markets Folksam is owned by its customers rings and improved products. We also engage in a Folksam is a mutual company. This means that its constant dialogue with our customers in all segments customers are not just an invaluable and finite reon what we need to improve and what is appreciasource – they are also owners. Folksam’s overarching ted. The results are analysed for each business area goal is to have the most satisfied customers in the and subsidiary and are then passed on for action, insurance and savings industry. where it is determined what needs to be changed. The fundamental objective of customer-owned . Folksam is to provide services the owners benefit Customised organisation from – an objective that is greater than creating and additional products short-term profit. It is therefore very important for The market for occupational pensions is governed by Folksam to work in a long-term and structured way to collective agreements between the social partners. find as good a relationship as possible for both parties. During the year, Folksam’s collectively agreed busiFolksam encounters a large number of customers ness area took many initiatives to acknowledge its daily, covering the spectrum from private individuals customers: trade unions, employers and individual and companies aswell as the large organisations in customers. Folksam LO Pension now communicates Sweden. The same customer may also have several more frequently with individual customers. KPA Pendifferent roles. A person may encounter Folksam thsion has integrated its communication efforts to crerough their car insurance, business insurance, savings ate recognition in all channels and worked on custoin an endowment insurance scheme, homeowner’s mer segmentation and messages aimed at different insurance, survivors’ protection through the trade target groups in order to confirm the choice of KPA union, or through the accident insurance the children Pension as a pensions company. have through their sports club. How Folksam treats a To support our partners better, organisational customer in one role colours customers’ experiences changes were made and the business area develoin all their roles. Folksam has a wide range of custoped a policy that makes it easier to handle partner mers, a large number of customers and a broad offeenquiries. Folksam increased contacts with the social ring. This makes great demands on Folksam as an partners and also expanded its information efforts, organisation, but also makes for great opportunities. providing everything from seminars to improved website pages. Folksam constantly strives to achieve With regard to the pension administration and ingreater customer satisfaction surance solutions we offer to our employer custoFolksam has many different forms of collaboration mers, during the year we coordinated the organisawith its customers, such as AGMs, committees and tion and processes in Folksam’s collectively agreed face-to-face encounters. To supplement this, many business in order to continue to improve efficiency. customer surveys are also performed with varying For foundation customers, work began on simplifying methods such as in-depth interviews and online surcommunication, and this will continue in 2011. veys, depending on the customer relationship and Folksam’s Partner business strengthened its skills, the issue concerned. Folksam involves its customers knowledge and level of service both in customer serin various phases of the development of new offevice and in claims and support. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 7(49) Folksam’s private customers wish to have more conWhat do the customers wish for tact with the company and receive more information themselves in the future? Brand strategy for about different offerings in order to keep up to date. Satisfaction with Folksam in general increased Folksam General and Folksam Life In order to meet this wish, all the employees of Folksam steadily throughout 2010, and when customers get General and Life took part in an extensive campaign to meet Folksam they are particularly satisfied. This Vision: What we wish to accomplish to offer additional products at low cost but with high applies to all types of Folksam customer encounters, People should feel secure in a sustainable world. customer benefit that reinforces security. During the for example claims handling, meetings with advisers year Folksam also introduced discounts for those or calls to customer service. What customers want is Business concept: What we do customers who prevent claims from occurring, for We are the customers’ company that offers . to have contact more often. They also wish to have popular insurance policies and pension investexample by installing security doors. simplified terms and improved information on offement schemes. rings in the area of savings. The trade unions valued Targets and results for customer satisfaction in 2010 their contacts in the collectively agreed business Core values: What we are like Measure Target Result area and customers on the employers’ side were also Personal 1. Increased customer very satisfied. There is room for improvement in inCommitted satisfaction 77 per cent 74 per cent formation on products and services and in comResponsible 2. Increased customer plaints handling, which needs to be more efficient. satisfaction compared Folksam’s partner customers were particularly satiswith competitors +2 + 0,7 Position: What makes us unique fied with their contacts at Folksam, who were perceiThe insurance and pension company . 3. Increased attractiveness in the market 18 per cent 16,5 per cent ved as being available, competent and service-minwith a big heart. ded. The products, which were regarded as compreComments on the result hensive and good value, also scored highly. The Promise: What we promise our customers 1. The change of terms in pensioners’ group life insucorporate customers were satisfied with Folksam’s We are committed on your behalf. rance introduced at the end of 2009 continued to be holistic approach and comprehensive insurance protection, but also thought that the way it treated its The subsidiaries KPA Pension and Förenade Liv an issue in 2010 and adversely affected customer are own brands with their own strategies. satisfaction. However, during 2010 we overcame the customers was a strength. Areas in which more is negative impact, and customer satisfaction is now desired are customised solutions, increased proactiback at the level it was at before the change in terms. vity towards members at partner organisations and more flexible system support. 2. Here we compare our EPSI rating with that of our The Customer Ombudsman competitors in the Swedish Quality Index. Folksam New brand strategy based on the customer Folksam is a customer-owned company, and it is theraised its result by almost 3 units for Folksam GeneIn 2010 Folksam General and Folksam Life worked refore a natural priority for the company to offer its ral, Motor and Life and by almost 1 unit for the KPA together with customers to develop a brand platform customers extra service and security through the occupational pension company. However, results for and strategy that better reflects our customers. On Customer Ombudsman. The Customer Ombudsman the industry in general have improved, and we have this basis we have started work on improving the is completely impartial as the operation is indepentherefore not reached the target that was set. content and appearance of customer documents. The dent of Folksam’s Executive Management and is only long-term goal is also to reduce the number of answerable to the Folksam AGM. The overarching 3. Our appeal in the market depends on the media incustomer documents sent out as hard copy. goal of the Customer Ombudsman is to contribute to vestments we make in the form of advertising. The authe Folksam Group gaining the most satisfied custotumn campaign, with a new communication concept, mers in the insurance and savings industry. The has shown the best campaign result to date. Customer Ombudsman has existed for more than 40 years at Folksam and therefore has a well-established way of working. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 8(49) Complaints are a gift from customers Low number of disputes aim to halve youth unemployment in Södertälje It is important that Folksam responds to complaints Folksam handled 650,000 claims in 2010. As the within three years and therefore contribute to reduin a positive way and that they are received concompany prioritises solving problems at an early stage, cing social exclusion and vandalism. structively in order for the operation to evolve. The only a few cases lead to disputes. A total of 106 cases Folksam will endeavour to employ young people Customer Ombudsman’s motto is that complaints were settled by the Swedish National Board for Conwho, like the multilingual customer service in Malmö, are so important that they should be seen as a gift sumer Disputes in 2010. Only 5 per cent of the cases are to help spread knowledge and provide informafrom customers. In 2010 the Customer Ombudsman were settled in the customer’s favour. 141 cases tion to households, companies and organisations in started working with an external consultant on this went to court in 2010. Folksam won or reached an Södertälje on insurance and activities to prevent daissue, and it is hoped that the work methodology will out-of-court settlement in the majority of the cases mage. be further improved. decided during the year. This shows that the level of During the year, Folksam conducted a dialogue It is gratifying that the most customer surveys quality in Folksam case handling is very high. with politicians, imams, property owners, the police have shown that Folksam customers were signifiand representatives of the largest immigrant organicantly more satisfied in 2010 than previously with Diversity for customer benefit sations. The dialogue was aimed at illustrating how Folksam’s handling of complaints. Folksam has been working actively on diversity for Folksam can contribute to making what are known as many years. Folksam’s view is that a high degree of Million Programme housing areas safer. The dialogue The work of the Customer Ombudsman diversity leads to increased customer benefit and led to Folksam supporting Mångfaldens hus (House The principal task of the Customer Ombudsman is to also attractiveness as an employer. One successful of Diversity) in Rosengård, Malmö, which is used for offer those customers who are not satisfied with example is Folksam’s multilingual national customer business activity and is a gathering point for diffeFolksam’s decisions an impartial review of their case. service. rent organisations in the area. The multinational In 2010, the Customer Ombudsman dealt with 1,117 In 2010 this offered information on insurance and customer service regularly holds information meecases, and 1,071 led to a substantial review, 22 per pension investments in 18 different languages. tings in Mångfaldens hus. cent of which led to some form of change in the 90,000 people from more than 100 different nations customer’s favour. This fairly high rate of change were in contact with our multilingual customer service. shows that the Customer Ombudsman is indepenTo ensure that Folksam continues to be at the foredent and that the customers can have confidence in front with regard to diversity and integration issues, this activity. Around 10,000 customers contacted the a position of Diversity Business Manager was estaCustomer Ombudsman during the year. This activity blished in 2010. The purpose of the DBM’s work is to is greatly appreciated by the customers, as they are continue developing diversity in dealing with custoable to put questions to an independent body. The mers so that more people have an opportunity to Customer Ombudsman also feeds back vital expelearn about Folksam’s offerings. rience from its activity to Folksam. This feedback is During the year, Folksam also started work on provided in many ways, for instance through particitranslating parts of the website folksam.se into . pating in work on terms and policies and training Arabic and Serbian. Folksam personnel. The Customer Ombudsman moFörenade Liv offered its security package for comdernised its case management system in 2010 to panies in Arabic and Turkish. make day-to-day work even more efficient and unFolksam is one of the partners in the municipal bureaucratic. This leads to customers receiving even company Telge Tillväxt. By offering work placements faster and higher-quality service. and employing young people, Telge’s seven owners Sustainability report Folksam 2010 9(49) Governance and organisation Folksam’s operations – our claims activity, our inThe boards held a two-day seminar to prepare the We wish to exert an influence responsibly vestments of assets, our consumption of goods and documentation for a revised strategic plan. This was The strategic plans also establish areas that each services, our business travel, and heating and provialso also adopted at the boards’ August meetings. board wants Folksam to steer towards and focus on: ding water for our properties – have a direct impact There are around 80 internal rules classified as perceived customer benefit, organic growth, being on the world around us.. overarching in Folksam Life and Folksam General. The better than the competition, being an attractive emOur indirect impact, road safety research, sport rules are examined annually and revised if necessary. ployer and responsible influence. cooperation, consumer education, work to counter Around forty have been adopted by the boards. Oth‘Responsible Influence’ establishes that Folksam violence in society and mine-clearing projects are ers are adopted by the parent companies’ AGMs or by must distinguish its operation from that of competidescribed in the section headed More than insurance Group management. tors by taking active responsibility for the world and savings. around us and our future, and by designing its offeA vision that involves obligations rings with responsible influence in mind. The boards How our boards operate All work that takes place at Folksam must be targeted adopt targets for all focal areas every year. The straFolksam consists of a life assurance and pension saand geared towards the vision that “people should tegic plans must then govern Folksam’s operations vings group and a general insurance group. Folksam feel secure in a sustainable world” and the overarplanning on a more detailed level. has two mutual parent companies, Folksam ömsesidig ching goal of “having the most satisfied customers in The goals for Responsible Influence are concerned livförsäkring –Folksam Life – and Folksam ömsesidig the insurance and savings industry”. with our customers being aware of and thinking that sakförsäkring – Folksam General. Both Folksam Life The vision sheds light on Folksam’s role as a custoit is good that we work on road safety research, the and Folksam General also operate through subsidiamer-owned company – security is the core of all insuenvironment and corporate governance. The Comries. The boards of the parent companies are made up rance and savings activity. Working for a sustainable munications Unit is responsible for measuring and of customer representatives from the Swedish popuworld creates security. Sustainability is also important following up these goals. lar movements (the cooperative movement, the trade for us with regard to our claims activity and our inunion movements, the sports movement and the sevestments. In addition to human suffering, an inseGoals and results for Responsible Influence 2010 nior citizens movement). cure, unsustainable world leads to high claims costs Measure Target Result The nominations committee proposes to the annual and high premiums, which are not compatible with Increased awareness of our general meetings who should sit on the boards. This customer benefit. work on sustainability 28 per cent 39 per cent committee is to aim for the boards to have a suitable More of a positive attitude composition with regard to skills, age and gender. Internal rules and organisation among customers towards us working in an effective way The boards of the parent companies held seven for governance and control on sustainability 53 per cent 59 per cent board meetings during the year. Ahead of each meeThe boards of Folksam Life and Folksam General More of a positive attitude ting the boards received a written report from the each adopt strategic plans that convey the focus and among the public towards working on sustainability 79 per cent 68 per cent CEO on important events in Folksam, but also in the requirements each board has for these companies. industry in general. The Board has followed up the The focus and requirements described in the strastrategic goals in accordance with Folksam’s strategic Comments tegic plan cover: agenda. They also reviewed the subsidiaries’ activiti• Operations The outcome of work on sustainability was communies, financial and business situation analysis and the • Organisational structure cated with the aid of activities in the media and the internal audit reports. • Financial targets Sustainability Report. It was also communicated in • Corporate governance of subsidaries conjunction with certificates of insurance being sent • Internal governance and control out and through the message played when customers are in a telephone queue, for example. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 10(49) More information on this work has been added to Bribery and money laundering Solvency 2. Risk management in Folksam is greatly the website and the information has been improved All financial companies in the EU are obliged to preinfluenced by these new rules. As part of the adaptawith regard to linking our sustainability work to our vent money laundering and the financing of terrotion process, principles and processes for risk manaproducts. rism. Folksam follows sanctions issued against pergement, risk control, capital position and capital During the year, Folksam abandoned the Spelar sons suspected of criminal activities and also takes planning will be successively developed and improRoll (Makes a difference) communication concept. action to prevent bribery and corruption. The work ved. The aim is to ensure more effective risk and asSpelar Roll has been used to communicate sustainaon preventing bribery and corruption is associated set management and increase the understanding of bility. The target of creating more of a positive attitude with Folksam’s work on preventing money launderisks and their consequences in the organisation. The among the public towards Folksam’s work on sustairing, in which we investigate whether our customers changes will take place gradually over the next few nability was therefore set too high. are persons in politically at-risk positions, that is to years. say persons who hold high political offices and who Our risks and how we tackle them through their positions are at greater risk of being Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Folksam’s systems for internal control are to be a . bribed or becoming involved in corruption. Folksam’s parent company and the subsidiary KPA natural part of the various activities and an integral In 2010 Folksam personnel underwent e-learning Pension follow applicable parts of the Swedish Code part of the governance of the organisation. In terms training on measures to prevent money laundering of Corporate Governance. The Code is primarily writof the functions working to achieve this, some of the and the financing of terrorism. ten for listed limited companies, but it is also relemost important are the boards’ audit and remuneraFolksam adopted a new Information Security Policy vant for companies such as Folksam with widespread tion committees, the internal audit and the lay audiin 2010 and also offers an e-learning training proownership and public interest. The Code is based on tors. To further strengthen internal governance and gramme in information security. the principle of comply or explain. It emphasises the control, there is additionally a function for Group-wide role of the annual general meeting and a clearer distgovernance, risk and compliance. This function is inEthical rules – always a current issue ribution of roles between AGM, board and senior madependent and separate from other operational actiFolksam’s ethical rules contain the ethical rules appnagement. There are also requirements for the vity in Folksam and reports directly to the Group CEO licable to all activities and how staff should act in vaboards to be efficient and take responsibility. and President, Its principal task is to ensure, with rerious situations. Folksam’s application of the Code is presented in asonable assurance, effective governance and conEthics are based on society’s set of values, and are corporate governance reports, which are produced trol throughout Folksam. concerned with good practice and sound judgement. when the annual accounts are prepared. There are Folksam operates in the insurance and savings inFolksam’s values reflect an ethical approach. Safereports on the Folksam website for Folksam General dustry. It is therefore natural that our risk manageguarding human rights and rejecting all forms of disand Folksam Life. There are also corporate goverment is principally concerned with financial risks, crimation are two examples. nance reports on the KPA website for KPA AB and risks relating to corruption and fraud, and risks relaWhen the staff represent the company externally, KPA Pensionsförsäkring AB (publ). ting aswell as IT systems. it is not solely their own business how they act. How Risk is defined at Folksam as the probability of an . they are perceived affects how the customer views Examples of overarching sets of rules event occurring that negatively impacts on the whole us. Our values must permeate everything we do, and – Ethical rules or parts of Folksam’s goal attainment or deviates everyone who works for any company in Folksam – External corporate governance policy from assumptions made. Folksam’s activities give must follow the ethical rules and other instructions – Actuarial guidelines rise to exposure to various risks, which affect finanthat exist for how the work is to be carried out, – Internal control cial position, results and goal fulfilment. These risks The ethical rules are distributed to all employees, – Handling of claims relating to financial services are divided into three principal areas: risks in all buand staff are encouraged to contact their superior or – Competition issues – action programme siness, risks in insurance business and risks in finanany of our legal specialists if they feel unsure. – Management organisation cial business. – Environmental policy – Security policy Solvency 2 – Purchasing policy Operations in Folksam are being adapted to the new – Remuneration policy European rules on solvency for insurance companies, Sustainability report Folksam 2010 11(49) Operational organisation Folksam is organised into three business areas: Private, Folksam’s road safety research, corporate govertion to create an efficient service for customers. Partner and Collectively Agreed business and subsinance and environmental manager belong organisaA change project covering office workplaces was diaries. In addition there are eight central units. tionally to CEO staff units. launched with the aim of allowing the work to be orThe Private business area is responsible for A large number of activities have been initiated to ganised more efficiently and of lowering the costs of Folksam’s business in the private market for individual develop and improve the efficiency of the organisapremises; this will continue in 2011. insurance and savings. This responsibility applies to both tion and processes in order to achieve business and The sales and claims customer organisation underlife and general insurance under the Folksam brand. cost synergies. went extensive change during the year, from a geoThe Partner business area is responsible for Folksam’s Work on coordinating joint functions to ensure that graphical to a channel-guided organisation with a tobusiness with partner and organisational customers. It resources continue to be used efficiently continued in tal of eleven channels. Five of these are sales chanincludes the group insurance business and business in2010. The IT, actuary, communication and legal funnels: customer service, life and investment, surance. The business relates to both general insurance ctions were transferred from KPA Pension to the joint telemarketing, online and group insurance, and six and to personal insurance and savings. functions. In addition, large parts of the insurance of them are claims channels: general, motor, persoCollectively agreed business is responsible for administration were coordinated in a joint function. nal injury compensation, personal injury terms, inFolksam’s business with the parties to collective barAs part of this concentration of resources, the opevestigation and other. The change is being made to gaining agreements in the Swedish labour market. ration and maintenance of IT in workplaces was outachieve greater efficiency through shorter decision This includes both pensions and risk insurance, for sourced to Logica. paths, and reflects the fact that 95% of customers example occupational group life insurance and sickDuring the year, KP and KPA Pension were also inare in contact with Folksam by telephone or on the ness insurance, as well as administrative service for tegrated. The purpose was to coordinate the operainternet. Around 2,000 people were covered by the employers. reorganisation. Work on the new organisation will continue in 2011–2012. On 1 October a new purchasing organisation was CEO and established as a department of Folksam to achieve a Group President more cohesive purchasing process and create a basis for lower purchasing costs in both claims and operation. – Asset management Collective Partner BA Private BA – Governance, Risk and Compliance bargaining business BA Subsidiaries Economic CEO staff units Strategic Communication IT HR Product Claims Business area and financial business service development Central unit Sustainability report Folksam 2010 12(49) Social perspective Our staff An attractive employer with committed staff Staff survey shows continued commitment Folksam aims to be an attractive employer with comA response rate of 91 per cent was achieved in the mitted staff who create customer benefit. In order to annual staff survey, Focus. A more restricted survey achieve this, Folksam works strategically and purpocontaining fewer questions is conducted in even sefully in several areas, for example terms of emyears (such as 2010). The outcome showed contiployment, recruitment, skills development, leadernued excellent values, among other things for leadship, management by output, the working environership, management by objectives and results, and ment and health. The unit responsible for this work commitment, and was utilised in the form of dialois HR (Human Resources). The Head of HR is part of gue, action plans and development activities at all Group management and is responsible for HR activilevels of the company. The plans will be followed up ty in Folksam and its subsidiaries. For example, in future Fokus surveys and in individual goal interduring the year, Folksam developed an insurance ofviews and performance appraisals. Work on Fokus fering for all employees who among other things hold forms an important part of Folksam’s corporate gomedical insurance,. The insurance applies from 2011 vernance, business development and the developand creates reassurance by providing rapid access to ment of managers and staff. advice and medical care. Some of the most important results achieved during Long-term commitment to skills provision the year are that both long-term and short-term sickIn order to be an attractive employer and ensure the ness absence have decreased, and a number of imlong-term provision of skills, Folksam continued important organisational changes have been implemenplementing the recruitment strategy developed in ted. Important milestones have also been reached in 2009. This work included a systematic review of uniwork towards a more systematic management proviversities, university colleges and vocational colleges, sion, clearer corporate identity and new system supand cooperation was initiated with those that best port for personnel and payroll administration. support Folksam’s supply of skills. Staff turnover was low during the year due to few In 2010, Folksam developed its profile as an emnew recruitments. The total number of employees ployer, for instance in job advertising and at recruithas also fallen since 2009. The principal explanation ment fairs. A new careers website was developed to is the ongoing reorganisation process and coordinacommunicate with potential recruits – folksam.se/ tion between the companies. Changes are in projobba. Our work on sustainability and the opportunigress in particular in claims management, pensions ties for development offered through the subsidiaries administration, sales and IT. The increase in the proare some of the elements that are highlighted. A vaportion of mangers is temporary and is related to ried and responsible career is the promise Folksam changes that have not been fully implemented. The wishes to make as an employer. proportion of female managers has decreased slightA web-based service for training, learning and maly, and this is also regarded as a temporary variation, nagement by output was introduced during the year. The level in the Group management is the same as in Folksam and its subsidiaries thus have a common 2009, but the proportion of women has increased sotool that supports professional development and mewhat on the Board of Folksam Liv. Folksam is conlearning, both internally and for external partners stantly striving to achieve an equal distribution betand customers. It contributes to improving efficiency ween women and men in different positions. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 14(49) Social perspective and creating synergies within the companies and Right skills through diversity contract on nationwide occupational health care for opens up new opportunities in Folksam’s work on Folksam has been working actively on diversity isall its staff. The new supplier is a strategic health strategic skills supply. This service additionally makes sues for many years. The company’s view is that a partner that in various ways supports Folksam’s it easier to invest in e-learning, which leads to fewer high level of diversity leads to greater customer belong-term goals for improving the working environjourneys and therefore less environmental impact. nefit and attractiveness as an employer. Read more ment. The focus is on improving good-health ratios Several parts of Folksam’s organisation worked about Folksam’s external work on diversity on page 9. through greater commitment to health-promoting during the year on systematic skills analyses in order Internal group dialogues were developed in 2010 and sickness prevention efforts. to plan and ensure that the right skills are in place with the aim of coordinating the action plans for difor the future. The analyses were conducted in cooversity with annual activity planning. The aim is for Donations through pay to peration with the central HR function. This work will the diversity perspective to form a natural part of the Swedish Cooperative Centre continue in 2011. daily work. Folksam has been cooperating with the Swedish Cooperative Centre for several years. Read more about Changing face of leadership Health promotion to reduce this cooperation on page 36. The pace of change is steadily increasing, and chansickness absence Staff have the option of donating part of their pay ge today is part of everyday reality. Folksam is theFolksam has made determined efforts to reduce sickto the organisation through deductions from salary. refore equipping its managers to lead change. Efforts ness absence for several years. The focus in 2010 Commitment to this initiative is contining to grow. were made in 2010 to support managers in adapting was on early rehabilitation to prevent longer periods Staff donations to the Swedish Cooperative Centre the organisation to new customer meeting places, of sick leave. Two health-related pilot projects were totalled SEK 666,130 in 2010, a sum which is matchfor instance. The managers received tools to lead the started. One was to facilitate assistance with early ed by Folksam to produce a total contribution of SEK work on change in lectures and workshops that addrehabilitation, and the other was to strengthen 1,332,259. ressed areas such as management by targets and health through health profile assessments and indiviIn 2010 a third of our donors chose to increase output, labour law and recruitment. dual measures. In addition, Folksam signed a new their monthly contributions, so that contributions One of Folksam’s goals is to have a systematic marose from SEK 103,000 to 117,000 per month. nagement provision process that identifies, evaluates and develops the right managers for the right reFolksam staff in figures mit. The pilot scheme launched in 2009 when, on the Staff 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 basis of their performance in their current position Number of staff 3,637 3,863** 3,510 3,127 3,300 3,563 3,655 and their potential, 60 managers were deemed to be – women 50% 50% 49% 49% 49% 49% 48% capable of coping with more extensive managerial – men 50% 50% 51% 51% 51% 51% 52% remits, was concluded during the year. The individual Average age 45.5 45.3 44.8 45.3 45.7 45.5 45.1 development plans drafted resulted in various activiNumber of . ties to strengthen leadership skills. managers 360 347 311 262 282 308 294 In order to deal with customers in a personal and – women 43% 44% 44% 43% 41% 41% 40% committed way, Folksam needs managers who deve– men 57% 56% 56% 57% 59% 59% 60% lop staff and reward the right level of performance. Staff turnover 4.7% 5.6%** 8.0%* 7.4% 1.7% 2.6% 2.4% Courses during the year in coaching leadership provided Folksam managers with an opportunity for * With effect from 2008 the key indicators also include staff on fixed-term contracts, and the figures practical training that increases their ability to proviare therefore not fully comparable with previous years. de honest feedback, which is crucial if staff are to be ** With effect from 2009 the key indicators also include the subsidiaries KPA and Gyllenforsen, and aware of what is expected of them. The prospects for the figures are therefore not fully comparable with previous years. motivation and commitment increase with clear exThe number of managers is calculated in accordance with the definition “managers with responpectations. sibility for personnel and operations”. Staff turnover is defined as the lower of the number of new employees or employees who have left during the year as a percentage of the number of employees in December. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 15(49) Social perspective Age distribution 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Age distribution, 2010 under 30 8.5% 9.1% 9.8% 8% 7% 8% 30–39 21.9% 22.1% 23.1% 24% 24% 24% 11,2 % 8,5 % 40–49 30.4% 30.2% 29.4% 30% 29% 28% 50–59 28.0% 27.7°/o 28.3% 29% 30% 30% 60+ 11.2% 11.0%o 9.4% 9% 10% 10% under 29 21,9 % Form of employment of staff 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 28,0 % 30-39 Employees on permanent contracts 97% 98% 97°% 96% 92% Employees on fixed-term contracts 3% 2% 3% 4% 8% 40-49 Full-time employees 91% 92% 91% 90% 86% Part-time employees 9% 8%o 9%o 10%o 14%o 30,4 % 50-59 60 + Total sick leave, 2010 (2009) Age Men Women Total under 30 1.8 (1.8)% 3.8 (4.8)% 2.9 (3.4)% 30–49 2.1 (1.9)% 4.2 (4.6)% 3.2 (3.3)% 50+ 2.5 (3.3)% 4.9 (6.0)% 3.6 (4.6)% Total 2.2 (2.5)% 4.5 (5.2)% 3.4 (3.9)% Of which long-term sick leave in 2010 (2009) Age Men Women Total under 29 7.6 (0.0)% 20.8 (29.2)% 17.1 (22.0)% 30–49 24.7 (32.3)% 40.2 (49.0)% 35.5 (44.3)% 50+ 41.4 (57.2)% 45.3 (57.7)% 44.0 (57.5)% Total 32.0 (44.7)% 41.4 (51.6)% 38.4 (49.4)% Women – Gender distribution in management teams 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Board of Folksam Life 50% 42% 42% 45% 46% 55% 40% Board of Folksam General 58% 58% 50% 50% 42% 42% 42% Group management 33% 33% 25% 33% 33% 22% 22% Men – Gender distribution in management teams 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Board of Folksam Life 50% 58% 58% 55% 54% 45% 60% Board of Folksam General 42% 42% 50% 50% 58% 58% 58% Group management 67% 67% 75% 67% 67% 78% 78% Sustainability report Folksam 2010 16(49) Ecological perspective The impact of our operation Our direct impact on The Environmental Building system is designed for the environment and climate Swedish conditions as a simple and cost-effective The environment is a very important issue for Folksam, method of classifying buildings without compromising both that within the company and in the world at large. on quality. Our size presents us with a great opportunity to exThe system can be used for both new and existing ert influence. The demands we make on ourselves buildings, regardless of size. and on our suppliers, for example with regard to reEnvironmental Building is administered by Sweden pairs to the buildings and vehicles our customers Green Building Council, and the indicators that dictate have insured with us, can therefore make a great difthe classification are energy use, indoor environment ference. Folksam’s strict environmental requirements (sound, light, radon, moisture etc.) and the presence have contributed to a higher environmental standard of particularly harmful substances. In 2010, Folksam at several large subcontractors. began conducting an inventory of a property in StockThose parts of the Folksam organisation with the holm according to Environmental Building indicators. greatest potential to make a difference have been The application has been submitted and classification environmentally certified under ISO 14001, the reis expected in the first quarter of 2011. When this cognised international standard for environmental process is complete, the system will be evaluated inmanagement systems. ternally, and if it proves to be positive for Folksam and Both car and building insurance activities have enour customers, more properties will be classified. vironmental certification. We only use wind power of specified origin in our properties. Folksam intends to Weather forecast-based control be at the forefront of efforts relating to the environIn traditional systems property heating is controlled ment and climate change in the industry. It is imsolely on the basis of the current outdoor temperature, portant that we practise what we preach. Some of which is a somewhat blunt instrument. In weather the most important measures taken to reduce our forecast-based control, the heating is governed not impact on climate in 2010 are outlined below. just by the outdoor temperature but also by an equivalent temperature that takes account of several facEnvironmental certification of tors such as wind, sun and the ability of the building our external property management to store energy when there is a surplus. Folksam has Folksam engages the services of Newsec for manabeen testing weather forecast-based control for ging around half its property stock. Newsec gained some time, with good results. This was installed in environmental certification under ISO 14001 in Nov­ six of our properties in 2010. ember. This is a step in the right direction and elucidates our joint work on the environment. Reduced environmental impact During the year, Folksam started workon classifyin vehicle repairs ing its buildings under a system known as EnvironCar repairs are among the activities at Folksam with mental Building (Miljöbyggnad). the greatest impact on the environment. To reduce Sustainability report Folksam 2010 18(49) Ecological perspective the environmental impact in vehicle repairs, Folksam Bohus­gatan in Stockholm. This means that employsult, we have eliminated the need for a large number re-uses genuine parts and repairs plastic parts and ees and guests of Folksam in Stockholm drink of servers in our data centre, which among other windscreens rather than using new replacement around 1.5 million cups of coffee in a year. Around a things has reduced the energy requirement. All the parts. This practice contributed to avoiding a waste quarter of the coffee was organic. If all the coffee workstations are also ecolabelled – computers, momountain of 1,138,204 kg during the year. was organic it would entail a price increase. But it nitors, printers and mobile phones. would also mean less fertiliser spread on the land Folksam also has contracts that enable us to dispoCarbon dioxide measurements and dispersed into the ecosystems where coffee is se of old machines for recycling in an environmentalin buildings and cars grown, and less commercial fertiliser would be used, ly correct way. To further reduce our carbon dioxide emissions on the which would contribute to reduced eutrophication. The principal activity in 2010 was to compare the claims side, Folksam carried out two studies during There is no collective picture of which coffee the loenvironmental work of the IT operation with that of the year to obtain a better picture of how much carbon cal offices purchased in 2010. Coffee is an important others, which took place during the spring. This comdioxide is released when we repair damage. symbolic issue, and Folksam has started work on parison showed that the basic idea underpinning our The studies were conducted together with two of our this, but much remains to be done. environmental efforts in IT, to improve a number of partners on the construction side and one on the veareas in IT on the basis of ideas in the organisation, hicle repair side. is a good initial approach. The intention is to obtain a picture of the current situOrganic coffee Folksam should, however, also have internal rules ation, and on this basis be able to choose better materiThe amount of organic coffee purchased for . and work more systematically on environmental asals and set more precise requirements for our supplies. the head office in 2010 is equivalent to: pects of ordinary work processes in IT. 353,847 cups The next stage will therefore be efforts to clarify Good Environmental Choice 44,653 litres the need for governing documenation on Green IT During the year, Folksam contacted the Swedish So2,688 kilos of consumer-packaged organic coffee through clear guidelines in our ordinary work procesciety for Nature Conservation to establish whether it . 3,161 kilos of green unroasted coffee ses for how a greener IT environment could be acis possible to ecolabel products in the financial and . 3.1 hectares of conventional coffee cultivation hieved. insurance industries with the Good Environmental . has been converted to 4.0 hectares of organic The plan is to make a formal decision on this issue Choice label. . coffee in March 2011. We will then start work on drawing up . rules for introduction into the work processes. Business travel . Conventional coffee An important element in Folksam’s efforts to reduce . The amount of conventional coffee purchased . Purchase policy with climate impact is to reduce emissions from business . for the head office in 2010 is equivalent to: requirements for suppliers travel. Travel is an important part of the company’s . 1,104,981 cups Folksam is a major purchaser whose largest purchaoperations, but if emissions are to be reduced, each . 139,441 litres se volumes are in its claims activity, as described in journey must be planned and justified on commercial 8,394 kilos of consumer-packaged conventional previous sections. and customer benefit grounds. To ensure that we coffee Inköp AB, which was a wholly owned subsidiary, travel in the best possible way in economic, environ9,871 kilos of green unroasted coffee did most of the purchasing in 2010. Purchasing is mental and safety terms, Folksam has a travel policy 9.8 hectares of conventional coffee based on the vision, and the purchaser is to develop, containing clear requirements on what modes of organise and manage Folksam’s supplier relations in transport are to be used on different routes. an efficient and business-like way. It should also be Computers and servers also responsible for all purchases in Folksam being made Coffee – an important symbolic issue have an environmental impact coherently and efficiently at the lowest cost possible. Folksam started replacing the coffee drunk at its Folksam has been working on IT from various enviBut it is not only the price that is important. head office with organic and Fairtrade coffee in 2009. ronmental perspectives for a long time. The Our purchasing policy is concerned among other Altogether, Folksam purchased 11,082 kilos of coffee company’s ambition is to be highly advanced in what things with business ethics and what we require of in 2010 for the restaurant and the property on is known as virtualisation of the server farm. As a reour suppliers. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 19(49) Ecological perspective Before we sign a contract with a supplier, this The carbon footprint for 2010 was measured at Number of kilometres driven supplier must be able to demonstrate a documented 3,853 tonnes of CO2, which is a decrease of 926 In 2010, Folksam personnel drove 5,187,440 km on environmental policy and environmental plan. Folksam tonnes in comparison with the previous year. Heat official business. This is 10 per cent less than in prealso takes a positive view of companies that have consumption accounts for more than half of total vious years. ISO certification and are covered by collective agreeemissions, while air and car travel each account for ments. a little less than a quarter. Despite Folksam manaSee the appendix on page 40 for calculation models In 2010 the Board of Inköp AB reviewed the ging a large number of properties, the climate imand data and page 45 for methods of data collection purchasing process, aiming to create the necessary pact of total electricity consumption is marginal in and calculations. conditions for lower purchasing costs in both claims the greater context as Folksam uses wind power of and operation. The investigation showed that there specified origin. The climate impact of electricity and are many strengths to build on. The purchasers rail travel accounts for less than 1 per cent and is make clear demands on suppliers, and contracts in therefore not shown in the diagram. the Group are well organised. To take the next step and ensure a more cohesive purchasing operation, Folksam’s total climate impact actively pursuing more strategic purchasing with coclassified by activity herent follow-up at management level, a new purchasing organisation started to be established under Economic and Financial Service. At the same Air travel, 22% time work started on phasing out Folksam Inköp AB. The 20 purchasing services spread around the orCar travel, 22% ganisation, partly under Folksam Inköp AB but also Heating, 56% in IT and the claims operation, have been gathered together under the Economic and Financial Services Electricity and rail travel, support unit since 1 October 2010. The new organiless than 1% sation provides a good foundation on which to set sustainability requirements for suppliers in a more All carbon offsetting takes place through tree planting systematic way. in the Vi Agroforestry Programme. This is a very important contribution to counteracting deforestation, Folksam’s total carbon dioxide emissions an issue that is attracting increasing international . Our carbon offsetting and footprint attention and that globally accounts for around 18 Folkam has carbon-offset all emissions related to per cent of international emissions. This is more than energy use and business travel by road, rail, and air the emissions from transport, agriculture and the since 2006. KPA Pension also carbon-offsets travel construction sector combined. To this day, more trees to and from work. The intention next year is also to are being felled than are growing to replace them. . offset paper consumption for the whole of Folksam, As well as trees capturing and storing carbon dioxide which would mean that the whole operation is carfrom the atmosphere, tree planting contributes to bon-offset. other major positive added values for people in areas greatly at risk. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 20(49) ”Car makers obviously Everyone’s a winner when roads are made safer ought to sell their cars with autobraking sysRoad traffic accidents signify great losses for public The in-depth studies examine data from black boxhealth and the economy, but above all for the indivies, which register the impact forces in a collision, tems fitted as standard, dual. Folksam has more than 30 years of experience combined with detailed information about injuries, just as anti-skid control in research into road safety, with the emphasis on studies of road traffic accidents that have actually the course of events in the crash and the deformations suffered by the vehicle. The emphasis is on inis standard today.” happened. The knowledge provided by Folksam road safety research is applied to save lives on the roads. juries that lead to death or incapacity. These are the only studies of their kind in the world. Fewer road traffic injuries also mean lower costs of Between 1992 and 2010 Folksam installed around claims and therefore lower premiums for motor insu240,000* black boxes in four different makes of verance, which benefits Folksam’s customers. hicles in Sweden. In May 2008 the company launched a new black box that measures impact forces in seveResearch contributes to fewer injuries ral directions with greater accuracy. By 2011 the new A large part of Folksam’s research is focused on surbox had been installed in around 30,000* vehicles. veying the level of safety of different cars and their *The figures are based on the number of units ordered. protection systems. The results are used among other things to inform and influence the public, businesSteady improvement in ses and the public sector regarding the importance whiplash protection in cars of prioritising safety when buying vehicles. The numSince 2003, Folksam has presented crash test results ber of people killed on Swedish roads has fallen sharshowing how well different car models protect ply in recent years, to between 300 and 400 people against whiplash injuries in rear-end collisions. In annually. Preliminary figures for 2010 indicate a total just five years, the proportion of car models obtainof less than 300 people, which is the lowest proporing the best test results (and therefore approved by tion of road traffic fatalities in the world. A significant Folksam) has risen from 16 to over 50 per cent. The factor behind the decline is the enhanced level of car 2010 tests took place under Folksam’s cooperation with safety. IIWPG (International Insurance Prevention Group). A total of 237 car models on the Swedish market were In-depth studies of crashes covered, of which 78 were new models tested for the lead to greater knowledge 2010 list. Folksam conducts in-depth studies of crashes to gain increased knowledge of how and why injuries occur Autobrake reduces serious in road traffic accidents. The results of the in-depth road traffic accident injuries studies make it possible to analyse how injuries in In October a press seminar was held to show the road traffic accidents could be avoided in the future. great potential offered by many new car safety sysFolksam’s crash data have formed the basis for devetems in reducing injuries in road traffic accidents. loping the crash test programmes used to evaluate The purpose was to increase the demand for these the protective capability of cars against whiplash insystems so that they would become widespread Anders Kullgren, . juries, and they have been used by several car mamore quickly. Autobrake was emphasised in partiHead of Road Safety kers to develop such protection. cular as a system that can be just as effective as . Research Sustainability report Folksam 2010 22(49) airbags and anti-skid systems. If all cars in Sweden New car survey had autobrake, up to 65 lives would be saved annuCrash safety and good reliability ally. The models that have these systems fitted as – not a given standard and available as options were also identiIn September, for the first time, the Swedish vehicle fied at the seminar. Folksam reduces its premiums inspection company Bilprovningen and Folksam drew for car models with autobrake fitted as standard in up a joint list showing the extent to which used cars order to speed up the introduction of these systems. are safe on the roads, that is to say are both safe in crashes and obtain good inspection results. The list Can financial incentives persuade car shows that car buyers cannot assume that a car with drivers to drive more safely and in a more good crash safety will automatically pass the vehicle eco-friendly way? inspection or vice versa. The survey nevertheless Folksam, MHF, SalusAnsvar and the Swedish Transshows that there are cars that fulfil both criteria. port Administration initiated a research project aimed at creating a safer traffic environment. The proFolksam lowers insurance premium with ject is to evaluate the possibility of persuading drithe aim of reducing the number of serious vers to alter their behaviour and drive in a safer and and fatal motorcycle accidents more eco-friendly way, with the aid of a financial inAnti-lock braking system (ABS) brakes would halve centive – lower premiums. the proportion of serious and fatal injuries in motorThe project will initially cover a test group of cycle accidents. But despite the fact that many acciaround 300 private motorists. dents could be prevented, 93 per cent of motorcycles The drivers in the test group were offered disin Sweden do not have ABS, As a means of persuading counts of up to 30 per cent on their ordinary insuranmore riders to choose safer motorcycles, Folksam rece premium with SalusAnsvar if they drove safely. duced the insurance premium by 15 per cent for The idea is that it should pay to drive responsibly – two-wheeled motorcycles with ABS brakes. The disthe greater the distance driven within applicable speed count began to apply on 1 May 2010. limits, the higher the discount on the insurance premium. Driving is assessed using GPS technology fitted in the test drivers’ cars. The test will continue for a year, and Folksam is responsible for its evaluation. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 23(49) ”A knee injury for a teenage Results of research project girl can lead to life-long on teenage female footballers problems – not just on the A simple training programme lasting a quarter of an vent knee injuries among female players aged 12 hour greatly reduces the risk of serious knee injuries and over. More than 100 physioptherapists from all football pitch but in everyin female footballers, a unique study peformed by parts of Sweden have already been trained in knee day life too, We at Folksam Markus Waldén and Martin Hägglund at Linköping University shows. The Knee Control project, which control. Folksam has insured all football players in Sweden are therefore proud of our was developed on the initiative of Folksam and the Swedish Football Association, is now to be introduced since 1964, and every year around 800 knee injuries are reported from ladies’ and girls’ football. Just over Knee Control initiative – in as many Swedish football clubs as possible. Knee injuries are common in football, and teenage girls 100 female footballers aged between 13 and 17 are compensated annually for incapacity (permanent practical action to prevent are particularly at risk. One of the worst nightmares problems) related to knee damage. Serious knee inin football, anterior cruciate ligament damage, forces juries are three times more common among young knee injuries for a new gesome players to give up football, and many have women than among men of the same age. This is neration of teenage female knee problems later in life. Previous studies in the area have shown that it is very difficult to reduce the due in part to anatomical factors. footballers.” number of knee injuries in football. The Knee Control Study, the largest scentific study to Folksam’s research foundation The purpose of the foundation is to promote prevendate in the world aimed at preventing injuries in sport, tion of accidents and disease, rehabilitation and was therefore carried out in 2009. Around 500 out of health-promoting scientific research through its own just over 700 possible teams of girls born between activity. It is primarily intended to make research 1992 and 1996 in eight of Sweden’s 24 football digrants in the areas of Road Safety, Health and the stricts agreed to take part in the study. Half the clubs Environment. were chosen at random to train according to the SISU Twelve applications for research grants were receiwarm-up programme Knee Control, while the other ved in 2010. Four grants were made to a knee project half acted as a control group. Altogether 341 teams at Umeå University in which it is evaluated whether with more than 4,500 players completed the study. surgical reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligaThe results show that the group that trained knee ment protects against osteoarthritis of the knee in lacontrol were at significantly lower risk (two-thirds) of ter life. Around 6,000 cruciate ligament ruptures ocbeing affected by future cruciate ligament damage cur every year, and nearly 80 per cent lead to osteothan the control group. Players who used the proarthritis (joint problems). Consequently, it is essential gramme at least once a week during the season to evaluate various acute methods of treatment. were additionally only affected by half as many acute Another research project to receive a grant relates knee injuries in total, including knee injuries that octo surveying risk factors in order to prevent procurred without contact wih another player and seriblems in the mandibular (jaw) joint after whiplash ous knee injuries causing more than four weeks’ abinjuries. 30–50 per cent of people injured in road acsence from playing. cidents with chronic whiplash problems also suffer The Knee Control project was initiated in 2008 by pain in the mandibular joint. These problems rarely the Swedish Football Association and Folksam. The occur initially, but increase with time. This research Lars-Inge Svensson, . aim is to train football coaches, leaders, parents and project is also based at Umeå University, in the . Head of Folksam Sport players in how to practise knee control and to preDepartment of Odontology. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 24(49) Ecological perspective ”It is of the utmost Environmental efforts importance that we New heating guide covers purchases of goods through wholesalers, agents or suppliers, and also applies to purchases of practise what we In 2010 we updated the Heating Guide. Folksam discovered early on that many of our customers’ heat input materials and raw materials. preach. We have great pumps disintegrated far too often and too early. In addition to the high number of episodes of damage Policy for new cars responsibility as one to heat pumps, many home owners change to a system that does not pay for itself in their particular In 2010 Folksam published a policy on the purchase of new cars for the thirteenth year in a row. The poof Sweden’s largest case. The investment is not offset by reduced consumption. licy is aimed at influencing the standard of new cars sold in Sweden. It is principally applied to the purchasers for example Our knowledge is collated in the Folksam heating company’s purchasing of company and staff vehicles, but also to hire cars. This policy is of great signifiguide, so that all our customers and Swedish home­ of flooring, paints and owners can obtain impartial support on heating iscance, as Folksam customers drive nearly ten million kilometres in hire cars every year. vehicle repairs.” sues. The long-term aim is for as many households as possible to be able to replace electricity and oil with Safe and sustainable other sources of heat. In order to influence the safety standard and environmental impact of new cars sold on the Swedish For those who need to redecorate market, Folksam annually publishes a list of cars Just before the summer, when many of our custothat meet stringent requirements for safety and enmers need to buy paint to redecorate during the vironmental impact. In 2010 a further follow-up of summer, Folksam released the results of its paint the list was published, which is also a result of test. The paint test is a scientific study in which variFolksam’s policy for purchasing company and staff ous paints are tested for durability, and particularly cars and for car hire. The requirements for both sahow they counteract mould. The result showed that fety and the environment were tightened up in comonly seven out of a total of 45 tested paints were of parison with the policy in 2009. To meet 2010 requisufficiently high quality to be recommended for use rements, cars had to have 0.1 litres lower fuel conin redecorating the house. sumption per 100 kilometres than previous requirements. Altogether 12 per cent of car models DIY – a better choice for the environment met Folksam requirements. Folksam continuously To help both businesses and do-it-yourselfers to carry informs other car buyers, such as municipalities, out eco-friendly repairs, Folksam released the eighth county councils and large companies, about which version of Folksams Byggmiljöguide (the Folksam Envehicles are approved and the requirements laid vironmental Guide to Construction) in 2010. The guidown in the policy. de has been produced by independent experts and scrutinises materials to establish which are preferable from the point of view of the environment and health. Jan Snaar A new feature this year is that the manufacturers Environmental . have also been asked to state whether they have Manager, Folksam operations in low-wage countries. The question also Sustainability report Folksam 2010 25(49) Economical perspective ”On this basis, it cannot in any way be regarded Responsible as controversial to argue Ownership that private industry is Folksam has around SEK 270 billion under manageIn this year’s sustainability report we have chosen a man’s world. Women ment on behalf of just over four million customers. for the second year in a row to report the year’s This gives us power to exert influence and bring events based on these principles to clarify how Folksam make up half the popul­about long-term change in society. All the assets fulfils its commitment as a signatory to PRI. ation, but in the boardFolksam manages, regardless of whether they are funds, insurance portfolios or personal savings, are Principle 1 room it’s a completely covered by ethical investment criteria. We at Folksam firmly believe that companies that We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes different story. There, the take responsibility for the environment and human rights are more profitable in the longer term. ThereEthics influences all investments Folksam engages Swedbank Robur as asset manager traditional gentleman’s fore, through our criteria – environment, human for large parts of the assets under management and rights and anti-corruption – we influence the compafor ethical screening of all investments. Folksam also club culture is as entrennies we invest in. However, there are companies we engages independent consultancies for various anached as it ever was.” have deliberately chosen not to invest in, regardless of how small their environmental impact is or how lyst services. This analysis forms the basis for decisions on which companies Folksam invests in and good a working environment they have. The exclusiwhich companies Folksam chooses to conduct a more on criteria are tobacco and illegal weapons such as in-depth dialogue with. cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines and nuclear weapons. The subsidiary KPA Pension has decided on Folksam votes both for and against even tougher exclusion criteria: it does not invest in share-related reward systems the tobacco industry, the weapons industry, the alcoDuring the year’s Swedish AGMs, Folksam made use hol industry or the commercial gambling industry. of its right to vote against four companies’ proposals Folksam’s work to persuade companies to take sofor variable remuneration. In addition, a dialogue was cial responsibility is very much a public affair, becauconducted with further companies who intended to se we believe that knowledge contributes to positive introduce this type of system. The information on change. Folksam annually publishes reports and indiremuneration systems supplied to shareholders has ces in which we present information on the compabeen substantially improved in recent years. It is now nies’ performance in areas such as the environment, the exception rather than the rule for companies not human rights and gender equality. to include relevant information in their annual reports The UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) on share programmes, fixed and variable pay, and are a UN initiative launched in 2006 and aimed at inpensions to senior executives. This is largely a result troducing sustainability issues into the investment of the debate conducted by Folksam, among others. process for institutional investors and pensions maCarina Lundberg Markow, nagers. Folksam was the only Swedish investor to Focus on cash bonuses – again Head of . take part in drawing up the guidelines, which apply In 2010, many listed companies recovered from the Responsible Ownership to the environment, social issues and corporate godeep crisis. Bonues and variable pay continued to vernance (ESG issues). Sustainability report Folksam 2010 27(49) Economical perspective dominate shareholder issues during the year, as they was given to the companies’ targets for carbon dioxiSince the accident Folksam has conducted a dialoremained high in many cases despite the crisis. de emissions and activities aimed at increasing the gue with BP to make sure that the company is doing Questions were also asked about this type of remushare of alternative energy sources. Nineteen teleconeverything possible to improve its procedures for the neration at several company AGMs. The Swedish Fiferences were held in 2010 with energy companies safety and environmental risks it encounters in its nancial Supervisory Authority introduced new rules from Australia and Japan in the east to Brazil and Caoperations. Folksam has also been in contact with for these systems with regard to financial companies. lifornia in the west. Three companies were keen to Anadarko, which was a partner in the oil platform. These rules are based on consensus within the EU. answer our questions but could not find time for a Folksam has emphasised in the debate the importantele­conference and chose to e-mail their replies to us Folksam in dialogue with foreign companies ce of variable remuneration schemes being designed instead. During the project 63 projects were contacFolksam tries as far as possible to influence the comin a way that principally benefits shareholders and of ted and a total of 33 meetings, teleconferences and . panies it invests in, but the dialogue sometimes being reported in a clear and unambiguous way. e-mail dialogues took place. reaches a point where it is difficult to imagine any progress being made with regard to the way the Dialogue helps companies to see the Principle 2 companies deal with the environment or human business potential in sustainability issues We will be active owners and incorporate rights. We did not need to go so far as to sell a holFolksam’s efforts to influence companies on sustainaESG issues into our corporate governance ding in 2010, except for the nuclear weapons compability issues are focused firstly on reducing the risks policy and practices nies mentioned below. Folksam has taken part in diassociated with environmental crime, contraventions Folksam’s boards have established a corporate goalogue with seven companies where we consider of human rights and corruption, and secondly on mavernance policy and ethical investment criteria for there is still an opportunity to exert an influence. . king more people see the business potential of corpothe companies’ holdings. This activity is followed by Examples of these companies are as follows (reason rate social responsibility. This is done in part through an internal corporate governance committee. The stated in brackets): active corporate governance. outcome is reported to the boards and presented in • Exxon (allegations that the company’s oil and gas In 2010 the operations of 2,600 companies were rean annual public report. projects in Russia have reduced the population of viewed, focusing on their performance in relation to grey whales in the area) the environment and human rights. The 20 Swedish Folksam acts on specific incidents • Eutelsat (allegations of having interrupted televicompanies at greatest risk of being involved in inciFolksam had a number of contacts with companies sion broadcasts critical of the regime in China) dents in these areas were identified, and Folksam ofduring the year on specific incidents. Some examples • AES (allegations of violations of human rights fered to review the risk situations of the 11 in which it follow. during dam construction in Panama) had holdings This led to meetings with a total of seven companies. The review has resulted in several compaBP Exclusion of nuclear weapons companies nies restructuring and improving their environmental BP’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, which started In 2010 Folksam decided, in accordance with the activities or the way in which they work on human when the Deepwater Horizon oil platform exploded strong trend towards nuclear disarmament and berights following a dialogue with Folksam. Several and sank on 20 April 2010, has been called the worst cause nuclear weapons are regarded as contravening companies have previously found that a focus on susenvironmental disaster in US history. Eleven employinternational law, to phase out its holdings in those tainability issues had meant cost savings for example ees lost their lives and 17 were injured in the explocompanies that still produce this type of weapon. In in the form of energy efficiency improvements. One sion. It is still uncertain how much oil leaked out into September 2009 the UN Security Council unanicompany experienced quality improvements in prothe sea during the ensuing months before BP manamously adopted a resolution that emphasised the duction when demands were made with regard to ged to seal the leak. But it is a matter of millions of goal of a world free from nuclear weapons and deworking conditions at subcontractors. tonnes of crude oil. mands for action from the world’s nations. The UniIn 2010 we concluded the cooperation project with Folksam visited the Louisiana coast in June 2010 ted States and Russia recently resumed disarmaKPA Pension that was focused on the largest energy and was also to see with its own eyes how the oil had ment negotiations, and in May 2010 the five-year reand oil companies. The aim of the project was to idenaffected animal life and nature in the area, as well as view of the non-proliferation treaty (NPT) took place. tify areas for improvement and communicate these to what it meant for the people who had previously made representatives of the companies. Special attention a living from fishing and fishing tourism. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 28(49) Economical perspective Folksam votes at AGMs abroad project, with a view to putting pressure on Swedish Principle 4 Folksam has also used its influence to vote at AGMs listed companies to achieve sustainable development We will promote acceptance and implemenabroad since 2005. This takes place through electroand create long-term value. The group together retation of the Principles for Responsible nic voting. In 2010 Folksam voted at 97 company presents assets under management of SEK 4,000 bilInvestment within the investment industry AGMs. To make correct use of its influence, it is imlion, of which 550 billion is invested on the NASDAQ Folksam lays down requirements for external funds portant to ascertain what issues are of significance OMX Stockholm stock exchange. In the autumn of Folksam distributes the funds of several different fund with regard to Folksam’s corporate governance policy 2009 the group conducted a survey among the 100 management companies. It informs its customers and ethical principles. Folksam has therefore chosen companies with the highest stock market capitalisawhich of the companies offered have signed up to the to limit the number of companies in which we vote to tion on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm stock exchange UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). those that have relevant proposals on which to comwith the aim of ensuring that the companies have Folksam’s Group management adopted a policy for ment. These may relate to inappropriately designed adequate frameworks to manage and follow up on externally managed funds in 2010. In the case of all salary systems, contributions to political organisasustainability issues. In the spring of 2010 the refunds, the fund management companies engaged by tions or proposals from shareholders. sults of the survey were presented, which Folksam Folksam must be encouraged to sign up to the PrinAt AGMs held in 2010, Folksam supported a propoalso used as a basis at the AGMs of the listed compaciples for Responsible Investment. Folksam will contisal from Greenpeace in the Norwegian company Stanies. In the autumn of 2010 Sustainable Value Creanuously inform external companies about the exclutoil concerning discontinuation of oil extraction from tion organised a seminar for those companies that sions that have been made on the basis of Folksam’s oil shale, for example. Folksam also voted for resoluresponded to the survey to discuss the problems and ethical investment criteria and ask for information on tions that demanded greater investigation of the opportunities presented by work on sustainability. how the company has acted on the basis of this inforconsequences of oil shale extraction at the AGMs of The keynote speaker at the seminar was the Chairmation. An additional requirement in the case of ethiBP and Royal Dutch Shell. At the AGM of the Ford man of BP, Carl-Henric Svanberg. cal funds is that they meet the conditions laid down Motor Company, Folksam supported a shareholder by ENF (the Ethical Board for the Marketing of Funds). proposal to introduce a policy that solely permits enFolksam takes part in the debate Ethical funds must have a well-defined selection proergy projects clearly focused on carbon dioxide reFolksam has emphasised sustainability issues in a cess and clearly presented ethical criteria. ductions. At the AGM of Coca Cola, Folksam suppornumber of opinion pieces in the Swedish media. ted a shareholder proposal to publish a report on the Among other things, an article was published that Principle 5 endocrine disrupter bisphenol. emphasised the risks involved in most of world proWe will work together with other investors duction taking place in post-colonial states to meet to enhance our effectiveness in implemenClass actions the consumption needs of the West. Folksam pointed ting the Principles In 2008 the Department of Responsible Ownership out that the world depicted in the film “Avatar” exists Nordic cooperation for corporate social responsibility took over work on Folksam’s American class actions. right now in reality in a number of places, including Folksam has cooperated since 2008 with the NorweIn 2010 Folksam received a total of nearly SEK 6 milliEcuador, Colombia, Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Peru, gian company KLP and the Finnish company Ilmarion. One of the companies that has now been obliged Ethiopia and Canada, and warned about indigenous nen in Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC). The to pay compensation to their shareholders is Royal populations being displaced and poisoned. purpose of NEC is to coordinate corporate governanDutch Shell Transport, which in 2004 published incorFolksam supported the launch of the global stance activities relating to the environment, human rect and misleading financial information in several redard for social responsibility, ISO 26000, by highlighrights and anti-corruption. The focus is on some ports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission. ting the benefits of a common global standard. KPA twenty companies where contraventions of internaPension has also had a seat on the working group tional guidelines and conventions have been obserPrinciple 3 that has drawn up the standard. ved. In 2010 NEC was in dialogue with a total of We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG Folksam also published a comment piece together twelve different companies, eleven of which are baissues by the entities in which we invest with WWF and Greenpeace in which the risks of oil sed outside the Nordic region. Sustainable value creation shale extraction were described. Since 2009, Folksam has been one of 15 Swedish investors to take part in the Sustainable Value Creation Sustainability report Folksam 2010 29(49) Economical perspective Folksam takes part in international environmental and human rights issues. As a sharehave a woman CEO, namely Diamyd Medical, . investor cooperation for gender equality holder in these companies, Folksam requires them to Kinnevik, SEB and Venue Retail Group. Nine investors around the world, with total assets unimprove on both these fronts. The Guide now provides The report also shows that women in senior posider management of SEK 480 billion, joined forces in further opportunities for individual consumers to make tions in the companies generally fulfil what is refer2010 in a new gender equality initiative. The group of a difference and shop responsibly with the aid of the red to as a support function and work on either perinvestors, which includes Folksam, has identified genGuide. In the Shopping Guide consumers can also put sonnel issues or communication. These functions alder equality as a strategic issue and has asked for questions to the listed companies, which Folksam subtogether account for more than half the women who more information about gender equality efforts in 65 sequently forwards. The replies from the companies fulfil a support function. selected listed companies. These companies are baare then published together with the Shopping Guide. sed in those countries in which the investors are doSwedbank miciled, in other words Sweden, the United States, Continued low proportion of women Folksam is today one of the largest shareholders in Canada, the United Kingdom, Brazil and Italy. During on the boards of listed companies Swedbank. Its objective as a shareholder is for Swedthe autumn, dialogues were initiated to ensure that The Folksam Gender Equality Index was presented bank to be an independent Swedish bank built on the the companies utilise the potential business benefit for the seventh time in 2010. The proportion of values that have contributed to building the economic that a more even gender distribution would entail. All female Board members in companies listed on the values that exist today in Swedbank and Swedish sathe investors in the group have signed the UN PrincipNASDAQ OMX Stockholm stock exchange was 20 per vings banks, namely healthy everyday economics for les for Responsible Investment (PRI), and cooperation cent. In other words one in five Board members are private individuals and companies, along with local takes place under the PRI Clearinghouse. women. Only nine out of 255 Board Chairs are woendorsement. Folksam’s view is that these values men. If we look at senior management, the proporshould continue to be reflected in the bank’s operaPrinciple 6 tion of women is only 14 per cent. Four companies tions. Folksam’s holding is 9.3 per cent of the number We will each report on our activities and proof shares and voting rights in Swedbank. gress towards implementing the Guidelines Folksam’s work on Corporate Governance A cat among the pigeons – a blog on corporate governance 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Number of companies with which A cat among the pigeons? Well, that’s what we soFolksam has engaged in active dialogue 77 45 38 41 7 14 13 metimes feel like. Like a questioning cat among a Number of Swedish AGMs attended flock of pigeons doing exactly what they have always by Folksam 39 35 28 21 18 15 15 done. Sometimes we miaow, sometimes we purr, but Number of companies with which sometimes we are not in the least satisfied and then Folksam has been in contact over corporate social responsibility 255 294 256 273 269 270 230 we scratch angrily at those around us! In 2010 we Number of companies in which . wrote some entries in our blog on corporate goverFolksam has assisted in the work of nance and responsible investments. We wrote, for nomination committees 3 4 2 1 example, about companies’ responsibilities, about responsible investments and CSR, about the environFolksam’s Gender Equality Index ment and human rights, about working conditions 2010 2009* 2008* 2007 2006 2005 2004 and corruption, about bonuses and other remuneraNumber of listed companies examined 255 24 24 240 238 242 248 tion, and about gender equality. Altogether we puProportion of women among employees 30% 36.4% 35.6% 32.8% 33.2% 32.5% 32% blished 77 blog entries during the year, a total we Proportion of women in manageaim to surpass in 2011. ment teams 14% 15.2% 14.2% 11.7% 10.9% 10.5% 9.5% Proportion of women on Boards 19.7% 25.3% 23.9% 19.3% 18.9% 17% 13.5% Shopping guide helped consumers to exert influence Highest ranked Karo Bio Swedbank Swedbank Uniflex Poolia Poolia Poolia In 2010, for the third time, Folksam presented the * The Folksam Gender Equality Index for 2009 and 2008 was based on an in-depth analysis of the largest companies, unlike previous Shopping Guide, which scores how Swedish listed years when all listed companies were surveyed. The aim was to study those companies that performed best in terms of gender equality. companies focused on the consumer market work on The breakdown between men and women on Folksam’s own boards is shown in the table on page 16. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 30(49) Economical perspective ”After 25 years with KPA Pension – pension funds for a better future mines, life can finally return to normal. This How KPA Pension takes active social responsibility KPA Pension invests its customers’ pension funds according to clear investment criteria, which are preis evidence that a longSince 1998, KPA Pension has been working for a sustainable future by taking active social responsibility. sented below. The pension funds consequently work term approach and perCorporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is not just a matter of managing capital according to ethical infor a better future for people and the environment. KPA Pension applies the principles of influence and severance are required vestment criteria. It also makes demands on the company, and KPA Pension obviously has to set a exclude. in both KPA Pension’s good example and practise what it preaches. In other words, work on KPA Pension’s CSR must permeate Influencing rules In these areas KPA Pension aims to influence compawork in Sweden and in the whole organisation. nies so that they take responsibility for people and the environment: our support for work Corporate Social Responsibility is a key element in our business concept and is firmly endorsed througagainst inhumane weahout the organisation. We make conscious efforts to minimise our own environmental impact, create a Human rights Customers’ funds are invested in companies in which pons around the world.” good working environment for our employees and support various forms of social commitment. Security, human rights are respected. By conducting a dialogue with the companies, we influence them to take competence and social responsibility are our core . greater responsibility for issues that affect human values. rights. CSR strategy Environment KPA Pension will be the leading ethical pensions provider. KPA Pension invests its customers’ pension funds in Our strategic focus is on meeting the wishes of lacompanies that make active efforts to reduce their bour market partners and customers by taking active negative impact on the environment. We take an acsocial responsibility tive role in developing greener energy by only invesCSR will be a natural part of our offering and conting in a small number of carefully selected energy tribute to business benefit companies that work on the development of sustaiWe will be clearly heard and seen in public debate nable energy. on CSR issues KPA Pension’s CSR efforts will be credible; we will Corruption practise what we preach KPA Pension will influence the companies we invest in by preventing corruption in business relations. CorInvestments ruption is a great problem in many countries, as comPension funds have enormous power. Power to chanpetition is eliminated, growth is inhibited and social ge the future and power to influence global sustainadevelopment is curbed. ble development. It is therefore important how the pension funds are invested. KPA Pension has actively Sofia Hagman, CSR officer, chosen to manage its pension funds according to KPA Pension clearly defined ethical investment criteria. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 31(49) Economical perspective Excluding rules Oil shale In these areas, KPA Pension does not invest at all in: The extraction of oil from oil shale is an energy-intensive method and produces between two and four Weapons times as much carbon dioxide as conventional oil exKPA Pension does not invest in activities that harm traction. Few oil companies make use of the method people and the environment. One such area is weatoday, but virtually all of them have advanced plans pons. to begin doing so shortly. At present there are opporWe have defined weapons as products with the tunities for extraction in Alberta, Canada, and in purpose of killing, maiming or destroying that are 2010 KPA Pension and Folksam visited Alberta and sold to military users. met representatives of the province, some of the oil companies, environmental organisations and the inTobacco digenous population. Oil shale extraction will contiKPA Pension does not invest in companies that pronue to be monitored very closely in view of the risks duce tobacco products. By production of tobacco we associated with it. mean ownership of tobacco plantations and producIn 2010 KPA Pension completed a review of all its tion of cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, cheinvestments in energy companies. We did so by arwing tobacco and other tobacco products. ranging meetings and teleconferences between us and the companies, in which we closely examined Alcohol the work of the companies and the prerequisites for KPA Pension does not invest in companies that proresponsibility in sustainability issues. KPA Pension duce alcohol. Alcoholic beverages are understood to also uses its right to vote at AGMs and votes for remean beverages with an alcohol content of more than solutions that support our ethical investment criteria. 2.25 per cent by volume. In 2010 we voted, for example, for resolutions concerning oil shale at the AGMs of BP, Royal Dutch Shell Gambling and Statoil. KPA Pension does not invest in companies involved in commercial gambling. We understand commercial New standard for social responsibility gambling to mean casinos and gambling clubs. KPA Pension has been a member of the working group responsible for preparing a new ISO standard for Importance of change through influence social responsibility, ISO 26000, since 2004. By actiOne of the most important aspects of our work is acvely participating in both national and international tively influencing the companies we invest in to conmeetings, KPA Pension has contributed to the outcotinuously improve their work and become better at me. At the end of 2010 the standard was ready, and taking their responsibility, in particular for human it will now serve as guidelines for companies, organirights and the environment and for promoting antisations, authorities etc. wishing to take active social corruption. This work on influence is done in cooperesponsibility. ISO 26000 states seven clear principration with Folksam and is reported on pages 27–30. les of social responsibility, and there are seven clear An example of our work to influence companies to main areas. This classification makes it easier for take responsibility for the environment, people and everyone wishing to take active social responsibility the future is our involvement in the issue of oil shale. and increases user-friendliness. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 32(49) Economical perspective Continued cooperation with UNA Sweden The customers value the work against weapons, During the year, KPA Pension continued its cooperawith eight in ten KPA Pension customers valuing this tion with UNA Sweden in the battle against landmiwork highest among the exclusion criteria. KPA Pennes, particularly in areas at risk in Cambodia. sion therefore does not have any assets in compaAfter having contributed to clearing the village of nies that invest in weapons. Support for the UN’s huO’Ampil in Cambodia of mines, KPA Pension has decimanitarian efforts and work against weapons are a ded to continue to support UNA Sweden in providing natural consequence of KPA Pension’s investment help for mine victims. Responsibility and a long-term strategy. approach are two concepts that unite KPA Pension Linda Nordin Thorslund, Secretary-General of UNA and UNA Sweden in the common work towards a Sweden, welcomes the continued cooperation with better world. For the past three years we have been KPA Pension. working jointly in the Association’s Adopt-A-Minefield campaign, which supports mine clearing and rehabi– UNA Sweden has worked both politically and praclitation of mine victims. tically over a long period to get rid of cluster muniAs a consequence of the devastation caused by the tions and anti-personnel mines that injure civilians in Khmer Rouge in the 1970s, Cambodia is one of the particular. This work and KPA Pension’s clear opposicountries in the world most affected by anti-persontion to weapons form a natural basis for our coopenel mines. KPA Pension has contributed towards ration,” says Linda Nordin Thorslund, Secretary40,000 square metres of land being cleared of mines General of UNA Sweden. and becoming safe for children and adults to walk on. This is of great significance to the impoverished KPA Pension and Folksam support village, where people depend on being able to grow research on age-related depression rice and vegetables for their survival. In ten years’ time one in five people living in Sweden Cambodia has the world’s highest proportion of will be between the ages of 65 and 74. Around a tenth amputees in the population, and the mines are one of these, or 80 000 people, are expected to have proof the main reasons. Care and rehabilitation are neblems with depression. KPA Pension and Folksam are cessary to enable mine victims to return to a life of therefore funding a research project on age-related dedignity. pression at Karolinska Institutet. During the year KPA Pension took a new step in its The purpose of the commitment to research on agework against mines by offering rehabilition for people related depression is to improve quality of life among who have been injured. young pensioners. Just over ten per cent are affected by depression, which in turn can lead to physical illness. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 33(49) International cooperation investments, and ensure that the owners obtain a The following economic, environmental and . reasonable return on invested capital. Folksam has a social declarations, principles or other initiatives seat on the Board of Allnations and on the Investare supported by Folksam ment Panel. – The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights AMICE – The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child AMICE (Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurance – The fundamental ILO conventions on labour Cooperatives in Europe). AMICE’s primary aim is to rights act as a united voice for the mutual and cooperative – OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises insurance industry in Europe and ensure that its – Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions members’ interests are respected, in order to ensure – Ottawa Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention equal competitive terms for all insurance companies – UN Global Compact (UN framework for sustaiin Europe, regardless of legal form. Folksam has a nable and socially responsible enterprise) seat on the AMICE Board and Executive Committee – UN PRI (UN Principles for Responsible Investment) and chairs the Economics and Finance working gro– UNEP FI (United Nations Environment . up. Folksam is also active in those working groups Programme Finance Initiative) that are relevant to Folksam’s operation. Read more – UNEP Statement of Environmental . at: http://www amice-eu.org/ Commitment by the Insurance Industry EAPSPI EAPSPI (European Association of Public Sector PensiFolksam is currently engaged and involved in the . on Institutions), a European cooperative organisation following organisations: between pension institutions with responsibility for public-sector pensions. ICMIF ICMIF (International Cooperative and Mutual InsuOther international cooperation rance Federation). Folksam has a seat on the ICMIF In the area of road safety research Board and on the Executive Committee, Develop– ETSC (European Transport Safety Council) – a lobbyment Committee, Intelligence Committee and a ing organisation aimed at influencing the European number of working groups. At the end of the year, Commission in the area of road safety. Folksam became the European representative on the – EEVC (European Enhanced Vehicle Safety Commitsteering group of ICMIF’s Disaster Relief Network tee) – an organisation that develops a scientific . (DRN). Read more at www.icmif.org basis for legislation in Europe. – Working groups in ISO (International StandardisaAllnations tion Organisation) concerned with child safety in cars Allnations is a limited company founded by six memand methods for analysis of road traffic accidents. bers of ICMIF in 1996. The goal of Allnations is to – RCAR (Research Council for Automobile Repairs) . support development in member companies expe– a form of cooperation in the insurance industry riencing financial difficulty, assist in forming new muthroughout the world relating to road safety and car tual and/or cooperative insurance companies through repair techniques. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 35(49) – ADSEAT – an EU-funded research project aimed at Folksam’s involvement in clarifying differences in risk of whiplash injury betthe Swedish Cooperative Centre ween women and men. The result is intended to Folksam is a member of the Swedish Cooperative provide the basis for developing a female crash Centre, a non-profit aid organisation whose work is dummy. The project will take three years and starbased on the fundamental principle of “help to selfted in the autumn of 2009. help”. We support positive change through financial – IRAP/EuroRAP – an organisation aimed at contribusupport, advice and cooperation. But we are not the ting to safer roads through risk-assessing the safety ones who change the lives of poor men and women. of roads based on established criteria that cover the They do this work themselves through study circles, areas of central reservations, verges, crossings and microfinance projects, cooperatives and so on. unprotected road users. EuroRAP can be regarded Our long-term goal is to continue to be involved in as a sister organisation of Euro NCAP that assesses the work of the Swedish Cooperative Centre in order the safety level of cars. to support sustainable development. We believe in help to self-help, where poor people are supported in The mine project taking responsibility themselves for improving their KPA Pension’s support for rehabilitation is channelled lives and their futures. through the organisation Opérations Enfants du In 2010 Folksam decided to become a sponsor of Cambodge (OEC), which in cooperation with the UN the “Toughest Job in the World” campaign, where the and the Cambodian Mine Action Centre (CMAC) helps Swedish Cooperative Centre highlights the situation mine victims back to a functioning and dignified life. for the hundreds of millions of women who are smallholders in developing countries – they are the world’s The micro-insurance project in Kenya poorest people, with the toughest job in the world. Together with the Cooperative Insurance Company of Kenya (CIC), Folksam and the Swedish Cooperative Centre have developed the micro-insurance scheme “Bima ya Jamii” – “Insurance for the Family”. The scheme is aimed at those who are usually too poor to take out insurance. More than 95,000 people are now insured in more than 19,000 households through Bima ya Jamii. Folksam has also had reflective strips and reflective jackets made for members of the Bima project so that they become more visible in darkness and to prevent accidents on roads where there is no street lighting and no pedestrian crossings. As a consequence of this close cooperation between Folksam and CIC, Folksam offers regular assistance through its experience in the area and in training suitable staff in CIC where necessary. It is hoped that this initiative, which is also a pilot project, can be launched in more African countries that are in great need of assistance. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 36(49) Awards and distinctions Sustainable Value Creation Folksam prize for American professor won award for best cooperation The Folksam Prize in Epidemiological Research was The Sustainable Value Creation initiative, of which awarded at the Karolinska Institutet professorial inFolksam is one of the founders, received the Teamstallation ceremony in Berwaldshallen, Stockholm on work of the Year award when Financial Hearings 3 November. The award for the year was won by one held its FH Awards for the 17th consecutive year. of the world’s leading researchers in the area of the Sustainable Value Creation conducted a survey effects of physical training on health, Professor Steamong the 100 largest listed companies in 2009 and ven N. Blair of the University of South Carolina, USA. 2010. The questions related to sustainability, such as Professor Blair is an internationally acknowledged environment and climate, human rights and working expert in his field. His research is focused on correlaconditions, anti-corruption and the linking of sustaitions between lifestyle and health, with a clear focus nability work to remuneration and reward systems. on training, physical capacity, physical constitution The investors behind Sustainable Value Creation – and chronic disease. who together represent 20 per cent of the capital on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm – shared the prize with the Background to the prize Capital Markets Day in Shanghai. Folksam finances the annual Prize in Epidemiological Research through the Folksam Research Foundation. KPA Pension chosen as best pensions company Karolinska Institutet nominates the winners. The vaKPA Pension received a prestigious international lue of the prize is SEK 100,000. award during the year. The British magazine Pension & Life Risk named the company “Best Pension ComFörenade Liv nominated as Innovator of the Year pany of 2010” for its successful management of risk The Risk & Försäkring Insurance Awards are made in during the two extreme years of 2008 and 2009. five categories, and Förenade Liv has been nominated in the category of Innovator of the Year, with the Folksam’s work on diversity won the prize title of Saving Money through Simplification. At the 2010 industry day in Malmö, Folksam’s DiverThe jury’s citation reads: “Förenade Liv has devesity Business Manager, Mikael Petersson, won the loped a successful web-based insurance product that City of Malmö Industry Prize in Diversity. allows users to make their health declarations elecThe citation reads: “When circumstances change tronically using e-identification.” and new needs require new solutions, either new companies arise or existing players modernise themselves. The 2010 award winners may have been around for a long time, but they have the characteristics an award winner must have: will, perseverance and the courage to find new ways of working.” The award was made for the seventh year, and the aim is to highlight and reward companies that utilise the opportunities offered by Malmö’s ethnic diversity. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 37(49) Förenade Liv Social commitment to victims of crime Publications The subsidiary Förenade Liv continued to make actiSince 2007, Förenade Liv has issued the publication ve efforts to reduce violence in society in 2010. VioBryt, with various themed issues that shed light on lence leads to personal suffering, problems for socieviolence in society, its consequences and solutions. ty and increased costs for insurance policyholders. The aim is to improve knowledge of, and conseThe goal of the effort is to increase awareness, reduquently reduce, violence in society. Bryt has been ce risks and create security for customers in the sohighly appreciated among Swedish teachers and stuciety we live in. dents for its content and its potential as educational Based on the wishes of our customers, in 2010, material. The first issue in 2007 was concerned with Förenade Liv took the following initiatives: domestic violence. The second issue in 2008 focused – Refined communication efforts to make our anti-. on youth violence in Sweden. Inj 2009 the third isviolence work clearer to our customers sue was published on the theme of victims of crime, – Held seminars to provide customers and staff with and illustrated how Sweden contravenes human further training in anti-violence issues rights in jurisdiction. – Continued to develop work with cooperating partners Lectures and seminars Insurance services for victims of violence To create customer benefit and increase the level of Förenade Liv has had a crisis insurance scheme since knowledge and involvement among staff and custo2005, which also applies in the case of violence in mers, Förenade Liv continuously holds seminars and the family and without a requirement for reporting to lectures on anti-violence. Seminars were held in coothe police. The number of people applying for supperation with Foundation Safer Sweden in Almedalen port from the crisis insurance scheme due to violence in 2010. During the year, staff and Förenade Liv’s in close relationships increased in 2010. It has addicontracting parties also attended a highly appreciationally been found that some people have been the ted lecture on the effects of violence, where the victims of long-term abuse, according to treating speaker was Sören Carlsson Sanz, director of the acpsychologists and psychotherapists at the Crisis and cident and emergency unit of Stockholm South GeTrauma Centre. Increased demand shows that Förenneral Hospital. ade Liv should continue to develop anti-violence serFörenade Liv’s goal is to raise the level of knowledvices and more clearly show its commitment to counge of our social commitment within Förenade Liv in teracting violence through education and information. 2011. The objective is for all staff and a larger proportion of customers to have a good understanding of our Partners in cooperation social commitment and work on anti-violence issues. In 2010 Förenade Liv continued to develop its cooperation with the Safer Sweden Foundation, a politically and religiously unaligned NGO (Non-Governmental Organisation). The purpose is to improve the situation of victims of crime, without a profit motive. The overall aim is to reduce crime and improve security in Sweden by ensuring that the victims of crime receive relevant help, support and protection. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 38(49) Appendix (Environmental data) Travel Air Energy and water Number of flights 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Stockholm–Gothenburg 490 620 626 563 660 904 627 663 Energy use 2010 Total 2010 Stockholm–Sundsvall 272 195 338 257 210 217 250 236 Stockholm–Malmö 557 607 756 660 940 821 808 856 Gyllenforsen KPA Pension Folksam (71%) (60%) Stockholm–Växjö 53 66 67 59 110 120 100 117 Heat consumption (MWh) 23,524 21,096 2,187 46,807 Stockholm–Jönköping 21 16 23 20 21 40 66 94 Electricity consumption (MWh)* 20,577 5,081 0,21 25,658 Total* 1,393 1,504 1,810 1,559 1,941 2,102 1,851 1,966 Total energy use (MWh) 72,465 * The “Total” item only comprises reported routes. * Electricity consumption for Folksam consists of both building electricity and office electricity. Rail Energy use 2009 Total 2009** Number of rail journeys 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Gyllenforsen Stockholm–Gothenburg 927 1,256 1,137 1,333 977 Folksam 71% Stockholm–Sundsvall 583 679 774 799 526 Heating consumption (MWh) 21,569 19,248 40,817 Electricity consumption (MWh)* 22,602 5,081 27,683 Stockholm–Malmö 84 87 204 246 185 Total energy use (MWh) 68,500 Stockholm–Växjö 69 96 126 106 95 Stockholm–Jönköping 66 206 210 147 164 * Electricity consumption for Folksam consists of both building electricity and office electricity. Total* 1,729 2,324 2,451 2,631 1,947 ** The figures for 2009 have been adjusted to be equivalent to Folksam’s share (i.e. 71%) and * The “Total” item only comprises reported rail routes. . therefore do not coincide with data in the previous year’s sustainability report. The figures include journeys to and from nearby locations. Total Road Water consumption 2010 Total 2010 2009** Car journeys in Folksam 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Gyllenforsen KPA Pension Folksam (71%) (60%) Distance in km (x 10) driven on official buWater consumption m3 169,124 172,362 0 341,486 360,918 siness 518,744 574,697 567,428 565,838 558,929 ** The figures for 2009 have been adjusted to be equivalent to Folksam’s share (i.e. 71%) and Of which distance in therefore do not coincide with data in the previous year’s sustainability report. km (x 10) driven with cars meeting Folksam’s environ­ mental and safety require­ments 184,179 185,355 214,306 216,717 207,635 Total carbon dioxide Folksam’s total climate impact (tonnes of CO2) emissions from car travel in tonnes 843 944 916 Tonnes CO2 Air travel Road travel Rail travel Electricity Heating Total Increase/decrease in carbon dioxide emis838 843 0.22 19.4 2,152 3,853 sion due to more/fewer km driven, . in tonnes 101 28 2, 2 -247 Sustainability report Folksam 2010 40(49) Subcontractors Vehicle workshops 2010 2009 Number of partners 1,161 1,204 Number of environmental requirements 44 64 Number of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 579 480 Proportion of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 50% 40% Vehicle disassembly plants 2010 2009 Number of partners 15 15 Number of environmental requirements 60 60 Number of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 13 13 Proportion of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 87% 87% Building contractors 2010 2009 Number of partners 153 149 Number of environmental requirements 30 30 Number of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 95 77 Proportion of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 62% 52% Washing and clean-up companies 2010 2009 Number of partners 47 42 Number of environmental requirements, washing 25 25 Number of environmental requirements, clean-up 20 20 Number of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 38 33 Proportion of partners totally . fulfilling requirements 80% 79% Sustainability report Folksam 2010 41(49) About the report and general facts about Folksam Frequency of the report Full company name Folksam ömsesidig livförsäkring The Folksam Sustainability Report is published once Folksam consists of two insurance groups, in which Financial value generated Amount, SEK m a year. The most recent report was published in April Folksam ömsesidig livförsäkring (Folksam Life) and Revenues* 16,382 2010. Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring (Folksam General) Financial value distributed are parent companies. The head office of Folksam is Operating expenses** -6,343 Changes since the previous year’s report located in Stockholm. Folksam only operates in Sweden. Salaries and remuneration -466 This year’s report also includes all subsidiaries. Payments to capital providers State aid Payments to central government -829 Text Folksam does not receive any State aid. Community investments Folksam Financial value retained 8,744 Organisation Design and production For principal companies, see page 43 Monica Jälmevik, graphic designer Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring Erika Mayer, art director Financial value generated Amount, SEK m Catarina Sörensen, production manager Revenues* 10,659 Financial value distributed Photography Operating expenses** -7,315 Kate Gabor, page 3 Salaries and remuneration -1,567 Andreas Lind, pages 1, 5, 13, 17, 21, 26, 32, 34, 39, 48 Payments to capital providers -64 Lars Nyman, pages 7, 14, 18, 35. Payments to central government Fonts Community investments Folksam Helvetica, Times Folksam, Verdana Financial value retained 1,713 For further information about the report KPA Pension Contact Hanna Godani on +46 (0)771-960 960 or at hanna.godani@folksam.se; see also the GRI register at Financial value generated Amount, SEK m Revenues* 11,436 folksam.se Financial value distributed Folksam Operating expenses** -3,830 Postal adress: SE-106 60 Stockholm Salaries and remuneration -121 Visiting adress: Bohusgatan 14 Payments to capital providers Tel: +46 (0)771-960 960 Payments to central government -267 Fax: +46 (0)8-641 03 50 Community investments E-mail: kundservice@folksam.se Financial value retained 7,218 * This item also covers unrealised gains and losses. ** This item also covers changes in the value of investment . assets and technical provisions. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 42(49) Organisation Group structure – simplified Legal organisation Folksam comprises the two parent companies Folksam General and Folksam Life with subsidiaries. Two of the subsidiaries in the insurance operation in Folksam Folksam General Life are part-owned. Folksam LO Fondförsäkring is 51 per cent owned and companies in KPA Pension are 60 per cent owned. Of the Group companies in Folksam Liv, the companies in KPA Pension and Förenade Liv are not consolidated into the Group accounts, as the surplus in Folksam Spar Svenska Tre Kronor these companies accrues to the policyholders. KonsumentCollaboration takes place in distribution, adminisförsäkringar tration and asset management in order to achieve economies of scale to the benefit of customers. Folksam Life Folksam Reda PensionsFörenade Liv KPA Pension Folksam LO Fondförsäkring administration Gruppförsäkring Fondförsäkring Sustainability report Folksam 2010 43(49) The Folksam General Group The Folksam Life Group Group companies in Folksam Liv Folksam General (mutual) undertakes general insuFolksam Life (mutual) undertakes life insurance ope– not consolidated because the surplus accrues to rance activity principally focused on the Swedish rations. The company offers occupational pensions the policyholders household market. The company offers a full range and pension investments to private individuals, diFörenade Liv Gruppförsäkring offers voluntary group of insurance policies to households and private indirectly or through cooperations, as well as group life life, group sickness, critical illness, waiver of premividuals based on motor and household insurance insurance and other risk insurance. um and group pension insurance, as well as group supplemented by commercial insurance in selected accident insurance. areas. Folksam Fondförsäkring undertakes unit-linked insurance business related to securities funds. CustoKPA Pensionsförsäkring is a pension company focused Folksam Spar acts as direct intermediary for unitmers can choose among a large number of selected on the municipal sector and is owned 60 per cent by linked pension investments and offers individual funds, for example ethical funds, funds with low Folksam and 40 per cent by the Swedish Association pension saving (IPS), that is to say investment in charges and award-winning top-performing funds. of Local Authorities and Regions (SALAR). pension plans without an insurance element. Reda Pensionsadministration is tasked with providing KPA Liv is an insurance provider for the occupational Svenska Konsumentförsäkringar operations cover indilife insurance and pension administration. group life insurance covered by collective agreevidual and group general insurance for private indiviments. duals and for small and medium-sized enterprises. Folksam LO Fondförsäkring is focused on collectively The policies are brokered by SalusAnsvar for their agreed occupational pensions and principally covers customer groups. administration and management of pension allocations made under the pensions agreement between Tre Kronor undertakes general insurance activity in the employer and trade union organisations the ConSweden, and its business concept is to offer general federation of Swedish Enterprise and LO (the Sweinsurance to companies and organisations wishing to dish Trade Union Confederation). The company is sell and market insurance under their own trade naowned 51 per cent by Folksam Life and 49 per cent mes. Tre Kronor today collaborates with Swedbank by LO. and 38 independent savings banks and in so doing reaches out to a broad market with general insurance Folksam LO Fond (wholly owned subsidiary of Folksam products. LO Fondförsäkring) is a fund management company that manages four funds. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 44(49) Methods of collection and calculations This document presents methods of collection and Staff calculations that form the basis for the tables and Heading Definition/Comprises Source texts contained in the Folksam Sustainability Report Includes all staff on permanent contracts 2010. and on probation, as well as staff on fixedNumber of staff term contracts. The payroll system PA, women Social perspective (pages 14-16) Excludes staff paid by the hour and on the extracted via Cognos HR, men basis of fees. December Same as number of staff Subsidiaries Average age Same as number of staff (see above) (see above) Both Gyllenforsen and KPA Pension are fully included Number of managers in the tables of key staff indicators with effect from women Same as number of staff 2009. Gyllenforsen is 71 per cent owned by Folksam men Same as number of staff (see above) (see above) and KPA Pension is 60 per cent owned by Folksam. Includes staff on permanent contracts, staff on probation, staff on fixed-term contracts, Limitations Staff paid by the hour and on the basis sales personnel and FOF (Folksam ömsesidig Staff turnover sakförsäkring (företag)). The payroll system PA, of fees are not included in the tables of key staff indiextracted via Cognos HR Excludes all agent categories, staff paid on cators. the basis of fees and staff paid by the hour. Calculated as the lower of the number of externally recruited new employees or staff leaving during the year as a percentage of the number of employees in December. Age distribution Heading Definition/Comprises Source Same as number of staff All age ranges Same as number of staff (see above) (see above) Form of employment of staff Heading Definition/Comprises Source All forms of employThe payroll system PA, ment Same as number of staff (see above) extracted via Cognos HR Sickness absence Heading Definition/Comprises Source Sickness absence Reported sickness absence in relation to The payroll system PA budgeted time. Proportion calculated on same population as number of staff (see above). Calculated over full calendar year. Sustainability report Folksam 2010 45(49) Ecological perspective (pages 18-20) Folksam’s total carbon dioxide emissions Air travel Electricity consumption in properties for carbon offsetting in 2010 The business travel of Gyllenforsen, Förenade Liv The carbon dioxide emissions from electricity conThe total sum of CO2 emissions includes the following: and KPA Pension is fully included in these figures. sumption in Folksam-owned properties in 2010 are emissions from flights + emissions from road vehicFolksam’s carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in low, as Folksam uses wind-power electricity of speles + emissions from trains, as well as emissions 2010 are based on statistics from our travel agency, cified origin. The figure for 2010 is based on a comfrom heating and electricity in Folksam properties Ticket. The emissions figures from the travel agency parison with consumption in previous years and a (the properties owned by Folksam General and Life, have been multiplied by a factor of two, taking acpercentage change in carbon dioxide emissions. . Gyllenforsen and parts of properties owned by KPA count of water vapour formed by aviation (based on Gyllenforsen is 71% owned by Folksam. The carbon Pension) = Total tonnes of CO2 from Folksam’s own distance and altitude, which is in line with standard dioxide emissions are equivalent to Folksam’s share, operations. practice among practitioners of climate calculations). i.e. 71% of Gyllenforsen’s total carbon dioxide emissions. KPA Pension is 60% owned by Folksam. The Road vehicles Rail travel reported carbon dioxide emissions are equivalent to The figures for Folksam’s road vehicle emissions are Folksam’s carbon dioxide emissions from rail travel Folksam’s share, that is to say 60 per cent of the tobased on statistics from the accounting system/mileare based on statistics from SJ for domestic travel tal emissions of KPA properties. age allowance, including 100 per cent of the busiand from our travel agency with regard to rail travel ness travel of Gyllenforsen, Förenade Liv and KPA outside Sweden. The emission figures for rail travel Pension. (Car A) km driven using cars approved by outside Sweden have been calculated on the basis of Folksam (i.e. fuel-efficient petrol and diesel cars, distance multiplied by an emission factor for trains in ethanol cars, gas cars and hybrids). Europe. The emission factor has been obtained from (Car B) km driven using other cars: DEFRA (the Department for Environment, Food and • We assume that Folksam-approved cars (Car A) Rural Affairs in the UK). emit 129 grams/km1. This is a solidly based estimate of the average Heating of premises emissions of this group of cars; see more about The data on carbon dioxide emissions from properthe car group above. ties in 2010 are based on heat consumption statistics • We assume that (Car B) emits 181 grams/km2 in MWh from our property managers and the conver(according to the figures from the Swedish Envision factor for the property concerned from the hearonmental Protection Agency). ting/energy supplier. Gyllenforsen is 71% owned by Folksam. The carbon dioxide emissions are equiva1 Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from lent to Folksam’s share, i.e. 71% of Gyllenforsen’s Folksam-approved cars total carbon dioxide emissions. KPA Pension is 60% 2 Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from owned by Folksam. The reported carbon dioxide new cars in Sweden 2006–2008, Swedish Environemissions are equivalent to Folksam’s share, that is mental Protection Agency Report 5946 to say 60 per cent of the total emissions of KPA properties. Calculation of emissions from cars: (Car A) km x129 grams = (CO2 Car A) (Car B) km x181 grams = (CO2 Car B) Total: CO2 Car A+ CO2 Car B = Tot. CO2 Car Sustainability report Folksam 2010 46(49) Bestyrkanderapport Auditor’s report on review of the Folksam Sustainability Report 2010 To the readers of Folksam Sustainability Report 2010 • Reviewing the outcome of Folksam’s dialogue with stakeholders • Interviewing responsible officers in order to assess whether the Introduction qualitative and quantitative information in the sustainability reWe have been engaged by the Boards of Directors and Executive port is complete, correct and sufficient Management of Folksam to conduct a review of the contents of the • Examining internal and external documents in order to assess Folksam Sustainability Report 2010 and the associated GRI Regiswhether the reported information is complete, correct and sufficient ter on the Folksam website (www.folksam.se). The Board of Direc• Assessing procedures for reporting and presenting sustainability tors and the Executive Management are responsible for ongoing information and data sustainability activity and for preparing and presenting the sustai• Reviewing on a random sample basis the documents underlying nability report in accordance with applicable criteria. Our responsithe information and data in the sustainability report bility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based • Evaluating the model used to calculate Folksam’s climate offsetting on our review. • Reviewing the qualitative information and statements contained in the sustainability report Orientation and scope of the review • Reconciling financial information with Folksam’s Annual Report We have conducted our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance for 2010 of sustainability reports, issued by Far. A review consists in making • Assessing Folksam’s stated level of application of the GRI Guideenquiries, primarily among persons responsible for preparing the lines sustainability report, and in performing analytical and other review • Considering the overall impression of the Sustainability Report procedures. A review is different in nature and considerably more and its format, including considering the mutual consistency of limited in scope than an audit in accordance with IAASB standards the information with the criteria applied. for audit and quality control and generally accepted auditing principles. The review procedures undertaken in a review do not enaConclusion ble us to reach a level of assurance such that we are aware of all Our review has not brought to light any circumstances that give us the material matters that might have been identified had an audit reason to believe that the Sustainability Report is not in all material been performed. A conclusion stated on the basis of a review thus respects prepared in conformity with the above-mentioned criteria. does not provide the assurance of a conclusion stated on the basis of an audit. Stockholm, 8 April 2011 The criteria on which our review is based consist of applicable KPMG AB parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, G3, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the accounting and calculation Thomas Thiel Åse Bäckström principles developed for the purpose and disclosed by the company. Authorised public accountant Specialist member of Far We are of the view that these criteria are appropriate for preparation of the sustainability report. Our review, based on considerations of materiality and risk, . included the following: • Updating our knowledge and understanding of Folksam’s organisation and operation • Assessing the suitability and application of the criteria in relation to the needs of internal and external stakeholders for information Sustainability report Folksam 2010 47(49) S8254 11-06
