Global Compact – COP2011 Global Compact Communication of Progress 2011 Copenhagen Denmark exima.eu Page 1 Global Compact – COP2011 INDEX Brief description of nature of business ................................................................................... 3 Statement of support ............................................................................................................. 3 PRINCIPLE 1 ........................................................................................................................ 5 PRINCIPLE 2 ........................................................................................................................ 6 PRINCIPLE 3 ........................................................................................................................ 7 PRINCIPLE 4 ........................................................................................................................ 8 PRINCIPLE 5 ........................................................................................................................ 9 PRINCIPLE 6 .......................................................................................................................10 PRINCIPLE 7 .......................................................................................................................12 PRINCIPLE 8 .......................................................................................................................13 PRINCIPLE 9 .......................................................................................................................14 PRINCIPLE 10 .....................................................................................................................16 Availability of COP for stakeholders......................................................................................18 Page 2 Global Compact – COP2011 Company Name EXIMA ApS Date 2011.04.20 Address Langøgade 17 2100 Copenhagen Ø Membership date 2009.05.18 Country Denmark Number of 20 employees Contact name Lars Munkøe Contact Position Director Sector Consultancy Contact telephone no. +45 8870 9007 Brief description of nature of business EXIMA is a service provider to industry within Sustainability. From our offices in Denmark and Italy we assist Clients in improving performance on Corporate Responsibility and resource efficiency within manufacturing. By demonstrating the sound benefits of integrating Sustainable Development to business process and operations, we assist our Clients in adding value to a range of Social, Environmental and Climate Change related challenges experienced by the management and operation of today’s business. Statement of support EXIMA became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2009. Our commitment and have embedded the principles into our Group standards and policies. Ensuring that the Principles are made real in our day-to-day operations is a continuous activity of the development of our approach and development as a company. The four key pillars of the UN Global Compact – protection of human rights, international labour standards, the environment, and prevention of corruption – represent the foundation for sustainable business practice. Because we endorse the principles and recognize our role in the international environment of which we take part, we decided to become a signatory to the Global Compact and to use the framework for developing practices and for communication with our stakeholders. As a smaller business operating globally, we interact with a many different stakeholder groups within the public and private sector. The UN Global Compact provides not just the foundation for a statement of intent, but will Page 3 Global Compact – COP2011 form the core of the framework on which we build the operation and governance of colleagues and teams working on our behalf. Our commitment to the 10 principles reflects our engagement and the challenge ahead is to embed the four pillars into our business strategies and our operations. We accept this challenge because we believe the framework and the values it reflects demonstrates a path for developing a responsible and viable sound business. In the years to come, we shall try to build on our commitment and this report covering 2010 is a review of our recent and planned activities. Lars Munkøe Director Page 4 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment As a company with activities throughout the world, we recognize our responsibility to uphold Human Rights standards in a variety of different settings for contributing to a Sustainable Development of the societies in which we take part. Our responsibility applies to our own operations as well as the relationship with whom we engage. Compliance with the UN Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work are important to us and our ability to develop as a responsible and reliable organisation. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA Business Principles is implemented in our operations and used actively in the stakeholder communication with our key stakeholders and provides guidelines for members of our team. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will strengthen the capacity of our team for identifying violation of internationally claimed human rights and provide support for developing sustainable measures and preventive actions. Working across industry sectors worldwide, we recognize our role as advisors may require additional capabilities of our team members. In 2011 we will develop internal training materials and guidelines for our team, providing a framework for our organisation to identify and manage encountered potential risks of human rights violation. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: Internal training and guidelines on internationally proclaimed human rights. Page 5 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy As a company with activities all over the world, we recognize our responsibility to uphold Human Rights standards in a variety of different setting for contributing to a Sustainable Development of the societies in which we take part. Our responsibility applies to our own operations as well as the relationship with whom we engage. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA has no direct or indirect experience of human rights abuses. Nevertheless, the company is conscious of the possibility of facing situations which could abuse human rights and does take account of supporting this principle in procurement and contracting processes. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will strengthen the capacity of our team for identifying violation of internationally claimed human rights and provide support for developing sustainable measures and preventive actions. Working across industry sectors worldwide, we recognize our role as advisors may require additional capabilities of our team members. In 2011 we will develop internal training materials and guidelines for our team, providing a framework for our organisation to identify and manage encountered potential risks of human rights violation. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: Internal training and guidelines on internationally proclaimed human rights. Page 6 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy This principle will be addressed in the following year. A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA is a small business with a flat organisation consisting of skilled individuals. We recognise the right to collective bargaining and the freedom of association and will address this principle at a later stage Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year No actions have currently been implemented in this respect. In the following year we will state our position on this principle and identify ways to incorporate practices into our operations. Measurable Results or Outcomes Planned: Development of commitment statement Page 7 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EXIMA supports the elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Together with our Clients, we develop the awareness which enables organisations to recognize and respond to the exposure for facing forced and compulsory labour in the supply chain. Through our operation and dialogue with Clients, EXIMA actively encourages Clients to become signatories of the UN Global Compact. For the internal operations of EXIMA, no formal system is in place for identification of potential forced and compulsory labour. This principle will be assessed in more details in 2011 in order to clarify procedures for our team in potential cases where forced or compulsory labour could occur Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year During 2011 we will conduct a risk assessment for identification of potential situations where incidents of forced and compulsory labour could occur. Following the outcome of this assessment we will implement a monitoring system and necessary means for our team. Measurable Results or Outcomes Planned: o Company Risk assessment, o Internal monitoring system and formalised practices related to identification of potential incidents of forced and compulsory labour. Page 8 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy EXIMA supports a global and effective abolition of child labour and this topic will be subject a company position statement. A brief description of our Processes or Systems At present, EXIMA does not have dedicated systems or processes with respect to child labour. Such system and processes will be part of our continuous development. Together with our Clients, we develop the awareness which enables organisations to recognize and respond to the exposure for facing child labour in the supply chain. By encouraging Clients to become signatories of the UN Global Compact our operation and dialogue with stakeholders, EXIMA supports the abolition of child labour in our sphere of influence Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Planned activities for 2011: o Assessment of current operations for identification of situations where potential Child labour may occur o Development of company Position statement on Child labour and forced labour o Development of business process for our team to deal with identified situations with potential child labour Measurable Results or Outcomes Planned: o Position statement on Child labour and forced labour o Development of Business processes and systems for EXIMA team assuring identification and reporting of identified situations where child labour may occur. Page 9 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy We aim to employ people who reflect the diverse nature of society and we value the contribution they make, irrespective of gender, age, sex, disability, sexual orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnic origin or political beliefs. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA practice for engaging people is based on professional skills and experiences. We offer a flexible working policy to our team members supporting flexible working hours for employees with families. Our remote workplace policy enables staff living remotely to support growth to rural areas and local communities. As per March 2011, our organisation profile reflects a balance of the gender within our organisation, see illustration below. Providing global services and local presence, requires a dynamic organisation. In March 2011, 17% of our team members were located outside Europe, see pie chart below for a distribution of the origin of our team. The majority of our team members have a M. Sc degree while 17% have B.Sc. Page 10 Global Compact – COP2011 degree, see chart below. Our profiles have an educational background as environmental and mechanical engineers, chemists, biologists and economics . The vast majority of our team members have more than 15 years of experience from international assignments as well as experienced managers. The chart below illustrates the experience of our team members. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year A HR monitoring system was established in the course of 2010 with the purpose of assuring engagement practices do not discriminate in respect of employment and occupation. The system also provides essential information about our pool of resources Measurable Results or Outcomes Complete: o Development HR monitoring system Page 11 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy We recognize our responsibility for addressing the environment in our daily planning and operation. As part of our mission and services towards Clients we will encourage and promote an environmental responsible behaviour. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA provides essential services to companies and public Clients for improving performance within corporate responsibility, including environment and Climate Change. Through our services such as Sustainable Design, Sustainable Production and www.cdm-pipeline.com we have demonstrated a strong evidence for business to apply the precautionary principle to environmental challenges. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will continue to demonstrate value for our Clients by applying a precautionary approach and responsibility to environmental Challenges by tailoring and developing value adding services within Corporate Responsibility. A select of assignments conducted by our team during the course of 2010, providing essential cost reduction while improving the short term performance on Sustainability: o Sustainable Design of new facility at Bavarian Nordic (www.bavariannordic.com) o Development of programme for Cleaner Production Advisory services for the International Finance Corporation (www.ifc.org ) o Development of environmental cost reduction programme for 5 food industries in Tunisia through introduction of Sustainable Production activities in the manufacturing process and operation. o Development of strategy Roadmap for The Regional Activity Centre for Cleaner Production (RAC/CP). RAC/CP is one of six Regional Activity Centres within the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP) for reducing the environmental impact from industry in the Mediterranean Region. (www.cprac.org ) Measurable Results or Outcomes In progress: Provide support and guidance within Corporate Responsibility also on environmental issues which seek to incorporate the precautionary principle into business and investments. Page 12 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy “Our mission is to meet the needs of our Clients for sustainable solutions to a wide range of Climate Change, Environmental and Social related challenges. The success of our activities is our ability to add value to business by integrating the principles of Sustainable Development into their strategies and operation.” Source: EXIMA Mission statement, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems As a service provider within corporate responsibility, EXIMA supplies essential knowhow to our Clients for improving environmental performance. Doing so, is an essential initiative for promoting and demonstrating the value of taking greater environmental responsibility. Though the environmental benefit from the results of our services far exceeds the impact of our operations, our company has implements house rules for reducing our environmental impact. The design of our operations includes the responsibility to reduce travels to a minimum by offering an infra structure supporting an extended use of on-line meetings and conferences for Clients and team members. EXIMA applies a set of house rules for promoting greater environmental responsibility in our operations. Among other initiatives, the practices include: o Waste segregation system in offices; o Carbon offsetting when travelling by airplanes; o “Fair trade”, “Recycled” and/or “organic” procurement policy for consumables and office supplies; and o EXIMA bicycle offered at offices for use by our team to reach meetings in Bari and Copenhagen Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Through our core services related to environmental performance and management, EXIMA will continue and develop our portfolio of services for supporting our Clients in linking environmental performance and reducing costs. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: Provide edge cutting services demonstrating the benefits of improved environmental performance of existing and planned industrial operations. Page 13 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy “Our mission is to meet the needs of our Clients for sustainable solutions to a wide range of Climate Change, Environmental and Social related challenges. The success of our activities is our ability to add value to business by integrating the principles of Sustainable Development into their strategies and operation.” Source: EXIMA Mission statement, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems EXIMA assists industries in improving environmental performance of existing operations and by improving the design of planned investments. By doing so, we demonstrate the environmental value and the economical feasibility of improving current technologies and processes. EXIMA actively encourage the development of environmental technologies by undertaking investments in in Clean Tech innovation projects. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year EXIMA will continue to provide support to industries for identification of environmental savings and strengthen our engagement in CleanTech projects. In 2010, EXIMA invested 8% of the revenue in CleanTech innovation projects (compared to 10% in 2009). As part of our core competencies for supporting Sustainable Development in industry, EXIMA assisted multinationals in the introduction of Sustainable Design of investment projects in manufacturing facilities. Together with Novo Nordisk, EXIMA presented the remarkable savings achieved by Sustainable Design at the ISPE Conference Pharmintech in Bologna, Italy in May 2010. On behalf of the European Commission, EXIMA developed two dedicated training courses for Sustainable Design and Energy management systems (EN16001 and ISO5001). The training packages have been applied in more than 8 EU member states as part of a project activity funded by the Commission. Measurable Results or Outcomes In Progress: o EXIMA will continue to provide support to industries for identification and implementation of environmental savings from o Sustainable Design activities o Engaging in development and facilitation of carbon credit projects o Carbon Management services Page 14 Global Compact – COP2011 o Review and auditing services to industry for improving performance within Sustainable Production, Energy/Climate Change and environment o Guidance in design and implementation of management systems within environment and energy (EN16001 and ISO5001) o Greenhouse Gas Emission verification services o Strengthen our engagement in CleanTech innovation projects. Page 15 Global Compact – COP2011 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy Conflict of Interests Persons working on behalf of EXIMA should not engage in activities which would conflict with their responsibilities as representatives of EXIMA, or involve themselves as representing EXIMA in any activities whatsoever with a third party in which the person has anything more that an insignificant direct or indirect economical interest. Fair Competition We respect the principles and rules of fair competition prohibiting anticompetitive behaviours and the abuse of a dominant market position. Bribery EXIMA does not give or receive whether directly or indirectly bribes or other improper advantages for business or financial gain. No employee or persons working on behalf of EXIMA may offer give or receive any gift or payment which is, or may be construed as being, a bribe. A bribe can be defined as an offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. Any demand for, or offer of, a bribe must be rejected immediately and reported to management. If you are in any doubt or if you witness the offering or acceptance of bribes, you must immediately report this to management. Facilitation payments A facilitation payment can be defined as an extra payment of a minor sum of money to a person to expedite an action, for example to process a permit or issue a visa. We make no distinction between facilitation payments and bribes. EXIMA will not make facilitation payments in any countries in which we do business, and we will not allow others who work for us to make them. If you are in any doubt or if you witness the use of Facilitation payments, you must immediately report this to management. Gifts It is in many countries a custom and acceptable to provide and receive promotional tokens or gifts, provided that the value does not exceed a reasonable level, and provided that the items are not of such a character that they may be used to influence the receiver unduly or make him/her feel obligated to repay. It is not acceptable to receive or give gifts in the form of cash. If there is doubt as to whether a gift exceeds a reasonable level, a manager must be contacted. Page 16 Global Compact – COP2011 Political contributions EXIMA does not engage in political activities, nor provide contributions or other support to political parties, local candidates or committees. Source: EXIMA Business Principles, 2009 A brief description of our Processes or Systems A company policy provides guidance and describes our practices and operations with respect to corruption and bribery. The EXIMA Business Principles is available for download on the EXIMA website www.exima.eu. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year A policy paper reflecting our position on bribery and corruption is under integration with our business processes, operations and our engagement procedures. In 2011 we will develop a monitoring system for identification of cases where EXIMA or people working on our behalf are exposed to attempts for corruption or bribery. Measurable Results or Outcomes In progress: Integration of business principles into operations of EXIMA Planned: Development of monitoring system Page 17 Global Compact – COP2011 Availability of COP for stakeholders The COP document is available for download at www.exima.eu Page 18
