United Nations Global Compact “Communication in Progress” (COP) Report on Ghana Manganese Company Limited Part I G.M.C. March 22, 2011 1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The Ghana Manganese Company Ltd. (GMC) voluntarily signed on to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative as an opportunity to showcase its operations to all stakeholders globally and to underwrite the objectives of the UNGC. The mine has witnessed many changes bordering on mine pit expansion, infrastructure development, Gold and other minerals exploration and community development just to mention few. In 2010, GMC actively mined and developed Pit C. According to the pit and waste dump designs of the Life of Mine plan (LOM), GMC will move and/or re-enter into other mining pits in the future. The mining method employed is exclusively open-cast, comprising drilling, blasting, loading and hauling. Thereafter the ore is processed (crushed and screened with no chemical additive or water treatment) and stockpiled for transportation by rail and road to our Takoradi Port department for final shipment to worldwide destinations. The management of GMC, conscious that mining and its associated activities affect the environment in which it operates, therefore ensures that within its economic limits and the need to be internationally competitive, the Company’s activities are carried out with due cognizance to the environment. During the year under review, the following technical and engineering updates were carried out by Tacmin (mine planning consultants to GMC) as per the scope of work of the current engineering maintenance contract: • Updating of X-sections, • Updating of the block volume, • Quarterly reconciliation and updating of the mine plan for re-sequencing. A review of the company’s community assistance programs and activities in all the seventeen (17) communities within the GMC operational enclave was undertaken during the year under review. The review was aimed at assessing the functionality of the existing strategies and interventions and also to harness community agenda-setting inputs in revising and 2 sustainably address the community development challenges of the alternative livelihood programs. The following donations were also carried out during the year under review: • Ghana Manganese Company Limited donated $200,000.00 to the University of Mines and Technology (UMaT) based in Tarkwa towards the construction of a students’ hostel. • A cash donation of US$ 10,496.47 was made to cover the following: Medical expenses for some community members. National Immunization Programme Festivals and Independence Day celebrations. Infrastructural projects in seven (7) communities were completed and successfully commissioned and handed over to the various communities for use and maintenance. The total expenditure on all community assistance programmes (i.e. Infrastructural, Bursaries and Capacity building Programmes) amounted to US$ 346,657.16 during the year review. Construction of the new children’s ward at the GMC Nsuta Hospital was completed. The children’s ward, designed to accommodate 25 patients will be equipped with incubators, and ultrasonic and scanning equipment. A feature of the children’s ward is the mothers’ room; children’s play area, nurse’s office, toilet and bathroom facilities as well as climate control. The actual total cost of the facility amounted to US$ 43,175. Total manganese ore mined during the year under review was 1,518,795 tones. This represents 104.6% of the total budgeted figure of 1,451,896tones (ref. tables 1 and 2 below). PIT C Tonnage Mined PIT C Tonnage Mined Central West 402,272 Central West 5,945,637 Central East Central East 733,648 Southwest 1,116,523 Southwest 10,173,193 Southeast Southeast 102,822 C-north C-north 2,366,693 Total 1,518,795 Total 19,321,992 3 Table 1: Total ore mined for 2010. Table 2: Total waste mined for 2010. Total overburden mined during the year under review was 19,321,992 tons. This represents 92.7% of the total mining figure of 20,840,787 tons (ref. table 2 above), resulting in an ore to waste stripping ratio of 1:12.72(t: t). GMC’s mining operation involves two (2) way communications which forms an essential safety function for daily operations. The remote setup of radio repeaters result in risks of theft and require network independent power supply. Old GPS equipment, with on-demand setup of GPS reference stations was updated to a more accurate and fail-save combination of GPS, GLONASS and GALILEO, having a centralized beacon installed for seamless rover performance of the survey crew. The location was equipped with solar power driven supply and a new theft proof antenna mast system. GMC will continue to pursue policies, strategies and targets in accordance with all mining legislations in Ghana. The company will continue to allocate adequate resources every year to ensure implementation of reclamation of decommissioned waste dumps and mined-out areas and at the same time ensures the smooth running of its mining operation. The Community Assistance policy will be reviewed annually to assess the impact on recipient communities and in order to formulate appropriate strategies to mitigate against any identifiable effects. In addition, management of GMC will ensure that its operations do not endanger the environment but rather maintain its obligations in respect of sustaining the environment. 4 PIT “C” DEVELOPEMENT From the recommendation of the 2010 LOM, the pit shell has been extended to enable maximum extraction of the ore body and to ensure slope stability. The areas which fall within the pit shell needs to be developed to open–up so as to achieve the aims of the extended life of the mine. The pit has been designed as per standard bench heights and slope and to reach the ultimate pit bottom. Plate 5 and 6 show initial and progress stages of Pit C. Plate 5: Pit C before development. Plate 6: Pit C under development. Plate 7: Pit C before development. Plate 8: Pit C under development. 5 CARBONATE PROCESSING PLANT During the year under review, the carbonate plant received new innovative technologies by replacing following equipments • New Cs Cone Crusher • New Feed Belt The new CS 440 Cone crusher replaced old s2000 Cone crusher to prevent the following deficiencies; a. -Feed opening too small to handle big top size material b. – Causing too many chokes during operation resulting in high downtime c. – Burning of Vee belts d. – Surge bin becoming full because of slow feeding causing too many recycling Cs 440 Cone Crusher provides the following efficiencies: 1. – Maximizing productivity 2. – Easy to operate 3. – Maximum feed and close side settings are good 4. – Eliminate recycling of material 5. – Capacity and performance is good 6. – Crusher can handle more top size material and pass it on to the tertiary crusher if the need arises to increase high grade fines recovery 6 Plate9: New feed belt Plate 10: New Cs 440 Cone Crusher ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS FOR 2010 4.1 Construction of Volatilization pad Construction of a Volatilization pad for contaminated soil generated on the mine is underway. The pad is to be lined with HDPE liner to prevent underground seepage and equipped with sacs (oil spillage kits) to separate oil from run-offs emanating from the contaminated soil during rainy season. The pad is sited at Pit “A” close to the domestic waste dump. Plate 11 and 12 below shows the Volatilization pad under construction. Plate11: Volatilization pad ground preparation Plate12: Volatilization pad under construction. Dust suppression systems 7 A Fog Maker dust suppression system has been installed at the Takoradi Port to ensure effective dust suppression on the tippler and transfer point between number 2 and 3 conveyors (plate 13) and also at the transfer point between number 3 and 4 conveyors (plate 14). The high-pressure water mist dust suppression system was customary developed by the GMC Electrical Department. Plate 13: Fog Maker at tippler Plate 14: Fog Maker high pressure nozzle Removal of water weeds In order to maintain or preserve our water bodies, a thorough de-silting exercise was carried out in the streams, which involved the removal of water weeds in the main reservoir, de-silting of the Tarkwa Banso canal and other drainage systems on the mine. Choked drains were cleaned and general hygienic condition on the mine was undertaken. The oil separator and the washing bay were de-silted to ensure proper functioning of the facility. Plate 15 and 16 shows water weeds colonizing Kawere stream and de-silting gang at work removing the weeds. Plate 15: shows water weeds colonizing Plate 16: shows desilting gang at work 8 Reclamation of Waste Dump The concurrent reclamation/rehabilitation of the Hill B waste dump is ongoing steadily. Planting of palm seedlings on Hill ‘B’ commenced on February 1, 2010 with twenty-five (25) men and two (2) women sourced from the neighboring communities within GMC catchment areas. Weeding, line pegging and digging continued alongside with the planting. A total of one thousand five hundred (1,500) hybrid tenerra oil palm seedlings were transplanted on the 20 acre land at Hill B reclamation site. The oil palm seedlings were planted linearly of 8.6meters in width and 10meters in length. Global Positioning System (GPS) device was used to track the positions of all the species. The oil palm is intercropped with plantain as indicated in plates 13 and 14. Terminalia superba “Ofram” and Cinderella odorata seeds nursery have been established on the Hill B reclaimed site to experiment the growth rate using undisturbed lands as a control measure. The experiment reveals that germination and growth rates were faster than the control points due to the topsoil type and the plant nutritional value. Plate 17 and 18 shows dozer spreading topsoil and current state of the palm seedling sat the Hill B reclaimed site. Plate 17: shows spreading of topsoil Plate 18: shows current state of the palm seedlings. There are positive signs of good and firm rooting. In addition to this, over six hundred (600) plantain suckers were intercropped with the oil palm. Wood shavings and saw dust from the mine’s carpentry shop is used for mulching and to provide nutrients as they decay. 9 20 soil samples were taken from the reclaimed site to Soil Research Institute of the Center for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Kumasi for laboratory analyses. The result of the analyses indicates that the soil pH falls within best agricultural soil range where plant nutrients are more available. The analysis also shows that none of the samples indicate the presence of heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, chromium and mercury, which are responsible for soil contamination and food poisoning. Soil organic matter levels ranged from low to moderate, which is common in most areas of Ghana especially the forest savanna transition zone. Improving soil organic matter content through leguminous cover cropping, mulching, organic manure (cow dung, poultry manure, compost, etc) application, and mineral fertilizer application, which will improve and sustain soil total nitrogen content is recommended. In summary, Hill B topsoil is good for agricultural purposes. Inorganic fertilizer application A 15:15:15 NPK (Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium) was applied at a rate of 15g/plant. The method of fertilizer application used was ring method. By this method five (5) grams of fertilizer was scooped three (3) times using a tablespoon and placed around the lower parts of the palm tree within a radius of 15cm. To ensure faster mineralization, the fertilizer was stirred to incorporate it into the soil but care was taken not to damage the roots. This was done by the use of hand fork. The application was carried out as part of the CSIR recommendation and because some plants were growing poorly indicating low nutrient content. Plate 19 and 20 shows the poor plant growth rate of the palm seedling before applying fertilizer and signs of better growth after fertilizer application. Plate 19: shows poor plant growth Plate 20: shows oil palm fertilizer application 10 Mulch application Wood shavings and sawdust from the mine’s carpentry shop were used as mulch to provide nutrients as they decompose. A quantity of sawdust was taken and spread around the palm trees. The sawdust served as mulch and therefore helps to keep the moisture content of the soil thus reduce evaporation of soil moisture, promote aeration and enrich the soil upon decomposition. This was carried out throughout the month (?) to enhance the growth of the palm trees. Weed control Weeding was an agronomic activity carried out daily on the land. This was done to get rid of any unwanted plant species from competing with the species for nutrients. Cutlasses were the only tool used for the weeding operation. Re-vegetation of Pit C LOM footwalls Re-vegetation of the newly constructed slopes of the Pit C central western footwall is an ongoing process at the PIT C. The stability of the final pit footwall left at the end of mining operations is critical to the successful rehabilitation of the site. The main aim of this activity is to produce a stable land form after the mining and to mitigate the environmental effects of the mining. And again rehabilitation on the other hand is a measure or an action used to remediate land disturbed by mining operations. At the pit c, benches were constructed at angles of 570 with the height of 5-8 meters. A number of drainages were constructed to check erosion on the berms. The success of every reclamation/rehabilitation project cannot be achieved without considering the various environmental best management practices. Some of the best management practices adopted in the re-vegetation project include construction of drainages, Jute mat laying, and planting peruria, Vertiver and Buffalo grasses, Stone ditching. Plate 21 and 22 shows a newly constructed footwall slope and a footwall slope re-vegetated. 11 Plate 21:shows newly constructed footwall slope Plate 22:shows footwall slope re-vegetated Planting of vetiver Vetiver (Vertiveria zizanioides) is a grass species, which is planted across the benches. This was intended to trap sediments, slow down the speed of runoff and prevent siltation. This effect helps to control soil erosion. The grass species is normally used in reclamation projects because of its xylophytic and hydrophytic nature, its ability to absorb soil contaminants, control erosion and trap sediments to prevent siltation by its stiffing leaves. Vertiver planted along the verges of the benches to prevent erosion drastically. Application of manure (poultry droppings) was to improve the fertility of the soil before and after planting of Vertiver. Since there was no topsoil the subsoil (overburden) was used as a substrate for the reclamation, which meant that the fertility of the soil being used for the reclamation was poor. In addition to vetiver grass, other grass species were also planted at the site. Examples of such grass species used were; Common name scientific name  Bermuda grass Cynodon dactylon  Elephant grass Typha pennisetum  Buffalo grass Buchloe dactyloides The roots and leaves of the grass species were trimmed before planting. This was done to reduce evapotranspiration of the species. Evapotranspiration is the return of moisture to the air through evaporation from the soil and transpiration by plants. Plate 23 and 24showsearly stage of vertiver and growth weeks after planting. 12 Plate 23: Early stage of planted vetiver Plate 24: some weeks after planting Growing of cover crops Cover crops such as Pueraria lobata and Centrosema pubescence were grown. The essences of growing these species were to; improve the nutrient status of the soil and also to stabilize the land and prevents the occurrence of erosion. In Pueraria lobata, because of its building capacity of its long runners, is valuable in reducing soil erosion. This helps to provide nitrogen and hence facilitate the growth of the vetiver grass. Growing of cover crops such as Centrosema pubescence was carried out to improve the fertility of the soil. Centrosema pubescence is known to be nitrogen fixing plant which means that by incorporating it into the revegetation projects helps to improve the fertility of the soil. The centrosema seeds were sown by broadcasting along the verges of the footwalls. Laying of jute mats Jute mats are biodegradable materials that decompose with time when spread at a degraded site. These are made from the bark of a York tree called Broussonetia papyrifera. These were spread in order to trap the runoff sediments, prevent siltation and stabilize the soil before grassing is ensued. Plate 25 and 26 shows spreading of jute mats and planting of grow of grass. 13 Plate 25 shows: Spreading of jute mats Plates 26: shows planting of growing grass Stone ditching Because of the porous nature of the subsoil, stone ditching was embarked on. Stones were arranged in the gullies created by erosion. The essence was to reduce the speed of the runoff, reduce sedimentation and hence control the massive occurrence of erosion at the site. Erosion was very severe because of the porous nature of the subsoil, which led to the creation of small gullies. Stones were arranged in these gullies to reduce the speed of run-off and again reduce sedimentation. Frequent inspection was done especially after heavy downpour to remove sediments and more importantly to carry out maintenance practices in case of scoring. The slope re-vegetation project included cutting of drainage systems to divert storm water to ensure proper storm water control systems thus enhancing slope stability and minimizing the passage of run-offs down the slopes. Grass planting and watering is ongoing and vigorous growth of the grass is evident. Grassing Of Haul Road Windrows Grassing of windrow sand disturbed lands are part of GMC’s erosion control practices aimed at reducing erosion and silt transportation into nearby water courses. Spreading of Peruria seeds and planting of carpet and love grass along the newly constructed windrow from the washing plant to Pit C south western footwall was also carried out during the year under review. During the year under review, 147 Leuceana and Acassia seedlings from the nursery were transplanted; 47 seedlings were planted on the windrow at the washing plant, 89 seedlings on the windrow from Pit C Central West to the mining office junction and 36 seedlings 14 planted along the reservoir at the golf course respectively as indicated in Plate 27 and 28 showing grassing of windrow. Plate 27: shows windrow under grassing. Plate 28: shows windrow after grassing. Tree Seedling Nursery The tree nursery produced various tree species including Royal palm seedlings. Three hundred and forty-seven (347) nitrogen-fixing tree seedlings were nursed to be planted on along the pit periphery, residential areas, and reclaimed site and along the Kawere stream. The total area of the nursery is one hectare. Tree species found at the nursery are;  Cassia alata  Senna siamea  Terminalia superba  Royal palm Reclamation programs in the Teak and Ofram afforested areas was vigorously pursued during the year under review to promote ecological integrity of the site and surrounding landscapes. This ecological restoration was achieved through the establishment of nursery. Routine agronomic practices including weeding and watering were carried out for all the plants on the rehab and those at the nursery respectively. Plate 29 and 30 nitrogen-fixing tree seedlings nurse and reforested area. 15 Plate 29: nitrogen-fixing tree seedlings nursed. Plate 30: shows current state of the reforested area Major Activities at the Nursery for the year 2010 The main activities carried out in the nursery in 2010 involved weeding around the plant seedlings at the hatchery, CP1 to duplex junction and seedlings at the hospital. Dressing of trees, cleaning and brushing were also carried out at the nursery site. Routine watering of Leucinea tree seedlings and Royal palm seedlings was done. The nursery shed was re-furbished. Agronomic practices such as application of manure and disease control were undertaken on the re-afforested area near the CP1, the hatchery and the JS bungalows. A total of 147 Leuceana and Acassia seedlings from the nursery were transplanted; 47 seedlings were planted on the windrow at the washing plant, 89 seedlings on the windrow from Pit C Central West to the mining office junction and 36 seedlings planted along the reservoir at the golf course. A total of 500 seedlings were transplanted from small poly-bags into medium sized poly-bags to promote proper growth. The teak plantation near the security gate was also weeded. Thirty five (35) royal palms were transplanted along the road between the village office and the post office for as replacement of the old ones. Twenty-eight (28) withered seedlings were also replaced. One hundred and sixty five (165) seedlings were transferred into medium size poly bags for future replacement. Trees along the hospital road were pruned in order to avoid accidents that may be caused by broken off branches. The transplanted seedlings at various locations within the mine were regularly watered to promote good root establishment. Tree planting A total of three hundred and forty seven (347) tree seedlings were transplanted during 2010. Table 8: below shows locations and number of trees planted in 2010. 16 No. of Trees Planted Location Type of Tree Remarks Pit C windrow Leuceana Planted on Pit C windrow 136 to improve aesthetic impacts Junior workers Royal Palm To serve as storm residential area. (New windbreakers and also for 35 Compound) the purpose of creating shade in the residential areas. Pit C windrow Accasia Replacement 29 147 Residential Areas Accasia/Leuceana Beautification Table 8: locations and number of trees planted in 2010 Cultivation of vegetables On the 20th of September 2010, a portion of the nursery site was delineated for the cultivation of vegetables as part of the field assignment for the attachment student of the Kwame Nkruma University of Science and Technology (Faculty of Forest Resources Technology) Sunyani Campus. The area was then demarcated, for the construction of the beds. Garden beds were raised, application of poultry manure to the beds and nursing of cabbage seeds were carried out concurrently. Carrot seeds were sown at stake in drills, okro seeds were also sowed in the garden. Regular watering of these vegetables was undertaken to promote healthy growth and yield. Currently a fund has been created for all monies generated from the vegetables farm to cater for purchase of farm implements, seeds/seedlings and fertilizers. A total of forty (40) beds were constructed, four (4) of the beds were used as germination beds and the remaining ones were used as transplant beds. The size of the germination bed is 0.5m×1.5mwas constructed to nurse Cabbage, Sweet pepper, Cucumber seeds. The germination beds were raised up to a thickness of 5cm. Broadcasting of seeds took place after the construction of beds. Prior to the germination of the seeds, the beds were covered with palm fronds, which ensure suitable temperature, high moisture content and regulated amount of light essential 17 for germination. Plate 31 and 32shows Germination beds and watering of germinated seeds. Plate 31:shows Germination beds Plate 32:shows watering of germinated seeds Shade construction Shade was provided to reduce evaporation, which could slow germination growth. Materials required include; palm fronds, bamboo and sticks. The shade provides numerous effects for the seedlings, some of these are; provision of shelter from high levels of solar radiation and cuts down the amount of watering required substantially. However, it also reduces photosynthesis and hence limits growth. Watering Requirements for any successful development of seedling depends on; water, suitable temperature and soil moisture. Water helps to direct production factors to the seedling since water is an essential element needed for photosynthesis. Watering was carried out twice in a day; early mornings and late afternoons. Moderate watering was done to avoid damping off and other diseases that may occur. Watering cans were used for this operation. Plate 33 and 34 shows student watering seedlings and the germinated cucumber seedlings. 18 Plats 33: shows Watering of seedlings Plates 34: Shows germinated cucumber seedlings Transplanting of Seedlings On the 4th of November 2010, the cabbage and the green pepper seedlings were transplanted onto the transplant beds after the development of five single leaves early in the morning. They were planted at a distance of 50 by 50cm between rows and 50 by 50cm within columns. Sticks and palm fronds were used to construct the shade. Shade thickness was reduced as the seedlings grew. This was done to ensure maximum light penetration to enhance growth of seedlings. Weeds and pests control Getting rid of weeds in the nursery is very necessary since it facilitates growth and development of young seedlings. At the nursery weeding was carried out on germination bed and transplant bed. Method used was hand picking as shown in 30 and 31below since seedlings on germination bed are very delicate. The walking ways (space) were also weeded using cutlass, hoes and rake. Application of insecticide to enhance growth was also carried out. In order to reduce damage caused by these defoliators and get rid of them, the transplant beds were sprayed using PLAND EC a contact insecticide used for the control of general pest. Some of the insects found on the transplant included caterpillar, aphids, variegated grasshopper etc. Plate 35 and 36 shows spraying of seedlings with insecticide (20ml of PLAND EC and 15liters of Water). 19 Plates 35 and 36 show insecticide (20ml of PLAND EC and 15liters of Water) spraying of seedlings. Fertilizer Application A 15-15-15 NPK fertilizer was applied at a rate of 5g/plant two weeks after transplanting. The method of fertilizer application used was ring method. Pruning Trees along the roads and trees at the senior staff club were pruned to improve their aesthetic value and avoid obstruction to vehicles. Removal of parts of woody plants, usually branches or branch tips, to relieve the burden on the remaining parts of the plant, cut out diseased or broken part MEDICAL OUTREACH AT NSUTA ZONGO As part of the 2010 National Mines and Safety week celebration, whereby GMC organized the national Mines and Safety competition, GMC took advantage of the occasion and organized a Medical Outreach to educate the general public about HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis B on the need to prevent these infections as well as to curb their spread. At a time that world leaders and scientists are grappling with finding a cure for pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, a medical outreach was thus undertaken at the Nsuta Zongo community to heighten awareness on these pandemics. The medical outreach took place on Friday the 10th of December. In attendance at the occasion were Medical professionals from GMC hospital, 20 Administration, Public Relation, safety, security and the Assembly Member for the Nsuta Community. In his opening remark, Mr. Wisdom Adjei Mensah, the administrative manager of GMC indicated that as part of the National Mines Safety and First Aid week celebration, each company was to select one (1) community and educate them on health issues and thus GMC selected the Nsuta Zongo community for this purpose considering its proximity to the mine. He further encouraged all community members to embrace the opportunity and make maximum benefit out of the occasion. On this note, the medical experts were invited to lecture and educate the community members about the HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis B pandemics. Hepatitis B is an inflammation of the liver caused by a virus called the HB Virus (HBV) and can be contracted by having unprotected sex with an infected person, kissing an infected person, transfusion of contaminated blood, having tattoos or bodies pierced with unsterilized tools from an infected person etc. The medical experts also indicated that some symptoms of Hepatitis B are loss of appetite, fatigue, vomiting, yellowish eyes, dark brown urine, pale coloured stools etc. They also encouraged the community members to visit the hospital to test their hepatitis B status. To climax the medical outreach, a free voluntary HIV/AIDS screening was also conducted on the natives of the community by the health professionals from GMC to determine their status and advice them as appropriate. In all, forty one (41) community members were screened as indicated plates 37 and 38 below community members and a health expert giving a talk. Plate 37: shows community members Plates 38: shows Health expert giving a talk Staff Development Programme 21 A three (3) day training programme covering areas such as Accident Investigation and Reporting, Occupational Safety and Health Assessment Series (OSHAS 18001), Employees Responsibilities with focus on Compliance with Safety Rules, Impact of weak Safety and Health Management, Development of a positive Safety and Health Culture among employees, and General Environmental Management at the workplace was undertaken during the year under review. A total of 25 participants were drawn from all departments of the company for the training since safety and accident prevention is viewed by management as everybody’s business. Plate 39 and 40 show a group photograph of Participants and lecture session of the (OSHAS) programme. Plate 39: group photograph of Participants Plate 40: shows lecture session of the (OSHAS) programme GMWU Organized Free HIV / AIDS Testing & Counseling The Ghana Mine Workers Union in conjunction with the local Branch and Management of GMC jointly held a free voluntary HIV / AIDs testing and counseling exercise under the sponsorship of International Federation of Chemicals Energy and Mine workers (ICEM). The exercise aimed at creating awareness about the disease amongst workers and testing them to know their status towards a better living. About 400 workers and their dependents participated in the one-day event which was held at the company’s hospital on Saturday August 28, 2010. Chamber Clean Up Exercise at Tarkwa Government Hospital As part of the 2010 National Safety Day Celebration, the members of the Ghana Chamber of Mines organized a float through the principal streets of the Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality coupled with some clean up exercise and donated medical items to the Tarkwa Government Hospital. It was a colorful event when all the 22 three (3) major mining companies including Ghana Manganese Company Limited, Goldfields Ghana Limited, AngloGold Ghana Limited Iduapriem and some affiliates of the Ghana Chamber of Mines, Treds-Envitech and ZoomLion Company Limited joined forces to clean up the Tarkwa Government Hospital as part of activities to mark the National Mines’ Safety Week Celebrations. Plate 41 shows a floate in TNMA Plate 42: shows a donation of items to the Hospital The 2010 National Safety Day Celebration was held at the Dadwen School Complex Part at Nsuta-Wassaw on the 11th of December, 2010. The celebration was organized under the auspices of the Ghana Chamber of Mines and the Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission and hosted by the Ghana Manganese Company Limited. Plate 41 and 42 shows a float in TNMA and donation of medical items to the Hospital. The weeklong celebration was adopted in order to allow for more time and programs to accentuate its objectives. The weeklong program was under the theme: “If it must be mined, it must be mined safely”. The event took place on December 11 2010. Indeed it was a showpiece of our commitment to development and this time on safety in particular. The collaboration is commendable and must be encouraged amongst stakeholders; we are partners in development. Also present at the event was the Municipal Chief Executive of the Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality Honorable Mrs. Christiana Cobbinah and Miss Babie Baffour – PRO. On behalf of the hospital, Rev. Osei Boateng the administrator received assorted medical gloves, bed sheets and others from Mr. Sauty Omar Timtey, Mr. Richard Mensah, and Mr. Steve Gyan, Mr. Emmanuel Yamoah, the organizers of the exercise, which sought to improve the general condition of service delivery at the hospital. 23 The exercise ended with a street march through the principal streets of Tarkwa to underscore the importance we should attach to safety in our everyday lives. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AT GMC TAKORADI PORT During the year under review, the following infrastructural and structural improvement projects were undertaken at the GMC Takoradi Port facility: A new conveyor structure was fabricated on site for number three conveyor belt. A new transfer house was fabricated at the transfer point between number 2 and three conveyors. Plate 45 and 46 shows a conveyor structure for Conveyor No3. Point and a new transfer house at the transfer between number 2 and 3 conveyors. Plate 45: New conveyor structure for Conveyor No.3 Plate 46: New transfer house at the transfer point between number 2 and 3 conveyors. A new more efficient product feed hopper was built during the year under review. The purpose of the feed hopper is to assist in improving the vessel loading capacity at our port facility. The hopper runs on rails, which are parallel to the stockpile area. The hopper is fed by means of front end loaders and discharges onto number one product belt. Plate 47 below shows new product feed hopper. 24 Plate 47: shows new product feed hopper 25
