Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Focus on the principles 1 to 6 is mostly relevant for our suppliers. This not to say that the principles 1 to 6 are not important to our internal operations, on the contrary it is very basic fundamentals for our operations. However, we are based in Denmark where rules and regulations effectively make it impossible not to follow the principles, except for principle 6. This principle we work with by having a no discrimination policy. Our main supplier is based in Bolivia where, although there are local laws, these principles unfortunately cannot be taken for granted. Instead of demanding that all our suppliers shall meet the principles before buying from them, it is our strategy to use our buying power to get suppliers to change their way of operating and their mindset so that they over a reasonable time change from not living up to the principles to living up to the principles. This way we help make improvements for people whose working conditions are not acceptable from the outset. Suppliers must either be working with a clear plan on getting credible CSR certification, already have a credible CSR certification or otherwise have very convincing operation. Implementation We have one main supplier in Bolivia who supplies 95% of our products. We have worked with this supplier since the start of the company and – contrary to what is usual in the fashion industry – we don't plan to shift supplier whenever a new supplier offers cheaper prices. We have secured funding from the Danish Development Organisation, DANIDA, to implement a broad range of improvements within principle 1 to 6, including occupational health and safety, and the supplier is working dedicated towards getting SA8000 certified. SA8000 is one of the leading independent CSR certification systems, which encompass principles 1 to 6. We have the foregoing year taken a minor ownership share in the knitting division of our main supplier and together received further funding for expanding the production capacity and continue the work towards SA8000 certification of the knitting division. Measurement of outcomes We monitor the progress of improvements necessary for SA8000 certification. When the SA8000 certification is in place we will ensure that the supplier maintains the certification by passing the annual independent SA8000 inspections. 2 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals The principles 7 to 9 are more relevant for our suppliers as our company itself has no production activities. However, the organisation of our activities from we take delivery of products from our suppliers does have an environmental impact in form of fuel for transportation of goods and packaging material. Our office facility and office supplies also have an environmental impact although minimal. Lastly, our products durability has an impact of how fast a consumer will replace with a new product. For our own operations we have decided to work towards having goods shipped directly from our supplier to customers in each country instead of taking all goods from Bolivia to Denmark and thereafter to different locations around the world. However, this will only be possible when volumes to various countries increase above its current level. Furthermore, it requires more diligence in quality control and packaging than our supplier has today. These are issues we will be working on during the next years. To reduce the impact of packaging we have shifted to using biodegradable wrapping for our products. We strive to make long lasting products. Long lasting in terms of the quality and long lasting in terms of the design. The llama fibres have a superior quality which makes our products very long lasting compared to most other fabrics. In our design we strive to balance new fashion trends with classic in order to come up with designs that are not outdated following season. As for our main supplier in Bolivia we have engaged them in a plan to improve the environmental impact of their production and our goal is to make it as environmental friendly as possible. The main environmental impact is waste water and energy for heat and power in the production. The supplier is on other environmental issues already well advanced: • It uses biodegradable detergent and dyes with as little chemicals as possible. It further has the advantage that llama fibres come in a broad range of natural colours. We strive to always use as many natural colours in our collection as possible as this reduces the use of dyes. • The factory's main energy source for heating is natural gas which compared to other fossil fuel has a low carbon emission factor. Similar, the Bolivian national power grid emission factor is lower than most countries due to a high degree of natural gas and hydro power. This said, Bolivia's highland, where the factory is located, has high potential for solar heating and power due to high altitude and many hours of sunshine per year. We will in the future look at possibilities for solar heating and power which would reduce the factory's carbon footprint further. To take a responsible approach to the world's climate challenge we have decided that we will work towards being able to quantify and disclose the carbon footprint of each garment supplied to consumers, in the hope that other fashion firms will do the same so that consumers may be able to factor this into their purchase decision. 3 Implementation With support from the Danish Development Organisation, DANIDA, our main supplier in Bolivia has implemented a waste water treatment plant that cleans the waste water before letting it out in the public sewer system. The plant further recycles up to 70% of the water which helps save the water consumption of the factory. Prior to the implementation of waste water plant the factory was not recycling any water and untreated water was let directly into the public sewer system. New water saving toilets has also been installed at the factory. The water treatment plant was the first of its kind in Bolivia and our supplier has had several companies in Bolivia visiting to view the plant and it is letting the supplier of the plant use it for sales demonstration purposes. Both with the aim of encouraging other companies in Bolivia to protect the environment. Our supplier has also installed waste containers for solid waste and contracted disposal at the city's official managed and sanitised landfill facility. Prior to this, solid waste was left on the ground and the end destination for disposal was unknown. Our supplier has during the last year implemented various energy efficiency improvements, which will reduce the carbon footprint further, such as: • Supply of correct chemicals to add to water before going into boilers so that combustion is minimized and gas consumption is adequate. • Heat transfer unit have been bought and implemented so the heating system is more efficient in dryer. • Replacement of old electrical systems and improvement of other. Further energy efficiency measures are being planned. Measurement of outcomes We have engaged ourselves extensively in finding out what environmental impact our main supplier has from the manufacturing of our products. We have engaged ourselves in finding funding for the implementation of the solutions and we are personally monitoring the implementation of these. 4 Anti! Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals We have a clear policy of not being involved in corruption of any kind in our home country as well as abroad. Implementation We have informed our main supplier of our policy and that we expect them to follow and implement the same policy in their organisation. Measurement of outcomes We realise that it is very difficult if not impossible to control whether suppliers follows this policy of no corruption and can only repeat it continuously, observe during visits whether their behaviour indicates a lack of respect of normal ethical behaviour, and if they are ever convicted of corruption terminate the relationship. 5
