Agrium 2010 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Agrium 2010 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support Agrium became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in April 2008. This global network is an ideal avenue for sharing and learning about best practices, and for continuing to engage in open dialogue with our stakeholders. Our participation in the United Nations Global Compact clearly demonstrates to our employees, communities, suppliers, customers, and to the public, our deep commitment to continually improving our environmental, human rights, labour rights, and anti-corruption performance. We remain committed to the ten principles of the Global Compact and to the organization itself. The following table includes descriptions of Agrium’s commitment, systems, activities and outcomes that address the ten Global Compact principles. Mike Wilson President and CEO Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Actions and Outcomes Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes From the 2008-2009 Sustainability Report: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Practices” and From the 2010 Performance Update: “Disclosure on Management Approach: Societal Issues”. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 3 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Ensuring Consistent Standards in all our Operations Every year we become a more global company. Growing responsibly means that as we acquire new facilities worldwide we take reasonable steps to ensure they meet our standards. To do so, we undertake many measures. • We apply practices consistently across all operations through the implementation of 16 entity-wide policies. Principle 2: • EHS&S management system integration at new facilities begins promptly after acquisition. Following implementation, we conduct a management system audit to Businesses should ensure that they are ensure compliance, consistency and proficiency. not complicit in human rights abuses. • We provide anti-corruption training for senior management in high-risk areas. See below “Disclosure on Management • We conduct country risk assessments for new ventures. We take security, Approach: Labour Practices” and corruption, human rights and sustainability risks seriously and, in certain cases, we “Disclosure on Management Approach: will choose not to invest in certain jurisdictions regardless of potential returns. Societal Issues”. • We will often post a few expatriate employees at new international operations to ensure operations are consistent with our corporate standards. However, we strive to have our international operations run by local citizens. For example, we have no expatriates in our Argentine operations. • Although we do not have operational control over our joint interests in Egypt and China, Agrium executives sit on the joint interest Boards and have a direct influence over standards that are adopted. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 4 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Practices”. Principle 4: Businesses should support the Agrium has no specific policies or programs on forced, compulsory, or child labour, but elimination of all forms of forced and adheres to related laws where we operate. We do not operate in locations where there compulsory labour. might be significant risk of incidents of child or compulsory labour. See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Practices”. Principle 5: Agrium has no specific policies or programs on forced, compulsory, or child labour, but Businesses should support the effective adheres to related laws where we operate. We do not operate in locations where there abolition of child labour. might be significant risk of incidents of child or compulsory labour. See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Practices”. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 5 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Agrium’s impact on our employees’ overall well-being can be considerable as we develop and implement talent management programs, policies and practices. We strive to create a Principle 6: safe work environment free from harassment and violence, and where all employees feel valued and are engaged in the implementation of company strategies. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect Here are some of the ways we’re attracting, retaining and respecting employees. of employment and occupation. Inclusive and Dynamic Workplaces See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Practices”. • Our direction is broader than diversity—which is often about quotas—it is about inclusion. We define an inclusive workplace as “a respectful climate where we value diversity, leverage all talents, and strive to recognize and develop each person to their full, unique potential in creating business success.” Our goal is inclusion on many levels: social (e.g., race, age), values (e.g., personality, attitudes, culture), and information (e.g., knowledge, education, global experience). A diverse workforce allows us to better understand and communicate with a diverse population, thereby giving us a distinct advantage when creating and marketing our products. In 2009, we established an Inclusive Workplace Council. See also Principle 1. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 6 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Our approach incorporates the precautionary principle, management systems, regular audits, and corrective action tracking. Our company-wide risk management system provides a process through which identified risks can be stored, classified, prioritized, and responsibly assigned. We employ about 90 control systems to achieve reliable and enhanced business management. We regularly conduct entity-level assessments that address key management system components (e.g., planning, responsibility, programs, monitoring, reporting). Food Security Principle 7: Nowhere is food security more tenuous than in Africa. We realize that food security can Businesses should support a lead not only to improved nourishment, but more broadly, improved quality of life. In 2009, precautionary approach to we entered into a partnership with the non-profit group Millennium Promise to address environmental challenges. food security head on. Millennium Promise is dedicated to achieving the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals—global targets for reducing extreme poverty and hunger See below “Disclosure on Management by half while improving education, health, gender equity and environmental sustainability Approach: Environmental Protection” by 2015. Through the partnership, Agrium has agreed to invest significant funds and in-kind and “Disclosure on Management assistance such as bagging and shipping donated fertilizer. Pilot projects will run in 2010 in Approach: Product Stewardship”. Nigeria and Kenya, where over 5,000 household farmers will have access to increased crop inputs, and where increased food production will improve food security for their households. Increased agricultural yields start a chain reaction that translate into better income security, better nutrition, access to health facilities and educational opportunities. We are hopeful that the partnership will expand into additional countries in subsequent years. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 7 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) Climate Change Greenhouse gases are released through the production, distribution and use of our products. In the development of our climate change strategy, a variety of stakeholders have been engaged to identify internal and external opportunities to reduce emissions, enhance energy security and improve our industry’s competitiveness. Internally, Agrium’s climate change strategy focuses on the production stage of our business. Production is estimated to account for more than 95 percent of Agrium’s emissions. While considerable reductions have already been achieved through early action, we have committed to reduce our North American production emissions intensity overall (amount released per tonne of production) by 10 percent by 2020. This reduction is from a 2005 baseline and will be achieved through energy efficiency improvements, nitrous oxide (N2O) emission reductions, and carbon dioxide (CO2) capture for enhanced oil recovery (EOR). Please see the Production section of the 2008-2009 Sustainability Report for more discussion of our internal greenhouse gas reduction efforts. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 8 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) Some of our actions generate greenhouse gas reductions outside our own operations. Our efforts in this area include developing new products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from farming activities, and our aggregation business that collects greenhouse gas offsets from growers for sale to large emitters. We also support grower efforts to reduce greenhouse gases through the development and implementation of best management practices. Although some of these actions do not directly benefit Agrium, we believe they are important in achieving societal and customer benefits. These efforts are outlined in the End Use section of the 2008-2009 Sustainability Report. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 9 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) Protecting Watersheds Excessive nutrient application can eventually result in damage to water bodies and wildlife habitat. Through our agronomists and certified crop advisors we consistently communicate to customers the need to adopt best management practices that focus nutrient use on the 4Rs – applying the right form of product at the right rate, right time and right place. Following the Global 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework minimizes nutrient releases into the environment. Wetlands play an integral role in intercepting nutrients and improving water quality. Accordingly, we are directing significant community investments to programs that protect wetlands. During 2008-2009 we contributed more than $400,000 toward habitat restoration and conservation in the Canadian prairie provinces. These projects are particularly innovative. Our partner, Ducks Unlimited Canada, will use our funds to purchase degraded but strategic land, restore it to its rightful ecological function and at time of resale, place perpetual conservation easements or long-term agreements on all or most of the land. The net proceeds of the resale of the land will be reinvested in new conservation lands. Our Caring for our WatershedsTM program partners with communities to create focused solutions to local watershed issues and encourages environmental stewardship by students. The program challenges students to think about their local watersheds and to spell out ways they can protect this essential asset. It encourages creativity, and financially rewards students and schools for the solutions they identify. Finalists who implement their ideas are Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 10 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) eligible for additional funding. The program currently operates in Southern Alberta, Central Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Colorado. The goal is to also offer the program in South America, China and Europe. Best Management Practices We believe that following the 4Rs—applying the right form of product at the right rate, right place and right time—can result in significantly reduced environmental impacts from fertilizer use, while supporting growers’ economic and social goals. Best management practices (BMPs) are utilized within each of the 4Rs. Agrium has been a major contributor to developing the Global 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework. The system has been adopted by the Canadian Fertilizer Institute in Canada, The Fertilizer Institute in the United States, the International Plant Nutrient Institute, the International Fertilizer Institute, and in 2009, the Association of Plant Food Control Officials. These associations are now working with researchers, governments and NGOs to establish educational programming, best practice research and measurement systems to support long-term implementation. For more information on our work with industry associations on the 4R system please see our website. We are continually working with researchers and growers to develop BMPs that support the 4Rs. Agronomists work with growers to identify the practices that best fit their soil, climate and farming operation. Ensuring unique and appropriate BMPs for each situation improves performance and grower adoption. Commonly used BMPs include: soil testing to optimize nutrient rate; controlled-release fertilizers or split applications to match nutrient availability with crop need; and, banding and buffer strips to keep nutrients in the right place. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 11 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) Agrium provides a number of services that support BMP implementation on the farm. For example, when we apply inputs for farmers, we use global positioning systems to help determine variable rates for application, and adjustable spray nozzles to minimize drift of chemicals onto adjacent vegetation or land. Reducing Greenhouse Gases at End Use Greenhouse gas emissions from farming activities can be reduced through the use of best management practices. A tonne of greenhouse gas reduced on the farm can offset a tonne produced elsewhere. Agrium collects farm offsets for sale to large emitters, purchases offsets to reduce our own emissions, and supports the development of related protocols and technologies for growers. Farm Offsets Agrium owns Crop Reduction Offset Projects Ltd. (CROP), a greenhouse gas aggregation business in Alberta. CROP purchases offsets from growers, who have reduced emissions through the use of BMPs on their farms – providing growers with increased revenues. In 2009, CROP aggregated about 260,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent offsets from growers, and sold these offsets to companies who wanted to reduce their emissions. Creating New Reduction Tools Before an offset can be generated, a protocol must be developed to ensure the offset is real and verifiable. Agrium is supporting the farm offsets market by working with stakeholders to develop a nitrous oxide emissions reduction protocol. This Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 12 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 7, continued) protocol defines the BMPs growers can use to reduce nitrous oxide emissions associated with nitrogen fertilizer applications on the farm. The protocol is based on the 4R nutrient stewardship system. When completed, this protocol will increase nutrient use efficiency, reduce nutrient losses to the environment, and provide the foundation for additional offsets, further contributing to growers’ economic viability. Researchers estimate that implementation of this protocol could reduce field emissions of nitrous oxide by 15 to 25 percent, without reducing yields. Theoretically, if growers of Canada’s top five crops followed the protocol, it is estimated that this would result in an annual reduction of 2.7 to 4.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Additional research will be conducted to further quantify and improve the effectiveness of this protocol. Agrium provides BMPs that growers can use to reduce nitrous oxide emissions. Our controlled-release products generally increase yields and reduce nitrous oxide emissions per unit of nitrogen applied. Our retail group also provides growers with soil testing and variable rate application technologies that can help reduce emissions. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 13 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. See below “Disclosure on Management Approach: Environmental Protection” and “Disclosure on Management Approach: Product Stewardship”. Reclamation Anyone who has ever seen an open pit mine will tell you that it causes environmental and land disturbances. Reclamation begins at the first stage of mining and is ongoing during mining. Reclamation plans are developed at the outset and are approved by governing agencies. Topsoil is removed and stockpiled for later use. The overburden is removed to expose the phosphate ore beds. The overburden is placed in existing open pits to backfill them as much as possible. Re-contouring and re-vegetating the backfill and roads complete Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 14 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) the reclamation process. Re-vegetation includes seeding and planting with local species so the area can be used as grazing land for livestock and as a home to a variety of wildlife. Several years of monitoring are needed before reclamation can be considered successful. Tailings Management The mining and processing of potash and phosphate rock produces large volumes of waste that may cause a variety of adverse environmental effects if not managed and disposed of in a safe, stable and environmentally sound manner. Tailings produced at our Vanscoy potash operations are a mixture of salt particles, fine clay and brine and are a waste product of the potash milling process. The tailings are pumped in a slurry to the tailings management area where the salt and clay solids are allowed to settle, and some brine is reused in the mill. Surplus brine is pumped 1,675 meters below the surface into a formation that contains natural brine. Annual salt production is approximately 3.5 million tonnes per year. A portion of the salt (approximately 350,000 to 400,000 tonnes per year) is marketed for use as a cattle feed supplement, highway and road de-icing and stabilizing agents for road construction. Approximately 650,000 tonnes per year of salt is pumped below surface as brine. We are committed to minimizing the amount of salt tailings stored on surface by employing selective mining techniques to increase the grade of potash ore brought to the surface. Since 2006, we have been developing and implementing a long-term plan for the tailings management area to ensure it can handle the volumes of material generated over the next 70 years of operation. The plan specifies a reconfiguration of the tailings management area, including a new brine pond, new clay storage, and an expansion of the salt storage area. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 15 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) Reconfiguration began in 2009 and will continue into 2011. At our phosphate mines, to expose the ore we extract significant amounts of overburden (e.g., clay), which we either place directly into the adjacent mined-out areas, or stockpile in specially engineered areas. Water from the tailings area is tested and treated prior to release to surface waters. Greenhouse Gases Key initiatives of our climate change strategy include reducing emissions through process and energy efficiency improvements, mitigating emissions through abatement of N2O, carbon capture and storage, and offset purchases. Energy Efficiency Improvements About 60 percent of the natural gas required to produce nitrogen fertilizer is used to obtain the hydrogen required to produce ammonia. Emissions related to this process cannot be reduced given current economically viable technologies. The remaining combustion natural gas can be managed to reduce CO2 emissions by improving energy efficiency, and through other emission reduction opportunities. Government-sponsored studies estimate for the Canadian industry that a further three to five percent reduction in combustion emission intensity may be attainable. We have established an Emission Reduction and Energy Conservation project team to identify and evaluate opportunities at our production facilities. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 16 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) In an effort to reduce production costs, Agrium has already implemented a number of efficiency and emissions reduction projects, including: • Installing efficient product dryers at Vanscoy, reducing energy use by 13 percent; • De-scaling heat exchangers at Redwater, reducing natural gas use by 114 million cubic feet; and, • Building a co-generation plant (power and steam) at Carseland, Alberta. Nitrous Oxide Abatement One of our greatest immediate opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the implementation of nitrous oxide abatement technology at two of our US sites. This technology converts N2O emissions to nitrogen and oxygen. Nitrous oxide has a global warming potential that is 310 times more potent than CO2. Carbon Capture and Storage Carbon capture for enhanced oil recovery is another significant opportunity for reduction. This entails capturing CO2 at our production facilities where it is purified and transported to an oil field. It is then pumped under high pressure into the reservoir. The CO2 mixes with the oil remaining in the reservoir, causing it to become more mobile. Producing wells pump the oil to the surface where the CO2 is separated from the oil and re-injected underground. At our Borger, Texas operation, approximately 163,000 tonnes of CO2 were captured for EOR in 2008 and 188,000 tonnes in 2009. We recently signed an agreement to capture roughly 245,000 to a potential maximum of 550,000 tonnes a year of CO2 emissions from our Redwater, Alberta facility, depending on production, to supply Enhance Energy’s EOR projects in Alberta. This proposed project is scheduled to become operational in late 2012 or early 2013. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 17 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) Other Environmental Issues In addition to greenhouse gases, our production facilities are large sources for many other environmental indicators. • Our processes generate air emissions such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds and particulates. We have invested in and maintain pollution control equipment to reduce these emissions and ensure regulatory compliance. Current and planned emission reduction and energy conservation initiatives will further reduce air contaminant loading from our production facilities. • We use water in some of our production processes for formulating the products, and some for cooling. In some locations we use wastewater from municipal wastewater treatment plants as cooling water, and in most locations we recycle our cooling water. • Our waste water and surface runoff water is either collected in ponds, or directly discharged. The water is tested, and if necessary, treated prior to reuse in the plant, or discharged to publicly owned treatment works, surface water, or onsite underground injection wells. • We generate hazardous and non-hazardous wastes at our production facilities, which are managed and disposed in accordance with regulations. A by-product at our phosphate production facilities in Conda, Idaho and Redwater, Alberta is phosphogypsum. Agrium and the phosphate fertilizer industry have investigated marketable uses (e.g., road construction, building material, fill, additive to highly saline soils, composting manure at feedlots) for this waste, but currently no viable market exists to handle the significant quantities of phosphogypsum we produce. This by-product is mixed with water to form a “slurry” and is pumped into a phosphogypsum pond. The solids settle out, the clear water is drained to a cooling Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 18 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) pond, and then returned to the plant for reuse. As the phosphogypsum ponds fill, containment dikes are raised. In new ponds a liner is placed under the pond to protect groundwater. Also, local air and water monitoring is conducted. The phosphogypsum management process is described more fully on our website. Environmentally Friendly Products and Services We believe that as long as the 4Rs are employed, our fertilizer products do not pose a significant threat to the environment. We continually use technology to improve our products for the benefit of our customers and the environment. This is especially true of our controlled-release nitrogen fertilizer ESN®. We are currently developing our Precise® line of controlled-release pesticides. With controlled-release, more of the product enters the crop and less is lost to the environment. As a significant retailer of seed, we also market improved seed varieties with new traits that reduce the requirement for chemical inputs such as herbicides. To manage pesticide use, staff at our retail branches advise growers on an approach known as integrated pest management. When making recommendations, our retailers will determine if the disease, weed or insect pressure has reached a threshold that makes a treatment economical. Our agronomists assess crop production problems and prescribe responsible actions, including mechanical or biological controls, monitoring, and if warranted, pesticides. By analyzing yield, soil and plant tissue tests, and weather and crop scouting data, our agronomists and certified crop advisors are able to help growers make better decisions. This advice helps to optimize inputs to reduce overall costs and nutrients lost to the environment. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 19 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes (Principle 8, continued) Ensuring Product Quality and Responsibility As the biggest retailer of crop inputs in the United States, we purchase numerous products from third-parties for resale at our outlets. Unlike our own products, we have less control over the quality of third-party products. One way to ensure product quality is to purchase and distribute crop protection products that are U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) registered. We have communicated our corporate responsibility values with our major suppliers and are working with them to understand and confirm their commitments to our standards. We perform analyses of third-party products to ensure compliance with stated specifications. See also Principle 7. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 20 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes Agrium is working with researchers to grow more food through the use of best management practices and new technologies like controlled-release fertilizers. Controlledrelease products time the release of nutrients to match the needs of the plant. These Principle 9: products limit the number of required applications to the crop, saving energy and time, Businesses should encourage the minimizing loss to the environment, and boosting yields. development and diffusion of One of our greatest immediate opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the environmentally friendly technologies. implementation of nitrous oxide abatement technology at two of our U.S. sites. This See below “Disclosure on Management technology converts N2O emissions to nitrogen and oxygen. Approach: Environmental Protection” By analyzing yield, soil and plant tissue tests, and weather and crop scouting data, our and “Disclosure on Management agronomists and certified crop advisors are able to help growers make better decisions. This Approach: Product Stewardship”. advice helps to optimize inputs to reduce overall costs and nutrients lost to the environment. See also Principles 7 and 8 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 21 Commitment and Systems Actions & Outcomes We provide anti-corruption training for senior management in high-risk areas. We conduct country risk assessments for new ventures. We take security, corruption, human rights and sustainability risks seriously and, in certain cases, we will choose not to invest in certain jurisdictions regardless of potential returns. Principle 10: Businesses should work Recognizing that Agrium has distinct business divisions and operations in several countries, against all forms of corruption, we empower divisions to set policies to address specific regional or cultural variations. including extortion and bribery. However, to instill a consistent “tone from the top”, we have designated 16 entity-wide See below “Disclosure on Management policies, including: our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code); Delegation of Authority; Approach: Labour Practices”, Anti-fraud; Diversity; Harassment and Workplace Violence; Political Donations; and EHS&S; “Disclosure on Management Approach: among others. The Code is our means of management oversight for ensuring ethical Societal Issues” and “Disclosure on behaviour. Among other issues, it addresses: conflict of interest, fair dealings, gifts, legal Management Approach: Community compliance, and confidentiality. We require all employees to annually acknowledge their Engagement”. compliance with the Code. Employees can use a confidential, anonymous hotline to report suspected breaches of the Code. Our legal department follows up on all calls and reports quarterly on all investigations to the Audit Committee of the Board. To make sure our policies are followed, corporate groups work with business units to develop implementation and training tools. Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 22 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 23 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 24 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 25 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 26 Agrium 2010 Communication on Progress Page 27
