Robert F. Friel Phone 781.663.5595 Chairman and Fax 781.663.6109 Chief Executive Officer robert.friel@perkinelmer.com PerkinElmer, Inc. www.perkinelmer.com 940 Winter Street Waltham, MA 02451 USA November 14, 2011 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, On behalf of our employees across the globe, I am pleased to reaffirm PerkinElmer’s support of and commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We recognize that our financial success, social responsibility, environmental protection and ethical business practices are essential for long-term sustainability. PerkinElmer remains dedicated to three CSR focus areas (environmental health and safety, product stewardship and employee engagement) with employee committees actively involved in driving and further integrating each focus area into our business operations and corporate culture. A few of the team’s accomplishments over the last year include:  Completing energy saving projects, moving us ahead of schedule to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2013.  Introducing the Spectrum Two™ FT-IR spectrometer with a smaller footprint that weighs less, uses less energy, requires less materials and packaging and includes more recycled materials than in the previous version.  Initiating For The Better Days, a full day of community service for all employees throughout the globe. In the last year, we also published our second annual CSR Report, updating our progress toward embedding the UN Global Compact principles into our corporate strategy and day–today operations. As we fulfill our mission to improve the health and safety of people and the environment and deepen our commitment to being a good corporate citizen, I am confident that we will continue to make a difference. I look forward to reporting our progress again next year. Sincerely, Robert F. Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer PerkinElmer, Inc. PerkinElmer 2011 2011 PerkinElmer Inc. United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress 1 PerkinElmer 2011 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. PerkinElmer is committed to supporting and protecting basic human rights. Our global business is managed with the highest standards of integrity for the dignity, freedom, respect and acceptance that each of us deserves. Our Corporate Values, Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC) and policies form the foundation that guide individual and company actions. Our systematic approach to address human rights includes the following:  Training all employees on the SoBC, available in 11 languages (15 on website).  Providing an Ethics Hotline for all employees worldwide to anonymously report suspected violations. All reports to the Ethics Hotline are investigated and addressed by the Ethics Committee.  Policies that offer equal opportunity in an antidiscrimination workplace for all employees without regard to race, color, nationality, ethnic or national origins, religion, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, or disability.  Engaging with unions and workers’ councils of our subsidiaries to maintain strong, open relationships.  Management systems for environmental, health and safety based on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards at most manufacturing sites.  Investing in the personal and professional development of our employees and company leadership.  Supporting the health, wellness, and work/life balance of our employees by providing a variety of resources that promote physical and behavioral health.  Communicating to our suppliers the expectation that they adhere to basic human rights principles in their businesses. Refer to our 2010 CSR Report for more information:  Governance  Employees  Community Engagement  Health & Safety 2 PerkinElmer 2011 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PerkinElmer supports the labor principles of the UN Global Compact with the systematic approach described in the Human Rights section of this report. Furthermore, discrimination and the use of child and/or compulsory or forced labor are not tolerated in any aspect of our business. We have not identified any of our operations as being at significant risk for human rights abuses. Refer to our 2010 CSR Report for more information:  Governance  Employees  Community Engagement  Health & Safety 3 PerkinElmer 2011 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly related technologies. At PerkinElmer, protecting the environment is a responsibility we take very seriously — it’s fundamental to our market leadership in developing solutions that improve human and environmental health. We support our environmental responsibility and efforts to reduce PerkinElmer’s impact on the global climate by:  Applying an integrated and systematic approach to environmental management such as ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 Management Systems certifications.  Supporting the precautionary approach as part of our risk management philosophy.  Sharing best practices across our operations and integrating recently acquired facilities into our operational philosophies, policies, and practices.  Monitoring our operations using key environmental performance indicators such as electricity, fuel and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste generation. Conducting periodic audits to monitor the effectiveness of environmental programs.  Designing and offering high-quality products and services that help our customers reduce their impact on the global environment. Refer to our 2010 CSR Report for more information:  Governance  Environmental 4 PerkinElmer 2011 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. PerkinElmer’s Board of Directors has established high standards for corporate governance that are consistent with our core values of ethics and integrity. Leaders across the Company conduct annual enterprise risk management assessments for their businesses and functions. Ethical risks identified through this process are evaluated and prioritized by a cross-functional assembly of senior managers. Anti Corruption training is provided to all employees as part of our SoBC training modules. In response to new anti-corruption and anti-bribery directives, we have begun implementing additional training addressing new regulations from the FCPA and UK Bribery Act. Refer to our 2010 CSR Report for more information:  Governance 5
