Every single drop of oil we produce is to realize dreams ADDRESS | Sustainability Management Team 471, Gongdeok-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul 121-805, Korea of the world while securing its sustainable development. JAN. 2010_ DEC. 2010 TEL | +82-2-3772-5234 FAX | +82-2-3772-0964 E-MAIL | sustainability@s-oil.com www.s-oil.com S-OIL consistently makes efforts to fulfill its responsibility as a corporate citizen by satisfying the expectations of our C.E.O. (Customers, Employees, Owners and other stakeholders). S-OIL's Operations & Stakeholders rs Em me plo S-OIL, established in 1976, is Korea’s first joint corporation sto ye e C u s between an oil-producing country and an oil-consuming one. ct/ ly Ma Perso It is one of the most competitive refiners in the Asia-Pacific region. du pp na nn Pro e Su ge el me c rvi nt Se Number of Executives and 2,589 GO·Media Employees Partner Co Com n mun Total Assets KRW 10 trillion uctio icatio Prod n ve · Head Office: Marketing, finance, general administration, etc. rn ies · Onsan Refinery: Production and shipments me Business Sites an Capital · 11 Product terminals/Depots: Product storage and shipments mp Operation nt· · 4 District sales HQs/25 Sales offices: Product sales N Go · Hankook Silicon: 33.4% share (the 2nd largest shareholder) Sh Affiliated · S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd. (STLC): Shared 50:50 with Total areh ors olders·Invest Companies Lubricants of France · S-International Ltd.: 100%-owned overseas subsidiary Fuel Business Crude Distillation 669,000 BPD KRW Bunker-C Cracking 148,000 BPD 17.4 Bunker-C trillion 149,000 BPD Desulfurization Diesel and Kerosene 120,000 BPD Desulfurization Petrochemical Business KRW Sales Revenues in 2010 Benzene 560,000 tons/year 1.5 Paraxylene 1,700,000 tons/year trillion KRW 20.5 trillion Propylene 200,000 tons/year Lube Business KRW Ultra-S Base Oil 26,000 BPD 1.6 Super Base Oil 5,100 BPD trillion Premium Base Oil 8,600 BPD ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS Report Scope S-OIL has annually published a sustainability report outlining its business activities at its Seoul Head Office and the Onsan Refinery. This 02 CEO’s Message one is our fourth sustainability report covering the period January 1 – Decem04 Sustainability ber 31, 2010. The performance indicators that have been used are based 05 Stakeholders and Key Issues on data from 2008 to 2010, allowing readers to see trends more clearly. In 06 Major Sustainability Performances addition, important management changes include some data that extend into 2011 (the year of publication). Data that change every year, such as information on human resources, have been given as of December 31, the last 08 SI 1 ENHANCE CUSTOMER-CENTRIC MANAGEMENT day of the fiscal year, while special cases have been marked with asterisks. · Reasonable Price · Differentiated Service Guidelines The S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 is based on our seven · Enhancement of Brand Value strategic imperatives, and is in accordance with the AA1000APS (2008)1) In addition, the GRI G3 Guidelines2) and the IPIECA/API Guidance3) have 16 SI 2 PROVIDE BEST-IN-CLASS WORK ENVIRONMENT been applied to the main indicators. Notes have been used to indicate cases · Talent Education and Capability Development where the company’s management standards have been applied instead. · Human Rights Protection and Enhancement of Life Quality · Communicating Corporate Culture Assurance The reliability of the report was verified by an independent and objective assurance group based on the AA1000AS4) (2008) and ISAE30005) 24 SI 3 ACHIEVE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE international assurance standards. The assurance report can be found in the · Response to Climate Change and Energy Conservation appendix to the report. · Safety First Management Further Information/Suggestions The report and further information on · Preventative, Eco-Friendly Governance S-OIL’s sustainability management is available on S-OIL’s homepage, at www.s-oil.com. If you have questions or need further information, please 38 SI 4 CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY contact the S-OIL Sustainability Management Team at +82 2 3772 5234 or · Contributing to National Economy email us at sustainability@s-oil.com. · Employees’ Social Contribution 1) AA1000APS (2008) provides a framework for an organization to identify, prioritize and respond to its sustainability challenges. 47 SI 5 PURSUE GLOBAL BEST PRACTICES OF 2) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines provides sustainability report guidelines that CORPORATE GOVERNANCE were written and revised by the GRI in 2006. The GRI was established by CERES and UNEP. 3) IPIECA/API (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation As­sociation/ · Practicing Ethics Management American Petroleum Institute) Guidance refers to sustainability report guidelines governing · Strengthening Transparency the performances reported by companies in the petroleum industry. 4) AA1000AS provides international verification standards that are used to evaluate the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of sustainability reports. 5) ISAE3000 provides international verification standards governing the reliability of informa53 SI 6 ATTAIN HIGHEST LEVEL OF CAPITAL EFFICIENCY tion other than financial data. · Efficient Capital Management · Enterprise Risk Management · Communication with Shareholders and Investors · Financial Achievements 7 Strategic Imperatives (SI) 60 SI 7 DEVELOP PLATFORM FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Enhance Customer-Centric ·Development of Oil Refining Business as Management a High-Value-Added Business Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment ·Launching and Nurturing of New and Develp Platform Renewable Energy Business for Sustainable Growth Achieve Operational 64 APPENDIX Excellence · Independent Assurance Report · GRI/IPIECA Content Index Contribute to Society Attain Highest · UNGC Index Level of Capital · S-OIL Recognitions and Memberships in Associations Efficiency Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Intent on satisfying its stakeholder’s expectations, Key Points S-OIL is mobilizing all its capacity and wisdom to Safety our top priority Differentiated business growth model establish its unique growth model on a solid foundation. Growing together with our society People fundamental to our competitiveness The chapter covers the answers by Ahmed A. Subaey, the Representative Director and CEO of S-OIL, to the questions by stakeholders about S-OIL’s sustainability management. Q. The 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico involving BP raised safety and environmental issues throughout the oil industry. What kind of measures does S-OIL take to prevent such accidents? Generally, companies speak of sustainability management in terms of its economic, environmental and social impacts. But we add safety to it as another axis of sustainability. This is not only because of the BP oil spill. In the oil industry, a minor mistake can lead to a huge accident, resulting not only in the loss of life and company property, but also in significant damage to the local community. We have long recognized this. In striving to implement its safety management policies, S-OIL constantly speaks of the following: a safety-prioritizing corporate culture, strict safety management, preemptive risk management and regular emergency drills. We do so to promote our own development, and moreover to contribute to the sustainable development of the local community and of the humanity. Management always emphasizes that safety comes first and that nothing is worthwhile if safety is sacrificed. There is a Korean proverb: “Look before you leap.” In other words, you have to consider and undertake even the easiest of tasks very carefully. S-OIL keeps this saying in mind, reminding every employee to be mindful of the possibility of accidents. This helps to promote a corporate culture in which safety management is strictly adhered to in each one’s work place. In addition, we operate a companywide risk management system which defines organization, process, rules and operations to manage potential risks in advance. Moreover, we schedule regular safety drills so as to be fully prepared for an emergency. S-OIL also maintains a policy of transparency when communicating with the local community and with relevant organizations in case of an accident. Q. Companies are required to actively respond to climate change. Can you elaborate on your efforts to counter the issue while securing a stable energy supply for the national economy? Climate Change is a challenge that forces the energy industry, including us. We make sure that we are doing our part by responding to it proactively in full consideration of humanity’s sustainable development and of our future. We have made multi-faceted efforts in the area of petroleum products, the foundation of our profitability and a main energy source, and petrochemical products, the source of many consumer goods. Along with 2 CEO’s Message energy efficiency improvement efforts, which we have been engaged in of service stations are both our customers and our partners at the same for a long time, we are strictly managing and reducing GHG emissions time. We will continue to play our fundamental economic role of providing by introducing and putting into operation the GHG management system service stations with quality goods and services at a reasonable price. In which monitors, reports on, and verifies company-wide GHG emissions in addition, we will provide additional value to them as well as substantial real time. Meanwhile, climate change presents us with new growth direcassistance to strengthen “win-win” cooperation. And in the end this will tions. Under the “three strategic directions,” S-OIL is reinventing itself as benefit the end-users. a comprehensive energy company guaranteeing a stable energy supply for the national economy well into the future. For the past year, we have Q. How does S-OIL regard its talents in regard to future carefully reviewed various ways to start a new and renewable energy busigrowth leaders? ness, which is one of our “three strategic directions.” To satisfy our longOur employees are of S-OIL’s core assets. Their combined capabilities are cherished wish to secure a future growth engine and the people’s wish to the source of our competitiveness. Therefore, we pay attention to their have a sustainable source of the energy for the next generation, we have quality of life and implement many activities to improve it. For example, established a partnership with HanKook Silicon, one of the world’s eight we introduced the intensive holiday program in 2010 to make sure that producers of high purity poly silicon, an essential material in the photoemployees have sufficient time to rejuvenate themselves. In addition, we voltaic power generation business. The photovoltaic business is expected provide employees with many opportunities to strengthen their own cato have the biggest growth potential in the new and renewable energy pabilities by accumulating experiences in various areas through the Job area in the future. This fruitful partnership also satisfies the desire of the Rotation and Job Posting Programs. We have introduced various recruitlocal community to grow with mid-sized companies’ by fostering their ading methods to secure a talented workforce and outstanding future leadvanced technology. ers. We have also introduced the Dynamic Rookies Program to help new employees adapt to the company. By making continuous institutional Q. A lot of attention is being paid to the domestic oil improvements, we are doing everything we can to provide the kinds of refining industry’s social responsibility amidst rising oil support that our employees need in order to enjoy a balance between their prices. What activities has S-OIL undertaken to fulfill its home and work life. This is all in pursuit of our fundamental goal of ensocial responsibilities, including its responsibility to muhancing productivity and creating the best possible working environment. tual growth? All S-OIL employees believe that a strict and transparent work process Q. There are all sorts of issues involved in sustainability based on ethics as well as the fostering of a corporate culture which is management. How do you identify these and how are they faithful to basic principles is the foundation of corporate social responsibilreflected in your management strategies? Also, what ity. We have a firm belief that profitability requires the observance of social is your future plan? norms and the maintenance of market order. We also prevent collusion, S-OIL’s approach to sustainability management starts with our stakeholdunfair trade, and other misconducts damaging fair transaction orders and ers, our ultimate reason to exist. It starts by gathering all our collective caunfair pricing. We are always fully aware that such unfair conduct can tear pacity and wisdom and then establishing a differentiated strategic framedown our reputation and credibility among the people. work as a solid foundation for satisfying our stakeholders’ expectations. S-OIL aspires to become a company which grows in harmony with society Rather than focusing only on a specific stakeholder’s expectations, we and which is respected by its stakeholders for making them happy. The have been supporting the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in huimpacts of our economic performance will continue to be felt by shareman rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We have been making holders, employees, local communities, and the nation. Thus, S-OIL will efforts to satisfy our various stakeholders’ expectations in a balanced way continue to enhance its environmental management, which is far stricter in respect to the need to promote global sustainable development. I meet than legal requirements, and expand its social contributions as S-OIL’s face-to-face with stakeholders every day and receive reports from many board of directors has encouraged management to take greater interest organizations in order to identify sustainability management issues and in the needs of the less fortunate and to strengthen the company’s social understand stakeholders’ expectations. We launched a new sustainability contributions with genuineness. Also, our employees’ voluntary CSR activimanagement team in the first half of 2011. Through these efforts, we will ties, including donations, will consistently contribute to society in addition be able to respond to sustainability issues more proactively and faithfully to varied company programs. fulfill our obligations. We are very attentive to stakeholders’ opinions that such activities should be longer-term, direct, and more community-oriented. As explained before, we decided to invest in HanKook Silicon to satisfy the local community’s expectation that S-OIL grow in concert with mid-sized companies that are with outstanding technological capabilities. We are also trying to come Ahmed A. Subaey up with substantial measures to promote “win-win growth” with our partRepresentative Director and CEO ners, which is currently being emphasized in Korea. In particular, managers S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 3 SUSTAINABILITY Mission Sustainable, Profitable Growth · Further Investment in the Refining Business Strategic · Integration with the Petrochemical Business Direction · Seeking out Opportunities in the Renewable Energy Industry Strategic Framework Performance Strategic Measurement Imperatives Action Plan C.E.O. S-OIL’s sustainable growth starts with the C.E.O.’s expectations. pursue. The last axis is performance measurement, which is to C.E.O., in this case, stands for Customers, Employees and Ownassure that the first two axes are implemented effectively. ers as well as other stakeholders. S-OIL makes efforts to achieve sustainable, profitable growth—the mission of the company— 7 Strategic Imperatives by understanding what the C.E.O. expects from S-OIL and then making sure that these expectations are reflected in the comWith this strategic framework in place, what the C.E.O. expects pany’s management policies so that the values of the C.E.O. from S-OIL and what the company should do to satisfy these are maximized—economically, environmentally and socially. expectations and achieve sustainable growth are encapsulated in its 7 Strategic Imperatives. Strategic Framework 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management S-OIL has established a strategic framework to accomplish this 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment mission. The framework consists of three axes. The first axis is 3. Achieve Operational Excellence strategic direction, which indicates what the long-term growth 4. Contribute to Society directions for the future of S-OIL should be. The second axis 5. P ursue Global Best Practices of is strategic imperatives. This refers to the management princiCorporate Governance ples that S-OIL needs to adopt to arrive at the highest possible 6. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency position, irrespective of which strategic directions we choose to 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 4 SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS AND KEY ISSUES Stakeholder Engagement S-OIL operates a variety of C.E.O. engagement channels, considering each group’s characteristics, in order to identify what their expectations are. We establish action plans to fulfill these expectations by correlating them with our own strategic directions and imperatives; the results are applied to our management activities through analyses and reviews. Customers Employees Owners & Other Stakeholders Stations/ Corporations · Employee Shareholders/ Business Local Government/ Individual Dealers Satisfaction Survey Investors Partners Communities NGO/Media · Employee Suggestion Program · Customer Complaints · Seminars to support · Strategy Round · Meetings with CEO · General Share· Technical exchange · Public hearings/ · Public hearings Processing System service stations Tables · Monthly Employee holder’s Meeting meetings seminars · Seminars/ · Customer · Service Station · Customer Meeting · Telephone/e-mail · Occupational · Conferences conferences Satisfaction Management Appreciation Days · HR Webzine consultations Risk Evaluation · Visits to the · Information sharing Suggestion Program Magazine · Base Oil Dinners · Ethics management · Investor’ relations/ Workshop refinery meetings Channel · Customer · Company Newsletter · Brochures help desk conferences/ · Safety and health · Activities through · Responses to surveys Satisfaction Index · Station visits · Labor-management Investor’ meetings educations/trainings associations Survey conferences · Meetings with · Waste Treatment · Sunshine Sharing · Customer monitoring · Production site visits analysts Training (CSR activities) group (Supporters) · Company Newsletter · Website postings · E-procurement · External evalua· Bonus card website · Intranet System tions/assessments · Call center · Internal IR session · Site visits · Grievance Committee · Customer Service · Customer Service · Corporate Sales Team · HR Policy Team · IR Team · Procurement · General Affairs · Government Team Team · Overseas marketing · Personnel Team · Management Management Team Team Affairs Team Point of Communication · Customer · Customer Planning Team · HR Development Coordination Team · Management · Government & · Environment Relationship Relationship · Overseas Operating Team Coordination Team Public Affairs Affairs Team Development Team Development Team Support Team · Labor Cooperation · Safety & Health Team · Government & · Membership · Network Upgrading · Lube Base Oil Team Department Public Affairs Team Marketing Team Team Domestic Sales Team · Organizational · Environment · PR Team · Sales Offices · Lube Base Oil Export Culture & Management Team · Sustainability · Agent Sales Team Sales Team Communication · Maintenance Management Team · LPG Team · Overseas Offices Revitalization Team departments · Management Coordination Team · IR Team Key Issues and Reporting Contents This sustainability report covers the major concerns of the C.E.O., from economic, environmental, and social viewpoints, in accordance with the global guidelines for such publications and the company’s seven strategic imperatives. In addition, through the following materiality test, S-OIL identifies major Covered by website Higher Included in subjects and indicators that might influence the C.E.O.’s decision-making and covers them in detail in or sustainability report its sustainability report. other channels 1 Find common issues among C.E.O.’s expectations identified through engagements and Significance to global standards and guidelines, such as Global Compact, GRI, and ISO 26000 2 Add the latest issues to the list of common issues by analyzing news articles in 2010 Stakeholders 3 Prioritize common issues through an online stakeholder survey Covered by website 4 Select reporting contents for each strategic imperative by considering their significance to Being monitored or the C.E.O. and to S-OIL’s strategic operations other channels 5 Build and review the materiality of the reporting contents by 3 steps; team leaders, division heads, and top management in consecutive order Lower 6 Have outside experts verify the materiality of reporting contents Lower Significance to S-OIL's Higher Strategic Operations S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 5 MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCES 2008 2009 2010 Sales (KRW million) 23,000,291 17,423,951 20,529,523 Net Income (KRW million) 474,614 273,246 705,068 Common (KRW) 5,000 1,350 2,500 Economic Dividend Per Share Performance Preferred (KRW) 5,025 1,375 2,525 Return on Equity (%) 13.0 7.5 16.6 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio (%) 125.9 130.1 121.1 2008 2009 2010 Fuel Usage (TOE) 1,686,899 1,663,298 1,659,016 Electricity Usage* (MWh) 1,437,455 1,420,921 1,461,082 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (thousand tonnes_CO2e ) 7,418 7,262 7,183 Environmental Water Usage (thousand tonnes) 21,027 21,420 20,687 Performance Waste Discharges (thousand tonnes) 29.4 31.0 26.0 Waste Recycling (thousand tonnes) 21.7 21.1 17.4 * Except for self-generation Environmental Investments (KRW million) 8,039 22,993 9,820 2008 2009 2010 Number of Employees 2,455 2,511 2,589 Number of Newly Hired Employees 135 132 181 Social Annual Average Training Hours Per Employee 71 56 56 Performance Sunshine Sharing Donations (KRW million) 6,775 4,041 5,234 Employees’ Volunteer Hours 16,123 22,693 22,596 2008 2009 2010 Ratio of Occupational Injury (%) 0.2 0 0.1 Number of the Injured 3 0 2 Number of Lost Work Days 86 0 52 Safety Performance Number of Trainees 1,591 2,287 5,505 Safety Management Training for Employees Number of Trainings 93 83 91 Number of Trainees 13,621 15,245 15,030 Safety Management Training for Partner Companies Number of Trainings 287 334 319 6 Major Sustainability Performances Sales and Profit┃Sales increased by 17.8% compared with 2009 as economic recovery increased deReturn on Equity (Unit: %) mand and product prices across all our business areas. Operating profit reached KRW 813.3 billion, an approximate 133% increase, compared with the 2009 figure thanks to gradually improved product margin 2008 13.0 and efficient process operation despite the drop in exchange rates. Net income reached KRW 705.1 billion, 2009 7.5 158% increase from 2009. 2010 16.6 Profitability┃S-OIL saw the highest ROE among the domestic refiners (average of the other three refiners 13.2%), which indicates that S-OIL executed highly efficient management activities compared with its competitors. Stability┃S-OIL has the lowest total liabilities to equity ratio among the domestic refiners as of end of 2010 (average of the other three refiners 178.2%). This implies that S-OIL‘s capital structure is healthier than other competitors. Energy Usage and GHG Reduction┃Direct emission decreased by approximately 99 thousand tonnes Waste Discharges (Unit: thousand tonnes) CO2e compared to 2009 thanks to decreased fuel consumption following investment in energy efficiency improvement projects and routine, large-scale turnaround activities including a residue fluidized catalytic cracker. However, indirect emission increased by approximately 19 thousand tonnes CO2 due to a decrease in self-generation caused by routine turnaround and as the Alkylation process, which has been operated since 16.2 18.8 16.2 September 2009, increased power supply from the Korea Electric Power Corporation. Water Usage┃Water usage decreased from 2009 due to a decrease in the volume of crude oil processed and the utilization rate. 13.2 12.2 9.8 Waste┃Total waste discharge and recycling decreased as the discharge of recyclable spent catalyst decreased fundamentally due to the facility improvement of processes that spend catalyst. 2008 2009 2010 Environmental Investment┃S-OIL’s environmental investment decreased significantly in 2010 compared to 2009 thanks to focused investment in air pollutant reducing facilities, such as a De-NOx facility, and energy Designated Waste General Waste reducing facilities in 2009. New Employment┃We newly hired 181 employees, a 37% increase compared to 2009 and a huge inNo. of Newly Hired Employees (Unit: persons) crease over the past 2 years. It is for the stable operation of the expanded Onsan Refinery, with a bigger workforce in production. However, we have never had early retirement for business rationalization or transfer and retirement of our core workforce. Nurturing Workforce┃We maintained an average of 56 training hours per administrative employee by 61 96 153 developing various education programs to improve job competency and requiring that they receive more than 40 hours of training a year. Donation and Employees’ Volunteer Activities┃We plan and operate our budget with the aim of main74 36 28 taining a steady donation level regardless of our company’s profits. Moreover, with the aim of maintaining employee volunteer participation above 80%, we have developed various volunteering programs and award 2008 2009 2010 special prizes to outstanding employees. University Graduates Others * Notes on P. 23 Accident-free Effort┃Our occupational injury rate is significantly lower than the average for the manuOccupational Injury Rate (Unit: %) facturing sector (1.07%); however, due to two minor worksite injuries, it has increased slightly compared to 2009, which was accident free. In order to prevent recurrence of even minor accidents, we have set up a 2008 0.2 safety management improvement plan and have carried out a safety accident prevention campaign. Since 2009 0 the two accidents, we recorded 235 accident-free days and 2,349,278 accident-free person-hours as of De2010 0.1 cember 31, 2010. Safety Management Training┃We saw a huge increase in the number of safety management trainees compared with 2009 as we provided three sessions of online training through the SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) system to all employees of the Onsan Refinery in addition to the existing safety management training. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 7 Voice of Stakeholders “I was impressed by kind service of the customer center. I will look forward to continuous customer-centric service.” Jong-Ho Yoon (Customer, Team Leader of Gangneung Police Station) Bong-Soo Park Executive Vice President Marketing B/L Head “We deeply value our relationship with our customers. S-OIL believes that continuously satisfying customers’ expectations serves as a foundation for the sound growth of our society. With this faith, we observe the principle of fair competition and seek to provide quality products at a reasonable price. This policy and these efforts will never change. We will continue to listen to our customers and respond to their needs with differentiated services. Also, we will carry out efforts to enhance our brand value while providing substantial benefits to our customers.” Performance Summary Plan for 2010 Achievements in 2010 Future Plan (Sustainability Report 2009) Selected loyal customer group and collected Launched S-OIL Supporters and recruited Expand the role of supporters from monitorvarious ideas from them to reflect their 500 supporters both in the first and ing to participation in the company policy as opinions on our sales strategies. the second half of the year well as events like Prosumer Establish a warm and reliable corporate Communicated with customers and enhanced Continue to execute diagnosis on the image by communicating with customers corporate image by conducting effective ads company’s brand through outside through creative corporate image ads with the highest TOM (top of mind) among ads professional organizations of refiners Increase the number of Trustworthy The number of Trustworthy Service Stations Expand the Quality Manager System to include Service Stations increased to 1,524, an 3.9% increase corporate customers Inspect all the Trustworthy Service Stations Conducted inspection on all Trustworthy in 2010 Service Stations Improve customer data protection system Strengthened control on customer data U  pgrade customer data system Launched upgrade of customer data system Establish customer data impact assessment (introduced access control solution to customer system and strengthen integrated log analysis database and strengthened encryption of system customer data) 8 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management Reasonable Price In pursuit of ethics management with the motto, “fair and transparent pricing”, S-OIL is opposed to all forms of dishonest and unethical behavior, SI 1 including price-fixing, collusion, and other unfair trading practices. Reasonable Pricing Policy Fair Competition The price of the company’s products is based on objecS-OIL has also published a “fair trade self-observation guide.” It tive data, including international petroleum product prices illustrates the company’s commitment to free and open com(MOPS*), the current exchange rate, our supply and demand petition, enhances its employees’ understanding of fair trade, situation, and domestic market trends. S-OIL has led fair and and helps to prevent them from breaking industry-related rules reasonable pricing in the domestic market with its indepenand regulations. For practical use, the guide includes explanadent pricing system. tions of laws relating to the regulation of monopolies and fair In order to guarantee pricing fairness, a pricing committee trade, actual cases that have been taken before the Korea Fair composed of executives and employees from relevant departTrade Commission, and ancillary matters to be considered in ments meets to determine exclusive standard prices for our the workplace. domestic light oil products (i.e., gasoline and kerosene). These Despite these efforts, the fact that domestic petroleum prodprices reflect changes in cost adjustment factors such as the uct prices must always reflect international ones, along with price of petroleum products, exchange rates, etc. When setting the extremely high costs involved in entering the industry, have prices for our customers, we take into consideration the commade S-OIL an easy target for allegations of price fixing and prehensive situation, including current market conditions and unfair trade. In 2004, for example, the company, along with competition based on the standard price. three other domestic refiners, was fined by the Korea Fair Trade The transparency of our pricing practices are enhanced as the Commission for allegedly conspiring to fix the price of domespetroleum product prices at over 95% of its service stations tic light oils. We filed an appeal in April 2007, asking for the across the nation are publicized. This is done through the Opidecision to be declared null and void. The Supreme Court of net (www.opinet.co.kr), which has been operated by the Korea Korea ruled in our favor in February 2010. Oil Corporation since May 2009. In December 2009, S-OIL and LPG importers and refiners were fined KRW 668.9 billion in total by the Korea Fair Trade Commission for allegedly conspiring to fix the price of LPG. S-OIL *MOPS (Means of Platt’s Singapore): Standard price in the Asian region announced paid KRW 38.5 billion as it was fined for its portion; however, by Platt’s, the most noteworthy journal in the oil market. since it had committed no wrongdoing, it launched an appeal right away, and legal proceedings are currently underway. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 9 Differentiated Since customers’ needs are constantly changing, S-OIL devotes itself to always keeping in tune Service with them and to providing differentiated services. Understanding Customers’ Needs S-OIL identifies customers’ needs through a wide range of channels in order to provide differentiated services by Customer Data Protection reflecting customers’ opinions on sales policies. This includes an annual survey to gather opinions about our brand, products and services as well as heeding their words through The number of S-OIL bonus card members has reached to 4.6 million. As a result, the company has added hardware our customer center and by ARS and e-mail. We also carry such as additional security infrastructure and has upgraded out brand marketing activities such as ads, promotions, operation technology to ensure the safety and security of events, cards, and alliances, proactively taking into account its customers’ private data. These improvements include a customers’ suggestions. customer data management system and enhanced data security awareness. In 2010, we advanced the bonus card operation system Launching Supporters ┃ S-OIL’s customer service starts by establishing a bonus card-based customer relations from listening, promptly and correctly, to the voices of our management system and upgraded the customer data customers. S-OIL openly recruits loyal customers across the security function. We also strengthened the customer data country and has launched “S-OIL Supporters,” a group of 1,000 management system further by additionally building up the network-based DLP (Data Loss Prevention) system. We customers who will monitor the company’s products, services, only allow access to customer data to authorized persons and marketing. These supporters are expected to play a leading who have to pass through an internal control system for role in growing the company’s brand by swiftly providing not added security. In addition, permission from the department head in charge is required to utilize any customer data even for a legitimate business purpose. Information on customer data protection is also included in the Code S-OIL Customer Types of Business Ethics and Conduct for executives and employees to recognize the importance of information security. The Ministry of Public Administration and Security carried Individual Customers out a special inspection of our private information management infrastructures and systems in April 2010. No improvements were needed. S-OIL has never experienced a case of customer data leakage, theft, or loss. Service Stations/ Corporate Dealerships Customers 10 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management only opinions about the products, but also suggestions and Happy Call Program ┃S-OIL was the first domestic refiner to ideas about our overall operation. Moreover, we plan to have a submit its customer complaint system to customer evaluation. meaningful engagement, inviting supporters to the “Sunshine Through its “Happy Call Program,” adopted November 15, SI 1 Sharing” activities, S-OIL’s social contribution activities. 2010, a counselor makes a phone call to customers to check how they were treated during the complaint treatment Customer Relations Management System ┃ S-OIL, processes and to solicit suggestions about how the process through its enhanced bonus-card customer relations might be improved in the future. Through this program, management system, maintains a service environment in customers evaluate their satisfaction with the complaint which differentiated services can be provided to customers by treatment process using a 10 point scoring system. The team subdividing them. Using this system, we plan to carry out more in charge collects and analyzes this data and then shares effective marketing, provide better service, and increase sales. the result with relevant departments in order to continue improvement activities for customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Suggestion Program ┃ S-OIL invites all its customers to participate in its Customer Satisfaction Suggestion Program through which they can directly deliver Cases Improved by CCPS their ideas and suggestions. All customer suggestions will be Produced customer satisfaction training materials by analyzing examined quarterly and evaluated according to feasibility, the data of registered complaints and provided training to effectiveness, creativity, and cost, with a small gift being given service station owners to prevent re-occurrence of similar cases and complaints to all participants. Excellent suggestions will be included in our Provided intensive trainings to service stations with detailed action plan for customer satisfaction management, many complaints providing customers with improved services. Complaint Provided tips for prevention/post-treatment of oil mix-ups Prevention Visited service stations which are under intensive Customer Complaints Processing System (CCPS) ┃ management and highly likely to receive complaints about quality of diesel from customers before winter; The speedy and accurate handling of customer complaints and inspected facilities and trained how to manage them difficulties is the first step of customer satisfaction management. Strengthened training to prevent and respond to complaints S-OIL adds to its customers’ satisfaction through its CCPS. As about the quality of diesel fuel due to sudden drops in temperature during winter soon as a complaint has been categorized and registered, the concerned team investigates its cause or causes. Resolved disputes when the actual amount of fuel pumped was larger than a vehicle’s specifications and addressed complaints by checking whether the gas pump provided the right amount of oil Complaint Resolution Came to an amicable settlement between concerned parties CCPS Performance: Customer Complaints Handled (Unit: cases) based on court cases when oil mix-up occurred 283 Collected and analyzed a sample from a customer’s vehicle 2008 Product Quality and the service station to accurately find the cause of 2009 207 Service/Delivery a complaint 2010 217 and others 2008 743 2009 634 2010 712 * Complaints about alliance services, such as bonus cards, affiliated credit cards, gift certificates, promotion, etc., are not included. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 11 can patronize it with confidence. By the end of 2010, 1,524 of our affiliated service stations had signed a Trustworthy Service Station Agreement allowing them to participate in S-OIL Customer Center, the program. 2010 Korean Service Quality Index (KSQI)-Selected Best Refiner Quality Manager System ┃ Our “Quality Manager System” Selected by the Korea Management Association Consulting ensures that service station facilities have been carefully as the best refiner in terms of the quality of its call center inspected for purposes of quality control. Quality control services in 2009 (KSQI: Korea Service Quality Index), S-OIL managers visit each service station to examine their products was once again selected for this honor in 2010. Its superior customer service, recognized for two consecutive years, is the and inspect their quality control facilities. During these visits, result of monthly customer service training as well as addithe service station manager learns the results of holdingtional, ongoing supervision and instruction by a quality contank moisture inspections, gas pump meter inspections, and trol manager. In addition, the company continues to improve the recent sample analyses, so that the right amount of a the work environment for its counselors by streamlining and product with best quality can always be provided to his or standardizing the work process and by seeking ways to create a more comfortable working atmosphere. her customers. They also promptly respond to customers’ complaints regarding product quality with abundant experiences and expert knowledge and give them detailed explanations about the problem-solving process, thereby achieving high trust from customers. As of 2010, S-OIL had inspected all its Trustworthy Service Stations, and plans to Various Alliance Services expand the system so that corporate customers, in addition S-OIL offers its customers a wide range of additional services to to Trustworthy Service Stations, can receive various services increase their level of satisfaction. Customized services through required for quality management in 2011. S-OIL has always bonus cards, affiliated credit cards, gift certificates, and mobile provided its customers with accurate product information and coupons are developed and distributed by customer type to has never been penalized for breaking any relevant laws. better reflect their characteristics and needs. S-OIL designs its services in a way which is valued by its customers. As a result, it is constantly adding to its number of bonus point member No. of Trustworthy Service Stations (Unit: stations) shops, such as online shopping malls, portal sites, car repair chains, movie theaters, and airlines. We also plan to continue 2008 1,282 our affiliation programs, including providing the best fueling 2009 1,467 benefits in affiliation with the credit cards that are most 2010 1,524 preferred by our customers. Quality Guaranteeing Program Trustworthy Service Station Program ┃ Based on customers’ trust on S-OIL brand, S-OIL operates a “Trustworthy Service Station” program to fulfill customers’ needs to purchase safe and trustworthy products. S-OIL enters into an agreement with a Trustworthy Service Station, promising it will first reimburse any losses caused by faulty products. When customers see “Trustworthy Service Station” on a service station’s signboard, they know they 12 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management Enhancement of S-OIL strengthens its brand recognition and its customer base through differentiated ads, SI 1 Brand Value promotion, and card marketing. In addition, we are committed to providing our customers with substantial benefits by strengthening our cooperative relationship with them. Ads Communicating with Customers the production of value-added products under the slogan TV Ads Winning over Customers ┃ S-OIL has drawn on “Good People, Good Oil.” The illustrated ads, which were customers’ desire for “good” (high quality) oil, the essence intended to soften the company’s image, were part of a series of the refining industry since 2006, and has expanded its that ran in Korean newspapers and magazines (The “Fill the meaning to include “the good life” and “good driving” through tank!” Series). All of these ads received positive feedback, advertising campaigns. With its slogan of “Good Oil Good since they portrayed the company as a leader in the drive for Driving,” S-OIL has championed good driving habits through environmental protection and as a strong believer in the need creative, public interest advertising such as those which aired for social contribution activities, such as a natural monument in 2010 encouraging people to drive safely in school zones protection campaign, supporting heroic firefighters, etc. S-OIL and to come to a full stop at intersections. This ad campaign will continue to burnish its corporate image as a charitable was well-received by both government and the public, with and trustworthy company by communicating with the public the Ministry of Public Administration and Security as well the through additional creative advertising. National Police Agency selecting it as an example of a “good ads campaign” and customers sending letters in praise as well. Marketing Contest for Potential Customers ┃ S-OIL In 2011, S-OIL will continue to send meaningful messages in a hosted the first marketing contest ‘2011 S-OIL Brand Awards’ pleasant and lively manner. from December 2010 to March 2011 in order to strengthen communication with university students, who are its future Print Ads Emphasizing Corporate Citizenship ┃ In customers. Although it was the first time this event had ever 2010, S-OIL ran a print ad outlining its contributions to the been held, 1,408 students (690 teams) participated in three national economy through petroleum product exports and areas (ads, sales promotion, and future service station image), TOM Among Ads of Refiners (TOM: Top of Mind) (Unit: %) 58.2 63.2 66.4 S-OIL 5.9 8.8 9.2 Average of Other Domestic Refiners 2008 2009 2010 “Good Oil Good Driving” * Ad Tracking Survey Results by Nielsen Company Korea Campaign S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 13 demonstrating high interest. The contest served as a precious Cultural Event ┃ S-OIL invites customers to a variety of opportunity for university students to practice what they have cultural events to provide special cultural experiences. These learned in school while at work and to give full scope to their allow us to not only repay our customers, but to let our imaginations as would-be office workers. S-OIL believes that customers truly get to know us. what is most important is people’s energy, and so it intends to host this marketing competition regularly in order to provide Instant Winner Free-Gift Event ‘S-5 Day Festival’┃ a space where university students can unleash their creativity S-OIL hosted an instant winner free-gift event, the S-5 Day and passion. Festival, to provide customers with substantial benefits and to increase customer satisfaction. On the 5th, 15th and 25th Differentiated Event/Promotion of each month starting in October and ending in December Sports Marketing ┃ S-OIL burnishes its image of being 2010, approximately 30,000 customers who visited service first-rate, active and friendly to customers by hosting and stations for refueling or filling were given receipts upon which sponsoring a variety of sports events. This also helps to facilitate were listed various prizes such as a 2-year gas coupon or an and popularize sports by boosting the public’s interest in overseas trip, like an instant lottery. In 2011, S-OIL plans to them. In addition to being the title sponsor of the KLPGA Tour carry out a new type of promotion which will provide benefits Champions Invitational golf tournament every year since 2007, in conjunction with customer records. S-OIL also backs professional golfers and racing teams. We also provide premium services to satisfy and favorably impress Visiting Yellow Concert ┃ S-OIL offers “Visiting Yellow customers, such as inviting them to golf pro-ams and various Concerts” as part of its campaign to bring opportunities to other sporting events. S-OIL will continue to expand its sports enjoy high-quality cultural events to regions/organizations marketing efforts in order to increase its brand attractiveness which are culturally and emotionally marginalized. among both existing and potential customers. Invitation to Musicals/Concerts ┃ S-OIL invites its customers from all over the country to enjoy musicals and concerts in order to enhance its reputation as a corporate sponsor of cultural events and strengthen its relationship with its customers. In 2010, we carefully selected customer preferred performances such as Musical Mozart, Monte Cristo, concerts by Kim Bum-Soo and Whee-Sung, etc., and then distributed tickets to 5,000 of our customers. S-OIL will continue to identify cultural performances preferred by our KLPGA Tour customers and expand its cultural services. S-OIL Champions Invitational Solid Partnership with Customers Station Awards System ┃ Service stations, an essential component of S-OIL’s domestic sales network, are both its customers and its partners. We offer a wide variety of support activities to facilitate long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with the managers of our affiliated service stations and to enhance both their competitiveness and the quality of their operations. S-OIL rewards and encourages managers of its service stations who have excellent performance records in terms Invitation to Musical/Concerts of service, quality of management (such as facility manage14 SI 1 Enhance Customer-Centric Management ment), sales, and profitability by offering them memberships in tween industry experts and 800 current and potential customers the S-OIL Champions Club. This promotes competition and the in 2010. In addition, we continue to strengthen our customer sharing of best practices among our stations, thus enhancing relations programs by hosting events for customers of refined SI 1 operations at all of our service stations. petroleum and petrochemical products. Communication Channels with Overseas Customers ┃ S-OIL is strengthening its long-term cooperative relationships with its overseas customers by recognizing that they are crucial partners in its efforts to expand into overseas markets. As part of this ongoing endeavor, we continue to establish multiple and differentiated channels of communication. Since 2007, we have hosted the annual reception for attendees of APPEC (AsiaPacific Petroleum Conference), held in Singapore, to expand the overseas market for refined petroleum products. In this way, we have helped to facilitate worldwide exchange opportunities beAPPEC Reception Activities to Support Service Station Managers Communication with Overseas Customers Presentations on •Introduce sales policy and support system by visiting • APPEC (Asia-Pacific Petroleum Conference) service stations by region and provide special lectures Reception for Attendees Marketing Policy Refined Petroby outside lecturers as well as meetings Hosted in Singapore every year since 2007 and Support •Managers of around 1,000 affiliated service stations leum Products E ngagement with main customers and System nation-wide participated world-wide potential customers Service Station •Publish every two months to share information on Petrochemical • Hold regular strategy round tables with main customers Management station management and exemplary cases and to Products • Maintain solid cooperative relations with customers Magazine introduce service station support system •Operate an online site (https://ebiz.s-oil.com) to • Events for domestic customers provide information about sales policy, service station Hosted for main customers since 2007 Cyber Education • Events for overseas customers management manual and laws and regulations related to service stations and to provide trainings Customers from USA, Europe and Japan Lube Base Oil • Others Strengthening face-to-face contact with main •Company-employed professional consultants visit customers including quarterly review meetings Service Station service stations to address and support issues regardand video conferences Management ing service station operations including start-up, sales Consulting management, promotion, facility renovations and supplementary businesses •YES Team, the service improvement team, visits service YES Team stations to provide customer service trainings and to support promotional activities S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 15 Voice of Stakeholders “We hope investment continues in training to improve corporate culture for communication, to facilitate organization and to strengthen the capabilities of employees.” S-OIL employee (Internal Survey) Dong-Cheoul Kim Executive Vice President Administration B/L Head “S-OIL helps employees demonstrate their potential to the fullest, having total confidence in their company. We operate customized training programs, use a fair performance evaluation system, offer competitive rewards and an intensive holiday program to help employees develop their capabilities and, at the same time, enjoy work-life balance. Moreover, the new cutting-edge and eco-friendly company building, which will be open in June, 2011, will provide a convenient and pleasant work environment to employees. S-OIL will provide the best-in-class work environment based on the belief that the future of the company rests on the shoulders of each employee. Performance Summary Plan for 2010 Achievements in 2010 Future Plan (Sustainability Report 2009) I ntroduce the specialist management system Introduced the specialist management system Adopt personnel system and a nurturing to help employees requiring specialties to and selected specialists program appropriate for the various specialties concentrate on their job in 2010 so as to successfully implement the specialist management I mplement the intensive holiday program for I ntroduced the intensive holiday program C  onsider adaptation of programs to effectively all employees and conduct company-wide and conducted company-wide performance address employees’ work-related stress performance management to facilitate the management so that 100% of applicants program utilized the intensive holiday program E xpanded performance-based differential S tudied ways to better link team and C  ontinue to improve the system so that annual salary system for performanceindividual performances with rewards individual performance is more fairly connected oriented corporate culture with rewards while maintaining existing competitive rewards level E nhanced employee welfare, as the new company Reflected on plans for the completed new Make sure employee preferences and building is equipped with a pleasant office area, company building in 2011 suggestions are reflected in the new work a cafeteria, a fusion restaurant, a fitness center, a environment financial institution and a coffee shop Talent Education S-OIL’s ideal employee is a world-class professional. Our training and career development programs are and Capability geared to each worker’s abilities and interests. Also, we cultivate global talents through our state-ofDevelopment the-art leadership program. SI 2 Integrated Training System Global Training Program As competition becomes more globalized, S-OIL is fostering S-OIL supports its employees’ participation in outside, workthe development of experts who can shoulder the future of related seminars and conferences to increase their ability to S-OIL. We offer all our employees both company-wide and contend with global issues such as the energy crisis and climate individualized training options to further develop their work change. Our very best workers can even study abroad to receive behavior, work expertise, and leadership abilities. Our office an MBA or another advanced degree in the natural sciences or workers must undergo at least forty hours of training each year engineering at the IFP School in France, thus gaining worldin order to maintain the continuity of learning. class expertise. Moreover, we provide overseas training to all Our office workers spent an average of 56 hours in training our employees, and 150 people are selected each year for in 2010—about the same as the previous year. In an effort overseas training in countries such as China. We also provide to nurture valued specialists, however, this year, instead of various foreign language courses. Our newly opened courses focusing on the development of common work proficiencies, for specialists include English writing, English negotiation, as we hired outside experts to train our staff in more specialized well as Japanese and Chinese in order to enhance the foreign job skills and capabilities. For example, to provide work-oriented language abilities of our overseas sales force. education in order to enhance performance, we provided our staff with training aimed at strengthening salesmanship by Individual Development Plan developing a marketing academy curriculum. In addition S-OIL encourages all of its employees to set their own career to providing new, short-term training courses, we also made goals in relation to their capabilities and interests. Through available various types of job-oriented cyber curriculums. the Individual Development Plan (IDP), employees pursue professional skill development through a carefully planned Yearly Average Training Hour Per Office Worker (Unit: hours) Cyber Education (Except for foreign language and book reading) (Unit: classes, persons) 2008 71 48 2008 No. of classes 2009 56 2009 69 No. of employees 2010 96 educated 2010 56 2008 506 2009 612 2010 510 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 17 job rotation system which provides them with pertinent skillSpecialist Management System building job experiences while tracking their training history In 2010, S-OIL introduced a program that specifically focuses and systematic advancement. We are currently expanding on the development of specialists to prevent them from this system company-wide by considering the IDP of all facing any disadvantages in promotions and job rotations. applicants, starting with outstanding workers with longThe purpose of this new initiative is to create an environment term careers in the same job. In 2010, 173 office employees in which employees with special assignments are encouraged (15%) rotated their jobs. In addition, we employ a job posting to concentrate on their work and thus contribute to the system every quarter in order to help employees develop their company through the enhancement of their expertise. In careers as well as facilitate better communication within the case of office workers, their career development and the organization. When the company has a job opening, management plan will be subdivided into two tracks: general an employee who wishes to assume that position can, occupations and specialized ones. Those who are classified upon successful evaluation, transfer. In 2010, a total of 11 as professional workers will be nurtured as specialists through employees transferred to other departments. an variety of special programs, including external job skills curriculums, and will be given support for acquiring jobCore Workforce Nurturing System related certificates and degrees. Because S-OIL recognizes the importance of its core, nextgeneration leaders, we operate systematic programs in order Fair Performance Assessment and to nurture them. In consideration of the specific competencies Promotion System and needs of the employees who are selected to assume S-OIL’s merit-based personnel policy takes into account each future leadership roles, we systematically nurture their talents employee’s personal achievements as well as his or her unit’s through S-OIL’s exclusively developed training programs as well performance in order to fairly reward his or her capabilities and as commissioned training programs. Those who successfully overall effectiveness and, in so doing, improve each employees’ complete these programs are selected to become S-OIL’s concentration and efficiency. All executives and employees future leaders, thus assuming a leading role in pursuing the are evaluated in terms of their personal achievements and company’s continued sustainable growth. competencies, and they are provided with feedback so they In 2010, we conducted an assessment of our executives in can improve both the company’s performance and their own. an effort to help them develop into our next-generation of Evaluation results at the level of manager or above are used to leaders. In 2011, we intend to implement different types of determine salary rates which are fair and equitable. In the case individualized development programs depending upon the of promotions, we have introduced a scoring system so that results of these assessments as well as conduct team leader employees with excellent performance and competencies can assessments to nurture their capabilities. be promoted in advance. We also accept and make use of the opinions of employees on a regular basis in order to create a broad common ground and enhance reliability. 18 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Human Rights S-OIL respects its employees’ human rights and diversity and provides a pleasant work environment. Protection and In addition, we make efforts to fundamentally improve our employees’ quality of life by providing Enhancement of fair assessment according to individual ability and performance. We also offer comparable rewards and Life Quality welfare benefits. SI 2 Pleasant Work Environment meetings and relaxing, which will enhance employees’ welfare. A pleasant working environment is a basic requirement to The auditorium will be used to host various cultural events improve employee satisfaction and work efficiency. S-OIL including plays and concerts as part of our corporate social provides various facilities and work spaces in order to create a responsibility efforts for the surrounding community and to pleasant work environment. facilitate communication with local residents. Onsan Refinery ┃ For the added convenience of our employees and visitors, we constructed both underground and ground-level parking lots at our main gate (accommodating 261 cars). In addition to employee facilities for after work selfdevelopment, we have also enhanced the working environment of our partner-employees while they are visiting our work sites, offering them facilities such as restaurants and showers. This is to foster to better relations with our partners. In addition, we have revamped some of our outmoded facilities and we hire outside experts to assess our working environment on a regular basis in order to create safe and pleasant working conditions. New Head Office Head Office ┃ Slated for occupancy by the middle of June Building in Seoul 2011, S-OIL’s new head office building in Mapo-gu, Seoul, is equipped with an automated and eco-friendly intelligent Intensive Holiday Program building system. All of its lights are LED, and it has a water saving S-OIL introduced the intensive holiday program in 2010 so system, thus optimizing energy use to minimize CO2 emissions. that employees can take a 2 consecutive-week holiday at It was certificated as outstanding environmentally friendly any time of the year. This contributes to the enhancement of building by the Land and Housing Institute of the Korea Land workplace concentration and improves employee satisfaction and Housing Corporation. It also boasts convenient access by providing work-life balance including sufficient rest. to public transportation such as subways and airport railway, While executives/team leaders are away on their intensive promoting the use of public transportation and reducing air vacations, executives/team leaders of other departments pollution. Its amenities will include pleasant work spaces, substitute for them according to a pre-established schedule. staff restaurants, fusion restaurants for business meetings, This significantly enhances inter-departmental understanding a fitness center, financial institutions, and coffee shops for and communication. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 19 Best-in-Class Compensation and including general checkups and more comprehensive ones Employee Benefit System depending upon an employee’s age and type of occupation. S-OIL seeks to provide the highest-level compensation rates This helps employees identify severe diseases earlier and in the industry, and our employee benefits package is equally hence better manage their health. Also, we operate a postgenerous. This makes our workers feel proud to work for us management program so that employees who are diagnosed and increases their dedication to their jobs based on financial with health issues can have one-on-one customized health stability. We pay newly-hired university graduates 340% of the consulting with an industrial physician and health official. country’s minimum wage, the highest compensation offered by any company in our field in Korea. Our pay and benefits Job Security Guaranteeing System packages are gender-neutral. Managers and executives S-OIL efficiently manages its workforce and guarantees its receive base pay and merit-based pay according their unit’s employees’ job security at the same time. In 2007 we launched performance and individual achievements. S-OIL will expand a successful new program which enables retired employees to the system company-wide to create a performance-oriented return to work for up to two additional years under the same corporate culture. S-OIL’s employee benefits policies have working conditions that prevailed when they retired. In 2011, been reasonably designed according to life cycle, meaning that we plan to introduce a system to promote non-regular workers they are based on an employee’s age and length of service. who have job skills which are required by the company to In addition to such benefits as health insurance, employment regular status once they pass an internal review. This system insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, and the national provides an excellent opportunity not only for employees, but pension plan (all of which are mandated under Korea’s also for the company which requires an outstanding workforce. labor laws and regulations), we provide support for housing S-OIL observes all domestic laws and regulations including loans and related support, health care expenses, tuition fees, standards stipulated in international guidelines regarding congratulations and condolences, as well as pension and working conditions of non-regular workers. S-OIL classifies nonleisure activities through our leading welfare benefits system. regular workers from regular workers according to their job and function and we never discriminate against non-regular Regular Checkups for Employees/Spouses ┃ To promote workers even though a particular worker might carry out the the health of our employees and their spouses, S-OIL provides same tasks as regular workers. regular health checkups. We offer various types of checkups Employee Benefits Tuition Fees Preschool/Primary school Middle school High school University (a certain amount per quarter) (a certain amount per quarter) (full tuition) (full tuition) Housing Loans Long-term, low-interest loans for house purchases or rental payments (employees who served one year or more) Housing Housing for employees in the Onsan Refinery (grade 4 or above) and Quarters for single employees in the Onsan Refinery for employees who work in the provinces away from their homes National Pension Plan A certain amount per month (for ten years) Health Examinations Biannual comprehensive health examinations Annual comprehensive health examinations for Employees General medical checkups (age 35 or less) (age 35~39; general medical checks for the years (age 40 or more) without the examinations) Health Examinations for Spouses Biannual comprehensive health examinations (age 36 or more) Medical Expenses Supports Employees / Spouses / Children (paying the actual costs up to the ceiling amount, including dental prosthesis treatment expenses) Supporting insurance required by law (National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, Workmen’s Accident Compensation Others Insurance) / Compensation for employee’s death and injuries / Summer and winter resorts, subsidized use of condominiums at resort areas across the nation / Sports days / Support for company clubs / Money and time off for congratulations and condolences, etc. Length of Service (Age) 20 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Communicating We believe that a first-class workplace is perfected when members act with professionalism and come Corporate Culture together to create a warm corporate culture. S-OIL fosters such a corporate culture by maintaining harmonious and constructive labor-management relations, thus permitting vibrant communication. SI 2 Positive and Harmonious Labor-Management Relations S-OIL boasts an exemplary labor-management relationship, with no labor disputes since the establishment of its union in 1980. This is the result of genuine trust and cooperation between labor and management. Both sides have worked together to ensure that all labor-related rules and regulations are obeyed, that the union’s activities are respected, and that the opinions of the union’s members are taken seriously. S-OIL guarantees its workers the right to engage in collective labor union activities, and all its labor terms and benefits Byung-Ho Lee are outlined in its personnel policies and in the collective Senior Vice President agreement with the union. We observe all labor-related laws Head of Human Resources & Employee Relations Office and principles and prohibit any unjustifiable interference with our human resources or infringements of our management activities including prohibiting unfair labor practices. The union S-OIL believes that fostering a corporate culture in which belongs to the Federation of Korean Chemical Workers’ Union, employees trust and respect one another and concentrate on their work energetically is the core of the company's under the auspices of the Federation of Korean Trade Unions. competitiveness in achieving its mission. S-OIL assesses Employees at the rank of foreman or below are free to join or its corporate culture, including the quality of workplace leave the union. As of the end of 2010, its membership was communication, on a regular basis and, when necessary, takes measures to improve it. After all, we want our employees to 1,435, with 3 full-time union officers. go about their work in high spirits and for S-OIL to be the best company to work for in all of Korea. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 21 Activities to Improve Corporate Culture Expansion of Internal Communication Channel ┃ S-OIL has been carrying out various activities in order to create S-OIL develops and operates various communication channels a corporate culture in which the company’s strategies are to facilitate vibrant communications among its employees effectively executed and employees are more committed to and to enhance the accessibility of information. In 2010, their jobs. Based on the corporate culture survey conducted we published the web magazine “IT Tong Tong” to provide in 2009, we carried out workshops to improve work processes information about the fast-changing IT environment and to and facilitate communications among employees and introduce the company’s new IT systems and strategies. The therefore to improve corporate culture. We created a better monthly web magazine serves as an internal communication work environment through company-wide corporate culture channel and helps enhance the work efficiency of employees improvement activities. In 2011, we will dedicate ourselves to by providing IT-related information. creating a harmonious and warm corporate culture through In 2011, we plan to publish a periodic HR Webzine to introduce vibrant communications by newly establishing a corporate HR-related programs, to cover complaint consultation, and culture department and more systematically conducting then utilize it as a communication channel so that employees corporate culture improvement activities. can learn about the company’s HR policies and operations. Head Office Workshop to Executive Workshop Improve Corporate for Leadership and Culture Communication Labor-Management Communications Channels Category Channel Cycle Description A team-building activity in which employees from each department gather together Monthly Conferences Monthly to have candid discussions about problems and interests and to seek solutions to them. Handling Complaints Labor-Management 10 representatives from each party discuss issues regarding improvement of productivity, Quarterly Conferences work environment, and employee benefits. Production Site Visits Weekly Executives visit to production sites to check the work environment and listen to workers’ complaints. Salary Adjustments Annually Negotiations on salary adjustments Labor-Management Collective Bargaining Annually Negotiations on working conditions, except salary Negotiations Industrial Safety and Meetings are held to discuss industrial safety issues, Quarterly Health Committee including dangerous work conditions and health risks. Understanding Business Labor-Management SemiLabor and management join together to discuss management conditions and Environment Joint Workshops annually labor issues and offer their opinions. 22 SI 2 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Communication with New Employees ┃ S-OIL operates employees who have been with the company for less than a mentoring program to help new employees adjust to their four years further adapt to it. In addition, new employees are new workplace by having veterans show them the ropes welcome to transfer to other departments in consideration of and introduce them to the new corporate culture. In 2010, their interests and aptitudes provided they serve a full year at we established the Dynamic Rookies Program to help new the department where they were initially assigned. Employment Status by Business Site (Unit: persons) SI 2 76 274 1,636 2,589 Terminals District Sales 603 Headquarters Head Office Dynamic Rookies Program Refinery Employment Structure (Unit: persons) Employment Status: Regular/Non-regular (Unit: persons) 38 2,366 2,409 2,479 1,400 52 64 72 Regular 2,589 Executives Administrative 37 38 38 Non-regular 1,151 Employees Executives Production 2008 2009 2010 Employees Recruitment Status for the Last 3 Years (Unit: persons) No. of Retirees and Turnover Rate (Unit: persons, %) 2.57% 3.03% 3.98% 74 36 28 63 76 103 Turnover Rate University 61 96 153 Graduates 26 38 47 Total No. of Retirees Others 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 No. of Retirees by Age Limit * Two times of recruitment of university graduates were conducted in * 33 former employees who were transferred to STLC in 2008 are excluded. the first and the second half of 2008. * “Others” refers to all the employment including junior college graduates, experienced workers, and non-regular workers except for university graduates. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 23 Voice of Stakeholders “Climate change adaptation is a must, not an option.” Ministry of Environment (Press Release July 11, 2010) Sung-Ki Ha Yong-Hee Lee Execurive Vice President Senior Vice President Refining B/L Head Head of Operations “Climate change response is a must, not an option. S-OIL has long been interested in improving energy efficiency and has achieved GHG reduction as a result of its efforts. S-OIL will proactively respond to climate change through strict management and reduction of GHG by reflecting carbon cost and values on our processes from the planning stage. Along with the environment, safety is a value S-OIL refuses to compromise on. S-OIL conducts accident-free campaigns and preventive environmental preservation activities not only with its employees, but also with its business partners. We will continue to make efforts for the sustainable development of our present and future stakeholders based on company-wide operational excellence. Performance Summary Plan for 2010 Achievements in 2010 Future Plan (Sustainability Report 2009) Set energy consumption target through discusPrepared to report GHG emissions to the governEstablish strategies to faithfully execute the sion with the government and make efforts to ment according to National MRV (GHG MeaNegotiated Agreement achieve this target surement, Reporting and Verification) guidelines Establish IT infrastructure for efficient management of energy usage and GHG emissions Realized 100% of the double-hulled ship usage Since March 2010, 100% double hulled ships rate until March 2010 have been used. Improved capabilities to prevent environmental Introduced Intelligent Diagnostic Alert System Improve safety management procedures and pollution and respond to emergencies through and conducted contingency drills on a monthly accordingly continue to implement various safety proactive investment and continuous basis management measures emergency drills Introduce safety education e-learning system to enhance safety knowledge and awareness of business partners Operate legitimate emission facilities based on Invested around KRW 9.8 billion in Continue to make environmental investments, strict environmental management, responding existing refinery’s environment/energy facilities both mid-term and longer-term to local community’s demands for informaInvested around KRW 28 billion in environment/ tion and increase investment in environmental energy facilities along with the expansion of improvement the Onsan Refinery Spent environment-related expenses of around KRW 223 billion Response to Climate S-OIL has established an advanced environmental management system to respond Change and Energy to climate change and the energy crisis. It is also committed to utilizing energy efficiency practices Conservation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we are taking a leading role in registering GHG reduction businesses. SI 3 Response to Climate Change Voluntary GHG Reduction ┃ While conducting systematic At the 16th UNFCCC COP, held in Cancun, Mexico at the end research to establish a midand longer-term CO2 reduction of 2010, the parties failed to reach an agreement on specific target, S-OIL has taken the initiative in reducing GHG by solutions to climate change the world is facing but agreed to pursuing reduction projects which can be implemented jointly reduce GHG. Although Korea, where S-OIL’s business sites immediately. In 2005, we became Korea’s first oil refiner to are located, has not yet been included in the list of countries participate in the Korean Energy Management Corporations’ subject to reduction obligations, S-OIL is playing a leading role GHG Reduction Registry program. Since then, we have been as a corporate citizen by joining with the international effort to approved for our GHG reduction results every year. As of April cut greenhouse gases. 2011, we registered 16 GHG reduction projects with the Korean Energy Management Corporation’s registry. This represents Establishment and Verification of GHG Inventory ┃ approximately 5.3% of the registered domestic projects (304 A GHG inventory system is a systematic and efficient method projects) and 4.6% of CO2 emission reduction of the total for corporate entities to manage all stages ranging from amount (331,221 tonnes_CO2) S-OIL reduced through the calculation of the amount of GHG generated by their activities projects. Our efforts to reduce GHG emissions will continue to reports made. S-OIL established an international-standard into the future. GHG inventory in 2009, and an audit of our inventory was carried out by a UN-designated external expertise organization. We also appointed departments and employees Amount of GHG Emissions (Unit: thousand tonnes_CO2) Head Office and Onsan Refinery to manage the data on our activities, calculate and verify our emissions amounts, and produce a report to enhance 2008 7,418 efficiency of inventory management and reliability of GHG 2009 7,262 emission calculation. Moreover, we will report GHG emission 2010 7,183 to the government according to the national MRV (GHG Measurement, Reporting and Verification) instruction to * The data for the last three years were all re-calculated according to the government emission estimation standards including exclusion of emissions generated by incineration actively participate in the Negotiated Agreement which will of waste gas take effect in Korea according to the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Growth. We will set the GHG emission reduction target through discussion with the government and make efforts to achieve the target. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 25 Energy Conservation Cutting the amount of energy used also means lowered GHG emissions. S-OIL takes initiative in reducing its energy use Establishment of both internally and externally by making improvements to its Energy Monitoring System production environment and its operating processes. As part of its internal activity, we established an energy management To identify energy expense saving opportunities, which department in June 2009 to provide technological support amounts to more than 70% of production operating costs, regarding climate change and to carry out general tasks we began construction of an energy monitoring system in regarding GHG reductions. In addition, we established an July 2010, to monitor the status of energy use during proEnergy Management Committee and an Energy Administrative duction. Construction will be complete in May 2011. This monitoring system keeps track of the energy used by each Committee which analyze, assess and report on energy use on specific equipment as well as their incumbent expenses. a monthly basis and develop and discuss ideas for new energy It is expected to improve overall energy management efreduction projects. The Energy Management Committee is ficiency as well as provide useful information for making engaged in formulating midand long-term energy saving future improvements. plans while approving energy reduction businesses developed by the Energy Administrative Committee. S-OIL is also continuing its energy-saving activities with the assistance of local and international consulting bodies so Participation in the Negotiated Agreement Pilot as to identify categories for energy savings and facilities Project┃In December 2009, S-OIL signed an agreement improvements. In particular, we identified a total of 35 with the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy to participate in implementable ideas by signing an energy conservation a Negotiated Agreement pilot project, which was part of the consulting contract with AspenTech in 2010. It is expected government’s effort to achieve the nation’s GHG reduction that approximately KRW 35 billion will be saved annually. In target. Under this accord, S-OIL agreed to analyze and report addition, we have been improving our facilities in conjunction its energy reduction performance from 2010 through 2012, with the profit improvement program to reduce our energy as compared with the base year (2005-2007). By November consumption; this includes improvements to outdated facilities 2010, we had already exceeded our 2012 target, and in so as well as the addition of new facilities. As a result, we have doing, we have an excellent chance of being recognized for accomplished energy saving as well as enhanced production our early GHG reductions, an achievement which will put efficiency. From our analysis, we believe that we saved us in compliance with the Negotiated Agreement with the approximately KRW 19 billion in 2010. government when it goes into effect starting in 2012. Fuel Use (Unit: TOE) Head Office & Onsan Refinery Electricity Use (Unit: MWh) Head Office & Onsan Refinery 2008 1,686,899 2008 1,437,455 2009 1,663,298 2009 1,420,921 2010 1,659,016 2010 1,461,082 * Data for 2008 and 2009 were revised. * Except for self-generation 26 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence Safety First S-OIL emphasizes that safety should be its highest priority in all its business activities. Safety is taken Management seriously by top management, including the CEO, all the way down. Everybody is involved in a variety of ways in creating a safe working environment., acknowledging our motto that ‘Safety is not a slogan, but a practice.’ SI 3 Safety Management Management System. This system was set up to create profit All of S-OIL’s employees participate in the company’s health for the company and to systematically manage employee and safety activities, setting clear goals for how to improve health and safety by looking in advance and preventing environmental safety as well as deciding on the organization, potential danger at worksites with the participation of all responsibilities, as well as the procedures required to employees, including the CEO and stakeholders. We receive achieve these goals. Both material and human resources are post-management assessment every year by the certification effectively distributed and managed by the Safety and Health body to get the effectiveness of the system approved. In 2010, the implementation of this system was recognized for its excellence in the assessment for certification renewal which is conducted every three years following its initial assessment. CEO’s Emphasis on Safety Convention for Accident-Free in the SEP (S-OIL Expansion Project) Construction Site ┃ As part of “What makes a job risky is not what you do but ongoing efforts to achieve an accident-free business site, how you do it.” which was emphasized by the CEO in his 2010 New Year’s “Unlike quality, air and cost, safety can not be compromised. Speech, the accident-free convention was held on January 22, When safety is not guaranteed, all achievements 2010 to reduce accidents at the SEP Project site. A total of 140 are meaningless. ” people, including CEOs of constructor and partner companies, participated in the event. At the convention, the CEO of S-OIL emphasized that safety should come first in business; thus, it is necessary to treat accidents of partner companies’ employees in the same manner as we treat our employees’. Labor-Management Cooperative Safety Management System ┃ S-OIL announced a labor-management safety declaration to achieve an accident-free worksite based on trust, unity and mutual cooperation between labor and management. It also decided on cooperation among the two parties to secure rights to safety and health. Therefore, based on the declaration, the company will instruct, advise, S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 27 train and provide information to employees about industrial health and safety issues. Also, when at work, employees declared that they must observe health and safety rules and Support for Partners procedures and wear safety gears at all times. Since the labor(Oct. 2009 – Oct. 2010) management safety declaration, labor and management has conducted a joint site safety inspection with the common goal ·Organize promotion conference and host safety meeting of realizing an accident-free workplace, laying a foundation ·E stablish a safety/health information sharing system for cooperation. We have inspected the production site and (SHE System) workplace safety of our partner companies’ employees’ as · Host Occupational Risk Evaluation Workshop well, and we have listened to employee complaints in order · Execute emergency drill for administrators to enhance company-wide awareness about safety. Labor and · Support safety and health educations/trainings ·Provide technological assistance jointly with the Ministry management have jointly declared their dedication to the of Labor and the Korea Industry Safety and Health creation of worksite safety management with the faith that Corporation they should join together in matters of safety. · Provide industrial health assistance Safety Management of Partner Companies S-OIL has signed a partnership agreement with 12 other companies by joining the mother company/partner win-win program hosted by the Korea Industrial Safety and Health Encouraging Partners with Excellent Safety ManageCorporation and the Ministry of Labor. This is to prevent ment Records ┃ To encourage pride and voluntary safety accidents at partner companies which lack the capacity to management, S-OIL evaluates the safety management of all implement industrial accident prevention activities due to of its on-site partners on an annual basis and offers rewards poor management conditions. S-OIL has provided partner to the best ones. The results of these evaluations are used to companies with safety and health education, transferred safety encourage those with an excellent result to do better and to and health technologies and shared technological data through discourage bidding by companies with a poor low safety manthe safety management computing system. Therefore, it has agement record level. This enhances the safety management significantly reduced safety accidents of partner companies capability of partner companies working on-site. through its active support for the establishment of a safety management system. Partner Companies’ Joint Accident-Free Convention ┃ S-OIL recognizes that safety awareness of not only its own employees but also of its partner companies is important to realizing an accident-free worksite. S-OIL therefore hosted an accident-free convention on January 7, 2010, which was attended by S-OIL employees as well as all the safety managers of its partners. Employee representatives from all participating companies jointly read the resolution and all partner companies signed the agreement to participate in the accident-free campaign, resolving to dedicate themselves to the prevention of industrial accidents. Accident-Free Achievements LaborS-OIL has operated an accident-free campaign to award those Management Safety Declaration who have achieved their accident-free target hours, thus en28 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence couraging employees to engage in voluntary safety activities. No. of the Injured and Lost Workdays (Unit: persons, days) We recorded 235 accident-free days since May 9, 2010 (except for two minor previous accidents), therefore reaching 2,349,278 accident-free person-hours as of December 31, 3 0 2 2010. In addition, we recorded a 0% occupational disease rate. Since the incidence of two minor accidents, we have es86 0 52 tablished safety improvement plans and have continued our 2008 2009 2010 quarterly safety accident prevention campaign while selecting No. of the Injured No. of Lost Workdays tasks with a high incidence possibility. In 2010, we carried out hand safety and fall accident prevention campaigns. We plan * Source of the average injury rate of the manufacturing sector: e-National Indicators (www.index.go.kr) to conduct quarterly campaigns about dangerous elements such as chemical substance treatment safety and electric Employee Safety Management Education (Unit: persons, cases) shock prevention. SI 3 Safety Education 1,591 2,287 5,505 S-OIL has conducted health and safety capability improvement trainings not only for our employees but also for partner 93 83 91 companies’, which has included self-safety and health educa2008 2009 2010 tion designated by the Occupational Safety and Health Acts, special education on 39 dangerous tasks including oxygen No. of Trainees No. of Trainings depletion, training for new employees and administrators, and * Note on P.7 basic safety training for employees of partner companies. We have also provided on-line special safety education through Safety Management Education for Partner Companies the SHE system to all employees at the refinery. In 2010, we (Unit: persons, cases) provided three training sessions about the process safety management system, a basic element of process safety management to a total of 4,494 employees. In 2011, we plan to 13,621 15,245 15,030 implement 6 sessions of training to attain facility safety standards. S-OIL plans to provide regular, carefully chosen safety 287 334 319 2008 2009 2010 Number of Trainees Number of Trainings Occupational Injury (Unit: %, cases) Health Education (Unit: persons, cases) 1.15 1.04 1.07 246 168 0 0.2 0 0.11 3 0 2 1,452 1,400 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Average Injury Rate of the Manufacturing Industry Number of Trainees Training Hours Injury Rate (S-OIL) * Health education was not conducted in 2010 as all employees already took the course. No. of Injury Accident (S-OIL) The education is scheduled to be resumed in 2011. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 29 education to its refinery employees, thereby enhancing their S-OIL has systematically managed 12 elements, thus preventsafety awareness and establishing a safe and accident-free ing the leakage, fire, and explosion of hazardous substances work environment. which might harm employees or do damage to local communities. In 2010, the Onsan Refinery received the grade P, the Safety Management Assessment highest grade in the process safety management evaluation. Safety Inspection by External Expert Organizations ┃ (As of the end of December, 2010, only 12% of domestic S-OIL consigned safety inspection on all its facilities and business sites received a similar grade.) This confirms the exequipment, including the refinery’s safety management syscellence of our business site’s safety management level, both tem, to the external safety consulting firm Korea Gas Safety internally and externally. Corporation (KGS) to establish fundamental solutions to matters to be improved in terms of safety-related rules and reguEmergency Preparedness Drill lations and facility guidelines. We have continuously made S-OIL has introduced the Intelligent Diagnostic Alert System improvements according to short and long-term planning in (IDAS) in order to minimize impact on the other production thorough review of the results of the inspection. Also, we held processes and stabilize them by responding accurately and a briefing session regarding the inspection results, attended appropriately during emergencies. In addition, we hold a by refinery management and administrators, to execute monthly drill to exercise emergency response measures and better advanced safety management by exploring the root ways to cooperate with the relevant departments utilizing causes of accidents in order to develop a systematic response the IDAS system. rather than simple measures. Evaluation of Risks in Process ┃ With the process risk evalAcquisition of the Highest Grade in Process Safety uation, S-OIL looks for potential risks and operational defects in Management ┃ In accordance with its regulatory responnew and existing processes and then takes measures to reduce sibilities, the Ministry of Employment and Labor has impleor eliminate them. There are two phases in this process. Perimented a comprehensive safety management system which odic evaluations are conducted on the entire production prorequires it to conduct regular inspection of relevant business cess every five years and frequent evaluations are carried out sites and classify them into 4 grades. According to the system, whenever major changes are made to any part of the producEvaluation of Risks in Process 1 Work Process Analysis and Announcement of Data Risk Assessment Collection 2 Identification Establishment of Risk 5 Result and of Risks in Employee Training Each Process Management Action Plan KGS Safety Inspection Risk Deciding Risk Calculation Tolerance 3 4 30 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence tion process. We conduct a quantitative risk evaluation on any S-OIL provides training on a regular basis and carries out oil section found to be at risk during these inspections. We have spill drills to ensure speedy and proactive responses to any and developed scenarios with emergency procedure plans for what all incidents. The company also has a drill assessment team in to do in each production process and how to extinguish fire by place to evaluate and improve its contingency plans continupredicting the range of damage. Accordingly, each employee ously after each exercise and scenario. is given emergency related responsibilities and participates in To further these endeavors, we have dispatched a 70-tonne oil drills on a regular basis. spill response vessel which is equipped with an oil fence, highpressure water sprayers, dispersants, absorbent materials, and Oil Spill Prevention oil skimmers 24 hours around our SPM. This prevents collisions Marine pollution caused by oil spills can damage both the enbetween ships as they pass as well as the company’s facilivironment and the economy of the local community. It also ties, while minimizing the spread of marine pollution through takes much time and effort to recover from such an accident mounting a speedy response. depending on its scale. To fundamentally lessen the possibilTo achieve safe shipping, our tanker trucks are inspected periSI 3 ity of this happening, S-OIL has established a vetting system odically for potential leaks, and safe driving guidelines are esfor evaluating and managing the safety of its tankers, and it tablished and taught to tanker truck drivers through periodic prescribes safe loading and unloading procedures for all its education and by sharing of accident case studies. In addition, ships. To prevent oil spills caused by aging tankers, the maxiwe are minimizing the possibility of potential accidents by upmum age of any tanker is limited to twenty years. In addition, grading our safety and protection facilities for drivers in order we use only double-hulled ships—which means that there are to protect them from accidents during the loading process. We two complete layers of watertight hull surface that should hold have also improved our protection facilities to prevent environmost or all of the leaking oil in case a ship becomes stranded. mental pollution. Due to the nature of the petroleum business, S-OIL is constantly on guard against the possibility of marine oil spills. In case such incidents do occur, however, S-OIL has developed a prevention and early detection protocol for managing marine pollution which it shares with outside groups and agencies. Oil Spill Prevention Training Company-wide Oil Spill Refinery-wide Prevention Drill Prevention Training Initial Prevention Training Joint Training Simulations for Restoration after Accidents S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 31 Preventative, S-OIL believes that future generations have a right to enjoy the beauty of nature that Eco-Friendly we ourselves enjoy today. We therefore have made multi-faceted efforts to minimize the Governance environmental impact of all our business activities under preventative, eco-friendly management. Abiding by Environmental Laws data, evaluates its environmental performance, and then S-OIL is committed to preventative green governance of the turns all of this information over to the CEO for use in the SHE integrated management policy and does so to respond decision-making process. Companies can provide more accuproactively and preemptively to environmental regulations. rate and objective data to stakeholders by quantifying their We have established environmentally-friendly management environmental investment results. by introducing an optimal prevention system starting from the All of this is part of an effort to be prepared for the Ministry early plant construction stage, and we have strived to minimize of Environment’s environmental information disclosure sysenvironmental impacts from management activities by abidtem as well as our stakeholders’ need for information discloing the laws and by setting up strict internal standards. Due sure. The environmental performance evaluation system has to its operation of preventative facilities designed to minimize become a foundation for practicing an eco-friendly manageits environmental impact as well as its effective communicament philosophy through satisfying both internal and external tion with local communities, S-OIL received not a single citastakeholders’ demands for information disclosure and also by tion for violation of environmental laws over the past three providing information on the decision-making process such as years. We have insisted that preventive internal inspections be environmental investment. In particular, we secured reliable practiced on a daily basis and that elements that fail to meet information about the system by completing the KFQ (Korean guidelines are improved immediately, thus strengthening the Foundation for Quality) objectivity review on the entire system. environmental self-management system. S-OIL will increase S-OIL has shown continuous and outstanding environmental its investment in the operation of legitimate emission facilities operational performance with an increasing EPE result for two and environmental improvement based on strict eco-friendly consecutive years compared with the base year (2008) as a management while respecting the local community’s right to result of executing its environmental performance evaluation receive information. system. In 2010, an EPE result of 128 implies that its green governance performance has improved by approximately Environmental Performance Evaluation System 28% compared with the base year (2008). In particular, in S-OIL has established and operated the Environmental Performance Evaluation (ISO 14031, EPE) System to objectively evaluate environmental investment and eco-friendly manEnvironmental Performance Evaluation Results (ISO 14031) agement performance, thus practicing eco-friendly man(Unit: points) agement more proactively. The environmental performance 2008 100 evaluation is a regular review and improvement process in 2009 119.6 which a company selects indicators, collects and analyzes 2010 128.2 32 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence 2010 we achieved performance in reduction of air and water mental CSR and relevant organizations, and legal response acpollutants per input, facilitation of environmental education, tivity costs (even though we have not any environment-related legal observance, energy consumption, and GHG reduction per citations or fines). input. Going forward, we intend to practice green governance Through its recently introduced environmental accounting, through continuous improvement and target management. S-OIL has reviewed the benefits generated through its environmental activities and discovered that it achieved an environEnvironmental Accounting System mental benefit of approximately KRW 57 billion in 2010. This By clearly identifying and measuring environmental cost (opincludes sales of byproducts (including wastes), cost reductions erational cost of environmental facilities), financial benefits, as a result of decreased energy consumption, and improved and environmental investment which are generated during energy cost savings due to MOU among our partner compathe activities of reducing in advance or treating environmental nies—all efforts of ours to save energy and preserve the enviimpacts caused by companies’ management activities, environment. S-OIL plans to continue its improvement activities, ronmental accounting provides information to stakeholders including the establishment of a company-wide cooperation SI 3 and decision makers, thus allowing them to make sound decisystem with the introduction of environmental accounting. sions. In 2010, S-OIL established an environmental accounting Rather than view its environmental investments as mere temsystem to systematically manage all of its environmental costs, porary measures, S-OIL has been executing a systematic midas well as environmental investments, and to accurately desigand longer-term investment plan in order to maximize benefits nate and integrate its own classification system. Its objectivity within a midand longer-term time framework. In particular, was verified by the KFQ. along with a budget of KRW 9.8 billion for the existing production environment/energy investment, we have made an Environmental Cost and Investment additional investment of approximately KRW 28 billion in enviIn 2010, S-OIL’s environmental costs amounted to a total ronmental and energy facilities, such as introducing the optimal of KRW 223 billion. This included the cost of operating enviprevention facility in the newly expanding SEP process starting ronmental facilities, post-treatment costs (including waste from the construction stage. S-OIL will continue to make midtreatment), prevention activity costs for maximizing resource and longer-term environmental investments. recycling and reuse, stakeholder expenses supporting environ2010 Environmental Accounting (Unit: KRW 100 million) Environmental Investment (Unit: KRW million) Category Sub-category Cost Execution Category 2008 2009 2010 Post-activity Operation cost for preAir Quality/ 1,408.4 5,111 14,801 5,452 management vention facilities, etc. Offensive Odors/VOC Environmental Prevention Water Quality 1,179 1,090 1,484 804.2 management and activity Environmental R&D, etc. Soil 23 648 2,076 Cost Stakeholder External 2.1 activity cooperation, etc. Wastes 167 0 0 Voluntary Legal response 17.0 management, etc. Energy Savings/ 1,313 6,342 708 Technical Assistance Total 2,231.7 Landscaping and Others 246 112 101 Environmental Direct/indirect Sales of byproducts 572 Benefit benefit and energy saving, etc. Total 8,039 22,993 9,821 Environmental Environmental Environmental facility 98 Investment investment installation, etc. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 33 Eco-Friendly Management VOC · Offensive Odor ┃ S-OIL has implemented strict interAir Pollutants ┃Reflecting its strong commitment to the ennal emissions standards to minimize the environmental impact vironment, S-OIL works hard to reduce air pollutants. We has of VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) and offensive odors adopted internal emissions standards that are even stricter generated from production, storage and loading facilities. To than legally-mandated ones. We have successfully reduced manage arsenic acid emission sources more systematically the level of our SOx emissions by using clean off-gas and low(i.e., pollutants such as chemical substances that are emitted sulfur fuels. In addition, we have invested to protect the eninto the air without a legally designated passing point source), vironment through the operation of electronic precipitators, we constructed and have stably operated an LDAR (Leak Deand continuous investment such as the installation of ultratection and Repair) system. Moreover, to effectively manage low-NOx burners and selective catalytic reduction facilities, the VOCs and offensive odors generated from our waste water and we’ve maintained a consistently high level of pollutant processes, we installed an RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizemission reductions. In 2010, we satisfied even stronger gover) in 2010. We have been contributing to the improvement of ernment emissions standards through proactive investment air quality and employee health by building adsorption towers in the environment and strict business site management. to reduce offensive odors and VOCs generated from 9 asphalt tanks. LDAR (Leak Detection and Repair) Voluntary Agreement for Air Pollutant Emission Reductions (Unit: ton) Onsan Refinery 4,484 4,031 3,903 SOx Installation of RTO 4,026 3,543 3,091 NOx (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) 175 131 89 Dust 2008 2009 2010 The RTO incinerates VOCs and malodorous substances discharged by the refinery to make them odorless and harmless. It also reduces energy consumption and CO2 Air Pollutant Emissions emissions by minimizing energy use through heat storage (TMS* Heater/Boiler Average Annual Rate) Onsan Refinery materials and by maintaining energy recovery efficiency of 95% or more. Since completing the RTO facility with an SOx (ppm) 2008/2009/2010 investment of approximately KRW 5.2 billion in September Legal Limit 2008 98.0 2010, we have maintained stable operation with 99% or 180 more of VOCs and offensive odor treatment efficiency. 2009 95.1 2010 91.0 NOx (ppm) 2008/2009 2010 Legal Limit Legal Limit 2008 112.7 2009 250 150 109.1 Water Quality ┃ S-OIL's water comes from the Nakdong 2010 95.2 River. We strictly control our water discharge into nearby waters to minimize our impact. We are the only plant in the Dust (mg/Sm3) 2008/2009 2010 Onsan Industrial Complex that has its own expertise in waLegal Limit Legal Limit 2008 4.9 ter quality management and that uses its own wastewater 50 30 2009 5.0 treatment system instead of the municipal sewage treatment 2010 3.9 plant. This ensures more thorough wastewater management *Tele-Metering System with discharge below the standards of the municipal sewage 34 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence treatment plant. To monitor the status of our released water Amount of Wastewater Discharges (Unit: thousand tonnes) Onsan Refinery in real time, we installed a tele-metering system that transfers its information to an administrative center of the gov2008 8,761 ernment. Wastewater generated from our production facility 2009 9,548 undergoes physical, chemical, and biological treatments, re2010 9,570 sulting in the highly effective removal of pollutants. We then * In 2009, the amount of wastewater discharges increased as S-OIL started up newly invested reuse this treated wastewater from each operation process Alkylation Unit. to reduce our water usage and minimize the generation of more wastewater. Waste ┃ For environmentally friendly circulation of resourcDischarge Density of Water Pollutants (Unit: ppm) es, S-OIL has continuously decreased its generation of waste while increasing our recycling rate through a separate collecBOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) Legal Limit tion process. S-OIL established the waste management sys2008 4.0 SI 3 10 tem within the SHE system, helping each department monitor 2009 3.4 waste generation. We thoroughly review the qualifications of 2010 3.0 the licensed waste management contractor and supervise its treatment of wastes, from the initial phase to the follow-up COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) Legal Limit phase, through actual inspections of the treatment in view of 2008 7.9 40 all relevant laws. We perform general waste management (i.e., 2009 8.1 monitor for proper storage and conditions) and do periodic 2010 7.3 on-site inspections for items subject to special management, such as large-scale expansion construction. We also train all SS(Suspended Solids) Legal Limit employees and business partners about waste treatment pro2008 4.4 cedures and inspectors about waste treatment. In 2010, the 10 2009 3.7 waste recycling rate slightly decreased as processes have been 2010 2.9 improved to generate less spent catalyst (which we recycle). We will further carry out eco-friendly resource circulation activities through proactive technological review. Water Usage (Unit: thousand tonnes) 2008 21,027 2009 21,420 Amounts of Waste (Onsan Refinery) (Unit: ton) 2010 20,687 2008 2009 2010 Classified Waste 13,207 12,176 9,787 Reused Water Amounts and Ratios (Unit: thousand tonnes, %) General Waste 16,197 18,804 16,233 Onsan Refinery Total 29,404 30,980 26,020 1,740 1,822 1,663 Amount 8.28 8.51 8.04 Ratio 2008 2009 2010 * The 2009 data was revised from 1,880 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 35 Waste Recycling (Unit: ton, %) Onsan Refinery 21,705.96 21,126.63 17,419.60 73.82 68.19 66.95 2008 2009 2010 Information Sharing about Chemical Substance Recycling Amount Recycling Rate Emission Reductions Hazardous Chemical Substances ┃ S-OIL carefully man2011, in order to minimize VOC emissions in advance, we plan ages hazardous chemical substances by regularly carrying out to apply the LDAR system as soon as the newly expanded SEP systematic on-site inspections in accordance with internal manstarts operation. agement procedures which reflect all relevant domestic and international laws and agreements. In May 2005, we signed Soil Contamination ┃ In December 2002, S-OIL signed a a voluntary agreement with the Ministry of Environment to “VA on Soil Contamination Inspections and Restoration” with reduce chemical substance emissions, establishing a goal of the Ministry of Environment and has faithfully adhered to it. reducing them 30% by 2007 and 50% by 2009 compared We therefore have conducted regular inspections to prevent with 2001 emission levels. In addition, we installed a steam and restore soil contamination. In addition, we carried out oil recovery facility and an LDAR system. In 2009, these efforts recontamination and leakage inspections, according to the relsulted in an 84% drop in emissions compared to the base year evant laws, along with systematic self-monitoring on soil conof 2001. For its environmental investment to reduce chemical tamination. substance emissions and its outstanding overall performances which exceeded targets, S-OIL was selected as the best busiEnvironmental Impact Assessments ness site and received an award by the Environment Minister S-OIL conducts strict environmental impact assessments. at the information sharing session on chemical substance These include procedures and standards that flow from our emission reductions hosted by the Ministry of Environment. In own environmental management policies as well as those mandated by law (such as ex-post-facto reports). We carry out environmental improvement activities after conducting Amount of Chemical Substance Emissions (Unit: ton) regular environmental impact evaluations and analyses of our activities, products, and services through our own internal environmental impact assessment system based on the ISO 14001 536 362 188 system. We then share the results of these assessments with our employees through the SHE system. This adds to their en1,068 824 541 vironmental awareness and assists concerned departments in 343 384 266 carrying out their own improvement activities in real time. 322 245 327 2007 2008 2009 S-OIL Domestic Refiner A Domestic Refiner B Domestic Refiner C * Source: Announcement by the Ministry of Environment (2011) * The 2010 data will be released in 2012. 36 SI 3 Achieve Operational Excellence Environmental Education Education To increase employee environmental awareness and execute Training for Partner Companies eco-friendly management more efficiently, S-OIL offers all of Training for Environmental Technicians Environmental Mandatory Training its employees a variety of environmental training programs Education System General Environmental Education according to their tasks. For key personnel involved in our enincluding Emergency/Manual vironmental programs, we hold regular training programs, Safety/Health/Environmental Education as required by law, and encourage them to attend external New Employee Training seminars and hold in-house training sessions in environmental Internal Auditor Training technology to help them respond to internal and external environmental issues and to improve their expertise. In addition, we provide all our employees with regular training on the treatment of hazardous chemical substances through the SHE system. Furthermore, we provide training to our partner companies SI 3 in the separation and disposal of wastes, the prevention of soil and water contamination, and in observance of the relevant laws so that our strict environmental management policies can reach all the way down from our worksites. In particular, in 2010, we published a textbook for environmental management, “S-OIL Environmental Management Handbook,” which covers current issues related to the company’s environmental management and environmental policies and distribute it to Environmental Management Handbook employees and partner companies to help make improve(Textbook for ments in the environmental education system. The textbook Environmental Education) describes environmental management tasks, various policy directions, as well as common environmental knowledge. It also introduces campaigns conducted by public organizations (such as eco-driving), which can be effectively used in education. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 37 Voice of Stakeholders “We hope to facilitate community-based social contribution and sustainability management rather than one-time supports.” Tae-Hyung Lim (Director of Community Relations Center, the Korean National Council on Social Welfare) Young-Hee Lee Senior Vice President Head of Maintenance & Technical “S-OIL has been contributing to the national economy by providing a stable energy supply, making constant efforts to increase exports, creating added value across all areas, making transparent tax payments and engaging in sincere local purchasing. In addition, we have been carrying out a “Sunshine Sharing Campaign” in a sincere effort to share with the local community our successes which have been achieved through constant investment and increased efficiency amidst fierce competition. Through this campaign, employees voluntarily provide support to local communities which are in need. S-OIL will enhance these social contribution efforts to effectively contribute to the development of the local community, beyond simple donations, by accepting experts’ opinions.” Performance Summary Plan for 2010 Achievements in 2010 Future Plan (Sustainability Report 2009) Expand employees’ voluntary donations and Maintained employees’ voluntary donation and Encourage employees to participate in the autovolunteer work participation 80% or more volunteer work participation at 84% mated donation system at 80% or higher Develop various programs to motivate employees and enhance efficiency of social contribution Reviewed various methods such as counselAnalyzed the efficiency of the social contribuContinue to improve social contribution proing with experts on social contribution and tion activities in cooperation with the external grams based on the evaluation of the external research on best cases to design and develop expert organization in social welfare, the Korea expert organization more efficient social contribution strategies National Council on Social Welfare Launched the S-OIL table tennis team to supLaunched a table tennis team in July 2010 Introduce and develop various CSR programs port less-popular sports and to facilitate sports reflecting the needs of the local community activities in the local community Continued campaign to protect endangered Selected Hemibarbus mylodon (natural monuContinue efforts to protect natural monuments. species ment no. 259) and conducted various protecIn particular, expand participation to include tion programs voluntary participation of customers 38 SI 4 Contribute to Society Contributing to S-OIL provides the resources required by local communities in a stable manner through National Economy continuous investment in spite of the harsh domestic and overseas management environment. We contribute to the national economy through exports, tax payments, and local purchasing. Contribution Through Providing from Aramco, allowing us to produce high value-added products a Stable Energy Supply very economically and efficiently. By doing so, we can supply our Maintaining a stable supply of energy is imperative or any products to our domestic and international customers at an very nation’s economic development amid an environment of evreasonable cost. This is an unrivaled core capability for S-OIL. er-tightening supply and demand. S-OIL’s crude oil imports are not just about a company securing a raw material, but Expansion of Domestic Sales Network ┃ We considered SI 4 are about supplying the global community with a stable and the central government’s long-term development plan to economically efficient source of energy. We strive to contribdetermine which regions had the most potential for new ute to the global economy by securing crude oil that meets demand created by the construction of new towns and roads. the capacities of our production facilities and transporting The company also identified areas where an increase in it to them efficiently. S-OIL concluded a long-term purchasdemand was expected and sales network is weak. Based on ing agreement with Saudi Aramco, our principal shareholder the results, we decided to develop some new sales networks, AOC’s (Aramco Overseas Co. B. V.) mother company and the and as a result 72 service stations became new partners with national company of the biggest oil producing country, Saudi us. As of the end of 2010, S-OIL had a business relationship Arabia, in May 1991. This means that the company was able with 1,933 service stations, or 14.8% (as counted by S-OIL) of to secure a steady and long-term source of crude oil despite the total market. The company will continue to expand its sales the uncertainties of the market as a whole. These uncertainnetwork from a longer-term perspective considering improved ties include potential reductions in oil production caused by service station and customer accessibility and optimization of geopolitical factors, growing demand in developing countries our sales networks. due to an increased number of refineries, and concerns about resource depletion. No. of Stations with S-OIL's Pole Sign (Unit: %, stations) Given Korea’s extreme dependence on oil, reducing these risks plays an important role in terms of national energy security. Our production facilities are optimized to refine crude oil imported 14.3 14.5 14.8 Amount of Crude Oil Processed (Unit: thousand barrels) 1,654 1,718 1,797 141 143 136 2008 188,130 2008 2009 2010 2009 189,674 2010 186,866 Market Share Affiliates In-House S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 39 Contribution Through Creation of social costs and enhances social benefits while at the same Added Value time creating profits for S-OIL. The oil refining industry is the leading industry which provides the basis of the all the other necessary goods and services. Contribution Through Exports The products made by S-OIL become not only fuel required for The oil refining industry already reached the 10 billion-dollar all means of transportation and delivery, but also the source export mark in 2004 and exceeded 20 billion in 2006, thus of daily goods. From plastic to medicine, the petroleum prodbecoming one of Korea’s leading export industries. In 2009, ucts is always with us. In 2008, the refining industry created the oil refining industry has exported KRW 38.8 trillion worth of KRW 25.6 trillion in added value, although KRW 61.2 trillion petroleum products, accounting for approximately 53% of the including forward linkage effect. Therefore, S-OIL’s products total sales volume. This amounts to 6.3% of Korea’s total exmust be distributed in a stable, reliable manner through optiports, significantly contributing to the improvement of Korea’s mized sales networks, not only to satisfy customer’s direct detrade balance. In particular, S-OIL has the biggest export ratio mands but also to ensure a smooth supply of products which among domestic refiners. are required by society. This is very important as it reduces S-OIL has actively expanded its overseas markets by introducing a variety of competitive products from the early business stage. As a result, we have been able to establish a balanced Regional Purchases (Unit: cases, KRW 100 million) marketing structure between domestic demand and exports. In 2010, S-OIL’s efforts to expand its export markets continued. We expanded our sales network in the Pacific region, 7,112 7,773 7,823 Southeast Asia and Europe by strengthening direct supply contracts with overseas retailers and wholesale companies 4,402 4,180 4,474 and, in particular, by expanding partnerships with globally 3,858 3,250 3,731 competitive companies. As a result, we have exported approxi854 624 901 mately 59% of our products to 23 countries. Furthermore, we will expand our overseas sales base through the expansion of 2008 2009 2010 our sales network to strengthen customer service in the face Total No. of Purchases Total Amount of Purchases of intensifying competition. We intend to upgrade our liaison No. of Regional Purchases Amount of Regioinal Purchases office in Singapore—one of Asia’s most important oil, logistics Creation of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 100 million) Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2008 2009 2010 Stakeholders Account 2008 2009 2010 Sales Revenue 230,003 174,240 205,295 Employees Labor Cost 2,558 2,553 3,139 Purchasing Costs (211,227) (166,317) (192,019) Government Tax 2,046 666 1,760 Other Income 19,346 12,256 7,599 Local Social 136 38 60 Communities Contribution Other Expenses (25,547) (11,412) (6,710) Creditors Interest 1,396 1,002 268 Depreciation & (1,693) (1,775) (1,887) Amortization Shareholders/ Dividends, 4,746 2,733 7,051 Companies Retained Earnings Economic Value Created 10,882 6,992 12,278 Economic Value Distributed 10,882 6,992 12,278 40 SI 4 Contribute to Society on oil, including tariffs. Total tax revenues collected in 2009 2010 Domestic Sales and Exports were approximately KRW 27.6 trillion, accounting for 13.2% of total tax revenues that year. With the oil refining industry faithfully playing its role as tax collector, the government is able to 41 59 prevent the omission of tax revenue sources in advance. Also, this arrangement allows it to secure tax revenue ahead of time, Domestic Sales Exports thereby benefitting from tax collection cost savings. Addition77,970 thousand barrels 114,036 thousand barrels ally, with the oil industry assuming its duty as tax collector, the government is able to manage its budget more predictably Service Stations 38% China 17.3% since this arrangement ensures that a similar amount of tax Government 41% Japan 16.5% revenue will be collected every year. The oil refining industry /Corporate Singapore 11.1% Customers also creates plenty of revenue from overseas markets based USA 9.5% Others 21% Australia 8.3% on global competitiveness achieved through its investment in Netherlands 3.6% advanced facilities. The industry faithfully pays taxes on profits India 2.7% generated, not to overseas markets but to Korea. Contribution Through Facilitation of International Exchange In expectation of establishing a model relationship between SI 4 and trading hubs—to an office and we plan to further expand an oil producing country and an oil consuming country as well our strategic overseas markets through the establishment of a as to establish a basis for long-term growth of S-OIL, Aramco Chinese office in 2011. has decided to invest in S-OIL. Living up to expectations, SOIL has been faithfully playing a bridging role between KoContribution Through Tax Payments rea and Saudi Arabia. It has also helped facilitate expanded The oil refining industry faithfully pays all taxes owed on profits trade between two countries. As a result, Saudi Arabia has created through its sales activities. It also faithfully assists govbecome Korea’s biggest Middle East trading partner, raising ernment tax collection efforts by collecting various taxes on petrading volume between the two countries to approximately troleum products. Eight types of taxes and dues are imposed KRW 35 trillion. Production (Unit: thousand barrels) Sales (Unit: thousand barrels) 2008 12,263 4,843 5,041 2009 12,615 5,688 Overseas 4,839 Domestic 2010 12,730 5,849 4,416 2008 11,581 4,246 6,744 2009 11,357 3,735 7,298 2010 12,866 4,277 8,134 2008 167,948 61,237 109,058 2009 170,203 63,968 108,187 2010 164,855 67,844 101,486 Petrochemical Products Lube Products Fuel Products S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 41 Employees’ Social S-OIL carries out various social contribution activities for heroic citizens, the environment Contribution and local communities through volunteer employee participation. These activities are intended to lend others a helping hand. Principle of Sunshine Sharing Sunshine Sharing Campaign S-OIL carries out “Sunshine Sharing” activities reflecting and “Sunshine Sharing,” our CSR brand name, promotes the compaincorporating the symbolism of the sun’s rays in its corporate ny and raises public recognition of its corporate social responsiidentity or CI. Based on three principles—Genuineness (meanbility activities. It means lighting and warming our society like ing voluntary participation), Impact (for having a positive imsunshine and demonstrates the company’s desire to improve pact on society and becoming a well-respected company), and our society through sharing. The campaign has three themes: Timing (meaning that we try to carry out our CSR programs “communities,” “heroes,” and “the environment,” which are the when and where they are most needed)—these activities are basis of the company’s social contribution activities as well aimed at helping the underprivileged in our society. S-OIL as for the various volunteer groups in which employees parmaintains its social contribution at a certain level, regardless ticipate. Guided by these three pillars, we seek to develop and of its actual revenues, to ensure that its CSR activities are an improve our CSR programs and pursue ways to better satisfy integral part of its corporate culture. In addition, we plan to both service recipients and volunteers. maintain the voluntary social contribution and participation rate of management and employees at over 80%. Three Guiding Principles of Sunshine Sharing Participation rate in volunteer activities (2008: 47% → 2009: 84% → 2010: 84%) Donor participation rate (2008: 27% → 2009: 77.6% → 2010: 80%) Genuineness Spread positive influence across the society Implement programs including distributing rice cake soup, through effective programs including heroic Impact Timing briquettes and Kimchi take place when most needed by the firefighters, heroic civilians, and endangered disadvantaged, occasions including New Year’s Day, Chunatural monument protection campaigns seok, the year-end holiday, Disability Day, and Children’s Day 42 SI 4 Contribute to Society Annual Donations and Percentage of Pre-Tax Income to Donations (Unit: KRW million, %) Donations Pre-Tax Income to Donations 6,775 4,041 5,234 * Donations for 2008 do not include the Korean Refineries’ Joint CSR Fund (KRW 6.79 billion) * Donations for 2009 include the Job Sharing Fund (KRW 276 million) 1.0 1.2 0.6 * Donations for 2010 do not include the Korean Refineries’ Joint CSR Fund (KRW 1.693 billion) * Because of an increase in pre-tax income in 2010, the pre-tax income-to-donations ratio decreased by 0.6% compared with the previous year; however, social contribution donations increased by 2008 2009 2010 29.5% over this same time period. For Local Communities indentify the needs of local communities so that we can sucS-OIL established the “S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Foundation” in cessfully develop programs to assist in their development. 2007, becoming the first company in the region to do so. The S-OIL foundation actively conducts projects to support Based on ties forged between the S-OIL foundation and sothe less fortunate, such as seniors, the disabled, and teenagcial welfare organizations in the region, we seek to effectively ers. Every year, we purchase chemical-free rice that has been harvested in Onsan and donate it to the needy. In addition, SI 4 S-OIL helps low income families recover from losses due to fire, provides disabled teenagers from low income families Launching of S-OIL Table Tennis Team with customized learning equipment, hosts sunshine sharing camps for children with rare diseases and their families, hosts an international marathon for the disabled, and sponsors the S-OIL launched a table tennis team in July 2010 which is heart-heart orchestra, which is composed of teenagers with composed of 1 coach and 5 players. It was intended to enhance the company’s brand image, contribute to national developmental disabilities. sports promotion policy and bolster interest in local community sports. The team is based in Ulsan, where the reActivities for Unsung Heroes finery is located. It won a silver medal on its first stage, the “Activities for Unsung Heroes” celebrates and encourages National Sports Festival, in October 2010. In December of heroes in our society such as the heroic citizens and firefighters the same year it won a gold medal in mixed doubles at Korea’s biggest sporting event, the National Championships. who protect us during disasters. S-OIL’s support program for heroic firefighters has been in place since 2006. In 2008, we launched another support program to applaud those who voluntarily put themselves in harm’s way to help others. For Heroic Firefighters ┃ We support firefighters who have put their lives at risk to protect lives and property. This is done by making donations to the families of firefighters who have died and to those injured while on duty. For Heroic Civilians ┃ We launched a support program for those who freely put themselves in harm’s way to help others. We support funding for heroic civilians who have been injured S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 43 Local Communities: Local Communities / The less fortunate / Children Unsung Heroes: Heroic firefighters / Heroic civilians The Environment: E ndangered natural monument protection campaign / Climate change response / Eco-friendly management S-OIL Volunteer Group | Sunshine Sharing Campaign: Automated donation system / 1 person 1 share account / 1 person 1 volunteer activity or, in cases where they have given their lives, for their families. purification activities. In so doing, we intend to play an In addition, we host a ceremony at the end of the year to important role as an eco-friendly company. heighten people’s sense of citizenship. Green Purchasing ┃ In 2005, S-OIL signed a voluntary green Activities for the Environment purchasing agreement with the Ministry of Environment to S-OIL’s Onsan Refinery is located in an industrial complex actively promote eco-friendly production and consumption. and is operated under strict conditions of environmental Upon expiration in 2009, it was re-signed for the purpose of management to prevent the local environment from being building a low carbon, eco-friendly (green) society through affected by products and services produced at the refinery. the efficient use of energy and natural resources. Under the In recognition of the importance of the environment, the agreement, eco-friendly (green) products are divided into company carries out various activities to protect and preserve seven types—environmental mark-certified products, excellent it as part of its efforts to fulfill its corporate responsibility. recycling products, hazardous substances reduction products, Endangered Natural Monuments Protection Campaign┃ S-OIL is conducting an endangered natural monument Sunshine Sharing Activities protection campaign in order to preserve Korea’s natural heritage for our descendants. In May 2008, we signed a natural Donation (KRW million) Division Description monuments protection agreement with the Cultural Heritage 2008 2009 2010 Administration, selecting the otter (Natural Monument No. · Support local community 330), the crane (Natural Treasure No. 202) and the hemibarbus For Local · For the less fortunate · For Children 5,875 2,941 4,404 mylodon (Natural Monument No. 259) to support protection Communities · Social volunteering activities · Other and research activities of the relevant organizations. Some of our other activities have included running a children’s natural For Heroes · For Heroic Firefighters 800 950 680 · For Heroic Civilians monument class and a children’s ecology camp, launching For the · Endangered Natural Monuments our university students’ natural monuments protection Environment Protection Campaign 100 150 150 corps, and sponsoring natural habitat protection activities by Total 6,775 4,041 5,234 employees. We will continue to protect endangered species that are impacted by our business activities, along with our one company/one stream revival program and our seacoast 44 SI 4 Contribute to Society waste reduction products, etc.—so that those responsible are Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps (Unit: hours, persons) encouraged to purchase green products according to the preferential purchase standards while improving the already-existing green purchasing system. We promote green purchasing 16,123 22,693 22,596 by creating reliable relations with green product suppliers and strengthening cooperation with them. 1,130 2,113 2,183 14.3 10.7 10.4 S-OIL Public Service Corps 2008 2009 2010 The S-OIL Public Service Corps is a volunteer employee organization that was launched in 2007 to carry out our “Sunshine Total Volunteer Hours No. of Participants Volunteer Hours Per Person Sharing” campaigns. It consists of two secretariat offices and six regional teams. For the systemic management of employee volunteers, this organization is registered with the Social Welfare Volunteer Activities Certification Center of the Korean National Council on Social Welfare which was designated by Achievements of Sunshine Sharing Campaign the Ministry of Health & Welfare. This enables us to manage Average Monthly Doour employees’ volunteer activities through the Social Welfare No. of Participants Sunshine Sharing nations (KRW million) Volunteer Activities Certification Administration (www.vms. Campaign or.kr) which is responsible for comprehensive management of 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 SI 4 nation-wide volunteer activities. Automated 516 1,299 1,377 2 7 7 Donation System For assisting those in need including underprivileged families 1 Person, and seniors living alone, S-OIL’s Public Service Corps activities 1 Share Account 1,164 1,440 1,517 11 15 15 are carried out by six regional teams and include kimchi making, briquette donations, heating apparatus donations, New Year’s Day and Chuseok food distribution events, New Year’s Eve celebrations, birthday parties and Parents’ Day, Children’s Day, and Disability Day events, and assisting underprivileged families and seniors living alone. Within the company, various social contribution activities are becoming a unique part of SOIL’s corporate culture. Going forward, we intend to develop still more appropriate and effective CSR programs as a way of increasing executives' and employees’ overall participation. We also plan to give outstanding volunteers extra points when Recognition of and Education for to evaluate them for a promotion. Volunteers In 2008, the S-OIL Public Service Corps signed a “Strategic Partnership to Revitalize Social Volunteering” agreement with the Korean National Council on Social Welfare. We also carry out our “Sunshine Sharing” campaign (an automated donation system involving 1 person 1 share account and 1 person 1 volunteer activity) with the voluntary participation of our employees and the corps runs a webpage dedicated to promoting volunteer activities and communications. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 45 External Assessment of Social Contribution with sincerity. Activities It was further suggested that the program to assist local S-OIL analyzes the effectiveness of its social contribution activities communities be carried out on continuous basis rather than (measured by satisfaction of recipients, social influence, etc.) on be organized as a series of special events. Additionally, the a regular basis and with sincerity in cooperation with the Social center pointed out the importance of evaluating our current Contributions Information Center of the Korean National Council programs in respect to similar programs being conducted by on Social Welfare. In its review of its social contribution activities other companies and which, if duplicated, might have less conducted between November 2010 and January 2011 (three impact. Programs providing unique services, however, should months), S-OIL has been looking for ways to carry out more continue to be responsibly conducted. S-OIL will carefully substantial activities by organizing an advisory committee, consider these suggestions as it continues to pursue its social reviewing relevant data including social contribution selfcontribution activities in 2011. diagnosis indicators, comparing the efforts of major companies, and conducting interviews with concerned parties. Suggestion of Directions for New Business ┃ The Social Contributions Information Center also suggested that we Assessment of Existing Programs ┃ The Social Contributions expand those social contribution activities which involve all Information Center made a number of suggestions regarding our customers by utilizing service stations to offer expanded our current social contribution programs. First, it was suggested social contribution activities and ones involving culture and the that S-OIL concentrate on and expand its endangered arts—a new trend in the enhancement of corporate imaging. natural monument protection campaign—the company’s Appreciating this suggestion, S-OIL decided to execute environmental conservation program. Agreeing with this sharing service station projects through the participation in suggestion, S-OIL doubled its outlay for the program in 2011 the Happiness Sharing N Campaign jointly conducted by the to continuously implement substantial assistance programs Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Korea National Council on the existing protected species. As for its unique program on Social Welfare in 2011. In addition, we plan to host regular to support heroic civilians, the company was advised to monthly performance and concerts at the lobby once we move maintain it at current budgetary levels. Since this is in line with into our new corporate headquarters as a cultural sharing company strategy, we will continue to operate this program project for the local community. For Local Conduct unique social contribution Communities programs on continuous basis Station Customers' Participation For Unsung Keep the current level & Heroes Sharing Culture and Art For the Focus on and expand the Endangered Environment Natural Monuments Protection Campaign 46 SI 4 Contribute to Society Voice of Stakeholders “I hope all executives and employees recognize the importance of ethics management and put it into practice in their daily business.” Myung-Hoon Yoo (CEO of Korea CSR Consulting Group) Young-Il Cho SI 4 Senior Vice President Head of Domestic Sales Headquarters “S-OIL’s transparent corporate governance is based on the Board of Directors (BOD) with a system of checks and balances as well as separation of the Board Chairman and the CEO. We seek to enhance our expertise by letting the CEO focus exclusively on management activities while practicing responsible and transparent management by strengthening the supervisory capacity of the BOD. We operate an ethics committee comprised of members of management according to the ethics rules established by the BOD. Through it, we strive to ensure ethics and transparency management throughout the company. S-OIL will continue to disclose its management activities and management system so that stakeholders can make reasonable decisions on their own.” Performance Summary Plan for 2010 Achievements in 2010 Future Plan (Sustainability Report 2009) Evaluate the current ethics management, Carried out ethics management survey among emBased on analysis of global standards for figure out what to improve, and make sure they ployees, found out what to improve, and considered ethics/sustainability management such as are reflected in the management system. how to apply findings IS0 26000, determine what to improve and Helped employees better understand ethics manhow to apply them agement through online self-monitoring exercises Enhance accounting transparency by For comparative disclosure of financial information Continuously improve and regularly monitor improving accounting system and procedures according to implementation of K-IFRS in 2011, accounting system and procedures to apply in accordance with global standards and prepared financial information both for K-GAPP K-IFRS and to provide transparent and acreflecting into ERP system and K-IFRS curate financial information Increase public accessibility to company Posted up a sustainability report e-Book on the Homepage renewal for better and conveinformation and assure the accuracy and homepage to provide more useful and specific comnient access to company information utility of disclosed information pany information such as management policies Establish response system such as continuous Shared information related to newly enacted and Establish a process to more effectively share monitoring of newly enacted & revised laws and revised laws and regulations through and apply newly enacted and revised laws then notify related departments of our findings e-mail, intranet, and seminar and regulations S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 47 Practicing Ethics For S-OIL, ethics management, which is part of its corporate culture, is considered the first priority Management in its decision making and management activities. Our CEO always emphasizes the importance of ethics management and delivers a clear message about it to executives and employees so as to create consensus and put it into practice. Board of Directors : suggestions to management and receives and reviews Leading Transparent Corporate yearly ethics management performance reports provided Governance and Ethics Management by the Ethics Committee. Our ethics management is being S-OIL, constituted by Saudi Arabia’s state-run oil company reinforced thanks to the close cooperation between the BOD, and the Hanjin Group, has established sound and transparent the CEO, and the Ethics Committee. corporate governance with its Board of Directors (BOD) playing a key role based on a system of checks and balances. Separation of the CEO and the Chairman of the BOD ┃ Composition of BOD (as of end of March 2011) By separating the role of the CEO and the Chairman of the Type Name Position BOD, the CEO is able to concentrate on strengthening his expertise while the BOD is tasked with overseeing the CEO’s Inside Director (1) A. A. Al-Subaey · Representative Director and CEO management activities from a more objective perspective. K. G. Al-Buainain · Non-Standing Director Thanks to this, the BOD is currently making decisions in a way which will increase shareholders value and maximize B. A. Abul-Hamayel · Non-Standing Director Non-Standing stakeholder interest. The BOD is comprised of 11 directors in · BOD Chairman Directors (4) Y. H. Cho (Non-Standing Director) total; one inside director, four non-standing directors, and six independent outside directors. T. S. Suk · Board Audit Committee Member (Non-Standing Director) All the outside and non-standing directors possess a · Board Audit Committee Chairman wealth of expertise and experience in the refining industry, S. A. Al-Ashgar · ODCR Committee Member adding depth to the BOD. Since the majority of the BOD is · Board Audit Committee Member comprised of outside directors and most of them are nonA. M. Al-Seflan · Compensation Committee Member · ODCR Committee Member standing directors, they are able to supervise the company’s Outside A. O. Al-Ajaji · Compensation Committee Member management activities and performance more objectively Directors (6) and independently. M. S. Chung · ODCR Committee Chairman · Board Audit Committee Member The BOD is playing an active role in realizing ethics · Compensation Committee Chairman management and transparent management at a higher K. W. Lee · ODCR Committee Member level. In particular, the Board Audit Committee, consisting S.-E. Park · Compensation Committee Member of three outside directors and one non-standing director, is deeply involved in ethics management. With the aim of strengthening the corporate ethical system, it makes several 48 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Performance of BOD Ethics Committee The board of Directors, which is convened every three months, This committee is comprised of an HR Officer, the Head of the makes strategic and critical decisions regarding the company Planning and Coordination Office, the General Counsel, and and receives reports on business progress from each executive the Controller. Their qualifications are evaluated by the Board in charge. In addition, it is informed by the CFO on whether the of Directors’ Board Audit Committee before the CEO appoints company’s accounting information complies with accounting them. The committee reports on its activities to the CEO every standards and our internal accounting management system. six months and to the Board Audit Committee every year. All employees can access information on its activities through the Establishment and Operation of Committees ┃ The company’s ethics management website. BOD’s Board Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Outside Director Candidates Recommendation (ODCR) Activities of the Ethics Committee in 2010 ┃ We fully Committee are each comprised of six outside directors and recognize the possibility that trivial conflicts of interest between one non-standing director to ensure efficient, professional, executives and employees can develop into major ethical and transparent operation of the BOD. The Board Audit problems. Therefore, we prohibit any transactions between the Committee evaluates the overall business management and company and its employees or their spouses. We also make it the current status of the Internal Accounting Control System mandatory to receive permission from the Ethics Committee and also receives reports on internal audits. The Compensation when lineal ascendants or descendants of current employees Committee establishes the company’s compensation policy or retirees engage in transactions with the company. This is and system, including employee salaries, severance pay, done to mitigate the possibility of conflicts of interest between and incentives. The ODCR Committee examines whether employees or retirees and the company. In 2010, our ethics candidates are qualified according to all relevant rules and committee was convened 34 times and deliberated 81 cases. regulations, selects those most adept, and recommends them as outside directors at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. SI 5 CEO's Message About Ethics Management “Ethics management is a “must-have pillar” of management for our permanence and sustainable growth. ” “In decision-making, ethics management should be conEthics Management Handbook for Executives and Employees sidered the “First Hurdle Rate” which comes even before financial indicators, including profitability.” “Keep in mind that our approaches and practices rooted in ethics management will bring the company long-term success; otherwise, our success will be short-lived.” S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 49 Ethics Training of Employees Regular Visit to Suppliers and Contractors Workplace┃ S-OIL offers various training programs and activities to ensure We are visiting our suppliers’ and contractors’ workplaces that its employees have a high standard of ethical judgment on a regular basis in order to build up mutual trust and and learn ethical values by experience both in their workplace reinforce continuous cooperation. During such visits, we listen and daily lives. All employees are required to take training to their difficulties or suggestions, give them our feedback, and in ethics management once a year. Moreover, we have explain about our transparent purchasing system and ethics established a website dedicated solely to ethics management management. Starting from 2011, we will conduct visits on a (http://ethics.s-oil.com), and provide handbooks on ethics regular basis and will promote fair trade and ethics management management so that our employees can have easy access to by implementing more systemic programs and minimizing the relevant information and counseling. burdens of our suppliers and contractors. In 2011, we plan to visit more than 16 suppliers and contractors with whom we have maintained business ties; we already visited 4 of them in the 1st Results of Ethics Training in 2010 quarter of 2011. Courses Participants Hour(s) Ethics management the way to 2,552 executives and 1 Outside Evaluation of Our Ethics Management sustainable growth with profitability employees In recognition of our commitment to ethics management, How to prevent sexual harassment All employees 1 S-OIL was selected to join the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 5 executives, (DJSI) World in 2010. This was an unprecedented event in the Fair trade 2 403 employees domestic refinery industry and a unique case among AsiaPacific regional refiners which attests to the high regard our sustainability management practices receive both at home and abroad. In addition, by joining the UN Global Compact, the largest voluntary corporate citizen initiative in the world, we have demonstrated our willingness to contribute to the world economy and social prosperity in a more stable, comprehensive, and fairer way through our corporate strategies and social beliefs based on the principles of global ethics management. Ethics Training In addition, the Korean Standards Association selected S-OIL as the no. 1 company in the oil and gas industry based on the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI). Growing with Our Business Partners Through Ethics Management S-OIL’s commitment to ethics management goes beyond the company itself. Based on the recognition that we are a partner in sustainable management, we guide our business partners in implementing principles of ethics management. We prevent any company which does not comply with our ethics and transparent management policy from becoming our supplier. Moreover, we amended our purchasing management process; 2010 DJSI Korea it is now required to check in advance to see whether relatives Recognition of retirees or employees operate candidate suppliers or Ceremony contractors so that we can avoid unfair trade in the supplier and contractor selection and transaction process. 50 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Strengthening S-OIL recognizes the impact of transparent company information disclosures on its Transparency stakeholders’ values. Therefore, it strives to improve the transparency of its overall business activities, including its decision making process, and also its management system. Improving Our Legal Infrastructure revised laws, notify involved departments of our findings and S-OIL has established internal regulations which are stricter prepare statements based on inter-departmental cooperation. than external legal requirements in order to oversee and preThis will allow us to respond swiftly to the enactment or revent violations of all prevailing laws and regulations. By checkvision of laws and changes in such areas as the environment ing legal compliance in every sector and developing standardthat directly affects the company. ized procedures for performing legal tasks, we are able to identify legal risks in advance and take control by mounting Internal Controls countermeasures against this. In addition, we provide training S-OIL has established its internal accounting management in laws and contract practices to our employees to help them regulations as a part of company’ basic rules and has set up learn about laws related to their individual tasks and to mitian internal control system to operate the Internal Accounting gate the legal risks that the company might face in the course Management System (IAMS). In this way, we ensure reliabilof its business activities. We also hold legal seminars that are ity of financial information and enhance corporate transparSI 5 tailored to the needs of each department such as HR, maritime, ency thanks to internal control while assigning an Internal arbitration, and overseas investment. This allows for greater efAccounting Controller (IAC) who reports the results of operaficiency in training. We also produced manuals on complying tions and evaluation of the internal accounting management with fair trade rules and regulations and distribute them to system to the BOD and Board Audit Committee every year for all departments where they are used as workplace guidelines the continuous execution of the system. Along with this, we to minimize the possibility of violations of fair trade laws. In review suggestions on the IAMS submitted by third party auaddition, we reduce the chances of legal infringement by proditors and disclose our business report with a ‘Report on the viding continuous training in the law. We are also establishing IAMS’ attached. In addition, we constantly update the report a response system to constantly monitor newly enacted and on internal control which describes changes in control activities over working-level departments due to environmental or business process changes so that the IAMS can be effectively maintained. We are introducing an “Early Warning System” to monitor risk factors in real-time for key management issues. It allows us to enhance the efficiency of our internal controls. The system enables the prior management of operating processes in risk areas and reduces losses resulting from risks and costs, thus improving job performance. In addition, it allows us to improve Fair Trade Seminar our operating processes by monitoring unusual transactions, S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 51 indentifying their causes, and taking corrective actions. We can executive attend, report directly and answer questions. Whenalso prevent the illegal use and distortion of information by ever the BAC judges that the process is not fully transparent, it making constant improvements to the system’s functions and directly asks for correction, which contributes to enhancing the operations, thereby increasing the reliability of our financial inoverall transparency of the company. Moreover, the BAC recformation and the effectiveness of our internal controls. ommends that the internal audit staff obtain certificates and that they deliver audit reports to it directly. In this way, it superConducting Risk-Based and Process vises and supports the internal audit group to substantially and Enhancement Audits effectively operate as an assistant of the BAC. S-OIL conducts audits which are risk-based and also are focused on enhancing a process of the entity being audited. Since the Increasing Transparency of Internal adoption of company-wide risk assessments and risk-based Decision-Making audits in 2005, we have been annually assessing risk factors We have established 10 groups consisting of experts in various that can affect the achievement of our management goals fields within our company to increase the fairness and transbased on the outcomes of our Enterprise Risk Management parency of our business activities. These groups have the pow(ERM) activities and global best practices. We also established er to prevent policies or decisions from being made arbitrarily a one-year audit plan based on these assessments and carried by a single authority, hence increasing the transparency of out audits which helped us accomplish the goals of the entire decision-making and decreasing the possibility of such adverse organization. Furthermore, in an effort to make improvements effects as losses caused by bad decision-making. We modify and increase the added value of the organization, experienced these regulations to reflect changing conditions, such as alauditors with a variety of certifications systematically assess terations in the work environment. In addition, we have made the effectiveness and efficiency of the entity being audited in it mandatory that they be revised after the team in charge terms of business process, governance, internal control, and of company regulations has evaluated them in advance. This risk management. Recently, S-OIL has been introducing profesis done to ensure that any revisions are made in a balanced sional auditing software and improving auditing for standardway, to maintain consistency and to prevent redundancies and ization of audit quality and extension of audit scope. omissions of the regulations. Enhancing Transparency Through Effective Streamlining the Decision-Making Process Operation of Board Audit Committee and Sharing Management Information The Board Audit Committee, established in 2000, is composed S-OIL strives to ensure that every decision is made efficiently of three outside directors and one non-standing director who by maintaining a system of checks and balances for its general have rich experience and expertise in a variety of areas such affairs and streamlining its recurring checking functions. It also as production, accounting/finance, and law. It has recomresponds to the ever-changing mobile environment, including mended enactment and revision of the company rules and the advent of smart phones. We are improving our manageregulations in accordance with global standards to enhance ment information system to ensure that the management phicorporate transparency and it is substantially independent losophy, vision, and strategies of executives have been transfrom the management. In addition, the BAC requires that an mitted throughout the company clearly so that employees can outside accounting firm participate in its meetings. It is also carry out their tasks with uniform thinking and understanding. actively involved with ensuring transparency in the process of appointment of third-party auditors so that they can provide high-quality audits. The BAC receives reports on the status of the IAMS more than twice a year from the CFO, and thus it can check any changes regarding accounting standards and its application status. If needed, it can request that the relevant 52 SI 5 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Voice of Stakeholders “Sound capital structure and efficient capital management is a prerequisite for a company’s survival and sustainable growth.” Hyung-Joong Park (Senior researcher, Woori Investment & Securities) Yul Ryu Excutive Vice President Finance B/L Head (CFO) “With the financial crisis in 2008 that created chaos throughout the world economy, we once again realized the importance of sound capital structure. S-OIL pursues a balance between its growth strategy and dividend policy with a clear financial goal and strives to efficiently manage its capital. In preparation for unforeseen internal and external crisis situations, we conduct pre-emptive companySI 5 wide risk management activities to preserve corporate values. We also disclose company information and engage in active communication activities so that the values of our company can be fairly evaluated. As a result, S-OIL is now enjoying a high credit rating.” Performance Summary Plan for 2010 (Sustainability Report 2009) Achievements in 2010 Future Plan E nsure optimal financial stability by achieving Maintained domestic crediting rating AA+ I dentify potential challenging issues and reliable and stable credit lines and improving Received credit ratings of BBB (moderate) establish reasonable countermeasures by credit ratings and Baa2 (moderate) from S&P and Moody’s, closely cooperating with credit rating agenrespectively cies to maintain a high credit rating I mprove budget management in terms of sys educed 8.1% of budget compared to that R Develop budget process and management tematizing and efficiency by distributing resources initially approved by the BOD plan to execute ‘Zero-base Budgeting’ more effectively and strengthening regular feedImprove budget management in terms of backs on the results of action plan execution systematizing and effectiveness I n response to business environmental Joined the DJSI World and was selected as the I n response to business environment changes, changes, improve systematic infrastructures world’s best in risk management improve systematic infrastructures such as such as ERM system and strengthen prevenProvided training to employees on constant risk ERM system and strengthen preventive risk tive risk monitoring activities management monitoring activities Constantly  enhance financial stability by strengthO  ffset most of factors affecting operating profC  onstantly enhance financial stability by ening monitoring on the FX market to minimize its due to won-dollar exchange rate decrease strengthening monitoring on the FX market risks arising from FX rate fluctuation and by by adjusting the amount of NDL and maintaining a proper amount of NDL improving the net dollar liability management Efficient Capital S-OIL establishes clear financial measurements and maintains a high credit rating to ensure Management optimal capital efficiency. In order to effectively manage capital raised, we strive to maintain a well-balanced working capital, execute budget systematically, and allocate assets efficiently. Establishing Optimal Financial Measurements Domestic Credit Ratings S-OIL establishes financial measurements with goals set at an Evaluation Date Credit Rating Credit Rating Agencies appropriate level to ensure that our financial structure is optimized in terms of both capital efficiency and financial soundJune 2006 AA KIS*/NICE** ness. These measurements include ROCE (Return On Capital June 2007 AA+ KIS/NICE Employed), EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, DepreciaSeptember 2009 AA+ KIS/NICE tion and Amortization), Debt-Equity-Ratio, Current Ratio, Debt/ May 2010 AA+ KIS/NICE EBITDA, and RCF (Retained Cash Flow)/Debt, which represents a company’s ability to repay its loans from the proceeds of * KIS : Korea Investors Service its business activities and is carefully watched by credit rating ** NICE : National Information and Credit Evaluation *** S-OIL’s credit rating in 2008 was not estimated since its public offering bond, issued in agencies. Besides these measurements, we have benchmarked 2003, had expired. financial indicators in terms of profitability, efficiency, and stability and develop and manage other financial measurements Overseas Credit Ratings ┃S-OIL received credit ratings of that assess the financial situation of the company through gap BBB (moderate) and Baa2 (moderate) from S&P and Moody’s, analyses of its goals and its actual achievements. respectively, in March, 2009, making it easier to diversify its sources of loans for investments. This is among the highest in Maintaining a High Credit Rating Asia with the exception of some state-run refining companies. The ability to finance capital in a timely manner is important, particularly when instability exists in the financial markets as it Managing Our Working Capital does now. S-OIL has maintained a high credit rating by comS-OIL determines an appropriate level of its cash holdings in municating frequently with credit rating agencies and proacadvance every year by taking into account oil prices and its intively managing the core measurements used to determine vestment plans. This ensures that the proper amount of cash is credit ratings. It also maintains a close relationship with promialways available. In addition, we monitor financial market trends nent domestic and overseas banks to ensure access to a sufand our cash flow regularly and invest our retained cash in longficient and stable line of credit. term, low-risk products at reputable financial institutions. We are also making efforts to generate cash from working capital. Our Domestic Credit Ratings┃NICE and KIS rated S-OIL AA for Cash Management Committee is tasked with the efficient and the issuance of its corporate bond for the first time in 2003. stable management of our capital. Through it, we discuss major Our rating has remained unchanged since they upgraded it to pending issues within our company and respond to unstable fiAA+ in June, 2007. nancial market conditions in a timely manner. 54 SI 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Effective Budget Management serves for future investments. S-OIL has paid interim dividends S-OIL strives to ensure that all its budget-specified groups draw since 2000. As part of shareholder-oriented management acup and execute their budgets responsibly pursuant to preestivity, they are paid semi-annually, based on the performance tablished guidelines for efficient distribution of resources. In of the company, to increase shareholder profit. We contribute anticipation of deteriorating business conditions, we maintain to the growth of a shareholder-driven management culture by a risk management system that can allocate and execute a rewarding our long-term shareholders who assign more importight budget. tance to dividends than to short-term capital gains. In 2010, in an effort to respond to further instabilities in the management environment resulting from the global recession, we exercised company-wide austerity measures, thus minimizDividend Payments ing our spending on non-essential and non-pressing matters. We also reduced inefficiencies by planning budget cuts and Classification 2008 2009 2010 analyzing work performance on a monthly basis. In addition, Total Dividends Paid 5,822 1,573 2,911 (Unit: KRW 100million) we augmented our financial stability so that we could undertake general business activities as planned. Cash Dividends (%) 122.67 57.55 41.29 For systematic and efficient budget control, S-OIL will continue Common 7.52 2.41 2.77 Rate of Cash to improve its analyses of its costs and capital expenditures by Dividends (%) Preferred 10.38 3.01 4.37 introducing a ‘Zero Base Budgeting’ system; it will also manAmount of Cash Common 5,000 1,350 2,500 age its investment priorities more effectively and its resources Dividends per Share (KRW) Preferred 5,025 1,375 2,525 more efficiently. In addition, we will manage our budgets better by regularly taking into account feedback on the achievement of our action plans. Revenue, Operating Profit, Net Profit (Unit: KRW 100 million) Liabilities, Equity, Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio (Unit: KRW 100 million) 230,003 174,240 205,295 126% 130% 121% 14,361 3,488 8,133 SI 6 4,746 2,732 7,051 42,620 51,416 54,787 33,844 39,536 45,229 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Sales Operating Income Net Income Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio Liabilities Equity Reasonable Dividend Policy One of S-OIL’s main management goals is to increase its shareholder value based on its stable financial structure and transparent corporate governance structure. This includes a reasonable dividend policy. To determine dividend size, we consider such matters as our capital structure, a reasonable return of our profits to our shareholders and the need for cash reS-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 55 Enterprise Risk S-OIL effectively manages potential risks to preserve its corporate value, and it is prepared Management for any possible contingency. Regular Enterprise Risk Management ERM Cycle In response to a business environment of ever growing complexity and uncertainty, S-OIL established a company-wide Recognize risk risk management system and an organization to take charge Protecting corporate Assess risk in February 2008 to deal with risks in its overall business areas. values It also strengthens risk management system by establishing Respond to risk risk management policies that correlate with its overall Monitor risk management strategies at the monthly meeting of the ERM Committee, which is composed of the CEO, the head of each business line, and the head of the Planning & Coordination Office. As part of effort, it monitors their implementation, prevent them from happening and minimizes the possibility carries out risk prevention activities, and draws up appropriate of accidents, losses, and disasters. Any necessary actions are response measures according to the results of risk prevention taken swiftly and systemically in line with our pre-developed activities and risk management and activities. risk response manual. The outcomes of this monitoring and our responses to them are regularly reported to the ERM Risk Management Procedures┃S-OIL’s ERM (Enterprise Committee. This ensures that top management is always Risk Management) system prioritizes the proactive prevention familiar with the results of the risk management process and of risks by constantly monitoring changes in its management can make appropriate decisions based on this knowledge. environment. Our ERM system identifies all the risks that might impact negatively on our management objectives. This is done Risk Management IT System┃In 2009, to improve the through a series of processes that are performed in the following efficiency of its risk management system, S-OIL established order: risk recognition, evaluations, selection of measurements, a Risk Management IT System which is a key part of its responses, monitoring and reporting. Major risks are identified ERM infrastructure. This system enables data input, analysis, based on the possibility of their occurrence and their potential monitoring, and reporting in real-time in accordance with the degree of impact. The system’s risk profile is constantly ERM process which goes through risk recognition, assessment, revamped through a regular re-assessment of all risks. response, and monitoring in that order. It is designed to provide Risks we manage are divided into five categories: strategies, key information in the form of a dashboard, allowing users to markets, finances, operation, and compliance with regulations. have easy access to information and manage risks efficiently. They are carefully monitored, as we have set Key Risk Indicators It will send a process to follow, depending upon the type of risk (KRIs) for each major risk. Examining these risks helps us to situation, to the concerned department in real-time so that a 56 SI 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency more immediate and organized response can be made across level. We also forbid speculative trading and try to eliminate the company. In this way, we will constantly improve our ERM or minimize risk generated by cash transactions and hedges system to strengthen our risk management capacity so that connected to spot trades. we can respond to risks in a timely manner. Risk Management Organizations┃S-OIL’s Commodity World’s Best Risk Management┃The DJSI (Dow Trading Risk Management Committee (CTRMC) is in charge Jones Sustainability Index) considers an enterprise’s risk of managing product price fluctuation risks, while the Cash management capacity to be an essential component of its Management Committee (CMC) is tasked with managing assessment of “Corporate Economic Sustainability.” S-OIL was exchange rate fluctuation risks. When necessity to manage included in the oil refining sector of DJSI Korea, the world’s risks is raised, the relevant team frequently reports on risk first-ever country-based index, in 2009, and also in the DJSI monitoring results and management measures to the relevant World in 2010, receiving satisfactory ratings in every criteriacommittee and execute the measures after getting approval -including the top spot in risk management. We will take from the committee. whatever steps are needed to improve our responses to changes in our management environment. In addition, we Foreign Currency Risk Management┃In order to manage will maintain the highest standards of risk management by foreign exchange rate fluctuation risks, we hold an appropriate continually improving our systematic infrastructure, including amount of our liabilities in foreign currencies. This is done in the ERM system, and strengthening our monitoring activities. the belief that the foreign exchange profits and losses from our foreign currency liabilities and the impact of the exchange Financial Risk Management rate on our operating income will balance each other out. S-OIL’s liabilities and debts in foreign currencies, including We use currency forwarding contracts and interest rate swap accounts payables due to crude oil imports, bankers’ usance contracts to limit the danger of untoward fluctuations in financing, and accounts receivable from product exports, are exchange and interest rates, and sign forward contracts to continually exposed to foreign exchange rate risks. Since 60% curb the risk of fluctuations in crude oil and other products. All of our production volume is exported in US dollars, while 40% derivatives trades must be made within the limits of the loss is sold in Korean won (based on the current international price amounts and quantities set by the BOD’s regulations. Trading with the application of the exchange rate), the company’s in derivatives for the purpose of bargaining which exceeds the income is also influenced by the exchange rate. To avoid ceiling. We will increase our monitoring of foreign exchange drastic fluctuations in our quarterly income, we endeavor to markets to minimize risks arising from fluctuations in currency SI 6 manage our foreign exchange position (i.e., liabilities in foreign exchanges and augment our financial stability by improving currencies minus assets in foreign currencies) at an optimal the management of our liabilities in foreign currencies. Risk & Crisis Management (Result of DJSI Assessment in 2010) (Unit: points) 100 59 100 96 59 95 World-Best Global Industrial S-OIL Average 2010 2009 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 57 Communication We provide our shareholders and investors with accurate information on the company’s with Shareholders management policies and results to increase their understanding of and trust in us. We also engage and Investors in active IR activities so that investors can make a fair judgment on our present and future values. Disclosing Management Information and stakeholders in a timely manner on both the KRX and our We are committed to increasing the general public’s access website in compliance with Korean stock exchange laws. We to company information, disclosing accurate information, also publish business and audit reports through the electronic and improving utility of disclosed information. We have disclosure system (http://dart.fss.or.kr). put an Internal Accounting Control System in place, and we continue to increase the transparency of our accounting IR Activities system and procedures by raising them to meet international With a slow recovery in the oil refining industry, we carried out a standards and then incorporating them in our ERP system. In wide range of IR activities in 2010. They included participating the General Meeting of Shareholders, which is convened after at conferences and NDRs (Non-Deal Road Shows) targeting the end of each fiscal year, executives, including the CEO and domestic and overseas investors. Our goal was to present management, participate and report to shareholders on the our midto long-term vision, which includes increased profits current status of the company’s business management and from new petrochemical facilities that are scheduled to be also provide shareholders with sufficient information that is in operation by 2011. The number of our IR meetings was needed for certain decision-making. In addition, our website 618 in 2010, an increase of about 87 from 2009. We also provides a wealth of investment information as well as a Q&A offer IR activities for individual investors through our website section, which enables our shareholders and stakeholders to and by phone. S-OIL is committed to forging close ties with easily grasp our business management, make suggestions or its shareholders to share the company’s development and ask questions about relevant matters, and also to get answers achievements in the long-term. from us. Meanwhile, the working-level departments concerned review such suggestions and report to the management or IR Activities the BOD. We are also implementing “Disclosure Information Management Regulations” to provide accurate and timely 2008 2009 2010 information to our stakeholders. 450 (including 170 531 (including 142 618 (including 242 Investors’ All our information is disclosed completely and fairly in company visits and company visits company visits Meetings meetings) and meetings) and meetings) accordance with these regulations. We provide our shareholders Hosting of NDRs 5 7 10 and stakeholders with materials in a fair manner based upon Participating in the principle of information disclosure, which is a part of the 8 11 11 Conferences regulations for managing information for disclosure, in order Conference Call 4 4 4 to prevent unfair information disclosure. We disclose key * Compared to the previous years: In 2008 and 2009, only the number of hosting of overseas NDR and participation in conferences was counted. However, from this year, the number of management issues relevant to the interests of shareholders hosting of domestic NDR and participation in conferences has been also counted. 58 SI 6 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Financial This financial achievements is in accordance with K-GAAP and the next financial Achievements achievements will follow K-IFRS. Balance Sheet Summary (Unit: KRW million) Income Statement Summary (Unit: KRW million) Categories 2008 2009 2010 Categories 2008 2009 2010 Current Assets 5,620,016 5,843,616 6,004,549 Sales 23,000,291 17,423,951 20,529,523 Quick Assets 3,787,549 3,180,745 3,057,764 Cost of Sales 21,131,421 16,661,906 19,259,060 Gross Profit 1,868,870 762,045 1,270,463 Inventory 1,832,467 2,662,871 2,946,785 Operating Income 1,436,079 348,766 813,317 Non-Current Assets 2,026,337 3,251,519 3,996,971 Income Before Income Tax Investments 181,713 203,534 188,868 662,773 329,192 869,362 Expenses Property, Plants and Equipment 1,713,644 2,876,703 3,630,136 Net Income 474,614 273,246 705,068 Intangible Assets 14,465 14,326 15,556 Other Non-Current Assets 116,515 156,956 162,411 Financial Indicators (Unit: %, multiple) Total Assets 7,646,353 9,095,135 10,001,520 Stability Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Current Liabilities 4,206,178 4,576,624 4,592,425 Current Ratio 133.61 127.68 130.75 Non-Current Liabilities 55,784 564,953 886,237 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio 125.93 130.05 121.13 Total Liabilities 4,261,962 5,141,577 5,478,662 Borrowings to Total Assets 32.89 30.06 26.19 SI 6 Capital Stock 291,512 291,512 291,512 Times Interest Earned 10.28 3.48 30.33 Capital Surplus 1,799,248 1,799,248 1,799,248 Profitability Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Capital Adjustments (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) Operating Income to Sales 6.24 2.00 3.96 Accumulated Other 66,938 607,439 594,008 Net Income to Sales 2.06 1.57 3.43 Comprehensive Income Retained Earnings 1,228,569 1,257,235 1,839,966 Return on Equity 12.98 7.45 16.64 Total Stockholders’ Equity 3,384,391 3,953,558 4,522,858 Operating Cash Flow to Total Assets (4.32) (3.49) 7.67 Total Liabilities/Total Stockholders’ Equity 7,646,353 9,095,135 10,001,520 Growth/Activity Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Sales Growth Ratio 51.03 (24.24) 17.82 Operating Income Growth Ratio 38.49 (75.71) 133.20 Net Income Growth Ratio (33.35) (42.43) 158.03 Total Assets Growth Ratio (18.76) (18.95) 9.97 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 59 Voice of Stakeholders “Do you, as an energy company, have a plan to invest in new & renewable energy business?” In-Suk Kim (Team Leader, Ecosian Green IT) Jong-Bum Ahn Senior Vice President Head of Planning & Coordination Office “S-OIL has made bold investments and innovations in a longer-term vision for achieving profitable and sustainable growth in a fast-changing business environment. The expansion of the Onsan Refinery, which was completed in April, 2011 after three-years of planning, design and construction, will strengthen our oil refining and petrochemical businesses and will become a solid foundation from which to expand to other high value-added petrochemical business in the future. In order to proactively respond to changing energy mix due to climate change and the expectations of stakeholders, we thoroughly reviewed several new and renewable energy business areas to advance into. As a result, we made an investment decision in the poly-silicon production business, which is classified as the upper level of the photovoltaic energy industry, most appropriate for S-OIL. S-OIL plans to expand its oil refining and petrochemical businesses downstream and to invest in new and renewable energy business, which are S-OIL’s three strategic directions. By doing so, we will continue to pursue profitable, sustainable growth for the company and for the society. ” Performance Summary Plan for 2010 (Sustainability Report 2009) Achievements in 2010 Future Plan S uccessfully carry out the Onsan Refinery With its commercial operation in 2011 as its C  ontinuously monitor industry trends and expansion project which is scheduled to be in goal, successfully executed the project to search for opportunities to expand commercial operation in 2011, hence expandexpand the production capacity of productivity of high value-added products in ing the oil refining business in accordance with atmospheric crude distillation by 89,000 BPD a stable manner our strategic direction to 669,000 BPD in total E xpand the petrochemical business on time With commercial operation in 2011 as its Produce 1.7 million tonnes paraxylene and through the Onsan Refinery expansion project, goal, successfully executed the project to ex560,000 tonnes BTX starting with the to be completed in 2011 pand the paraxylene production capacity by commercial operation in April 2011 Expand the petrochemical business 960,000 tonnes/year to 1.7 million tonnes/ downstream to create more value year and benzene production capacity by 300,000 tonnes/year to 560,000 tonnes/year M  ake advancements into appropriate business Searched for the business area most approContinue to seek new business opportunities areas in a wise manner such as new and renewpriate for S-OIL among new and renewable in new and renewable energy business areas. able energy and carbon market by concentrating energy and carbon markets on a climate change-related energy paradigm Development of Oil S-OIL strives to strengthen the competitiveness of its oil refining operations, the company’s Refining Business as core business, through its strategic direction of expanding its oil refining business and integrating a High Value-Added it with other petrochemical businesses. Business Strengthening the Competitiveness of the reviewing and implementing operational improvements and Oil Refining Business investment activities. S-OIL has achieved outstanding competitiveness in the oil refining area, its core business, as a result of investing in Increasing High Value-Added Productivity facilities from a longer term perspective. We introduced We have facilities capable of producing 740,000 tonnes/year and have effectively operated the advanced facilities which of paraxylene and 260,000 tonnes/year of benzene. To be transfer atmospheric residue (Bunker-C oil) to 100% high highly competitive not only in the existing oil refining business, value-added products earlier than our domestic competitors. but also in the petrochemical business, we are executing the In addition, we have invested in facilities to enhance the Onsan Refinery expansion project on the 184,500 m2 area operational efficiency and have executed strict facility with an investment of approximately KRW 1.4 trillion. We maintenance activities for stable operation management. are scheduled to start commercial operation in the first half By doing so, we produce and supply optimized products of 2011. As a result, S-OIL will have a paraxylene plant with in a stable manner, meeting the social, economic and an annual production capacity of 1.7 million tonnes and a environmental expectations of stakeholders. benzene plant with an annual production capacity of 560,000 S-OIL makes continuous efforts to bolster its competitiveness. tonnes, which is more than double its current level. Moreover, We restructured the organization to establish the future the company which has exported more than 50% of its investment master plan for the Refinery to enhance its petrochemical products every year just added to its status as operational efficiency. The oil refinery has become the Asia’s largest paraxylene supplier. In addition, its operating foundation of a stable oil supply and creation of high economic profit will increase by approximately 20% based on projected values. Based on this, S-OIL will continue to strengthen its growth in demand for petrochemical products in Asia-competitiveness in the oil refining business by identifying, including China, which accounts for 79% of world demand SI 7 Increase in Paraxylene/Benzene Production Capacity (Unit: KTA) Present 260 Benzene After the 560 Paraxylene Expansion of Onsan Refinery Present 740 After the 1,700 Onsan Refinery Expansion of Expansion Project Onsan Refinery S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 61 for paraxylene. This has allowed us to achieve high economic boast an extremely low sulfur, light content, thus contributing performance and to contribute to the development of the local to the enhancement of the company’s profitability. and national economies. S-OIL produces and provides high-quality, eco-friendly prodIn addition, S-OIL, which has the largest production capacity ucts that exceed all regulatory requirements and environof premium lube base oil, increased its production capacity mental regulations. This underscores our commitment not of this product (Group-lll lube base oil) from 23,000BPD to just to abide by ever-strengthening environmental regulations 26,000BPD by improving production facilities to promptly around the world, and not just our awareness of the need to respond to increasing demand. S-OIL is constantly seeking take action against climate change, but also our commitment opportunities to increase its capacity and produce high valueto fulfilling our customers’ expectations about environmental added products that meet new global trends. protection. The company has also developed a fuel economy improved long-life diesel engine oil following a long-life gasoDevelopment of High Quality·Eco-Friendly line engine oil, in collaboration with the Hyundai Kia Car ReEnergy Technology search Center. This product prevents against a decrease in fuel S-OIL has a vision of creating future competitiveness by optiefficiency and general quality degradation due to an increase mizing its production process and developing high-quality and in oxidation and viscosity of engine oil caused by a longer-term eco-friendly energy technologies. In pursuit of this vision we use. S-OIL has applied for a patent for this product in both Kohave undertaken various R&D activities, including the developrea and the USA. ment of clean, eco-friendly petroleum products, in-company Far from being complacent about its existing technologies, the technological assistance and customer analysis. S-OIL research center has been carrying our various R&D activiS-OIL--with a high-pressure pilot plant producing Korea’s first ties jointly with prominent domestic universities and research inever clean lube base oil and another performing heavy oil desstitutes to improve our production facilities and product quality. ulfurization--has more experience at oil refining and more adThis includes development of technologies to produce high valvanced research facilities than any other petroleum company ue-added products utilizing byproducts of petrochemical prodoperating in Korea. We have successfully installed and operucts, development of deactivation technologies of diesel stream ated the B-C cracking center as well as cutting-edge kerosene and LPG, which are hard to deactivate, and development of CO2 and diesel hydrodesulphurization units including production utilization technologies. We will continue our research activities process and catalyst evaluation. As a result, all of its products by accommodating the company’s technological demands. Environmental Friendliness Grade of the Ministry of Environment S-OIL achieved the highest grade (five stars) for its gasoline and diesel in the environmental friendliness evaluation on products conducted by the Ministry of Environment in both the first half and the second half of 2010. Therefore, S-OIL became the only refiner in Korea which has achieved the highest grade for its gasoline and diesel four consecutive times. Environmental Friendliness of S-OIL’s Products (Unit: ppm) 2008 2009 2010 Categories 1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half 1st half 2nd half Sulfur Content 8 9 4 4 3 4 Gasoline Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Composite Grade ★★★★ ★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Sulfur Content 5 6 5 5 4 5 Diesel Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Composite Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Highest by international standards according to MOE evaluations ★★★★ Close to highest by international standards according to MOE evaluations 62 SI 7 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Launching and S-OIL will solidify its platform for sustainable growth by nurturing new and renewable energy Nurturing of New business as a future growth engine based on the stability and profitability of the oil refining and Renewable industry. Energy Business Careful Searching for Business Opportunities con will export most of the expanded production to overseas S-OIL has advanced into the new and renewable energy busimarkets with those with huge demands, including China and ness area, one of the three strategic directions for sustainable Japan, contributing significantly to the national economy. Sgrowth for the last two years. After reviewing eleven new and OIL will practice low-carbon green growth strategies through renewable energy business areas, we finally selected the photowin-win cooperation with competitive mid-sized companies voltaic business. We decided to invest in the polysilicon business through this investment. which is located at the top of the photovoltaic value chain. Polysilicon is a main source of solar cells, so it is called the “rice” of Long-Term Vision for Growth the photovoltaic business. The polysilicon business has a high Solar photovoltaic is expected to create the biggest market entry barrier as it requires a large-scale initial investment, techamong new and renewable energy areas, as it is safe and innology, and difficult process operation know-how to produce stallation takes only a short period. However, for such growth, high purity products. However, it is a very attractive investment the cost should achieve grid-parity with that of thermal power in terms of future potential value and current profitability as it generation through the improvement of solar cell efficiency. promises high profits. As a result of careful consideration about Securing high purity poly-silicon, a raw material, is most imthe wisest way of advancing into the polysilicon business, we portant to enhance such efficiency. Starting with the advancedecided to invest in HanKook Silicon, whose technology and ment into the photovoltaic business with HanKook Silicon, a competitiveness is verified. high purity poly-silicon producer, S-OIL will eventually consider expansion of its business to include photovoltaic power genLaunching of Photovoltaic Business eration, the lower part of the photovoltaic business, when the By making an investment of KRW 265 billion, S-OIL acquired photovoltaic power generation approaches its grid-parity. a 33.4% share of Hankook Silicon stocks (41,042,750 shares). Through this strategic investment, S-OIL joins management SI 7 as the second largest shareholder after Osung LST. HanKook Silicon has succeeded in mass-producing the world’s highest purity poly-silicon (9-Nine) in the shortest time. And it started the commercial production second in Korea in 2010. It has an annual production capacity of 3,500 tonnes/year, which will increase to 12,000 tonnes/year in 2012 when the on-going expansion construction is completed. With this annual capacity, it’s sure to become a global poly-silicon producer. Hankook SiliS-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 63 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We were engaged by S-OIL Corporation (‘S-OIL’) to provide assurance on the information presented in the Sustainability Report 2010 (‘the Report’). S-OIL is responsible for preparing the Report, including the identification of stakeholders and material issues. Our responsibility is to provide an opinion on the Report. Context and scope Readers should note that limited assurance in ISAE 3000 is consistent with a moderate level of assurance as defined by AA1000AS (2008). Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether: Among other things, these standards contain requirements regarding the independence and competency of the assurance team. 1. S-OIL has applied the “AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008);” 2. The information in the Report is fairly stated in all material respects, Independence, impartiality and competence based on the reporting criteria set out on “About This Report.” We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requireThe scope of our engagement conforms to the requirements of a ments of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants which Type 2 assurance engagement as set out in the AA1000AS (2008) of requires, among others, that the members of the assurance team AccountAbility, including the aspect of “reliability.” (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client, including not being involved With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on page in writing the Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements 59, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional compederived from S-OIL’s audited financial statements. To obtain a thortence, due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has ough understanding of S-OIL’s financial results and financial posisystems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code tion, the audited financial statements of S-OIL for the year ended 31 and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. December 2010 should be consulted. We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team including specialists in AA1000APS/AS, stakeholder engagement, auditing, Criteria environmental, social and financial aspects, with experience in similar engagements in the sector. S-OIL applies the criteria set out in the AA1000APS (2008) for the three principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. In preparing the report, S-OIL applies the Sustainability Reporting Work undertaken Guidelines (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative and the IPIECA/ API Guidance1, as set out on About This Report. Our work included the following activities: • An evaluation of the results of S-OIL’s stakeholder consultation processes Assurance standards • An evaluation of S-OIL’s processes for determining the material issues for key stakeholder groups We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Interna• A media analysis and an internet search for references to S-OIL durtional Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance ing the reporting period Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial • Interviews with a selection of S-OIL senior managers and key stakeInformation issued by the International Auditing and Assurance holders to understand the current status of sustainability activities Standards Board, and with the AccountAbility ‘AA1000 Assurance and progress made during the reporting period Standard (2008).’ • An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems 1 The American Petroleum Institute (API), the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP), Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2nd edition, December 2010) 64 Appendix and methods used to collect and process the information reported, On the content of the Report: including the aggregation of data into information as presented in Based on the above work, we conclude that the information in the the Report Report does not appear to be unfairly stated. • Reviewing the internal documentation and intranet sources • With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on page 59 verifying that they were correctly derived from S-OIL’s 2010 auComments dited financial statements Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we believe the During our investigation, we discussed the necessary changes to the following matters can be considered: Report with S-OIL and verified that these changes were adequately incorporated into the final version. • S-OIL obtains the point of stakeholders’ activities mainly during the report season. To upgrade the level of sustainability management, there is a need for systematic and regular analyses of needs of Conclusions stakeholders, and gap with sector leader companies. Action plans based on these analyses could help further strategic movement. On the AA1000 Account Ability Principles of Inclusivity, Ma• We recommend S-OIL to expand the scope of the sustainability reteriality and Responsiveness: port to the issues and managerial aspect of supply-chain, through adding performances of branch office and product terminals to the • In relation to the principle of inclusivity: report and expanding the sustainability management coverage to S-OIL operates a communication channel with the government, subsidiaries and business partners. media, partners, clients, employees, NGO, shareholders, municipalities and others through the stakeholder participation process. We have discussed our observations regarding the reporting process -W e are not aware of any key stakeholder groups which have been and reported outside the scope of our assignment with S-OIL manexcluded from dialogue in the Report. agement. They were receptive to our comments. • In relation to the principle of materiality: -S  -OIL operates an importance evaluating process that regularly checks the stakeholder’s priority when devising a long-term strategic plan in the Corporate Planning Division. -W  e are not aware of any material aspects concerning its sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. • In relation to the principle of responsiveness: Lee, Keun Mo -S  -OIL constantly communicates with its stakeholders about its Managing Partner performance related to the chosen issue. -W  ith the exception of the issues highlighted in the Report in Samjong KPMG relation to materiality, we are not aware of any additional issues Advisory Inc. of stakeholder interest that are not currently being managed by Seoul, August 2011 S-OIL. Appendix S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 65 GRI/IPIECA CONTENT INDEX GRI G3 Application Level Samjong KPMG has confirmed that our Sustainability Report 2010 applies GRI G3 Application Level A+. GRI IPIECA/API Page Note Index Content Index 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO's Statement 2, 3 25-26, 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 56-57, 63 2. Organizational Profile Inside cover, 2.1 2.9 Organizational Profile 40-41, 48, 61 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 68 3. Report Parameters 3.1-3.3, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11: There are notes Reporting parameters 1 3.6-3.11 throughout this report. 3.4 Contact point 1 3.5 Process for defining report content 5 3.12 Standard report disclosures 66-67 3.13 External assurance policy and practice 64-65 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1-4.7, Governance 47-52 4.5: Sustatinability Report 2008 4.9-4.10 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4, 8, 16, 24, 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 38, 47, 53, 60 4.11 Precautionary principle 2, 30-33, 56-57 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initia4.12 tives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 3, 50, 68 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy 4.13 organizations in which the organization 68 Inside cover, 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement SOC-A6 5, 10-12, 14-15, 22, 28, 30, 46, 58 Economic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach to Economic Performance 53, 60 ECO-1, ECO-2, ECO-3, EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ECO-A2, ECO-A3 39-41 EC2 Implications of climate change 2-3, 25-26 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 20 No financial assistance EC4 Financial assistance received from government other than general tax credits EC5 Standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 20 EC6 Locally based suppliers 40 No significant overseas EC7 Local hiring SOC-A3 operating locations EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit SOC-A4, SOC-A5 42-46 39-41, 59, EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 61, 63 ECO-A1 Not applicable Environmental Performance Disclosure on Management Approach to Environmental Performance 24 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 39 No recycled materials used, due to EN2 Percentage of materials used ENV-A5 characteristics of business EN3, EN4 Energy consumption ENV-5 26 EN5-EN7 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption ENV-A8 26, 62-63 EN8-EN10 Water withdrawal and recycled and reused ENV-A7 35 EN11: Our head office and Onsan Refinery are not located in areas of EN11-EN15 Biodiversity ENV-A9 44 high biodiversity. EN13, EN15: Not applicable 66 Appendix GRI Guidelines IPIECA/API Page Note Index Content Index EN17: S-OIL is reviewing the way to report Significant air emissions and ENV-3, ENV-4, EN16-EN20 initiatives to reduce them ENV-A6 25-26, 34 Scope III data. EN19: No use of ozone-depleting substances EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ENV-2 34-35 ENV-A2, ENV-A3, ENV-A4, EN23: Not applicable EN22-EN24 Waste and Hazardous Waste, including significant spills ENV-A5, ENV-1, ENV-A1 35-36 EN 24: No such waste transported EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff 34, 36-37 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 62 Little or no packaging materials are used, due EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category to the characteristics of the products sold. EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 32 Environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used and EN29 transporting members of the workforce 31 EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investments 33 ENV-6 32-37 Labor Practices and Decent work Disclosure on Management Approach to Labor Practices and Decent Work 16 LA1-LA3 Employment ECO-A2, SOC-A2 20-23 LA4, LA5 Labor/management relations 21, 22 LA5: Sustainability Report 2008 H&S1, H&S2, 20-21, LA6-LA9 Occupational health and safety H&S3, H&S4 27-31 LA10-LA12 Training and education SOC-5 17, 18, 20 LA13-LA14 Diversity and equal opportunity SOC-4 19-23 SOC-6 22 Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach to Human Rights 16 HR1-HR3 Investment and procurement practices 50 HR1: Not applicable HR4: No discrimination case HR4-HR7 Managing human rights risk in operations SOC-4, SOC-7 22 HR6, HR7: Sustainability Report 2008 Outside firms are in charge of security at HR8 Security practices SOC-9 locations of operation; S-OIL does not provide direct training programs. HR9 Indigenous rights SOC-A7 Not applicable Human rights policy SOC-1 3, 19, 50 Society Disclosure on Management Approach to Society 38, 47 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities SOC-8 30, 36, 46 SO2-SO4 Managing risks related to corruption 48-52 SO5 Participation in public policy development SOC-A1 Not applicable SO6 Political contributions SOC-3 Not applicable SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 9 SO8 Significant fines and non-compliance with laws and regulations 9 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach to Product Responsibility 8 Appendix PR1-PR2 Customer health and safety H&S-5 11, 12, 62 PR2: No violations PR3-PR5 Product and service labelling H&S-5 10-12 PR6-PR7 Marketing and communications 14 PR7: No violations PR8 Customer privacy and losses of customer data 10 PR9 Non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services 9 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010 67 UNGC INDEX UNGC 10 Principles Contents Page Human Principle 1. Businesses should support and SI2. PROVIDE BEST-IN-CLASS WORK ENVIRONMENT 16-23 Rights respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and · Talent Education and Capability Development Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. · Human Rights Protection and Enhancement of Life Quality · Communicating Corporate Culture Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Standards the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; SI3. ACHIEVE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 24-26, Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and · Climate Change Response and Energy Conservation 32-37, Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. · Preventative Environmental Management 62 SI7. DEVELOP PLATFORM FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH · Development of High Quality· · Eco-Friendly Energy Technology AntiPrinciple 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, SI5. PURSUE GLOBAL BEST PRACTICES OF CORPORATE 47-52 Corruption including extortion and bribery GOVERNANCE · Practicing Ethics Management · Strengthening Transparency S-OIL RECOGNITIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS S-OIL Recognitions in 2010 Memberships in Associations Date Association Year of Joining Award Awarding Organization Awarded Award by the Minister of the Public Ministry of Public Korea Petroleum Association 1980 June Administration and Security for Safe Administration and Onsan Industrial Complex Environment Management Management of Hazardous Substance Security 1983 Association 2010 Korean Industry Service Quality IndexKorea Management June Korea Oil Stations Association 1985 Certification for Best Call Center Service Association Consulting Onsan Industrial Complex Safety Management Association 1986 Top Company of the Year (World Class June Korea CEO Association Category) Korea Fire Safe Association 1993 Dow Jones, SAM, September Incorporated into DJSI World Index Korea Productivity Korea Chemical Management Association 1997 Center Korea Fair Competition Federation 2001 Top Company with Voluntary Agreement on November Ministry of Environment Chemical Substance Emissions Reductions Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development 2008 Sustainability Index Survey# 1 for Oil and Gas Korean Standards Onsan Industrial Complex Hazardous Material Safety November 2008 Company Association Management Council Top 250 Global Energy Company (162nd)/ UN Global Compact 2010 November Global Oil and Gas Refining/Marketing Platts, USA Company (15th) 2010 Korea CSR Award-# 1 for Social Hankyoreh Economic December Contributions Research Institute 68 Appendix FOR MORE INFORMATION S-OIL wants to hear from you about the S-OIL Sustainability Report 2010. Please contact us with your opinions and suggestions. CONTACT INFORMATION Tel | +82-2-3772-5234 Fax | +82-2-3772-0964 E-Mail | sustainability@s-oil.com Address | Sustainability Management Team 471, Gongdeok-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul 121-805, Korea READERS’ OPINIONS 1. Which of the following applies to you? ☐ Customer ☐ S-OIL employee ☐ Shareholder/Investor ☐ Local resident ☐ Business partner ☐ NGO ☐ Media ☐ Government ☐ Research/Academia ☐ Other ( ) 2. How did you find out about S-OIL’s sustainability report? ☐ S-OIL website ☐ Seminar/Lecture/Exhibition ☐ S-OIL employee ☐ Other website ☐ Newspaper/Magazine ☐ Other ( ) 3. Referring to the box below, which section of the report did you find most interesting? ( ) 4. Referring to the box below, which section, if any, of the report should be added to? ( ) <Section> 1. CEO’s Message 2. Sustainability 3. Stakeholders and Key Issues 4. Major Sustainability Performences 5. Enhance Customer-Centric Management 6. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 7. Achieve Operational Excellence 8. Contribute to Society 9. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 10. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 11. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 12. Other ( ) 5. Does this report include all the key issues that you think should be addressed? ☐ Yes ☐ No 6. If not, which issue should be added to? 7. T  his report frame is based on S-OIL’s 7 Strategic Imperatives. If you have any further comments on the report (for example, its frame and contents or S-OIL’s sustainability initiative), please feel free to specify them. From Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL Corporation 471, Gongdeok-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Korea 1 2 1 8 0 5 Paste Designed by_intoGraphic This Sustainability Report was printed with soy-based inks on FSC-certified, environmentally friendly paper. Head Office 471, Gongdeok-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul 121-805, South Korea Onsan Refinery 360 Sanam-ri, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 689-892, South Korea www.s-oil.com
