Waterlogic Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2011 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor Waterlogic is pleased to continue its support for the Global Compact. As a company which has recently floated on the London stock We are particularly proud of our reusable filters which exchange, it is ever more important to be responsible for our have recently been launched. They will reduce waste and Global Compact commitments. As the business grows and we enable our distributors to recycle and reuse more parts, increase market share we must be seen to be leading the supporting them in their own environmental commitments. industry in corporate and social responsibility. Our filters are a significant part in our waste management and will make a big difference in our initiative to set We understand our responsibility as a leading manufacturer an ever higher standard for our industry in corporate and seller and that we can make a difference in all aspects responsibility, and also to help our end-customers in their of the product lifecycle from point of creation to removal of desire to become more environmentally responsible. machines from service when they reach the end of their life. We also recognise our part to play in influencing our wide network of distributors and that what we do can affect their own practices. Jeremy Ben-David Chief Executive Officer United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As an international business, we have responsibility to fulfil all human rights responsibilities within the countries we operate. We observe all rights nationally and internationally in these countries. In particular, we are keen to be a responsible and decent employer. In China we operate a factory where about 50% of our employees are based. We have certain controls in place such as the 8 step quality control process which checks product quality but at the same time, enables us to evaluate and improve our processes and practices. Staff training is regular, including sessions on safe operating procedures and hygiene. Staff are looked after with uniforms as well the usual safety equipment necessary to do their work. For the 4th year running we have received the FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) award from the Chinese government. The FDI award recognises companies which set a good example in China for good working practices. Employers are assessed based on the areas of rapid growth, job creation, uncompromising attitude with respect to Chinese regulations, social responsibility and financial responsibility. Waterlogic China is assessed by the government on a regular basis and together with our own inspection measures, ensures a consistent approach to good working practices. FDI 2011 award THE WL100 MODEL IS A MORE ECONOMICAL CHOICE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS We are currently planning an initiative to support the charity WaterAid in order to provide one of the most basic functional human rights – the access to safe water. For each WaterAid machine sold, Waterlogic will donate an amount which will enable a Further to this, we have extended our own product range to include child in a developing country to have access to safe water for the rest of their life. lower-cost machines which offer a more economical choice. This will open up the opportunity to customers that are less well off and in more developing countries to give them access to purified water. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AT THE WATERLOGIC FACTORY QUALITY IS INGRAINED INTO OUR CULTURE AND IS WHAT WE EXPECT OF OUR SUPPLIERS TOO IN THEIR WORKING PRACTICES. Waterlogic is not only a full sponsor of human rights for its own employees but ensures that the same values are reflected in anyone connected to Waterlogic. It is essential for our business that we are seen not to be connected with any human rights abuses. To make sure that these values are shared with our partners, we regularly audit the factory suppliers. Senior factory staff visit our suppliers to audit and see their working practices. This ensures quality of working conditions and practices. We also meet regularly and keep good relationships with our distribution partners to ensure they too meet our values and participate in good working practice. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 LABOUR Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor PRINCIPLE 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition PRINCIPLE 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment of the right to collective bargaining; and occupation. Waterlogic doesn’t inhibit the freedom of association of the effective recognition of Waterlogic applies an equal opportunities approach to employment. With the right to collective bargaining. All Waterlogic contracts are written considering a number of subsidiaries around the world, we have a diverse range local laws so there is no restriction imposed on union membership. For example, in of employees and will not discriminate on race, gender, ethnicity or France we have elected employee union representatives according to French laws. religion. In fact, our diversity has been a strength for the group, especially in our commercial area where we have been able to develop business PRINCIPLE 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; opportunities in new territories and new cultures around the world. We strive to recruit the best in the industry and offer career development In compliance with all local laws, Waterlogic has a strict policy against forced or and opportunities to move within the organisation. We strongly believe compulsory labour. that employees should be treated fairly without discrimination. PRINCIPLE 5. The effective abolition of child labour; Waterlogic has a non-negotiable no-tolerance policy to child labour. No child has or ever will work for Waterlogic. Suppliers are vetted to ensure that we are not supporting companies that may participate in this practice either. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor PRINCIPLE 7. Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to • Energy Star A number of our environmental challenges; machines have recently passed the Energy Star mark for environmental PRINCIPLE 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; efficiency. The energy star mark enables consumers to make PRINCIPLE 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly informed choices about products technologies. and highlights those that will save them money through energy Waterlogic is always striving to manage its environmental impact and reduce its efficiency. Many of our machines carbon footprint. The products we manufacture are designed to support businesses in have a variety of functions that their own green initiatives and can help in a number of ways such as reducing waste, reduce their energy consumption: reducing plastic, having reusable parts and machines which can be reconditioned etc. Some of our current initiatives are: Low energy consumption – the recent Energy Star mark confirms the low energy consumption for our most efficient machines. As a • REUSABLE FILTERS Reusable filters – we have manufacturer, we have control over the design of our machines and they previously reported on the use of bio-degradable carbon are designed for low energy consumption in order to further highlight filters which degrade naturally. We have recently the benefits over the bottled water alternatives. launched our own set of reusable filters. These filters use a removable inner filter cartridge so that when the Leak detection system – Some of our machines are designed to cartridge reaches the end of its life, only the cartridge is cut out if there is a leak. This means that minimum water is wasted and an engineer is called to rectify the problem in the unlikely case there removed and the filter housing is reused. This reduces is a leak. waste at every machine service. The filter housings are likely to have a lifespan of around 6 years, which will Recyclable components – All of the plastics and steels used mean 11 out of every 12 housings that are currently in Waterlogic machines are fully recyclable. Roughly 80% of our disposed of, will not be. We have already created these machines can be recycled in total. This means that the machines can ranges for 2 of our clients who are launching these as be reconditioned to further reduce waste. The cardboard packaging for part of their eco range. our machines is 100% recyclable. We have also chosen to install these into all our Environmentally friendly chemicals – all chemicals used by suitable machines as standard so that our distributors Waterlogic are non-toxic and environmentally friendly. This includes the NEW REUSABLE WATERLOGIC FILTERS will be encouraged to use the reusable and more chemicals used at the time the machine is serviced and sanitised. environmentally friendly filters. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor • Certifications and approvals for our products: ROHS/WEEE ROHS compliance is tested on all machines. New machines are tested before entry on to the market. They also meet the requirements of the WEEE directive for the waste disposal. We promote these as part of our products to generate awareness of the responsibility of our distributors. CE all of our products have this mandatory certification WRAS all of our machines are WRAS approved meaning that products do not cause waste, improper use, improper consumption or water resource contamination. P231 microbiological purifier and other approvals – our most recent machines with Firewall™ technology are certified to P231 which means that they produce quality water, removing the various bacteria and impurities from the water. Waterlogic has chosen to remain in the point of use market and the very nature of this means that we have products that are kinder to the environment than our biggest competitor – bottled water coolers. Mains connected, or point of use water coolers have a more positive effect on the environment because: • They use the existing water supply to the building so no unnecessary fuel consumption or energy is used in transporting bottled water which is transported from elsewhere • Point of Use reduces waste of plastic bottles. Whilst many of them can be recycled, the energy used in shipping and processing the recycling process still has a negative effect on the environment. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor In order to measure our environmental impact, an independent study was undertaken by the environmental consultancy Sustain, on the carbon footprint of a Waterlogic POU dispenser compared with a standard Bottled Water Cooler (BWC). The study focused on the impacts of production, use and disposal of a single Waterlogic cooler and BWC equivalent over a lifespan of five years. This included all aspects from composition of material, manufacturing process, delivery of machines and energy used during use. The carbon footprint for the Waterlogic POU dispenser and the Bottled Water Cooler is based on the life cycle phases and a water consumption of 72 litres per month. The conclusion was that organisations that install a Waterlogic POU machine (in place of the bottled water cooler) can reduce their carbon footprint by 55% over 5 years. This detailed analysis has enabled us to accurately measure, map and identify our carbon footprint. At Waterlogic we are proud of our products and our commitment to better manage the environmental impact of our services. Waterlogic POU Bottled Water Cooler United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 ANTI-CORRUPTION Waterlogic appoints ISS as its exclusive Australian Distributor PRINCIPLE 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion The planned partnership with and bribery. WaterAid could enable children in the developing world to gain access Waterlogic abides by a code of business practice which strictly forbids all forms of to safe water. A set of WaterAid corruption including extortion and bribery. water dispensers is planned and for each one sold, Waterlogic will Waterlogic is open and honest about its own financial dealings. As part of the project donate enough for one child in to float on the London Stock Exchange we have disclosed and will continue to the developing world to get safe disclose our financial results and practices. An Investor Relations website has been water for life. One of the reasons set up (http://ir.waterlogic.com/) to be open about our work and financial dealings. that Waterlogic chose to support Our integrity on this website demonstrates our willingness to show that we act in a WaterAid is because they support legal and ethical way. the motion of transparency about Waterlogic has continued to demonstrate its global citizenship by supporting charities. where the donations go. This reduces In the past year, some of our charitable partnerships have included: the opportunity for corruption and WaterAid are currently lobbying for • In Sweden, we have supported local charity events by providing purified water free of improvements in how and where charge money is spent. Although it is only a simple idea, • In Denmark, we support cancer research it is essential in helping so many people across the developing countries. Where corruption is being prevented, money is instead going directly towards its intended use in helping so many people in need. • In Germany we made donations in lieu of customer gifts to support less well-off people living in the local city ENG0095-23/09/11 • Internationally we are planning a partnership with WaterAid who give people in the developing world access to safe water.
