Sustainability Report 2010 1 introduction Delivering on our commitments is commitment to our corporate social embedding them into every aspect central to the way we do business responsibilities scored well beyond the of your business and living the values and lies at the very heart of our recognised benchmark for high every day, in every transaction, Trust Agenda, giving confidence to performance companies. This is a every interaction. all those who deal with us that we significant driver of engagement as are a trusted, reliable partner. We employees, like other key stakeholders, 2011 will be another exciting year for us are building a sustainable business increasingly chose to connect with as we evolve and enhance our longfor the future, whilst embracing our organisations whose values and culture term sustainability strategy, sharing it core values to act with integrity at all reflect their own. We are building a more widely and more clearly than ever times, be reliable, innovative and diverse and inclusive team with quite before. Our aim is to make it easier for focused on our customers’ needs. literally ‘a world of opportunity’ where customers, suppliers, investors and all the only barriers to success are of our stakeholders to engage with us Delivering on our commitments is In a year that has seen our strategy for on the issues that matter to them, central to the way we do business attitude, integrity and performance. growth deliver strong business results through our Trust Agenda – with open and lies at the very heart of our and increased our value on the UK Our support of the United Nations and transparent access to data about Trust Agenda. stock market we have continued to Global Compact continues, and you our performance as we strive for embed the Trust Agenda as part of will see throughout this report we have continuous improvement. who we are and what we do. We are highlighted how our work connects proud to have received recognition for with the principles of the Compact. our commitment to sustainability and we continue to participate actively in I would encourage other businesses to the communities where we work. demonstrate their commitment to making a difference by becoming Every year we survey our employees signatories themselves. This is about Harriet Green, CEO globally and this year again breathing life into your commitments, 2 what we do Premier Farnell plc is a leading high Industrial Products Marketing and Distribution service, multi-channel distributor. Division (IPD) Division (MDD) We purchase electronic components and maintenance and repair products At the start of 2010, our Industrial Products Our Marketing and Distribution Division in large volumes from over 3,500 of the Division comprised the Akron Brass and operates predominantly in the high service, world’s leading manufacturers and TPC Wire & Cable businesses that supply time-critical sector of the electronic We purchase electronic suppliers. We then distribute these high-performance products to specialist components market. components and products and technology solutions in industrial markets. On 31 January 2011 maintenance and repair Countries of operation small volumes to a customer base we disposed of TPC Wire & Cable, leaving products from over 3,500 Akron Brass as the only industrial products Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech consisting of over two million Electronic Repubulic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, of the world’s leading business left in the Group’s portfolio. Holland, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Design Engineers (EDEs), Maintenance, manufacturers and suppliers. Mexico, Norway, Poland, Romania, Singapore, Slovakia, Repair and Operations engineers and Akron Brass is a manufacturer and Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, purchasing professionals. In most marketer of high performance fire fighting Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom, United States. cases, we deliver our products the same and rescue equipment as well as lighting day or the next day. We offer a rich and multiplexing designed to improve the online customer experience including safety and efficiency of personnel engaged software, information and other services in fire suppression, emergency medical We include the impacts of TPC Wire beyond product that support our response, and pupil transportation. & Cable in this Sustainability Report. customers. The quality of the customer We manufacture a number of these In future reports, we will correct our businesses that we serve and the value products on-site in Ohio, USA. footprint to exclude the impact of TPC that they attribute to our offering is Countries of operation Wire & Cable from our performance reflective of the strength of the Australia, Canada, China, United Arab Emirates, France, benchmarking. proposition and the high level of Germany, Singapore, United Kingdom, United States. service we provide. 3 financial performance Group sales for the financial year were £990.8 million (2010: £795.3 million), reflecting a year-on-year sales growth, based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates of 21.4%. The Group’s gross margin in the year was 41.1% compared to the prior year of 39.8% This reflects over five years of gross margin stability. Underlying profit for the year was £112.1 million, compared to £72.7 million the previous year. The full year underlying operating margin was 11.3% compared to 9.1% in the prior year, reflecting sales growth. More detailed information on Premier Farnell’s strategic and financial performance can be found in the online annual report and accounts, available at http://annualreport2011.premierfarnell.com. Summary financial data m 2010/11 2009/10 2008/9 Revenue 990.8 795.3 804.4 Net underlying operating expenses (3) 295.4 243.7 230.0 Employee benefit expense 184.4 153.2 134.8 Payments to providers of capital (4) 50.8 49.5 49.2 Income taxes paid 29.6 11.6 21.9 Community investments (5) 0.06 0.08 0.07 Notes 1. Relates to financial year and not calendar year 4. Comprises net interest paid, on preference shares and 2. Further details are given in the Consolidated ordinary dividends paid. Financial Statements 5. Includes direct cash donations, good and money raised 3. Excludes one-off items by employees. Excludes value of employee time. 4 sustainability at Premier Farnell We believe that our business will need to environment, and proactively working to evolve in order to be sustainable and to develop and support solutions to global continue delivering profitable growth as challenges is not only a “sustainable” way the world in which we live changes. With of doing business but, we believe, a source the world population predicted to reach of sustained profitability and real nine billion people by 2050, consuming differentiation from our competitors. 2.3 times the planet’s resources, Our efforts to continuously embed increasingly living in urban environments sustainability into our business strategy and hugely affected by climate change, and everyday processes also build a business needs to react to support relationship of trust with our stakeholders sustainable development and mitigate (both internally and externally) which is vital these new risks. to our success as a business that provides Premier Farnell intends to be a company knowledge and services, as well as with a successful future that reflects our physical products. long and distinguished heritage. In order We have developed our vision into the to do so, we have developed a long-term graphics overleaf to clearly communicate sustainability strategy that clearly links what we believe to be the vital components together those elements of our operations of a successful and sustainable business. that we believe have a significant impact Within the categories of People, Planet and on our sustainability performance. Principles, we have developed key targets Our vision is to become the most profitable that contribute to financial year 2021 and sustainable provider of goods and key performance indicators representing services to EDEs by 2020. Accounting our successful positioning as for our impacts on society and the a sustainable business. 5 The Premier Farnell Trust Agenda to be the world’s most profitable and sustainable provider of products and services to EDEs METRICS Stakeholder opinion BiTC, G1000, FTSE4GOOD, Employee Engagement Score Clearly ahead of competitors Profits ISO 26000 Planet People Principles To operate with minimum practicable environmental To be an organisation that benefits all the people To be known for our exceptional ethical impact and be the leading innovator of with whom it interacts and enables its workforce standards and compliance and for the way environmental benefits in our industry to realise their full potential that we treat our stakeholders End of FY12 End of FY13 End of FY21 End of FY12 End of FY13 End of FY21 End of FY12 End of FY13 End of FY21 Complete budgeted carbon All Group facilities have Tonnes of carbon emitted per Review pay levels at salary 30% of employees graded 6 Premier Farnell has created Legislation pages on Representatives from Premier Farnell is involved reduction initiatives at eight budgeted carbon reduction £100,000 revenue generated grades 1,2 and 3 to ensure or above are female a culture where current and element14 receive at least Premier Farnell sit on one in the design process of major facilities initiatives that are reviewed are reduced by 50% that no pay gap exists as a potential employees feel 20,000 page views per year government advisory body global legislation impacting as part of their quarterly result of employee gender by that they are valued by the per region on the issues electronics as a result of business review the end of FY12 Company and that they surrounding legislation in the demonstrating its leadership can contribute to their full electronics industry in the arena of supporting potential electronic design engineers with legislative requirements. 100% of employees have 100% of employees More than 30% of internal Review and improve the Achieve a reduction in air Business flights are reduced completed the personal complete the personal vacancies are filled through Gap analysis of Premier Premier Farnell operates Premier Farnell holds the Company Business Travel miles per travelling employee to essential face-todevelopment objective development objective internal promotions Farnell's performance under the guidelines of most highly-approved Policy to discourage face work only. All other setting process and it setting process against ISO26000 has been ISO26000 management standard for unnecessary travel and meetings supported by has been reviewed and completed sustainability management short-turnaround flights videoconferencing 100% of eligible people supported by their manager managers complete a 360 Distribute the Annual Premier Farnell Youth Board Premier Farnell has a full review and discuss the Sustainability Report is established stakeholder interests council, outcomes with their manager electronically to all including; employees, employees and set up a customers, suppliers, Publicly launch Premier element14 facilitates, and Premier Farnell is the hub The all-employee The all-employee The all-employee feedback mechanism to local communities and Farnell support for the United is used as, a collaboration for sustainable electronics engagement survey score engagement score increases engagement score subset address comments and government and industry Bank of Carbon space for solving innovation, linking electronic increases by 2% by 2% for sustainability consistently questions bodies environmental challenges engineers with NGOs achieves 100% across all and specialists to deliver responding employees Premier Farnell is seen as solutions to real-world pioneering and leading this Over 95% of employees problems commitment across different complete the survey each industries and is featured year within an established 50% of Private Label 70% of Private Label 100% of Private Label and well-regarded “most suppliers have completed suppliers have completed suppliers have completed desirable places to work” £27m revenue delivered by £50m in incremental revenue 30% of revenue is generated workplace standards workplace standards workplace standards listing non-component sales delivered by non-component from non-component sales questionnaires questionnaires questionnaires sales Code of Ethics re-launched 100% of employees confirm No breaches of the Code 25% have completed site Over 35% have completed 100% have completed site that they have read the Code of Ethics audits audits audits of Ethics in their mid-year review 6 our stakeholders Identifying our stakeholders We have identified our stakeholders Throughout this report, as being those groups who are directly we have identified areas affected by the activities of the Group where our activities as we pursue our business strategy and support the principles this report addresses the issues that of the Global Compact, we believe are most relevant to and to assist readers in each of them. assessing our progress. Our primary stakeholder groups are: • Colleagues working in Premier Farnell companies globally • Customers of Premier Farnell group companies • Suppliers to Premier Farnell group companies The United Nations Global Compact • The local communities in which In September 2009, Premier Farnell Throughout this report, we have our operations are based became the first company in our sector identified areas where our activities • Existing and prospective investors to join the United Nations Global support the principles of the Global in Premier Farnell Compact, a voluntary business-led group Compact, and to assist readers in In addition, we consider the commonof companies committed to furthering the assessing our progress. interest groups to whom we report on millennium development goals. We welcome communications from our progress to be stakeholders, including Our commitment to making a difference other Global Compact signatories, and Business in the Community, the Carbon through the way we conduct our business encourage interested parties to contact Disclosure Project and the United Nations has led us to be closely aligned with the swebb@premierfarnell.com Global Compact. principles of the Global Compact, and for further information. as such we took the decision to formally commit to its principles. 7 Our Stakeholders (continued) Our market position Identifying and defining performance is considered to be a Using element14, our “hygiene factor” prior to investing. Premier Farnell’s role as a high-service material issues innovative eCommunity for We have also discussed sustainability distributor means that it deals with many There are a number of sources and electronic design engineers, thousands of customers each day. Average issues with some of our EDE customers in methods of stakeholder engagement we are able to identify issues order values are £100–£240, and no a UK forum event this year. The results of available to us that we can use to identify that users are interested in customer accounts for more than 2% of the forum made it clear that “green” issues those issues that are of interest and and concerned about. sales. The breadth of products supplied importance to our stakeholders. and performance were not a primary We can use this live and and the number of manufacturers with concern to them – our ability to deliver to Using element14, our innovative up-to-date information to whom we deal (over 3,500) means that promise, the usability of our web offering eCommunity for electronic design and our product proposition were their inform our understanding no supplier accounts for more than 5% engineers, we are able to identify issues most important issues and these are of what is important to the of the products sold. that users are interested in and concerned addressed in the business review section people who are using our This huge diversity of customers and about. We can use this live and up-to-date of our Annual Report and Accounts. products and services. suppliers limits the Group’s exposure to information to inform our understanding of regional or industrial sector economic what is important to the people who are The Company runs an annual all-employee cycles, but also presents challenges in using our products and services. engagement survey, administered by obtaining a consistent view of what these Towers Watson, that allows colleagues to In November this year, three of our largest anonymously give their thoughts on the stakeholder groups view as important in investors spoke to our assembled senior performance of the Company and the business sustainability. We have therefore leadership team in order to explain how our leadership teams. The survey attracts a employed a range of methods to engage strategy and performance influenced their response rate of approximately 89% – with them and these are described below. decisions. One issue that was specifically higher than the rate normally expected of raised was the importance and impact of high-performing companies. The survey sustainability to those investors present. results in 2010 showed that sustainability is They confirmed that sustainability one of the three key drivers of engagement performance did not significantly influence for its workforce. their investment decisions, however the presence of a strategy and strong 8 Our Stakeholders (continued) Through this survey, colleagues are able to 1000 Sustainable Performance Leaders express the issues that concern them and rankings. The multi-stakeholder groups High-performing companies Key drivers of engagement where they feel we are performing well or represent the interests of a large number High-performing companies are These are the three elements of have room to improve. This feeds into the of participants and the results of their defined at those which demonstrate employee engagement that explain ongoing development of our Trust Agenda, research. As such we consider the content three consecutive years of growth. 75% of variances within the survey. identifying areas that employees find highly of these surveys and expectations of the Their characteristics and internal Where sustainability performance engaging within the Company, and also ranking systems to be indicative of the performance are used to benchmark scores were high, so were overall areas where they feel more work or focus interests of a broad spectrum the performance of other companies engagement scores, and vice versa. is needed. of stakeholders. in the Towers Watson survey. Results of the engagement survey are fed We have taken the decision not to produce back to senior leaders within the business, a materiality matrix or similar graphical who develop action plans to respond to representation of the weighting of issues. the major concerns raised, and those As we have described, some stakeholder areas where our colleagues feel we groups do not provide detailed or frequent could do better. feedback and at this point a matrix representation would not therefore be The content of our Sustainability reports is accurate or useful to our readers. also influenced by surveys that we receive from customers, suppliers and special We discuss the impacts and materiality interest groups and multi-stakeholder of each issue within its own section of organisations, such as Business in the this report. Community and the Justmeans Global 9 Our Stakeholders (continued) We aim to report those performance We apply a collaborative indicators that reflect issues we approach with all of our understand to be important to our suppliers to address stakeholders particularly focusing on sustainability challenges, employees, who are our most interested and include sustainability and engaged stakeholder group. criteria in our standard supplier contracts. Our influence The nature of our customers’ over whom we have greater influence. requirements during the design and These suppliers are also our highest maintenance phases of their work area of reputational risk within our means that whilst we source large supply chain because they: quantities of products from • manufacture products under manufacturers, we do not operate on Premier Farnell’s own brand the same scale as volume distributors • are under less public scrutiny over and for many of our suppliers, we are workplace and environmental relatively small customers. Many of our concerns large suppliers are international corporations, who have their own We apply a collaborative approach with deeply embedded values, processes all of our suppliers to address and understandings of sustainability. sustainability challenges, and include In some situations, this presents a sustainability criteria in our standard challenge to our ability to exercise supplier contracts. However, we influence over these suppliers on recognise that our sphere of influence sustainability issues. As a result, does not extend to us mandating we focus on our private label suppliers, sustainability criteria with all suppliers. 10 Our Stakeholders (continued) During the year, we have engaged with our stakeholders through a variety of methods and media, using those that we believe to be most appropriate for each group. The methods used are outlined below, along with our primary impacts on each group. Stakeholder Group Relevant impacts Method of communication Stakeholder Group Relevant impacts Method of communication Colleagues working −−Health & Safety −−Health & Safety −−The Innovation Exchange Customer companies −−Packaging −−Replies to individual −−Fact sheets in Premier Farnell programmes customer enquiries −−Development −−Employee whistle blowing −−Environmental legislation −−Online Sustainability group companies opportunities −−All-employee engagement hotline −−Sales managers Report −−Product compliance survey −−Labour standards −−“Global Green Day” Q&A −−Customer-facing −−Customer CSR survey −−Business ethics −−Online Sustainability sessions with the CEO employees −−Business ethics Report −−Environmental impacts −−Quarterly business review −−element14 community −−Environmental impacts −−Annual kick-off meetings meetings −−Supply chain standards −−Employee wellbeing −−Online Employee −−Premier Farnell Leadership initiatives Individual Electronic −−Product delivery −−element14 community −−Sales managers volunteering portals Council meetings −−Volunteering Design Engineers −−Online Learning Centre −−Green Teams −−Environmental legislation −−Customer-facing −−Focus groups opportunities employees −−Company intranet −−AskHarriet confidential −−Product compliance −−Regular internal email inbox for employees communications to contact the CEO. Suppliers −−Supply chain standards −−Response to individual −−element14 community supplier enquiries −−Performance review −−Business ethics −−Fact sheets process (Code of Ethics) −−Environmental impacts −−Supplier audits −−Online Sustainability −−Supplier managers Report −−Environmental legislation Investment −−Corporate Governance −−Investor relations function −−Membership of the Community FTSE4GOOD Index −−Environmental −−Annual reporting Multi-stakeholder −−Environmental −−Responses to regular −−Carbon Disclosure Project performance −−Reporting to the Carbon organisations performance surveys submission −−Corporate communications −−Business ethics Disclosure Project −−Fact sheets −−Labour standards −−Corporate website −−Business in the −−Supply chain standards −−Investor surveys Community CR Index −−Direct communications −−Investment in local −−United Nations Global from investor groups −−Investor lunches communities Compact Communication −−FTSE4GOOD Index −−Chairman’s investor −−Employee wellbeing on Progress −−Quarterly results briefings −−Global 1000 Sustainable meetings programmes Performance Leaders −−CEO/CFO investor meetings −−Investor visits and regular Investor days Local communities −−Employment −−Recruitment −−Corporate website opportunities −−Community partnership −−CSR communication days −−Investment in local relationships communities −−Environmental impacts 11 Our Stakeholders (continued) Review our report Feedback and our responses and feed back We received a number of comments on our 2010 concerns and new “Corporate Social Responsibility Report” including a review issues through Corporate Register and performance rankings S LDER from Carbon SMART and Justmeans.com. HO As a result of the feedback we received, we have taken the following actions to improve the quality of our report: STA KE • included new metrics and targets related to gender ACTS equality across the business IMP • summarised some of the feedback from customers and shareholders in the materiality section of the report, and • expanded the detail we give on our sphere of influence We report annually on over our impacts our progress alongside our Annual Report and Accounts Businesses develop ACTIO strategies to address NS new impacts or improve on previous years’ performance 12 our sustainability policies Premier Farnell maintains an overall Corporate Social Responsibility policy Policy updates that is the responsibility of the Chief In December 2010, we clarified our Executive Officer of the Company. European businesses’ environmental Following the launch of this report and policy to explicitly include energy our new sustainability vision, we will be management. Whilst this was reviewing this policy in the September previously implicit, and energy 2011 Board Meeting. management and reduction activities Our core impacts are governed by policies were undertaken by the business, we which apply to all Group companies: have now clearly stated that this is a requirement of compliance with our • Environmental management Group Environmental Policy. • Workplace Health and Safety • Supply chain and procurement standards • Community investment and charitable giving. Our environmental and Health and Safety policies are in accordance with best practice outlined in ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 and are applied globally to all business units. 13 highlights of the year The “Corporate Social Responsibility” Our performance in the Business In financial year 2011, we set ourselves the Premier Farnell was listed metric received an 89% positive score target of achieving BITC’s “Platinum Plus” in the Community CR Index as one of the “World’s in the all-employee engagement survey. award by embedding sustainability This is the fourth year that our Since financial year 2008, when we were Most Ethical Companies” throughout our business and decisionsustainability activities have received awarded Silver in the Business in the making processes by financial year 2013, by Ethisphere. the highest score in the survey and an Community (BITC) Corporate Responsibility when our 1,000 day strategy comes to a increase of two percentage points index our progress in developing our close. Having achieved Platinum in financial over 2009. business in a sustainable manner has been year 2010, we retain the status for financial recognised by consistent improvement in year 2011. Premier Farnell was listed as one of the the BITC Corporate Responsibility index “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by rating of Premier Farnell. We have used this Ethisphere for the first time this year. KPI as an ongoing benchmark of our overall Premier Farnell was ranked 411 in the performance in embedding sustainability Justmeans Global 1000 Sustainable into the business. Performance Leaders index, the highest position for any company from our industry sector. Sustainability KPI Target: Platinum Plus The Premier Farnell Carbon Disclosure 2008 Silver Project rating increased to 74 (an increase 2009 Gold of 13 points on the prior year), reflecting 2010 Platinum improvements in the quality of information 2011 Platinum that we publicly disclose. Our 2010 FTSE4GOOD submission received a ranking of 3.8 for our performance against environmental, social and governance metrics. 14 reporting our impacts This report is an important opportunity to communicate our progress during the year, and the environmental, social and financial impacts of our initiatives. As we develop our sustainability strategy internally, we also see this report as a way of communicating the longer-term planning that underpins the sustainability decisions that we make now. We select the impacts that we report based on their scale and the extent to which we are able to affect them. We also include those issues that we see becoming increasingly prevalent amongst stakeholder groups or the reporting community in general. The data contained in this report are assured by SGS (UK) Ltd and we continue to report to GRI Level C. Data tables to support our GRI application level and reporting to meet our United Nations Global Compact commitments can be found at the end of this report. 15 our principles Our Vision Impacts • Provision of products that comply with environmental To be known for our exceptional ethical legislative requirements standards and compliance and for the • Supplying guidance on environmental legislation to way that we treat our stakeholders. our customers and suppliers • Ensuring that Premier Farnell conducts business in an ethical manner We believe that business must operate in a way that is • Operating in a manner that reflects best-practice ethical, professional and upholds the values and principles through management standards of its shareholders and employees in all of its dealings. • Compliance with trade security requirements We consider the “Principles” element of our Trust Agenda to reflect the way that we believe business should be carried out. We have identified best practice and opportunities to support the industry through engaging with governments and regulatory bodies to ensure that we are able to provide our insights as relevant legislation and regulation is formed. 16 environmental and ethical legislation in our industry Environmental legislation in the electronics industry is a continuously-developing field which presents How does this affect our… a number of regulatory challenges for us, our customers and our suppliers. Customers The key pieces of legislation that affect our industry are: >> Customers have access to RoHS and >> Wide-ranging information is available • The EU RoHS and REACH directives and their Chinese REACH data by individual product on global legislation that is relevant to through our transactional websites, their industry. and other equivalents – addressing chemicals in making this important information electronic components easy to find. • The EU WEEE directive – concerned with the recycling of Employees end-of-life electronic components and devices and other >> Employees are informed about key support customers and suppliers with national legislation outside the EU developments and therefore are able to this information. • The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Regulation and Consumer Investors Protection Act – section 1502 of which implements >> As legislation increases, our proactive strongly in comparison to our reporting requirements on “Conflict Minerals” approach to compliance and competition as a favourably-perceived information services positions us provider of knowledge to the industry. Suppliers >> Our suppliers are required to provide us prospect to customers wishing to with increasing amounts of data on comply with legislation. products that we purchase. >> Wide-ranging information is available >> Improving the quality and quantity of on global legislation that is relevant to data available to customers makes their industry. suppliers’ products a more attractive External stakeholders >> In the UK, we participate in >> We make all of our legislation guidance consultations on legislation affecting freely available to all users of the electronics industry. element14. 17 Environmental and ethical legislation in our industry (continued) Premier Farnell has continued to By offering this support free provide industry-leading guidance on REACH RoHS of charge to the electronic RoHS and REACH legislation in Europe, Registration, Evaluation, Restriction of Hazardous design community via and developing environmental Authorisation – and restriction – Substances (in electrical and element14, we are able to legislation in the US and China. of Chemicals requires the flow of electronic equipment-EEE). increase the existing By offering this support free of charge specific safety data throughout coverage of our guidance RoHS restricts lead, mercury, cadmium, to the electronic design community via the supply chain. hexavalent chromium and flame and to promote debate and element14, we are able to increase the For the vast majority of the 30,000 most retardants PBB and PBDE from 8 collaboration over minimising existing coverage of our guidance and to frequently used chemicals information categories of EEE unless an exemption the environmental impacts of promote debate and collaboration over on properties, uses and risks is limited. applies. A recast published in engineers’ designs. minimising the environmental impacts of At the same time the number of November 2009 proposes to extend engineers’ designs. incidents of allergies, asthma, certain the scope to all EEE, include other The Head of Legislation for Premier Farnell hazardous substances and provides types of cancer and reproductive sits as a member on the UK Electronics clarity on certain definitions that will in disorders are on the increase and Regulatory Group (ERG), a lobbying body turn bring more products into scope. chemicals are considered as one representing the interests of the electronics By removing these toxic substances, possible cause. Manufacturers and industry to the UK government. recycling at the time products become importers of chemicals will be Membership of this group enhances our waste (WEEE) becomes both easier responsible for producing data to define ability to assess and provide guidance on and safer. the hazards and risks to the legislation affecting the electronics industry downstream user. and to provide input on improvements. 18 Environmental and ethical legislation in our industry (continued) We are also able to rapidly feed back Global legislation features as one of our issues, debates and potential changes to 1,000 day strategic programmes, designed the design community, putting electronic to improve the benefits that we receive design engineers in a better position to from our deep understanding of the respond and comply. legislation affecting our industry. During 2010, we expanded the provision of Developments in 2010 information to include the U.S. Dodd Frank We make information available through a Wall Street Regulation and Consumer number of channels, including two main Protection Act provisions regarding Conflict “Hits to the dedicated legislation portal importantly, what it means to the online sources – our legislation pages on Minerals in electronics. www.element14.com/legislation clearly customer. For example the 800+ pages of element14 and the Directive Decoder blog reflect a growing thirst for information on the REACH Regulations are summarised in Electronics Weekly. During 2010, these Our aims for this year an ever-increasing number of in an 8 page, downloadable document. received highs of 394 and 225 hits per In 2011, we will be investigating processes legislative matters. day respectively. Our element14 legislation element14 offers advice and guidance to help our customers maintain safety data section benefited greatly from the migration From the popular RoHS recast update, through multiple channels. Informative sheets for products that they order from us of legislation information that was stored RoHS progress in China and India, blogs in the UK, US, China and India are in order to keep their records current. on the Farnell transactional websites in REACH substances of very high concern, supported by social networking posts via From a legislative perspective, we expect July, increasing daily visits from 55. energy efficiency regulations right through LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. A unique to see the authorisation process for to the challenges of complying with the “Ask the Expert” feature provides free of Blog content on legislation from Premier Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) Battery and WEEE directives across charge insights. Farnell now features on three government under REACH legislation coming under Europe, Farnell has its finger on the pulse. websites – the Electronic Knowledge In our hectic world element14 provides costly authorisation requirements, which will Transfer Network, the Electronics Information and guidance is updated daily the electronics design engineer with a drive EDEs towards SVHC-free alternatives. Regulatory Group and the Engineering and on the legislation portal and includes single source for all their legislative Physical Science Research Council. industry leading, exclusive, step-by-step information.” guides to the various directives. These Gary Nevison, take the text of the legislation and Head of Legislation and Compliance summarise the key points and, more 19 our code of ethics It is crucial for us that we are able to The Premier Farnell Customers assure our customers that we conduct Code of Ethics >> Customers can be confident that Premier Farnell business in an ethical and transparent employees will operate with integrity. manner. Operating globally, we The Code is clear in forbidding the giving Employees maintain consistently high ethical and receiving of bribes, ‘facilitation payments’ and any other form of >> All employees must be aware that breaching the standards in all of our dealings with Code of Ethics is a serious disciplinary offence, and customers, employees and suppliers. remuneration, reward or gift which could behave in a manner that is consistent with the under any circumstances be construed expectations that the Code sets out. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL Premier Farnell has a Group Code of as affecting (or being intended to affect) Investors COMPACT PRINCIPLE 10 Ethics, which all employees are required a business decision. >> Investors can be confident that Premier Farnell is an BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK to read when they join the company, and ethically low-risk investment AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS re-read annually as part of the preparation Employees and Directors are required FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION to disclose any concerns of a conflict of Suppliers AND BRIBERY for their mid-year review with their line manager. This also gives employees the interest in any business transaction to the >> Premier Farnell representatives must never make or accept bribes, facilitation payments or gifts from opportunity to discuss any concerns or Company Secretary and are required to suppliers intended to influence a purchasing decision. questions that they have about the Code remove themselves from a deal should External stakeholders and how to ensure that they comply with it. any form of conflict become apparent. >> Premier Farnell employees will not be involved Gifts to persons involved in local or national in any form of bribery governments are strictly prohibited and any form of donation, support or sponsorship (cash or in kind) to a political or lobbying organisation must be reported to the Company Secretary before it takes place. 20 Our Code of Ethics (continued) All business units are audited annually by 36 employees were not confirmed during our Internal Audit team to ensure that they financial year 2011 due to sickness, are compliant with our Code of Ethics. maternity leave or resignation Compliance statements must be submitted During the year considerable work has by the heads of all business units confirming been carried out to understand and “Behaving ethically is vital to building and head of finance of each business that there have been no areas of concern prepare for the implementation of the trust with all of our stakeholders. Our unit to certify that they are not aware of (ethical or financial) and that any concerns UK Bribery Act. This has included briefings framework is based on our core values any breaches of the Code. have been reported appropriately. to the Company’s Board of Directors. that include acting with integrity, and our Breaches of the Code of Ethics are Our Internal Audit department review group-wide Code of Ethics. All areas of considered to be acts of serious communication of the Code as part of our business in all parts of the world are misconduct and are treated accordingly. their business audits and we provide required to follow the same standards employees with the Trust Line (described 99.05% of MDD business employees and we monitor understanding and Our full Code of Ethics is available at on the next page) as a means of raising confirmed this year that they had read and adherence in a number of ways. http://www.premierfarnell.com/ concerns anonymously. Our Board understood the Code during their mid-year premier_farnell/csr/codeofethics/ First, we provide everyone that joins the receives a report twice a year on the review using our online “Futures” system. group with an on-line training module on numbers and type of call received by the the Code and track its completion as Trust Line. part of the induction process. In Employees also provide feedback on addition, all employees are required to many aspects of the Company through confirm, as part on their mid-year our annual engagement survey. Over performance review process that they 2,000 employees took the time to write have read and understood the Code. specific comments in response to this Making this confirmation part of the year’s survey.” review process allows employees who have questions or concerns to raise Steven Webb, them with their manager. On a quarterly Company Secretary basis, we also ask the senior manager and General Counsel 21 Our Code of Ethics (continued) The Trust Line All Premier Farnell employees have access In the last 12 months, 1 call was received to an anonymous telephone whistleby the Trust Line. This was reviewed and blowing service, operated by Global classified as unsupported. The Board Compliance Services, called the Trust Line. receives an anonymous, confidential report on the number of calls to the Trust Line Employees are able to use this number to and any serious issues are flagged. report any concerns that they have about unethical conduct in the business, where We review the number of calls that the they do not feel comfortable or are unable Trust Line receives against a benchmark to discuss it with their line manager. for the wholesale trade provided by Global Compliance Services. The results of the benchmarking exercise for 2010 are as follows: Wholesale Premier Trade Farnell plc Employees 1.04% 0.01% reporting ethical concerns Valid follow-up 30.89% 0.00% investigations as a percentage of employee reports Our aim for next year During 2011, we will be revising our sub-distributor agreements to specifically include obligations that the sub-distributors will observe ethical business practices and will not carry out any activities that could constitute, or appear to constitute bribery or activities that would contravene our Code of Ethics. 22 implementation of management standards We operate our business in line with best practice in management standards. Where it is appropriate, or we believe that the structure would be beneficial, we implement the certification of management standards by independent certification bodies. Facilities currently certified to international management standards We make all of our management standards certifications available on our transactional websites and our corporate internet site. At present, our businesses are certified as follows: 1 Newark Distribution 7 Farnell AG Zurich, Centre, Ohio, USA Switzerland ISO 9001:2000 ISO 9001:2000 AS9120 ISO 14001:2004 8 Farnell Components SL, Spain 11 2 MCM, Ohio, USA ISO 9001:2000 ISO 9001:2000 3 9 6 9 Farnell InOne, Denmark 5 7 3 Premier Farnell UK Ltd, UK ISO 9001: 2000 4 OHS 18001:2007 8 12 ISO 14001:2004 10 element14, Australia 1 2 ISO 9001:2008 ISO 9001: 2000 IEC TR 61340-5-1: 1998 4 Farnell France, France ISO 14001:2004 11 Farnell Finland, Finland ISO 9001: 2000 ISO 9001:2008 5 Farnell Belgium, Belgium 12 Farnell Italy, Italy ISO 14001: 2004 ISO 9001:2008 ISO 9001:2008 6 Farnell BV, Netherlands 10 ISO 9001:2000 Our aims for next year In order to improve the health and safety performance of our Liège facility, we will be implementing the OHSAS 18001 management standard. Following the improvement in Akron Brass’ injury rates, we believe that this would be a positive action to further improve safety processes at our Belgian Distribution Centre. 23 trade security: our compliance As a global company, we have a In 2010, Premier Farnell’s UK distribution responsibility to ensure that our supply centre was awarded Authorised Economic Our aims for next year How does this affect… chains are secure, and that we take all Operator (AEO) status. To become an AEO We will be adding European trade possible precautions to ensure that our operator, all aspects of the business, from compliance training to element14 activities and our shipments are financial stability and IT systems to physical over the course of 2011, sharing Customers protected against risks to our own stability and security measures are our knowledge and building a >> Customers’ orders are subject to fewer employees, and to the customers and examined to make sure that an operator is comprehensive reference area inspections and stoppages in transit. countries to which we deliver. not susceptible to security breaches in available to customers and suppliers Employees their operations. in the Legislation area of element14. Premier Farnell has been a participant in >> Employees are required to observe strict security standards when on our premises. the US Customs and Border Protection Holding AEO status means the shipments >> Employees working in the “Goods Out” area of “Customs-Trade Partnership Against from our UK Distribution Centre are subject our UK Distribution Centre must undergo Terrorism” (C-TPAT) through our Newark to fewer inspections and data requirements background checks covering the past five years. business since 2007. In this voluntary from customs when they are in transit. Investors programme, we work with Customs to >> The value of our proposition to customers is prevent the movement of items that could enhanced, improving our attractiveness as a supplier. be used for the purposes of terrorism. We participate by ensuring that we maintain Suppliers strong security measures in our facilities, >> Our suppliers must comply with the requirements of trade security programmes. and communicate our focus on security >> Participating in trade security programmes measures throughout our supply chain. increases that speed at which suppliers’ products can be shipped and ready for sale or delivery. External stakeholders >> Customs agencies and logistics providers can have confidence that Premier Farnell shipments have been prepared in a secure environment and do not pose a risk. 24 our planet Our impacts on the environment Our Vision The pervasiveness of electronic Impacts equipment in everyday life means that Primary To operate with the minimum this industry sector has a huge impact • GHG emissions from energy use in practicable environmental on our environment. This arises from our facilities impact and be the leading the manufacture of products, their • GHG emissions from business travel energy consumption while in use and UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL innovator of environmental • The waste produced by their disposal at the end of life. We COMPACT PRINCIPLE 7 benefits in our industry. therefore believe that, as a company our operations BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT involved in this sector, a leading, • Paper consumed in the production A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH of our main marketing material for environmentally-responsible approach TO THE ENVIRONMENT is both a requirement and a source the Farnell, Newark, MCM, CPC of business opportunity. and element14 businesses • Using the way that we do business As natural resources become increasingly to support and encourage scarce and expensive and international innovations that benefit awareness of the impacts of climate the environment. change increase, we believe that proactively managing our environmental Secondary impacts positions us well to be competitive • Packaging dispatched to in a changing market both from a our customers regulatory and reputational perspective. • Water consumed at our facilities • Waste electronic components and equipment • GHG emissions from the delivery of our products to customers 25 GHG emissions from energy use in our facilities We have been measuring the carbon In 2006, we set a three-year goal to footprint of our global operations from reduce these emissions by 10% the energy consumed to heat and light against our baseline year of 2006. our main facilities since 2003. We surpassed this goal, achieving In 2006, we set a three-year goal to reduce a reduction of over 20%. these emissions by 10% against our baseline year of 2006. We surpassed this goal, achieving a reduction of over 20%. In our last report, we set ourselves the new target of achieving a further 10% reduction by the end of financial year 2013. The Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol We have included in our footprint those activities over which we have direct control The GHG Protocol is a voluntary standard for measuring emissions from facilities and – from the receipt of products into our business activities. This standard, produced in partnership by the World Business warehouses to their final preparations for Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute is the most despatch to customers. widely-used method for calculating emissions. We exclude the delivery of products to and The GHG Protocol defines three “scopes” or categories of emissions; from our distribution centres, as this is Scope 1 – direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the organisation, carried out by third party logistics providers including on-site stationary combustion of fuels (e.g. gas central heating) and mobile and, as such, forms part of our Scope 3 combustion of fuels in company-owned vehicles etc. emissions under the GHG protocol. Whilst Scope 2 – indirect emissions generated in the production of electricity consumed by we do not actively measure these the organisation. emissions, we are continually striving to collect more data in this area and build Scope 3 – all other indirect emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the a clearer picture of the impacts of organisation, but from sources that are neither owned nor controlled by the business. our deliveries. This can include emissions from sources such as commuting, business travel, thirdparty logistics emissions etc. 26 GHG emissions from energy use in our facilities (continued) Measuring our performance The Green Facility programme How does this affect… The Premier Farnell Green Facility programme is an We report our global energy consumption based on the January-December calendar year. With facilities located internal best-practice award scheme that encourages around the world, we receive invoice data from utility Customers facilities to make a conscious change in their behaviour companies at differing times and in order to ensure we >> The carbon emissions associated with >> Customers are increasingly requesting based on minimising waste and energy consumption as provide comparable data globally we set the cut-off point each of our products is reduced by information on our environmental well as increasing recycling and ‘green’ practices. To at December. reducing the energy used in holding impacts and how we are them in our warehouses. mitigating them. date, sixteen of our facilities have achieved this standard. As we increase the coverage of energy metering across Employees our businesses, we expect to see our capability to report >> Colleagues at facilities participating in >> Our Group carbon reduction activities in real-time improve and we will then be able to align our our Green Facility programme are are identified and implemented by Calculating our carbon footprint energy consumption reporting with the financial (February required to self-monitor their behaviour, colleagues from a variety of business and ensure that they take steps to units and functions to January) year. We include the energy consumption of all processes reduce their own environmental impact in the workplace. from receiving goods into our distribution centres up to dispatching them to customers. We also include the Investors energy consumption of the facilities used to conduct >> Driving for energy efficiency and >> As increasing degrees of environmental reducing our consumption leads legislation come into force, taking sales, marketing, administration and other business directly to lower running costs for action now to reduce our emissions support activities. our facilities. protects us from financial and legislative risks in the future. We report emissions from employee business travel, Suppliers using fuel consumption data for company-owned >> We focus on procuring goods and The energy consumption of a product is vehicles. A number of these vehicles are used for a services for our own use that can fulfil a significant factor in our decision to mixture of business and leisure travel. our requirements with minimum purchase. environmental impact. This data is based on the calendar year January to December 2010. We collect data in this way to ensure that our annual reports are comparable and to ensure that we have a full dataset from all of our facilities. 27 Total amount used Unit rate Unit rate (‘000) Total used / 1,000 of sales Total used / square foot 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 2010 2009 2008 2007 Type of Energy consumed Electricity (KwH) 31,123 30,732 32,201 31,596 32 39 40 44 14 14 14 14 Natural Gas (cubic metres) 1,283 1,357 1,472 1,313 1.3 1.7 1.8 1.8 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Propane (kilograms) 7 6 5 5 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Fuel Oil (litres) 7 102 75 97 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 Petrol for company cars/trucks (litres) 228 299 312 310 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.4 Diesel fuel (litres) 192 338 398 341 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.5 Employee Business Travel Petrol for rented cars/trucks (litres) 361 434 506 644 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.9 Metric tonnes CO2 emitted Metric tonnes CO2/1,000 of sales 23,165 24,069 25,534 25,139 0.024 0.030 0.032 0.035 Note: We utilize World Resources Institute recommended “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” in calculating the company’s CO2 emissions. We updated our GHG CO2 conversion factors in 2010. Square footage of our facilities by region 2010 2009 2008 2007 Europe & Sq. Ft. 1,195,034 Europe & Sq. Ft. 1,195,034 Europe & Sq. Ft. 1,195,034 Europe & Sq. Ft. 1,157,034 Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Americas Sq. Ft. 998,025 Americas Sq. Ft. 1,018,319 Americas Sq. Ft. 1,112,127 Americas Sq. Ft. 1,109,960 2,193,059 2,213,353 2,307,161 2,266,994 Newark 579,795 Newark 575,084 Newark 636,892 Newark 636,892 MCM 148,570 MCM 148,570 MCM 148,570 MCM 148,570 TPC 79,485 TPC 84,490 TPC 84,490 TPC 82,323 Akron Brass 190,175 Akron Brass 190,175 Cadillac Electric 52,000 Cadillac Electric 52,000 Akron Brass 190,175 Akron Brass 190,175 998,025 1,018,319 1,112,127 1,109,960 28 GHG emissions from energy use in our facilities (continued) We have reduced our GHG emissions Net CO2 emissions Green tariff facilities by 904 tonnes during 2010. Our target is Our approach to reducing carbon The following facilities have held green electricity tariffs for the full year to achieve a reduction of 10% against emissions by improving our energy January 01 2010 to December 31 2010. our baseline emissions in 2009. Our efficiency means that we do not purchase Farnell Leeds, CPC Darwen, CPC Fulwood, Farnell Liège achievement this year equates to carbon offsets as these make no 3.76% of our 2009 emissions. 2010 2009 2008 2007 contribution to the overall reduction of We have updated our emissions data energy consumption or carbon emissions. Gross emissions 23,165 24,069 25,534 25,139 according to new statistics made available Estimated emissions avoided by 4,708 782 We support the renewable electricity by the Green House Gas Protocol. During ‘Green Tariff’ electricity generation industry by purchasing ‘green 2010, the organisation released the carbon Net emissions 18,459 23,287 25,534 25.139 tariff’ electricity from mixed renewable emission calculation factors for CO2 sources where it is available and emissions occurring in 2007. We have competitively priced. In effect this We have calculated the net impact of using ‘green tariff’ electricity in the table above to applied these factors to all years produces a net reduction in our green represent the potential emissions reduction saved by having chosen these suppliers. In our subsequent to 2007 (as the most recent house gas emissions as this electricity is carbon accounting, we use standard WRI emissions factors for our green tariff facilities, to data) and this has resulted in our reported zero-carbon. recognise that the electricity is not generated on-site. carbon emissions for each year rising. The change in emissions figures does not Our Carbon The Energy SMART programme reflect a change in performance, they are a Reduction re-statement of the same consumption During 2009, we developed a programme to drive programme levels to closer align our reporting to the energy efficiency at all of our facilities. Whilst our most current information available to us The Premier Farnell carbon carbon reduction programme focuses on our eight from the World Resources Institute Green reduction programme most energy-intensive facilities, the Energy SMART House Gas Project. focuses on our largest programme can be implemented by any of our facilities, which account for businesses and helps to create a network of teams 75% of our total electricity focused on delivering energy efficiency innovations consumption and 81% of for their facilities. In 2010, 3 businesses met the gas consumption. criteria for the Energy SMART programme. These will receive their certification in 2011. 29 GHG emissions from business travel As a global business, our employees are required to work with internal and external contacts. We take Our aims for next year How does this affect… advantage of videoconferencing and other virtual In our 2009/10 report, we outlined our plans to improve meeting tools where possible; however we recognise our business travel monitoring. During financial year 2011, that there are times when it is necessary to travel in we engaged a new travel provider for UK-originating Customers order to meet the needs of the business. travel, and have begun working with them to ensure >> Customers will still get maximum Premier Farnell representatives. value from face to face meetings with As a result, we measure and report on our business continuity of our emissions tracking of air and rail travel. Employees travel using: In financial year 2011, members of our Senior >> Employees will be required to take >> Whilst we will not dictate the method • Company car emissions are reported on page 27 Leadership Team will review and update our business better account of the impacts of their employees use to travel to and from as they are a product of company-owned vehicles travel policy to ensure that it adequately promotes an business travel. work, we will make it easier and more approach to travel that takes into account carbon >> Employees that do travel will be appealing for employees to choose • Carbon emissions data directly from our travel expected to do so in a manner that is low-impact commuting where possible. emissions as well as financial cost and utilises agents for travel originating in the UK or USA1. efficient and commensurate with the >> Reducing the amount of travel required technology alternatives. We will also look into reporting importance, distance and length of of employees helps contribute to a their trip. better work-life balance. Measuring our performance travel at an individual role level and ensuring that travelling is used efficiently. Investors Short Haul Long Haul Rail Total In order to promote this, we have set ourselves a target >> Inefficient travel is potentially a waste efficiency and value in mind will Air Air of business resources. Controlling contribute to reduced operating costs of of reducing the air miles per travelling employee by the employees’ business travel with the business. Distance (km) 10,814,599 12,973,002 372,813 24,160,414 end of financial year 2013. Air travel is the highestSuppliers CO2 emissions 1,874 1,483 21 3,378 impact form of business travel and as such we believe (tonnes) that working to maintain our business performance >> Suppliers will still get maximum value Farnell representatives. from face to face meetings with Premier whilst reducing air travel would have a significant Business travel is reported on the January 2010 to External stakeholders December 2010 calendar year to align with our GHG impact on our emissions from employee travel. >> By reducing business travel we will carbon emissions. emissions reporting. As a result of changing our UK travel Whilst we do not include employee commuting in our reduce the overall level of provider, we do not have data for UK-originating travel for business travel emissions figures, we will conduct an October 2010. We therefore expect that the figures all-employee commuting survey in 2011 and use the reported here are lower than our actual distance travelled data to structure communications, incentives and 1 Some of our smaller facilities (that do not use travel agents) estimate business travel and resultant CO2 emissions for 2010. benefits packages to encourage lower-emissions based on the distance between the two locations, rather than receiving an absolute report from an agent. commuting choices. 30 waste produced by our operations Our business activities involve the unpacking of large Akron Brass is responsible for approximately 46% of all quantities of products from our suppliers in our distribution waste generated by Premier Farnell companies, with a How does this affect… centres, as well as the use of a large quantity of office recycling rate of 81% of waste generated. It is also the only stationery in our sales, marketing and administration centres. business unit to produce hazardous waste as a result of the industrial processes employed in manufacturing its Customers We work to reduce the amount of waste that our facilities products (other business units do so by disposing of >> We are reducing the waste that we more of the packaging that we do send if generate, and simultaneously to ensure that an increasing create for customers by sending them recyclable or biodegradable. obsolete stock), and the weight of waste generated is less packaging and ensuring that percentage of waste is recycled. directly related to the levels of production at the facility. Employees Akron Brass has systems in place to reuse or recycle During 2010, our Singapore office implemented a waste waste material from the manufacturing of its products, >> Employees are required to comply with >> Green Facility programmes and local recycling programme to ensure that no office paper or local recycling practices. green teams allow employees to including additional work shifts to reintroduce waste identify ways to reduce waste and cardboard materials from our distribution centre go to landfill. materials into the production process. operate more efficiently. This will be rolled-out to our businesses in India and China in Investors 2011 in order to improve their recycling performance. Our aims for next year >> Disposing of waste is a costly activity. >> Green Facility programmes and local We will continue to reduce the waste generated by our Reducing the amount of waste green teams allow employees to Our performance this year generated reduces cost. identify ways to reduce waste and operations by re-using packaging waste (one of our largest operate more efficiently. (tonnes) 2010 2009 2008 sources of waste) as an improvement over recycling it, and Suppliers Waste sent to landfill 1,288 1,434 1,520 we will work to improve our recycling rates for waste that is >> Our vendor compliance policy requests amount of waste generated by inbound not reused. that suppliers use packaging deliveries. Of which was Hazardous1 259 198 231 economically to reduce the Waste recycled 3,477 2,979 3,190 In order to reduce the amount of hazardous waste External stakeholders generated, we are assessing the stock rotation of chemical Of which was Hazardous2 3 3 3 products in our distribution centres to reduce the weight of >> By increasing our recycling rates, we are reducing the amount of waste sent Total waste generated 4,765 4,413 4,710 chemical products whose self-life expires in our custody. to landfill sites. % waste recycled 73.0% 67.5% 67.7% We do not fully track reused waste at present as it would 1. Includes waste that is treated appropriately prior to disposal, where it is not sent specifically to a (tonnes) 2010 2009 2008 not be efficient to weigh it between uses, and will materials reclamation facility. 2. Refers to material reclamation carried out on hazardous waste e.g. the distillation of solvents. Waste disposed per £1,000 sales 0.0013 0.0018 0.0019 investigate ways of tracking the weights of waste that “Hazardous waste” includes: lead contaminated machining lubricants, metal scrap, scrap foundry sand, avoids disposal or recycling by being used again in flammable paints, cleaning fluids and damaged, returned or discontinued chemical products and those Waste recycled per £1,000 sales 0.0035 0.0038 0.0039 that have exceeded their shelf-life so that they can no longer be sold to customers. our operations. 31 2010 catalogue production Paper Type Sustainability Certified Percentage of total paper consumption Actual weight of paper consumed (tonnes) Post-Consumer Waste Recycled YES 12% 250.0 Post-Consumer Waste Recycled NO 14% 313.6 Virgin YES 56% 1216.0 Virgin NO 18% 390.2 Total weight of paper consumed in 2010 catalogues (tonnes) 2169.8 Paper catalogues remain an important marketing channel between us and our Total number of catalogues produced in 2010 2,022,710 customers. We ship approximately two million catalogues per year worldwide, and recognise that this is a significant environmental impact. Average weight per catalogue 1.07kg During 2010, we conducted a “Customer Council” in the UK, where attending customers 2009 confirmed that they considered the catalogue an important tool, and that they considered it a core part of our service to them. Taking this feedback into account, we continue to Paper Type Sustainability Certified Percentage of total Actual weight of paper paper consumption consumed (tonnes) provide our catalogues to those customers that want them. Post-Consumer Waste Recycled YES 12% 225.4 We aim to support our customer base through whichever communication methods they believe to be the most efficient and suitable to them. Our catalogue supports our multiPost-Consumer Waste Recycled NO 17% 311.8 channel proposition to customers, offering products both through our transactional Virgin YES 52% 949.0 websites and through local-language sales contact centres. Virgin NO 19% 338.0 We offer additional options to customers who prefer a catalogue experience, including Total weight of paper consumed in 2009 catalogues (tonnes) 1824.1 application-specific microsites and portals, as well as digital versions of our printed Total number of catalogues produced in 2009 846,049 catalogue available both online and on CD and, in FY2012, we will offer an iPad-optimised digital catalogue to customers also. Average weight per catalogue 2.2kg We work to reduce the weight of paper used in each catalogue, and to use sustainability2008 certified paper stocks where this is possible. Paper Type Sustainability Certified Percentage of total Actual weight of paper paper consumption consumed (tonnes) Post-Consumer Waste Recycled YES 15% 421.0 Post-Consumer Waste Recycled NO 18% 517.5 Virgin YES 45% 1,322.2 Virgin NO 22% 650.5 Total weight of paper consumed in 2008 catalogues (tonnes) 2,911.2 Total number of catalogues produced in 2008 1,274,460 Average weight per catalogue 2.3kg 32 Producing our Catalogues (continued) The average weight per catalogue has reduced by 1.13kg (51%) per unit between 2009 2010 and 2010. This metric provides a nominal overview of the weight of each publication that Paper Type Sustainability Certified Percentage of total Actual weight of paper we shipped in order to give readers an idea of the amount of paper consumed to generate paper consumption consumed (tonnes) each piece of marketing communication. Regional catalogues differ in size and weight Post-Consumer Waste Recycled YES 16.84% 108.2 depending on marketing requirements. Post-Consumer Waste Recycled NO 0.39% 2.5 The average weight per catalogue this year has reduced as business units have published a larger number of significantly lighter catalogues (for example with reduced page counts). Virgin YES 1.17% 7.5 This has resulted in more paper being consumed, but more catalogues per tonne of paper Virgin NO 81.60% 524.3 being produced. Total weight of paper consumed in 2010 direct mail (tonnes) 642.5 Total number of direct mail supplements produced in 2010 7,090,229 Minilogs As well as catalogues, we ship a number of regular direct mail supplements to interested customers each year. 2010 is the first year that all three of our regions have reported paper Our aims for next year usage in these “Minilogs”. During 2011, we will review our paper purchasing guidelines with the aim that 100% of We have chosen not to report 2008 and 2009 data as these would exclude European paper used carries a sustainable forestry certification or is from recycled sources. We will paper consumption and would give an inaccurately low representation of our usage for continue to make improvements to our websites in order to make them more appealing those years. to customers and to encourage fewer to use our catalogues. 33 strategic commercial projects Our strategy reflects the competitive “Green Technology” and by providing EDEs with access to a advantage that we see in developing a global community and market specific Helping EDEs design a Sustainable World sustainable business. Two elements of design information, we are able to deepen – Written by Navin Honnavar, that strategy clearly reflect the value our relationship with customers in the Marketing Manager India that we see in embedding sustainability green technology space. into our business and our proposition Our EDE customers are intrinsically In enhancing the Group’s online services to customers. involved in the design of technology which proposition for EDEs, the Green UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL is used in the development of sustainable Our Green Technology project and Technology team have partnered with COMPACT PRINCIPLE 8 energy solutions. Their ingenuity with development of services beyond product Emerald Publishing to offer registered BUSINESSES SHOULD ENCOURAGE electronics is helping to combat the (page 35) are critical components of the way users of our online community, element14, THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION challenges posed by climate change and in which our business is transforming to meet free access to the latest academic OF ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY the accelerating depletion of the world’s TECHNOLOGIES the requirement of the changing world in research from over 3,000 institutions natural resources. which we live – adding value for our EDE globally on alternative energies and customers while also providing environmental As part of its 1,000 day strategy and in sustainable technologies, further benefits. recognition of the rapid expansion cementing our position as a vital resource observed within such areas like renewable for cutting-edge information. We have also The following two case studies can also be energy and energy harvesting, at the start taken significant steps to demonstrate the found in our Annual Report and Accounts of the year Premier Farnell launched its positive impacts that innovation in 2010 on pages 18 and 21. Green Technology programme. In taking electronics can have in combating the first steps towards building a environmental challenges. By partnering compelling green technology proposition, with the United Bank of Carbon in a the members of the Green Technology scheme to develop access to renewable team have begun to tailor Premier Farnell’s and sustainable technologies to a remote high service proposition to support EDEs area of Tanzania we have embraced the working in vertical market segments such notion that innovation in electronics can be as wind and solar. Through developing applied globally to become a major part of transactional microsites, working with the solution to climate change. suppliers who specialise in the green arena 34 Strategic commercial projects (continued) As a team member I am able to access through using such tools as video Customers information and content that is at the conferencing, online document sharing >> Customers developing alternative energy forefront of everything we do to make “clouds” and interactive digital applications have access to an improved marketing proposition that is tailored to their needs Premier Farnell a true leader in Green communication portals. Technology. One of the most exciting Employees During 2012, the Green Technology opportunities is that there is immense >> New skills are required from employees in alternative programme and its team members will potential in India. For example, the installed energy generating technologies and vertical further embed element14 in the minds of marketing. capacity for solar technology in India is EDEs focused on sustainable design. expected to grow at an estimated Investors Through the continued growth of our Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of >> Alternative energy and “green” technologies are “green” community within element14 and a rapidly expanding markets with predictions of strong 134% for the next two years. Most recently, portfolio of transactional websites geared future growth. By investing in improved service for I have been leading a work stream on solar these sectors, we are investing to generate improved towards serving these vertical markets, returns for shareholders. market research within India to truly Premier Farnell will make great strides in understand the dynamics behind our Suppliers increasing its engagement with those EDEs customers’ segmentation, analyse the >> We have improved our capability to market suppliers’ who are constantly using innovation and needs of EDEs and develop a unique products into these sectors. electronic design to solve real-world go-to-market proposition to ensure that as External stakeholders challenges. a distribution partner Premier Farnell is at >> We will engage with appropriate partner the forefront of this market segment in organisations and NGOs to improve our Green Technology offering and identify demonstration India. In addition, being part of a next projects for the sustainable applications of 1,000 day global project team has also technology. seen me embrace technology in my every day working life. This has helped me cross geographical boundaries without increasing my own carbon footprint 35 Strategic commercial projects (continued) “Services beyond product” However, no matter what area of design an Another source of change for the EDE is operations. Together not only are we able EDE specialises in, things are always the internet. This has become the primary to develop concepts and solutions that The Changing World of the EDE – changing. Nothing stays the same. So it is source of information for the EDE. From meet the ecosystem needs of EDEs, but Written By David Adams, important that we at Premier Farnell, as an concept, design, development, and into simultaneously we are driving a cultural Head of Technology Development electronics distributor supporting EDEs, manufacturing, the internet provides the identity that is required to provide Today EDEs work with many different understand these changes if we are going EDE with a wealth of information in product significant value to the EDE. technologies in the design of electronics to continue to support this most innovative development. The challenge is how to With all change comes opportunity and and they often specialise to focus on and important customer segment. The two efficiently and quickly gather this Premier Farnell has an innovative vision on different aspects of a design. At a high major sources of change for the EDE are information. For example, in today’s world how to support the EDE through the level you can group EDEs and their design design complexity and the internet. an EDE is likely to visit several hundred challenges of their changing world. The expertise into three sections. First there are different websites during the course of Design complexity is dramatically changing company is uniquely positioned with our electronic hardware design engineers who product development. the way an EDE develops a product. The broad line card of EDE suppliers and with are responsible for the design, layout and silicon components are becoming more As someone who has over thirty years our web presence through element14, a test of a product’s electronic hardware. and more commoditised and increasingly it experience as an EDE and technology single, online collaborative portal where Secondly, there are software design is software that is the critical design driver. supplier to the global EDE community, I EDEs can work and interact within a engineers who write the operating The EDE must rely on key ecosystem and understand the changing world of the EDE. virtually connected community. With the software, drivers and applications for services partners if the project is to be With many relationships among the leading addition of a “virtual workplace”, element14 electronic systems. Finally, there are completed on time and with high quality ecosystem and services partners, I am so is sure to maintain its position as a leading programmable chip designers who look (ecosystem and services partners are excited to be one of the principle architects provider of solutions to the global EDE after the design of programmable logic that suppliers that provide software and focused on defining how Premier Farnell community. is often at the heart of driving modern engineering services). The complexity of capitalises on the opportunities presented electronic embedded systems. modern electronics design often dictates by these important changes outlined that an EDE uses packaged software and above. As a leader of the services beyond hardware solutions as a starting point in product 1,000 day programme I work their design. closely with a global virtual team who all work in differing aspects of our business 36 Strategic commercial projects (continued) By beginning to create different areas, or out our virtual workspace with the launch the design cycle right up until the design Customers “rooms”, within a virtual workspace that of “rooms” that offer EDEs support for moves into high volume manufacturing. >> Customers and users of element14 will have access address all aspects of the design process, vertical markets, analogue design, to a suite of connected applications and services In recognising the EDE’s need for a partner that can help reduce the time required to design this year Premier Farnell has taken another Radio Frequency (RF) design, Field that can provide design services that go their products. evolutionary step forward with its Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) design beyond product, Premier Farnell is evolving Investors proposition. These “rooms” introduce and other key technologies. its role in the world of electronics design. the EDE to solutions from leading global >> We are differentiating the services that we offer to As more and more rooms are launched, Next year is set to be an exciting one as customers beyond the physical products that we sell suppliers that are focused on development and improving our offering to customers beyond that the way in which the virtual workspace and our services beyond product initiative platforms, development tools, operating of our competitors. subsequently the EDE ecosystem takes allows us to meet more of the EDE’s needs systems and stacks, CAD tools, simulation Suppliers shape will intuitively start the EDE on the at each stage of the design cycle. In short, tools, test equipment and PCB prototyping design path and then bring the EDE back our enhanced proposition of offering the >> Suppliers that provide services such as PCB services for example. Indeed, in 2011 we prototyping. throughout the development process. EDE more than just product is rapidly have launched rooms that offer the EDE External stakeholders This revolutionary work undoubtedly moving element14 towards becoming the a selection of CAD tools, including our solidifies Premier Farnell as one of the first only online environment where EDEs will >> The virtual workspace ‘rooms’ will be available to own EAGLE software, and rapid PCB any registered users of element14, expanding its companies an EDE will consult as they look start and end their working day. prototyping services. Many new additions availability beyond customers. for a partner who can support throughout are planned in the year ahead as we build 37 packaging dispatched to our customers As a distribution company, one of our primary impacts is the waste that we generate by packaging products for our customers. We receive products packaged How does this affect… from our suppliers, and in order to store and dispatch them, we need to remove them from their original Customers packaging and transfer them to our packaging. >> Improving our packaging reduces the >> static-dissipative packaging allows We actively engage with our suppliers through our supplier amount that customers will receive, customers to reduce the total amount that ultimately becomes waste of waste that they dispose of for landfill UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL management and vendor compliance functions to control >> Our own innovative compostable, or recycling by shipping orders using COMPACT PRINCIPLE 8 the quality, quantity and materials used in packaging that bags that will safely biodegrade. BUSINESSES SHOULD ENCOURAGE we receive. All of our distribution centres have internal Employees THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION recycling processes to ensure that inbound waste is OF ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY >> Our public target is that our recycling >> Our offices have been furnished with TECHNOLOGIES prepared for processing by waste management levels will not fall below 70% of all waste paper and plastic recycling bins which companies. generated. Our employees are required to colleagues are expected to use to ensure that they correctly sort inbound ensure that recycling is not limited only Our products require a minimum amount of packaging to packaging for reuse and recycling. to our distribution centres. ensure that they are not damaged in transit. In addition, Investors some products require specialist packaging such as >> Managing our packaging better reduces responsible on an annual basis. metallised shielding bags or moisture barrier packaging. costs of disposal for the business. Reducing the packaging attributable to >> In the UK, we are required to report the us limits our liabilities under these The amount of packaging that is used for each delivery regulations. weight of packaging for which we are is dictated by these protection requirements and so we focus our efforts on reducing the impact of the packaging Suppliers that we ship. >> We ask our suppliers to ensure that their >> requests that they make efficient use of products are delivered to us in packaging and that it is recyclable and Our biodegradable packaging has received five awards for recyclable packaging, enabling us to recycled where possible. minimise our collective impact on the >> Efficiencies in packing goods shipped to sustainability and innovation during FY2011. These awards, waste stream. our distribution centres reduce packing from both sustainability-focused and electronics and >> Our packaging vendor compliance also costs for our suppliers. industry organisations serve as a recognition for us that External stakeholders our approach to improving our packaging impacts is >> By accepting less packaging into our amount of waste that goes to local desired by our wider stakeholder base. facilities and dispatching less (and landfill sites and reducing the more recyclable) packaging to frequency of traffic associated with the customers, we are influencing the waste collections. 38 Packaging dispatched to our customers (continued) We have extended our reporting this year to include the BS EN 13432 is the British Standards Institution weight of packaging despatched to customers from our requirements for packaging recovery through US distribution centres in Gaffney, SC and Springboro, composting and biodegradation. Materials that meet OH which supply our Marketing and Distribution Division these requirements, such as our biodegradable ESD – Newark, element14 Store and MCM. Akron Brass and packaging, are suitable to be fed into industrial TPC supply specialist products and do not consume comparable volumes of packaging due to different composting machines. Measuring our performance requirements. We continue to use our innovative “peel pack” packaging In accordance with UK legislation, we track and report the We are currently unable to report the weight of packaging to replace waffle trays and other forms of protective weight of packaging for which we are deemed to be used in our Asia-Pacific Distribution Centres and we will packaging, with approximately 1300 eligible lines (products responsible. We supply our European distribution centre work towards including them in our next report. that can be shipped in the packaging) being despatched in with packaging via our UK warehouse, and so packaging Our aims for next year this packaging. These lines account for over 700,000 use for the two is captured as one figure. components per year across our European Distribution To complete our reporting, we will track the packaging use UK and European Distribution Centres of our Asia-Pacific distribution centre in Singapore and its Centres being shipped in ‘peel pack’ packaging in 2010. 2010 2009 2008 sister warehouses in Australia and China. This year, our mainland Europe and Asian regional distribution centres have adopted our biodegradable Shipping boxes (tonnes) 428.0 448.2 588.8 We are continuing to work with suppliers to produce electrostatic-dissipative packaging for use in despatching innovative packaging designs with lower environmental Packaging materials including 129.0 133.3 160.6 orders to customers. We are also now offering this void fill, despatch notes and impacts and will do so throughout 2011. We will also be packaging for sale to customers and suppliers in all plastics (tonnes) investigating ways to increase the number of products that we three regions. receive into our distribution centres already in our packaging US Distribution Centres solutions, to reduce the waste of repackaging products. We continue to use our innovative “peel pack” packaging to replace waffle trays and other forms of protective 2010 packaging, with approximately 1300 eligible lines (products Shipping boxes (tonnes) 630.9 that can be shipped in the packaging) being despatched in this packaging. These lines account for over 700,000 Packaging materials including 96.1 void fill, despatch notes and components per year across our European Distribution plastics (tonnes) Centres being shipped in ‘peel pack’ packaging in 2010. 39 water consumed at our facilities The Marketing and Distribution Division (MDD) of our (‘000 litres) 2010 2009* 2008* business does not manufacture any of the products that it sells. This means that we have no process use of water Public (mains) 60,685.9 54,590.5 60,616.8 How does this affect… and all water that is consumed is for domestic and Bottled water 94.1 129.4 157.6 sanitation purposes. Total 60,780.0 34,061.3 32,910.4 The investment community Our Akron Brass facility uses water in their processes in >> Consuming water more efficiently reduces the cost to the business of this resource. two ways; We work to reduce the amount of bottled water we Our supply chain purchase, as this lessens the environmental impacts of • To mix coolant and machining lubricants >> Communities benefit from the reduced load on the local mains water supply in line with transporting water bottles to and from our facilities. reductions in our consumption. • To test fire hose nozzle products By installing mains-sourced water coolers into our facilities, The local community All mixed coolant is held within a closed-loop system with we can reduce the emissions and costs associated with >> Reducing our consumption of water reduces our water suppliers’ environmental impacts no effluent. Waste coolant is transported offsite by road for providing employees with water for drinking. and the load on their systems. specialist treatment. We account for disposed coolant in our waste figures earlier in this report. Water that is used in testing nozzles is collected in an onsite pond with no effluent and recycled back into the process. We include water-saving investments into businesses’ “carbon reduction plans”, which focus on upgrading our facilities’ equipment to consume fewer resources. We believe that water consumption is a secondary impact of our business because its consumption is tied exclusively to the requirements of our employees. * We have corrected erroneous calculations in our 2009 and 2008 data. Please see page 76 40 waste electronic components and equipment The electronics industry is responsible for significant amounts of waste resulting from the disposal of electronic ”In the US and too often in the rest of the world, lack equipment. As a distributor of components, we are not of laws or proper enforcement has allowed toxic electronics waste to be dumped on impoverished How does this affect… responsible for the waste that is generated when finished communities in developing countries. The e-Stewards products made by our customers are disposed at the end initiative aims to put an end to this gross violation of Customers of their useful life. However, we are conscious of this basic human rights and this ongoing assault on the >> Where applicable, we participate in Oakdene Hollins, which can be used considerable waste stream and therefore take what steps WEEE compliance schemes, to meet across the country. environment. As one of the first e-Stewards Enterprises we can to mitigate it. We also have legal responsibilities in our regulatory obligations and ensure >> Our customers are equally subject to – a designation awarded to companies that pursue that the disposal of products that we environmental legislation covering the Europe for the limited number of finished products that we provide is adequately funded. disposal of electronic waste, and as such electronics recyclers that will never export, dump or sell and for the electronic waste we generate from the >> For our UK customers, we also provide we offer free guidance on environmental use prison labor to process hazardous e-waste – a list of recycling organisations, legislation affecting the industry. disposal of products that we use in our business. identified with waste consultancy Premier Farnell is taking a leadership role in this important effort.” Employees >> Colleagues need to ensure that electronic >> We encourage our colleagues to recycle Mike Enberg, equipment in their business is properly their own waste electronics responsibly, e-Stewards Enterprise Manager disposed of and that sufficient records and, where possible, we provide bins for are maintained. colleagues’ own waste batteries. Investors >> Reputational and (increasingly) legislative take a best-practice global approach to risks associated with the improper disposal disposal, we are proactively mitigating of electronic waste are affecting a growing these risks. number of companies. By ensuring that we Suppliers >> Our suppliers are equally subject to we offer free guidance on environmental environmental legislation covering the legislation affecting the industry. disposal of electronic waste, and as such External stakeholders >> We have business operations in regions dispose of our own waste, we are where there are concerns over the ensuring that waste is diverted from treatment of electronic waste – illegitimate “recycling” streams and predominantly in China and India. supporting the legitimate and safe >> By conducting diligence over the recycling industry. companies with whom we work to 41 Waste electronics components and equipment (continued) Our performance this year We account for the end-of-life electronic equipment, such as office equipment that we dispose of during the year and report this as part of our waste totals. In order to ensure that our waste is correctly disposed, all of our businesses are required to select recycling providers that comply with our internal standards for electronic waste disposal, which are available at www.premierfarnell.com/csr. Newark remains a member of the e-Stewards Enterprise network, committing to dispose of electronic waste only through verified recyclers who do not ship any electronic waste out of the United States to be dismantled or recycled. For obsolete products, we have negotiated scrapping agreements with several of our suppliers (as opposed to agreements Our aims for next year to ship obsolete components back to them for disposal). This reduces the In addition to reporting the weights of end-of-life equipment that we dispose of, we carbon emissions associated with the will expand our monitoring to accurately track the weights of obsolete products that obsolescence of products and allows us to we scrap during the year. This will enable us to better understand one of the ensure that they are disposed of through environmental impacts of the rate of innovation in our industry and to plan responsible recyclers. improvements to reduce the scrap rates. 42 GHG emissions from our deliveries Our high-service distribution business model requires us to We are piloting this “greener delivery” option in Italy and use third-party logistics companies to deliver our products Denmark – two countries to which we can reliably deliver Our aims for next year to customers as we do not own any of our delivery by road within two to three days of a customer placing an In 2011, we will be continuing to offer this delivery networks. We use reliable third-party logistics companies order. The delivery option has been made available on our option, where it is appropriate and available, and to dispatch our orders to customers worldwide. local web sites without extensive marketing in order to get significantly increasing its marketing to encourage a true picture of how attractive it might be to customers. more customers to use it. This means that we are not currently able to directly affect the environmental impacts of the delivery of our products Since the launch of the pilot in October 2010, we have We will also investigate other innovative alternatives to by changing vehicle types or delivery routes. These actions seen 192 customers choose this delivery option, air freight next-day delivery that can be made to make are undertaken independently by the companies that representing a reduction in the of CO2 emissions of those available to those customers that are interested, provide our delivery services for us. deliveries of over 500% and a saving of £0.98 per order for alongside our valued existing service proposition. Premier Farnell against air freight next day delivery costs. In certain regions, we are able to meet a next-day delivery demand by road, and in others we are required to use air freight. For many customers, it is crucial that they receive Number of Total saving () customers choosing their products exactly when they want them and, in order greener deliveries to affect the impact of logistics from our business, we are October 2010 26 35.31 piloting new delivery options. November 2010 53 90.42 In some countries, our logistics partners are able to offer December 2010 53 102.95 a two or three day delivery by road, avoiding the need to January 2010 60 77.85 ship by air. We see this as an opportunity to expand our customers’ choice of how and when they receive their Total 192 187.09 order while also allowing them to reduce the environmental impact of purchasing from Farnell. 43 our people As the talent pool changes, becoming more necessary address any gaps that have • Employee Development Our Vision diverse in employee ages and backgrounds, arisen due to gender. • Diversity in the Workplace To be an organisation that benefits all we recognise that we need to change as an • Employee Wellbeing of the people with whom it interacts employer in order to meet their needs and Our impacts on the people • Absenteeism and enables its workforce to realise attract the best talent in our industry. we interact with Similarly, the needs of our customers and • Workplace Standards of our their full potential • Health and Safety performance suppliers are changing and we continue to Private Label Suppliers at our facilities use our influence to ensure that our private • Community Investment People are at the heart of every organisation label suppliers’ employees are treated with and we recognise that investing in the dignity and equity in the workplace. people who work for and with Premier “Without high-performing, dedicated people our business would not be the success Farnell is a valuable contribution to the This year, we have broadened the scope of that it is today. The Trust Agenda is woven into the fabric of our organisation; it is a key sustainability of our business. our reporting in a number of areas, to give part of our culture. We know that our employees value social responsibility it as it is the a better idea of the impacts of our people most highly rated score in our annual employee engagement survey. People here want With 4,500 employees across the globe, on the business. We have included a to belong to a company that is open to the world, demonstrating a strong commitment our organisation is broad and diverse. We summary of the costs of injuries and to the community and the sustainability if the environment. work to ensure that we have a positive absenteeism to the business to give a impact on the people that are involved with better understanding of the business By investing in our people now, and working to understand, attract and support the Premier Farnell, whether this is ensuring impact of the rates that we publish. shape of the workforce in future years through our Trust Agenda, we believe that we that we train and develop our employees; are building an advantage both as a competitive business and an attractive employer support our suppliers in operating safe and We have also taken the step to publish for talented individuals. Our engagement work is focused around social responsibility fair workplaces or investing our resources workforce gender split data, both in terms and development activities for our employees and this builds a sense of pride in the in building the communities in which we of the occupation of managerial (and Premier Farnell values and the transformation of our business. operate. non-managerial) roles in the business and pay differentials by grade. We believe that The Trust Agenda is a critical component of our people strategy, developing and We see the value of investing in people transparency about our pay structures is supporting those already with us and attracting diverse new talent that will support us through improved employee engagement, critical to building and maintaining trust on our journey to becoming a truly sustainable business.” lower accident rates and costs and an with our employees. Having collected and increasing diversity of skills and talent assessed this data, we can now put Sandra Campopiano, Chief People Officer across the organisation. actions in place to assess it and, where 44 health and safety performance at our facilities Premier Farnell companies operate a Measuring our performance Customers Ten of our US facilities qualified for number of distribution centres globally, >> A safer environment reduces the rate of employee National Safety Council Occupational which rely on our employees to hand-pick Using the latest OSHA industry average accidents and lost-time injuries. This in turn results Excellence Achievement Awards for the majority of orders that we dispatch to rates for injuries that are available at the time in more employees being on-site and able to provide consistent service levels to customers. their health and safety performance customers. The safety of our employees is of setting the target, we calculate targets for our business regions, taking into account Employees during 2010. critical to the business’ success. the classifications of industries that make >> Our colleagues are able to work with confidence in Our facilities’ safety performance is an environment where we have taken all possible up that region’s profile. precautions to ensure their safety. managed in a two-region split between >> Should an accident occur, colleagues are required to the Americas and Europe/Asia-Pacific. Ten of our US facilities qualified for National report to a supervisor, so that an investigation can These regions each have a Health and Safety Council Occupational Excellence be carried out. This improves the safety of their workspace in future Safety Manager, who is responsible for Achievement Awards for their health and implementing the necessary systems safety performance during 2010. Investors to prevent harm to our employees. >> Injuries that involve employees being away from work are a cost to the company. Premier Farnell (UK) Ltd is certified to the OHSAS18001:2007 standard for Health OSHA Suppliers and Safety management. The Occupational Safety and Health >> A controlled safety environment means that suppliers can have confidence that risks to their personnel have Administration is a department of the been minimised whenever they are visiting one of our In the US, Akron Brass was certified to the facilities. United States Department of Labor OHSAS18001 standard in 2010. We felt whose role is to ensure safe and External stakeholders that this was appropriate to ensure and healthful conditions for working men >> Many of our employees live in the communities close demonstrate that we are delivering on our and women. to our facilities. Providing them with a safe place of commitments to safe working environments work benefits those communities. in our only manufacturing location. Our US OSHA provides annual statistical data, distribution facilities are certified to our particularly on the average rates of internal Safety STAR behaviour-based illnesses and injuries in the United safety systems. States of America. We use this data to set global health and safety performance targets for our businesses. 45 Health and Safety Performance at our facilities (continued) The current rates for all of our businesses, excluding our We set a separate target for our distribution centre in Liège, facilities in Liège, and our associated targets for injuries per Recordable Injuries Belgium of fewer than 4.35 recordable and lost-time injuries Recordable injuries are injuries or illnesses incurred in 100,000 hours worked are as follows: per 100,000 hours worked. Historically, this location has the workplace that result in: death, days away from performed more poorly than our other facilities – particularly Average rate Our target Our work, restricted work or transfer to another area of based on (<50%) performance work, medical treatment beyond ‘first aid’ or loss of in terms of DAW injuries; therefore we set an improvement OSHA 2008 target, taking previous performance into account. statistics consciousness. Occurrences that do not result in any of these, but are diagnosed as significant injuries or Recordable injuries 1.13 < 0.56 0.31 illnesses by a qualified medical professional can also We are pleased to report that in 2010, Liège’s injury rates DAW injuries 0.36 < 0.18 0.15 be considered as recordable. were as follows: Our target Our performance DAW injuries No injuries resulted in fatalities or disablement Days-away-from-work (DAW) injuries as those which Recordable injuries < 4.35 3.24 (permanent or otherwise). result in an employee being advised to take time off DAW injuries < 4.35 2.70 work or unable to attend as a result of or to recover from, an injury incurred in the workplace. The estimated total cost to the group of DAW injuries in 2010 was approximately £187,0001. We have calculated the cost of DAW injuries using figures from the US National 1 Safety Council (NSC) at $43,000 per “disabling injury”. The NSC has recently introduced a new cost metric of $36,000 per injury requiring medical attention. This is closer to our “Recordable Injury” definition than our DAW definition and impacts the way that we can calculate injury costs in future reports. We will review the way that we calculate the cost of injuries during FY2012. 46 Health and Safety Performance at our facilities (continued) Calculating the cost Our aims for next year “The Health, Safety and welfare of our employees is an essential factor in the way we manage our operations. We use National Safety Council (NSC) and Health & We will align all of our internal group-level reporting to A safe workplace and healthy people combine with Safety Executive (HSE) statistics to calculate the cost OSHA standards. This will help us to improve our commitment to responsible management and help to of injuries resulting in days away from work for the USA internal reporting and for accidents to be categorised generate profitable growth. and Europe and Asia-Pacific respectively. against common definitions. Local-level reporting and management will remain in compliance with local Premier Farnell believes that nothing is so important The NSC estimates that each “disabling injury” in 2010 legislative requirements. that it cannot be done safely. cost US businesses $43,000 and we use this figure to estimate the costs of our DAW injuries. For Europe and We continue to provide comprehensive training for Our robust management systems which are based on Asia-Pacific, we use the HSE statistic of £5,800 for employees, particularly in the Distribution Centres, internationally recognized health and safety practices each injury resulting in three or more days of absence intended to reduce the number of accidents. In the enable us to consistently meet our targets for safety. from work. UK, our Distribution Centre is certified to OHSAS We recognize that safety is a journey and not a 18001, as is Akron Brass in the US and we will extend process and with this is mind we have committed to this management system to cover our European a challenging target of zero accidents by 2020.” Distribution Centre based in Belgium during 2011. Gary Brown, Safety Health Environment and Quality Manager EAP 47 Health and Safety Performance at our facilities (continued) OSHA OHSAS The Occupational Safety & Health The Occupational Health & Safety Administration Administration Service With the Occupational Safety and Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Health Act of 1970, Congress created Services (OHSAS) was formed in the Occupational Safety and Health January 2001 through a merger of Administration (OSHA) to ensure safe NHS Occupational Health and Safety and healthful working conditions for Services of Fife and Tayside. The working men and women by setting merger gave OHSAS autonomy while and enforcing standards and by allowing it to remain within the structure providing training, outreach, education of the NHS. and assistance. OHSAS is a multi-disciplinary OSHA is part of the United States organisation with expertise in a Department of Labor. The administrator comprehensive range of occupational for OSHA is the Assistant Secretary health and safety skills. OHSAS can of Labor for Occupational Safety and provide your company with advice and Health. OSHA’s administrator answers support your needs through training, to the Secretary of Labor, who is a policy development and specialist member of the cabinet of the President expertise in the following areas: of the United States. 48 employee development We have made a commitment to put people We believe that the role of the business in Customers at the heart of the organisation. Our talent developing all of our employees is to provide Mentoring >> The development of skills and experience allows management strategy is a fundamental step the tools and opportunities for people to colleagues to provide better service to customers All employees can request a mentoring in us doing exactly that and also supporting develop their skills in a way that benefits Employees relationship with a more senior the organisation in delivering its strategic both them and the business. The tools colleague within the business. Using >> Colleagues have access to 497 courses through our commitments. available to employees include: Online Learning Centre platform, as well as access our ‘Mentor Match’ programme, to online resources such as the Ashridge Virtual With approximately 4,000 employees, we colleagues can be linked together into Learning Resource Centre. recognise the significant strategic value of Personal/Aspiration relationships that will help both parties >> All colleagues have the opportunity to use one hour per week to develop their skills and knowledge investing in developing our people to be the Development Plans to develop. through appropriate courses and training best in their class. This provides them with programmes. valuable skills that can be used throughout Every employee in the business has Investors their careers and ensures that our talent access to a Personal and Aspiration >> Employee development is a significant factor in pool is consistently well-trained and Development Plan. attracting and retaining the best talent to improve business performance. supported. Employees can use Personal Suppliers All employees have access to performance Development Plans to map out their “It was a fantastic opportunity, to be >> The development of skills and experience allows reviews with their line managers twice a development objectives with their colleagues to provide greater value to our suppliers. a part of the team and to experience year, and senior leaders meet for regular manager, with a view of how they want firsthand what the legal department are External stakeholders reviews of both regional and global talent and need to develop within their current involved in. I worked on many projects >> We use volunteer activities to deliver benefits to the within the organisation to ensure that the and ideal roles in the business. local community whilst helping employees to develop during my week, and this gave me skills such as mentoring and project management. proper support is given to all employees. a real insight into the legal world. Aspiration Development Plans are a tool that we encourage our “Key Talent” Everyone can do this; it is such a great employees to use to set out their longer feeling when you take your first serious term career goals, however they are step to find your own path in Farnell” available to any employee that chooses Slawohir Swol, to use them. Warehouse Operative Leeds 49 Employee Development (continued) Measuring our performance Developing our core 360 Feedback Volunteering employee group We have introduced metrics this year that All people managers within the Employees are able to volunteer during we believe are improvements over our FY10 All employees have access to one hour per business are invited to complete working time for community projects reporting. Employees have access to a week of ‘development time’ during which a 360 Feedback process at 18 that will develop their business skills, number of development tools that are made they can use the tools described above, month intervals. such as project managing charity available by the organisational effectiveness or participate in a number of other events. and development teams. opportunities such as language training This process invites the manager’s direct reports, and colleagues with or job shadowing. We aim to measure the success of these whom they have regular contact to rate programmes first by measuring and The Online Learning Centre At the end of financial year 2011: their performance and emotional reporting on the take-up of these tools intelligence to allow them to better by employees as a measure of their 75% of employees had Personal The Online Learning Centre (OLC) is a assess their management skills and attractiveness and perceived value. Development Plans with “live” objectives virtual resource that provides access development needs. (those related to the current financial year to both internal training module and external educational resources that During FY12, we will work to develop that had not yet been completed), employees can access either on-site processes and metrics to assess the or at home. quality of these tools and their outcomes. 400 employees are part of a workplace The “Extra Degree” Programme We have separated our metrics into those Mentoring relationship The “Extra Degree” programme development tools that support our succession planning and leadership, and Employees viewed up to 20,000 pages develops leaders in the business at those that support our “business as usual” per month on the OLC. The key areas three levels – Front-Line Managers, delivery of excellent service. visited included 360 Feedback, the Operational Leaders and Strategic Induction Portal (for new joiners) and Leaders. “People Link” a gateway to several The structured course develops their specialised online learning portals. leadership skills and prepares them to take on the next level of their role in the Company. 50 Employee Development (continued) Leadership and Our aims for next year Succession Planning In financial year 2011, we conducted a Our leadership development focuses on review into the return on investment on the “Key Talent” designation of employees our Extra Degree programme. We will – 185 employees in managerial or senior continue to work towards 100% of our management positions, or who are key talent pool participating in the identified as a high or very high-potential programme. employees. This classification allows us to We will continue to make the OLC risk-manage succession planning in the portals our One Hour of development business and ensure that we are directing available to all employees, and we relevant development tools to each will aim to encourage 100% of our employee group. employees to be participating in the At the end of financial year 2011: Personal Development Planning process by the end of Financial 80% of Key Talent employees Year 2012. had objectives in their Aspiration Development Plan, 79% had objectives in their Personal Development Plan 50% had completed, or were participating in the 360 Feedback programme 70% had workplace Mentors 51 diversity in the workplace We are a company that aims to encourage We do not track ethnicity-based diversity people from all backgrounds to apply for performance metrics. A number of the How does this affect… positions within the business. We maintain countries in which we operate have equal opportunity recruitment policies and legislation in place which prevents us from an active internal programme promoting the collecting ethnicity data on local Premier Customers appreciation and inclusion of all employees. Farnell employees. We are therefore unable >> With operations in over 30 countries, it is Our vision is to create a culture where to track or publish data that would be important that we employ a workforce with the diverse background that will enable us to everyone feels respected and valued and genuinely representative of the group’s understand and meet their needs. can contribute to reach their full potential. performance as a whole. Employees As a global business, we believe that a We have gathered preliminary data on >> Our employees’ differences are respected and supported by the Company. diverse workforce is a genuine benefit to gender pay differences across the >> Employees are able to raise concerns that their us – giving us the cultural knowledge and organisation. We believe that analysing this needs are not being met through affinity groups, talents required to make informed decisions data and acting on any differences that and can participate in developing the Company’s solutions. and deliver excellent service in all of the are related only to gender is the first step geographies in which we operate. in evidencing that remuneration for all Investors Premier Farnell employees is not influenced >> Investors can be confident that the Company is utilising the best talent available. Measuring our performance by gender. Suppliers We have begun to measure diversity metrics We have used global data generated in July >> With operations in over 30 countries, it is associated with gender this year, in order to 2010 following the last all-employee pay important that we employ a workforce with the diverse background that will enable us to assess our performance on observing equal review. We have compared the difference understand and meet their needs. pay for equal work. Whilst this is a fairly between the average pay for men and External stakeholders uncommon exercise to report publicly, we women against the average pay for all believe that doing so will both drive us to employees at each salary grade. >> We respect the differences and needs amongst the communities in which we operate. improve our performance and be welcome >> Employment at Premier Farnell is open to any transparency for employees. applicant, regardless of gender, ethnic or religious background. 52 Diversity in the workplace (continued) Employee Gender Split “At Premier Farnell we believe the world is a rich and element14 people brand, our ongoing commitment and diverse place full of interesting cultures and people from passion to engagement, our focus on creating a high Our employee gender split, by percentage of the workforce many different backgrounds from whom there is a great performance culture and commitment to diversity and in 2010 is as follows; deal to learn. As a global business we believe that inclusion. employing diverse and talented people gives us a more Home Country (UK) Worldwide balanced organisation that represents society and helps There has already has been much activity in many of Female employees 39% 46% us to adapt quickly to changing situations and make these areas across the Group. For example, our Global Managerial grade 29% 21% better informed decisions. Information Services division has implemented a “Women female employees in Technology” group and our European businesses have Doing this well is central to our employer brand and helps implemented affinity groups to address the interests of us to attract and retain talent – giving us competitive different ethnic groups in our organization. We define “managerial grade” employees as those who are differentiation. Grade 7 and above on the organisation’s graded pay scale There are many things we will need to do differently to and who have employees that report directly to them. Our vision therefore is to create a culture where everyone achieve these end results and this will extend beyond feels respected and valued and can contribute to their full measures to our working practices in recruitment, Gender-Pay differential potential. This means that in our organisation there should development and retention which together act to provide be no barriers to recruiting, retaining and developing talent the right environment. Our employee gender split, by percentage of the workforce no matter what ethnic origin, belief, gender, sexual in 2010 is as follows; orientation, age, or disability. Setting targets will help us to focus our attention on the systems and processes that will make a difference. This table shows the difference between the average Our goal is to be inclusive in all that we do and to create salary for each Grade (0.00%) and the average salary for all an environment where all our talented performers have Whilst we will measure our progress on gender balance men and all women at that Salary Grade. Positive figures equal opportunity to realise their aspirations here. This is globally, our collective goal is diversity in its wider sense. represent pay above the average value and negative not just ‘a nice to do’, is something we believe in and this We must ensure we draw from the widest talent pool figures pay below it. is a commercially sound decision to give us a competitive whatever ethnic origin, belief, gender, sexual orientation advantage. age or disability. We are committed to high performance and always selecting the best candidate for the role.” Our overall People strategy is to attract, develop and retain a highly diverse workforce. We will deliver this Catherine Kirkland, through 3 pillars of activity, our work to leverage our European Diversity and Inclusion Manager 53 Diversity in the workplace (continued) We have focused our assessment on Salary Grades 1–7 also takes no account of individual performance, length of as these represent approximately 96% of Premier Farnell service or any other factors that can influence rates of pay. Our aims for next year employees at the time the data was collected. The data During 2011 we will conduct further research into the also excludes approximately 2% of the Premier Farnell What we can identify from this data is that across all of the reasons for the pay differences that this investigation workforce, including the CEO, COO and CFO and those roles in each band, there is a difference in the average pay has identified by analysing samples of more closelyexecutives below Board whose remuneration is governed favouring either male or female employees, and we intend related roles. We will focus on Grades 1, 2 and 3, by the board Remuneration Committee. to investigate the reasons behind this during 2011 and take where the largest proportion of employees is graded steps to close this gap in instances where we find that the and where the pay difference seems to be most We have also specifically excluded commissions or only differentiating factor is gender. significant. overtime payments and unionised employees in the USA, who operate under a collective bargaining agreement. Total number of employees by We will also develop diversity targets tailored to Salary Grade (July 2010) address the change we want to see in our businesses 8.00% 7.12 MALE FEMALE by, for example, targeting the number of diverse This gender-pay analysis is based on the employee applications we expect to see presented for interview, 6.00% 5.14 % Difference from average pay 4.60 population in July 2010, the period of the Company’s last targeting expectations to ensure diverse interviewers 4.00% 2.44 3.01 global salary review. The gender distribution by Grade at as part of the selection process and ensuring all our 2.00% 0.95 1.33 that time is represented in the following table. underpinning policies and procedures in recruitment, 0.00% development and working practices act to encourage -2.00% -0.83 800 diversity in its widest sense. -1.54 -2.47 MALE FEMALE -4.00% -3.30 700 684 We will report again on our progress in the 2011/12 Number of employees (07/2010) -3.56 -6.00% -4.39 600 Sustainability Report. -6.48 500 -8.00% 457 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 416 Pay Grade 400 351 328 313 Using the data available to us this year, we cannot 300 279 determine whether or not the key factor in these pay 200 216 216 151 differences is gender. Each salary grade covers a range of 131 87 100 84 roles in different geographies with different responsibilities 24 0 and requirements which can affect pay. The data available 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Grade 54 employee wellbeing The physical and emotional wellbeing Our contribution to employee Our Australian business has offered access of our colleagues, extending beyond to “Weight Watchers” and Kickboxing Our aims for next year wellbeing this year the health and safety procedures programmes to employees to encourage We will continue to offer employees of our facilities is an important contributing Our businesses have offered a number of healthier and more active lifestyles. in each of our locations access to factor to the performance of the business. health, lifestyle and personal development wellbeing and wellness programmes opportunities to employees this year. These In the USA, we offer employees access to a and initiatives. These programmes will are made available on a by-facility basis, number of wellness programmes. This year, remain locally-driven, as we believe employees have been able to join Yoga and How does this affect… depending on the needs and interests of the employees in that region. Highlights of this other fitness classes as well as walking that this guarantees that each facility receives the most appropriate and year’s provisions include: clubs, with pedometers supplied to Employees appealing opportunities. employees to allow them to check their >> Colleagues have access to a wide variety of support and wellbeing programmes, both at In the UK, employees have been able to join progress online. work and at home. language classes to learn French, Italian or Spanish. Healthy living was promoted Our Chicago and Cleveland facilities have Investors through a “Wellbeing Week”, which offered held ‘wellness fairs’ on-site for employees to >> Working to benefit the emotional and physical lifestyle advice on healthy eating, exercise have blood pressure, cholesterol and BMI health of employees leads to lower absenteeism rates and improvements in levels of and health checks. This was provided by tests and receive their results immediately. performance. All of our US facilities have access to Weight health professionals from a local External stakeholders organisation. Watchers programmes, as well as lunchtime >> Families of colleagues have access to a number information sessions on smoking cessation, of our wellbeing programmes. In mainland Europe, our French business time management and healthy eating has installed exercise equipment into their throughout the year. office for employees to use during their breaks or before and after work. For our branch and work-at-home employees in the US, we provide an online We offer “Cycle to Work” schemes in the Weight Watchers programme for employees UK and Netherlands, allowing employees to that wish to participate and make fitness purchase a bicycle to commute to work DVDs available for those who are unable to using a monthly payment scheme. come to our facilities to join classes. 55 absenteeism We monitor and work to reduce absenteeism in the The total rate of absenteeism for our US businesses workplace by engaging directly with employees. for 2010 was 2.35%2. We do not set targets for the US How does this affect… There are a number of factors that can contribute businesses, as their absenteeism rates are in-line with towards absenteeism figures, including disengagement, the US national average rates of absenteeism and as such illness or personal issues. We monitor sickness-related represent the ‘background’ level of absenteeism in Customers absence specifically. our industry. >> Fewer staff absent from work results in our customers. a better, more consistent service for Measuring our performance EUROPE Employees We monitor the rates of sickness absence for hourly Business Facility 2010 2009 2008 >> We work hard to engage colleagues that an engaged workforce is less with the Group and with our values and prone to absenteeism. employees in our American and European facilities. We absenteetism absenteetism absenteetism strategy through strategic programmes >> Where we experience recurring issues do not currently report on our Asia-Pacific absence CPC Preston 3.1% 3.0% 4.1% to involve employees as much as with absenteeism, employees can DC possible in the decision-making performance and we are working to improve our internal expect to be contacted directly, and for processes of the businesses and to the company to be willing to work with tracking to enable us to do so in the future. CPC Preston 2.0% 2.3% 2.4% understand their individual them to understand the causes of Contact contributions to its success. We believe absenteeism and ways that we can Centre work together to reduce it. USA Farnell Liège 6.2% 7.9% 5.9% Investors Business Facility 2010 2009 2008 Distribution absenteetism absenteetism absenteetism Centre >> Absenteeism represents a cost to the improve our absenteeism business, which we are reducing as we performance Akron Ohio 4.3% 4.0% 2.6% Farnell Leeds 4.2% 6.3% 6.9% Brass Maybrook Suppliers Distribution MCM Ohio 1.9% 1.7% 1.1% Centre >> Reducing absenteeism in the workplace procurement of our products can run means that the relationships and more efficiently, making us a better Newark South 1.7% 1.7% 1.5% Farnell Leeds 3.4% 9.0% 3.5% processes with suppliers and the customer to deal with.ppliers Carolina, Contact Chicago Centre & Ohio Premier Ohio 0.9% 1.2% 1.1% The total cost of absenteeism to the European business in Farnell Group 2010 was approximately £402,500, the highest individual 2 We publish the absence rates at our major facilities individually. This average cost being with Maybrook in Leeds, spending £164,000 on figures includes smaller branch offices and not all facilities have a uniform number of TPC Ohio 1.6% 1.7% 1.1% hours worked annually. absentee employees in 2010. 56 Absenteeism (continued) This year, we have seen an improvement in our two Employee engagement Distribution Centres (DCs) in Europe. We set all UK Our aims for next year We know that absenteeism represents a significant annual operations a target threshold of 5%, which absence rates cost to the business, and work to reduce this by engaging We have targeted to improve employee engagement must remain below. Liège has a threshold of 6%. our employees. We measure the engagement of our by 2% during 2011. We believe that improving In Liège, we use a Bradford Factor calculation to colleagues with the Company on an annual basis, using a employees’ engagement with the business in turn communicate with employees about the impact of their survey administered by Towers Watson (formerly Towers improves the rates of absenteeism and improves own absenteeism rate on the business, and to identify Perrin ISR). performance. This target is cascaded through the cases of persistent short-term absenteeism that warrant We targeted to increase our employee engagement score senior leadership team’s management incentive intervention from line managers and the Human Resources by 2% from 2009 and exceeded this by achieving a 3% programme to ensure that sufficient attention is department. The absenteeism rate for our Liège facility is improvement. given to it. in-line with the Belgian national average absenteeism rates for our sector (CP 140 – Logistics). Year Response rate Engagement 2010 93.0% 80% 2009 87.1% 77% 2008 80.6% 76% 2007 76.6% 74% 57 workplace standards at our private label suppliers Premier Farnell does not manufacture We recognise that these suppliers are our Customers the private label components that it highest risk of being involved in a failure to >> Private label products that customers buy supplies itself, and subcontracts this meet appropriate standards of human from Premier Farnell companies come from work to a number of manufacturing manufacturers with high standards of health, rights and workplace treatment, and also safety and employee treatment companies in Asia, where labour that these are the suppliers that we are laws differ. Employees most able to influence. >> Members of our Technical Support Team in Using suppliers with low standards of Asia-Pacific are responsible for conducting UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL treatment for their employees would workplace audits. We ensure that they receive the COMPACT PRINCIPLE 1 right training to be able to carry this work out. represent a significant risk in the BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE electronics supply chain. At Premier Investors PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY Farnell, we will only work on a continued >> The social and ethical risks of investing in a PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS business that is working with smaller suppliers basis with suppliers that demonstrate in Asia are reduced. a commitment to the welfare of their Suppliers employees. We believe that high workplace standards reflect a business with strong >> Our private label suppliers are asked to participate in site audits to confirm that they meet our workplace UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL management and one of the qualities of standards requirements. COMPACT PRINCIPLE 2 an ethical supply chain partner. BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE External stakeholders THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN >> By only supporting suppliers who demonstrate HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES appropriate workplace standards, we are contributing to the business case for all suppliers adopting these standards in order to secure business, and thereby improving the conditions of workers in these countries. 58 Workplace Standards at our Private Label suppliers (continued) Measuring our performance In total, Premier Farnell has now audited 32 Our workplace standards suppliers since 2008, when we began the During 2010, our Technical Support Team • Factories or production sites do not use forced, bonded or involuntary labour. process. We continue to add Private Label contacted 21 suppliers to complete an suppliers to our line card, and 32 audited • Workers are not forced to lodge unreasonable deposits or their identity papers with their initial workplace standards survey, which is suppliers now equates to approximately employers. In countries where deposits are prohibited by law, no deposits are allowed. translated into Chinese in order to make it 11.6% of our total Private Label supplier • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected except simpler for local companies to understand population. where prohibited by law. and to complete. All contacted suppliers responded to this request and returned a In order to ensure that our site audits were • The factory or production site is a safe and hygienic place to work. completed copy of the survey. effective, we set a target to train two of • Responsibility for health and safety is assigned to a senior management our auditors as SA8000 auditors. One representative. Of these, the team made a risk-based member of the team has completed this • There must be an adequate number of safe, unblocked fire exits, escape routes and selection of 12 suppliers at which to carry training. A second member of the team fire fighting equipment accessible to workers from each floor or area of the factory out a full site audit of their processes. will be trained in early FY12. This has been or production site and accommodation (if provided). These audits did not identify any serious delayed as a team member due to be incidents of non-conformance. We • Accommodation, if provided, is safe and hygienic and segregated from the factory trained left the Company. maintain a schedule and log of suppliers or production site and from material storage areas. that are contacted, so that we can pursue • The factory or production site only employs workers who are over the local legal a 100% response rate. Where suppliers do minimum age. Where this is less than 15, or where there is no legal minimum age, not respond or are slow to do so, this workers should not be less than 15 years old. contributes to a higher risk factor for that • Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national company when selecting audit targets. legal standards. • Working hours comply with national laws. 59 Workplace Standards at our Private Label suppliers (continued) Companies that treat their employees Our aims for next year “Our relationships with our vendors are critical to our success. Our Private Label brands are high-quality products manufactured by reputable companies in the Asia-Pacific with respect and dignity, and have Over the next 12 months, a second region that we sell under our own brand names, such as Multicomp, Pro Power, the management processes in place Technical Support Engineer will Duratool and Tenma. to ensure that their working be trained to SA8000 auditing environment is safe and secure are, standards, and the team will contact Companies that treat their employees with respect and dignity, and have the we believe, more able to produce a further 20 suppliers to complete management processes in place to ensure that their working environment is safe and quality products with an increased our initial standards survey. secure are, we believe, more able to produce quality products with an increased level level of reliability. They are also good Follow-up audits will be completed of reliability. They are also good organisations for us to deal with from a reputational organisations for us to deal with from with eight of the respondents and perspective, as stakeholders expect that companies take responsibility for the standards a reputational perspective, as the team will conduct return audits of employee treatment within their supply chains. stakeholders expect that companies on seven suppliers who have been We use our SSG Technical Support Engineers to conduct on-site audits of our Private audited previously to ensure take responsibility for the standards Label vendors to ensure that we are promoting safe working conditions and equitable consistent standards. of employee treatment within their employee treatment in our Private Label vendors, in the same way that we would expect supply chains. to see within each of our own businesses. We are proud that our team is the first to conduct these audits on our vendors. It is well accepted and respected by our vendors that we are playing our part as an ethical company. We are also glad that the company is putting investment in our team so that we can better contribute to the community.” Wilson Thoo, Head of Strategic Sourcing – Asia-Pacific 60 community investment Community Investment Our approach “The Trust agenda is an important part How does this affect… The well-being of the communities in which we operate is critical to our success as a of our employee engagement in Our approach to community investment is primarily based on providing time and Asia-Pacific. Throughout the year we business – providing a pool of talent from plan a series of activities in conjunction professional expertise to community Employees which to recruit. with charitable organisations we organisations such as charities and >> Through volunteering activities, new development support locally. For example in schools, rather than the provision of cash We recognise that that there are a number opportunities are available. donations. of opportunities to support the Singapore, we support the Macpherson >> Colleagues are engaged with the business, as demonstrated by our score of 89% for “CSR” in the annual communities local to our operational Moral Family Service Centre, this centre We have found that the most benefit can all-employee engagement survey. facilities and also to derive strategic provides support to underprivileged be gained both for the organisation and the >> Colleagues have the opportunity to invest their time in the children and we organisation activities local communities that matter to them. business benefits, such as developing Company through direct engagement and colleagues’ skills at the same time. and outings for these children. This working to build skills and knowledge. >> Employees can foster a sense of personal and organisational pride in working for Premier Farnell. benefits not only the children who can This allows colleagues to develop their Identifying clear values and goals for both spend a day out having fun in a skills and experience while providing Investors parties has created a sustainable completely new environment, but also organisations with skills and support that >> Employee engagement is related to productivity in the programme of community investment for workplace and as such is linked to the financial health and allows the volunteers from element14 to they are often lacking and would need Premier Farnell, focusing on meeting the performance of the business. join in this fun and help not only on the to outsource. needs of the local area whilst delivering External stakeholders actual day, but also in the planning of engaging development opportunities for We believe that strategic partnership work >> Local community organisations have access to the events.” professional and specialist skills that may not otherwise be our colleagues. with community organisations such as available, or may come at extensive cost. Graeme Parmenter, local charities and schools presents the >> Some organisations are able to use Premier Farnell Strategic Pricing Manager – Asia-Pacific most effective opportunities to make a support to secure matched funding from other sources for their projects. difference to local communities. For >> Local organisations can build a lasting relationship with a global business, raising their profile and access to support. >> Business can offer a different perspective to a problem that a community group is facing, helping to achieve innovative solutions to problems. 61 Community investment (continued) example, in Singapore we work with the Macpherson Measuring our performance Moral Family Service Centre to support educational Collaboration with element14 at our Centre’s workshops and outings had helped enrich the quality of our children We have recalculated the time volunteered and cash activities for young children in the Macpherson area near to programmes. This is especially so when the volunteers donated by employees that we reported in the 2009/10 our offices. In the UK, employees volunteer to support not only provided sponsorships but personally planned CSR report in order to align the figures with our financial Armley Helping Hands, a local charity that provides care and jointly conducted these events. year and to use actual month-end exchange rates for for elderly people in West Leeds. currencies. Previous figures were reported on a December Where we engage with organisations, we aim to do so in a Through a range of hands-on fun activities and outdoor to November calendar using average annual exchange structured way that will allow us to measure the impacts experiential learning, these workshops and outings rates. Future reports will provide data for February to and benefits of our efforts and ensure that we are providing helped to strengthen the social and emotional wellJanuary, in line with our financial year. value both for our community partner and for our being of these children, which is one of the main volunteers. objectives of the programme. The volunteers were also Volunteer hours positive role models to the children in affirming and Volunteering for good causes represents an opportunity for Our Company Volunteering Policy allows colleagues to developing their self awareness and boosting their our employees to develop skills that can be used in the apply to volunteer during normal working time. esteem.” workplace in a new environment that delivers a tangible We do not include hours volunteered over the weekend or benefit to their community at the same time, and we “I have learnt that Reduce, Re-use and Recycle is to outside of the 0900-1700 timeframe. The hours support our colleagues choosing to further their personal save the earth!” (Participant aged 9 of the Reduce, volunteered by non-employees (e.g. employees’ families, development in this way. Reuse & Recycle Workshop organized by element14 on friends etc.) are also excluded. 18 December 2010). Non-management Management Administration employee time employee time and planning time Lim Xiuling, Macpherson Moral Family FY2011 728.5 269.5 162.2 Service Centre – Singapore FY2010 1,583.3 282.5 353.5 62 Community investment (continued) Volunteering rates have dropped primarily for nonNonManagement Administration Total management grade employees during 2011, which in turn management employee and planning value “Employee volunteering is a wonderful opportunity to has contributed to a reduction in the number of hours employee time (000) time (000) (000) give something back but also acts as a fantastic vehicle time (000) for people development. Volunteers can take part in required to plan and implement volunteering activities. FY2011 10 7 3 20 activities that improve their self confidence, leadership We are improving our volunteer opportunities provision and skills, interaction skills and much more. FY2010 21 7 7 35 reappointing “Community Teams” to ensure that we are enabling employees to volunteer for causes that matter to Employees who get involved with our sustainable Data is collected by a volunteer administrator in each region them, and that are attractive and accessible to them during community partnerships can also see the long term and collated centrally. We make our annual community rewards of such relationships, such as visible the working day. investment logs available on our corporate website at http:// improvements to education capability levels thanks to www.premierfarnell.com/premier_farnell/csr/community. Value of time donated activities including mentoring, literacy and numeracy support, or facility improvements such as IT connectivity We calculate the financial value of volunteering during or garden landscaping. Company time based on the value to the Company of the “United Way of Metropolitan Chicago envisions a region time a colleague is engaged in the activity. We apportion where families and communities achieve economic The Leeds community programme provides a wide this as follows; success through a quality education, a stable income range of activities from one-off ‘big bang’ projects, and a healthy life. Newark is helping make this vision a to team building opportunities, and individual longer Non-management 13.16 reality. As a United Way corporate partner for more than term commitments, allowing employees to shape the Management 25.00 thirty years, the employees of Newark are creating a own personal development plan (PDP) to include Time spent planning/arranging etc 19.08 better life for all by supporting United Way’s focus on volunteering as an effective way to improve their skills.” Income, Education and Health—the essential building These figures aim to cover the range of salaries and roles blocks for a good quality of life. Newark’s dedication Rena Peat, HR Project Manager – Europe held by the colleagues who engage in volunteering, and investment is leveraged across thousands of non-profits, businesses, institutions and millions of and are intended to be a conservative estimate of our individuals, creating a network of support for individuals investment. The value of time spent organising activities and families that strengthens our community.” is averaged between the two values, to account for colleagues of different levels within the business engaging Laura Thrall, President and CEO, in the process. United Way of Metropolitan Chicago 63 Community investment (continued) Charitable Giving Data is collected by local volunteers and verified against We believed in our 2009/10 report that the value of time our financial reporting system. Local currencies are and charitable donations made by the company and Premier Farnell maintains a Charitable Giving Policy to converted into GBP at the exchange rate for the month in employees had an impact on engagement and our support good causes identified by our employees. We which the donation was made. We have improved the achievements in the CR Index. The decline in volunteer have a Group budget of approximately £20,000 per coverage of our donation reporting as well as introducing hours this year suggests that other factors (for example annum, split equally between our American and European new community investment programmes this year. other elements of the Trust Agenda) are equally or more regions. The Asia-Pacific region also makes donations to engaging for employees than volunteering in the charitable causes on a request basis. In addition to this, Employee Engagement local community. business units can make donations at the General Manager’s discretion. As part of our annual all-employee engagement survey, we Value () Charitable Score in Employee CSR ask employees whether they think the Company is socially of time donations the BITC engagement score The focus of the budget is matching funds raised by volunteered made CR Index and environmentally responsible. (000) (000)* employees through their own efforts. In financial year 2011, the budget was fully distributed. Since 2007, we have seen year-on-year improvement in the FY2011 20 123 90.5% 89% CSR scoring section of the engagement survey. Mapping The total value of donations made globally by Premier FY2010 35 88 90.5% 87% this information against our Business in the Community Farnell in financial year 2011 was as follows: Corporate Responsibility Index results shows a correlation *Charitable donations made includes: direct cash donations, matched funds, stock and non-stock donations and money raised by employees. FY2011 FY2010 between promoting a socially-responsible approach to (000) (000) business and the local communities in which we operate, Direct cash donations 27 9 and the level at which our colleagues feel they can engage Funds matched by the Group 30 9 and identify with the Company. Total donations from Premier Farnell plc 57 18 Stock donated 0.4 1 Non-stock goods donated by employees 0.2 21 Cash raised or donated by employees 65 44 64 Community investment (continued) “The element14 Garden was created in the spring of Parties involved Who did what & the Outcome 2009 by the eChannel Department in Ravenswood to promote the green philosophy, employee engagement, • Education Leeds Christmas 2010 saw Premier Farnell em¬ployees continue and community investment. • Armley Helping Hands with their ongoing sup¬port of Armley Helping Hands. In addition to donating 50 Christmas hampers, 17 staff The garden gives employees the opportunity to learn • Leeds Farnley Park Maths and Computing College members gave their time to help bring some festive cheer how to grow organic fruit, herbs, and vegetables, which • Parklands Girls High School to the elderly and their carers by organizing a Christmas are donated to Ravenswood Community Services (RCS) • John Smeaton Community College Party. It enabled the charity to access socially isolated weekly during the growing season or sold to employees • Christchurch Primary older people who would not have had their families at weekly “farmers’ markets.” around them over the Christmas period and gave them • Herd Farm the opportunity to enjoy the festive season. Wendy Vasquez, the Director of RCS, regularly consults Background with the Garden Club, coordinating deliveries, and menu They also continue to provide HR support to the Charity planning and discussing special events which offer when required and sit on the Board. Premier Farnell plc is a leading multi channel, high service Newark employees volunteer opportunities. The food distribu­tor and employs 831 staff at its UK base in Armley, we donate, which is used in RCS’ groceries distribution, In July, Premier Farnell supported the Park¬lands Girls West Leeds. is highly valued as it is the only source of fresh food High School Spirit Alive programme which involved they receive. Premier Farnell’s community invest­ment strategy is workshops and help with the organizing an event with an supported at the most senior level of the business and is Olympic theme. The pupils were allocated to different The relationship with RCS has led to other Newark villages which gave them a better understanding of led by the company secre­tary. The community projects such as: Volunteer Week, the Weight Watchers working together as a team. programme provides the business with com­petitive edge Lose for You Program and the Christmas Raffle/Food and reinforces corpo­rate values and ethos through very Drive. We hold two annual fundraisers: one for garden practical action. supplies in the spring and another in the fall when the garden has been harvested. Newark matches all funds Leeds Ahead support, manage and work in partnership that are raised.” with Premier Farnell to develop innovative ways to meet the local needs. Kimberly Brown, eChannel/Web Support Specialist – Newark 65 Community investment (continued) The support offered by the volunteers at Parklands Girls Resources Invested: High School sports day, gave a better insight for pupils into project work and how to stage and de¬liver an event. Volunteers provided: 49 The children learnt how to delegate jobs to the most Hours donated: 325 suitable person to ensure the smooth running of the event and how to work to a deadline. The activity also gave Beneficiaries: 4800 them an insight into having a career in event management, Leverage: £20,670 which they may have not considered beforehand. Premier Farnell developed a new programme with Farnley Leeds Ahead Park Maths and Computing College to provide 2 literacy, and 2 numeracy mentors to 6 pupils in year 10. The The recipient of an Audit Commission Green Flag in individual 1-2-1 contact time provides an alternative partnership with Leeds City Council for its unique and learning experience in order to develop student learning of innovative work, Leeds Ahead is an award-winning and topics already covered thus developing skills, providing groundbreaking social business that is helping companies across the city to get involved in the social confidence and preparing students for their first and economic regeneration of Leeds. mathematics exam in March 2011. Mentors continue to support pupils at Christchurch Primary school with their Literacy. This allows the pupils valuable time to practice their reading which makes them more confident. 66 Community investment (continued) The Business in the Community Our aims for next year Corporate Responsibility Whilst we have seen an increase in the (CR) Index fundraising carried out by employees Business in the Community’s CR Index in 2011, we have seen a significant is the UK’s leading voluntary decline in the number of hours benchmark of corporate responsibility. volunteered by colleagues across the It helps companies to integrate and business this year. We do not intend to improve responsibility throughout their impose a requirement that employees operations by providing a systematic volunteer annually during in work time approach to managing, measuring and and so we will be focusing on ways to reporting on business impacts in refresh our community investment society and on the environment. offering, and ways of encouraging We use the CR Index as a colleagues to become involved. benchmarking tool against which we In the United Kingdom, we will can measure our performance and the implement a broader “Community development of our own programme Team” structure, to engage local against other industry-leading employees in the development of the companies and examples of best volunteer programme and expand the practice in the UK, and also as a tool to help us identify areas where we can kinds of activities that are available. We build upon our already strong will also look to make these available in CSR programme. other European and US locations. 67 completing our 2010 environmental targets Target 2010 Progress Recertify all Green Facilities that received the award during or before 2007 to standard Green Facility status or above by the end of quarter two 2010. All facilities certified during or before 2008 have been recertified. Recertify all Green Facilities that received the award during 2008 to standard Green Facility status or above by the end of 2010. Our Gaffney, CPC and Maybrook facilities qualify for Green Facility Platinum and will be certified in FY2012. Assess two larger facilities to the Green Facility Platinum standard by the end of 2010. Implement projects at our owned facilities that will contribute towards a 10% reduction against the emissions from the baseline year of 2009 by the end MCM, Springboro and Newark, Gaffney both meet the requirements to be recognised of 2012. as Energy SMART facilities and will be certified in FY2012. This is equivalent to a total reduction of 2,478 tonnes of carbon avoided by the end of 2012. Establish a company energy efficiency recognition programme and award “Energy SMART” status* to any facility demonstrating significant energy savings and management procedures. Ensure that the company-wide e-waste management policy established in 2009 is being followed by requiring the following of our facilities; One of our European facilities donated electronic equipment to a charity with which we have no tracking process to ensure that waste was properly handled. All other facilities All EU facilities will complete and submit documentation detailing their annual electronic waste disposal by units or weight and supporting evidence that disposed of their waste in compliance with our internal management policy. this disposal was carried out in compliance with the WEEE Directive. All USA/Canada facilities will complete and submit annual documentation detailing their annual electronic waste disposal by units or weigh and All of our USA/Canada facilities have met the requirements of the e-Stewards organisation, including the use of BAN-approved recyclers where e-Stewards were not supporting evidence including details of the e-Stewards organisation used. available. Asia-Pacific region businesses will complete and submit documentation detailing their annual electronic waste disposals by units or weight in line with the procedure set out for their region in the group e-waste disposal policy. Asia-Pacific has contracted a new electronic waste disposal company in Singapore to ensure the waste if properly handled on disposal. Complete a review and any necessary upgrades to office equipment at our Ravenswood, Gaffney and Rockside facilities in the US. We have completed a review of the scope for a managed printing system at our main US facilities. We plan to begin phasing in new printers with managed printing capabilities in 2011, as well as implementing fax and scanning capabilities on multifunctional printers. Fully investigate opportunities to reduce the weight of paper used in our catalogues as they are identified by our printers. Our businesses use the lightest-possible paper that can be automatically sorted by local Broaden the scope of our measurement to include regularly-produced, paper-based marketing communications, such as our Tech First journals in the postal services. UK, and include the impact from these sources in future reporting. We have publicly reported our “minilog” publications for Europe, America and Asia-Pacific. Continue to specify recycled and/or sustainability-certified paper e.g. FSC certified, where available 57% of paper used in catalogue production, and 56% in minilog production was and competitively-priced sustainability-certified. Improve the group-wide recycling rate and achieve a percentage of waste recycled in 2010 that is higher than 67.5% We have reported recycling performance on page 30. Leeds achieved an increase of 12%. Improve the Leeds facilities’ recycling rate by 5% during 2010. *In the 2009/10 CSR Report, the Energy SMART programme was erroneously referred to as the “Energy Saver” programme. 68 completing our 2010 health and safety targets Target 2010 Progress Continue to monitor the number of recordable and In 2010, 0.31 injuries were incurred per 100,000 lost-time workplace injuries and illnesses that occur hours worked. at our facilities in 2009. In 2010, 0.15 days-away-from-work injuries were Achieve a Group rate of recordable injuries (excluding incurred per 100,000 hours worked. Liège) of less than 0.56 injuries per 100,000 hours worked. Achieve a Group rate of lost-time injuries (excluding Liège) of 0.18 injuries per 100,000 hours worked. Continue to reduce the number of recordable and In 2010, 3.24 injuries were incurred per 100,000 hours lost-time workplace injuries and illnesses and achieve a worked. rate for 2010 that is lower than the 2009 rate at the In 2010, 2.70 days-away-from-work injuries were Liège Distribution Centre. incurred per 100,000 hours worked. Achieve a facility rate of recordable injuries that is less than 4.35 injuries per 100,000 hours worked. Achieve a facility rate of days-away-from-work injuries that is less than 4.35 injuries per 100,000 hours worked. Complete the delivery of training on implementing risk Completed assessments online and face-to-face at Farnell Leeds and CPC in Preston Key manager to receive additional training and retake We have recruited a new Health and Safety Manager with examinations in FY11 key qualifications. This target has been closed. Achieve OHSAS18001 accreditation at the Akron Brass Akron Brass achieved OHSAS 18001 in 2010. Wooster facility 69 completing our 2010 marketplace targets Target 2010 Progress Contact a further 20 suppliers and request that they 21 private label suppliers completed our workplace complete the Group’s workplace standards assessment standards questionnaire during 2010. questionnaire. Conduct site visits on 12 of the suppliers that are 12 suppliers were subject to site audits. This raises the contacted to complete the questionnaire. total number of suppliers audited to 32. 2 members of the audit team to attend SA8000 One member of the team completed SA8000 training. training in FY11. The second member of the team who was targeted to complete the training has left the business. A new team member will attend the training in FY2012 Re-engage the procurement teams at Newark to identify We have identified “Conflict Minerals” and the one or more priority products and develop understanding implementation of section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall of the sustainability impacts of the associated supply Street Regulation and Consumer Protection Act to be a chain. Progress actions to improve the issues identified. significant sustainability impact on the business. The procurement teams at Newark have received initial briefings on the issue of Conflict Minerals, and we are developing a response to the demands of the legislation in order to help our customers comply. 70 completing our 2010 workplace and community targets Target 2010 Progress Drive further integration of CSR within the business and achieve the Platinum Plus accreditation from the Business in the Community CR Index by the end of FY13. Continue to monitor the rates and causes of employee We have reported on the rates of absenteeism on absenteeism and take actions to achieve reductions. page 56 Run the volunteering portal for Leeds-based employees, We have made the Leeds volunteering portal available to and expand the offering to employees based in India as a employees throughout the year. second pilot project. Ravenswood, Chicago implemented a volunteering portal Track the number of employees using the system and this year in place of our India facility, as the community also the employees who derive a benefit from doing so, investment structures in our US businesses are more based on performance ratings by their line managers mature. during review processes. We have tracked the employees using the volunteering Subject to a successful pilot period, begin implementing portals in Leeds and Chicago. During FY2012, we will the system for other businesses where community develop a process for assessing the development partnerships are in place. benefits of participating in the programme. We have identified an opportunity for our Singapore facility to implement a volunteering portal, using a third party system already available. Collect data on employee development and the benefits We are continuing to improve our internal volunteering to the local community of the investment activities processes and have not implemented a system to track undertaken during the year, and use this data to assess the impacts on community investment on development the quality and impacts of our activities. this year. 71 our sustainability strategy targets As we develop our long-term sustainability vision up to 2020, we have felt that it is appropriate to revise the way that we set targets for the organisation. On the following pages, we present our targets for 2011, 2012 and our vision for 2020 for what we believe to be our key impact and opportunity areas for the business. This will be the new structure for our target reporting in future years. Principles Metric FY21 Target FY13 Target FY12 Target Fines/Regulation breaches None Management standards Premier Farnell holds the most highly-approved management Premier Farnell operates under the guidelines of ISO26000 Gap analysis of Premier Farnell’s performance against ISO26000 standard for sustainability management. has been completed and a cost/benefit review of implementation and a recommendation have been made. All appropriate Premier Farnell facilities have achieved OHSAS Achieve OHSAS 18001 certification at Gaffney. Achieve OHSAS 18001 certification at Liège. 18001 Code of ethics No breaches of the Code of Ethics 100% of employees confirm that they have read and understood the Code of Ethics re-launched. Code of Ethics in their mid-year review. Details of breaches of the Code are publicly available Legislation guidance Premier Farnell is involved in the design process of global legislation Representatives from Premier Farnell sit on one government Legislation pages on element14 receive at least 219,000 page impacting electronics as a result of demonstrating its leadership in advisory body per region on the issues surrounding legislation in the views per year. the arena of supporting electronic design engineers with legislative electronics industry. requirements. Trade compliance World class Trade Compliance system built in to all element14 Widen the Trade Compliance data to cover global issues. Trade Compliance Training for Europe gradually added to element14. systems. Element14 blog becomes interactive with Trade Compliance best Conduct Trade Compliance training across Asia-Pacific. element14 is a reference site for Industry and governments practice discussed and issues solved through the site Through the Legislation portal, building a wider and comprehensive worldwide. reference area for our customers, suppliers and stakeholders Stakeholder representation Premier Farnell has a full stakeholder interests council, including; Premier Farnell Youth Board is established Distribute the Annual Sustainability Report electronically to all employees, customers, suppliers, local communities and employees and set up a feedback mechanism to address comments government and industry bodies. and questions Premier Farnell has acquired new talent following four successful Youth Boards. PF is regarded as pioneering and leading this commitment across different industry and is featured within an established and well regarded ‘most desirable company to work at/with’ Governments and NGOs Premier Farnell is involved in the design process of global legislation Deliver plans for each region to develop partnerships with Identify target NGOs and Government organisations with which and policies impacting electronics as a result of demonstrating its targeted organisations Premier Farnell companies could develop strategic engagements ability to support policy makers with information, skills and innovation Premier Farnell is regarded as a key partner for non-governmental organisations wishing to engage the electronics industry 72 Our Sustainability Strategy Targets (continued) Planet Metric FY21 Target FY13 Target FY12 Target GHGs CO2/£000 reduced by 50% against FY11 baseline by the end Invite all facilities to submit carbon reduction plans and implement Complete budgeted carbon reduction initiatives at eight major of FY21. the new carbon reduction investment selection process. facilities. Review all budgeted actions at each business’ Quarterly Include CO2 impacts of employee commuting in our published Business Review meetings. carbon footprint. Complete all-employee commuter survey to begin developing Scope Absolute CO2 emissions are reduced by 10% against the baseline 3 emissions from employee travel. year of 2009. Revise the Company’s approach to budgeting for selecting carbon All third party logistics suppliers provide GHG emissions data on reduction investments. Premier Farnell deliveries to customers and this is publicly reported. Complete an audit of out-of-hours energy consumption at our Out-of-hours energy is only consumed by devices necessary to major facilities. either safety, security or providing services to our customers Business flights are reduced to essential face-to-face work only. Reduction in air miles per travelling employee. Review and improve the Company Business Travel Policy to reduce All other meetings facilitated by eLife. non-essential travel and short-turnaround flights. Waste Premier Farnell companies reuse or recycle 100% of recyclable Complete audits of all waste streams at each Premier Farnell Group recycling rate reaches 75%. waste and all food waste is composted. business and implement improvements to reduce waste disposed by 10% All packaging used is recyclable, biodegradable or reusable. Transactional websites and/or element14 hold information on all of Identify the recycled content and recyclability of all forms of our packaging. packaging shipped by Premier Farnell and supply this information to customers on the packaging. 50% reduction in the volume of stock becoming scrap per year. Complete audits on all scrap recycling companies used by the Measure and report the amount of product scrapped by Premier business to ensure that they meet our e-waste disposal standards. Farnell businesses. Water Water use per employee does not exceed 7,700 litres per year. Bottled water is no longer available at any Premier Farnell facilities Identify and implement projects to capture and reuse rain and/or grey water and to reduce total water consumption. Services Beyond Product 30% of revenue is generated by non-component sales. £50m in incremental revenue delivered by non-component sales. £27m revenue delivered by non-component sales. Sustainable Electronics Premier Farnell is the hub for sustainable electronics innovation, Element14 facilitates, and is used as, a collaboration space for Publicly launch Premier Farnell support for the United Bank linking electronic design engineers with NGOs and specialists to solving environmental challenges. of Carbon. deliver solutions to real-world problems. One new product with an improved environmental impact launched per year. 73 Our Sustainability Strategy Targets (continued) Planet Metric FY21 Target FY13 Target FY12 Target GPSS Sales to “Green” target applications achieves £28m £7.1m sales to target “Green technology” customers Paper Usage All communications with suppliers that do not legally require a 100% of customer and supplier-facing printed material including; Review paper purchasing guidelines to ensure that all paper in the signature or hard copy are carried out electronically. Customers are invoices, catalogues, despatch notes etc. is accounted for and publication of catalogues and direct mail is from sustainable or able to opt-in to completely paperless ordering. reported publicly. recycled sources. Achieve a reduction in the total weight of paper used in customer Audit publishing and marketing purchasing processes to map and supplier-facing printed material. ordering of printed marketing materials Customers are charged or incentivised when requesting a catalogue to choose to make a web order instead Final versions of all documents that are for internal use only are All internal comms materials are released in a non-printable format, Review printing practices and devices in the USA and APAC and produced in a non-printable format. except for employees who do not have regular access to a computer. rationalise office equipment to reduce the number of printers in use. Default all printers across the business to double-sided printing. 74 Our Sustainability Strategy Targets (continued) People Metric FY21 Target FY13 Target FY12 Target Employee engagement The all-employee engagement score subset for sustainability The all-employee engagement score increases by 2% The all-employee engagement score increases by 2% consistently achieves 100% across all employees. Over 95% of employees complete the survey each year. Organisational development At least 30% of all company vacancies are filled by internal 100% of employees have a completed PDP that is reviewed and 100% of employees have a completed PDP that is reviewed and candidates through promotions or relocation. supported by managers. supported by their manager. 100% of eligible people managers have completed 360 reviews and discussed the feedback received with their own manager. Gender Equality Premier Farnell has created a culture where current and potential 30% of employees at salary grade 6 and above are female Review pay levels at salary grades 1, 2 and 3 to ensure that no pay employees feel that they are valued by the Company and that they gaps exist as a result of employee gender by the end of FY12 can contribute to their full potential Health, Safety % Wellbeing Health and Safety systems are in place to ensure a global lost-time Reintegrate Liège safety performance into global performance Standardise Group accident reporting globally, based on OSHA injury rate of 0.0 per 100,000 hours. reporting and targeting. requirements. Fewer than 0.56 recordable injuries per 100,000 hours worked Fewer than 0.18 lost-time injuries per 100,000 hours worked Supplier ethical audit 100% of private label suppliers have completed workplace 70% of private label suppliers have completed workplace standards 50% of private label suppliers have completed workplace standards performance standards questionnaires. questionnaires. questionnaires. 100% of private label suppliers have completed workplace Over 35% of private label suppliers have completed site audits. 25% of private label suppliers have completed site audits. standards site audits. Completing a site audit is a non-negotiable element of private label Unannounced site audits of workplace standards are a supplier contracts for all new and renewed suppliers. non-negotiable element of private label supplier contracts for all The contracts of all suppliers that refuse to comply have been new and renewed suppliers. reviewed as necessary. All franchised suppliers either submit evidence to support that they maintain high workplace standards or agree to become part of the Premier Farnell workplace standards site audit programme. Community investment All employees that are interested in volunteering are able to do so All Group locations have active community teams and reporting The USA and Europe have full community investment and “Green” for at least 8 hours per year. structures in place. teams in place for their region. Formal organisational development processes and metrics have been defined to assess volunteering as part of employees’ development. 75 GRI content index G3 Profile Description Location in report/ G3 Profile Description Location in report/ Disclosures Further information Disclosures Further information 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the p1 3.1 Reporting period Data is reported on the company financial year organization (e.g. CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) February 1 to January 31 except where stated about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its otherwise strategy. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report May 06 2010 2.1 Name of the organization Premier Farnell 3.3 Reporting cycle Financial year Feb 01 2010 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services p2 to Jan 31 2011. Environmental reporting cycle 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main p2 is Jan 01 2010 to Dec 31 2010. divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Mr Steven Webb, Company Secretary and 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters London, United Kingdom General Counsel swebb@premierfarnell.com Mr Charles Denham, CSR Assistant, 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the Annual Report and Accounts p13 cdenham@premierfarnell.com names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 3.5 Process for defining report content p7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Public Limited Company (LSE:PFL) 3.6 Boundary of the report This report covers all operations of Premier Farnell plc excluding CadSoft Computer GmbH 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Annual Report Page 13 served, and types of customer/beneficiaries) 3.7 State any specific limitation on the scope or boundary of this All reporting this year excludes our German report software business Cadsoft Computer GmbH. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization All operations within Premier Farnell plc, Specific exclusions to our GHG measurements excluding CadSoft Computer GmbH are given in the Planet section of this report. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Rebranding of all Asia-Pacific businesses to 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased No joint ventures or owned facilities leased to structure, or ownership “element14” however no structural or ownership facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can third parties. changes. significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Available online through press releases at http:// www.premierfarnell.com/premier_farnell/ publicrelations/ 76 GRI Content Index (continued) G3 Profile Description Location in report/ G3 Profile Description Location in report/ Disclosures Further information Disclosures Further information 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information We have updated GHG calculation figures in line 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the The Board comprises of five non-executive provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such with the latest data available from the WRI GHG number of members of the highest governance body that are directors. re-statements. Project. independent and/or non-executive members. We have standardised tabulated data to one decimal place across the report, except where we 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide for Annual Report and Accounts p77 receive specific figures from a third party. recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. We have restated our community investment data to align with our financial year and calculated 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p10 conversion to GBP using monthly exchange rates to improve the accuracy of our reporting. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with which p6 We have corrected calculation errors in our water to engage consumption figures on page 39. Previously figures were erroneous calculated using a G3 Description Location in report/Further information combination of litres and cubic metres. This has Performance been corrected to litres only, resulting in an Indicators increase in reported figures. and Sector Supplement Indicators 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Inclusion of: EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including p3 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the – Management standards information revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations report. and other community investments, retained earnings, and – Environmental impact of deliveries information payments to capital providers and governments – Diversity and gender pay data Development and publishing of sustainability EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. The business has not received any significant targets up to financial year 2021 financial assistance during financial year 2011. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the p75 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p31 Report EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials p31 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Annual Report and Accounts p62 -79 under the highest governance body responsible for specific EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p27 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p27 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Sir Peter Gershon is the Chairman of Premier also an executive officer Farnell plc. He is not an executive officer of the Company. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p39 77 GRI Content Index (continued) G3 Profile Description Location in report/ Self-Declaration of GRI reporting level Disclosures Further information We are currently reporting at level C+, having met the disclosure and EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p30 performance indicator requirements of GRI level C and commissioned EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and p24-41 the auditing of our CSR Report and GRI content by SGS UK Ltd. services, and the extent of impact mitigation LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, p46 and number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control p54 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have p58 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of p58 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child p58 labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risks for incidents of p58 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks p20 related to corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy p16 development and lobbying. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures p6 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 78 index of United Nations Global Compact principles supported in 2010 Principle Action Further information Feedback 1 Businesses should support and respect the We request that suppliers comply with our p57 As part of our commitment to open and protection of internationally proclaimed human sustainable procurement and workplace standards honest dialogue with our stakeholders, rights policy. we invite feedback on the contents of this 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not We audit the workplace standards of our private p57 report, or any other CSR issues of complicit in human rights abuses label suppliers. importance that we have not covered. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary We have a group-wide carbon reduction programme p24 Please address all feedback to approach to environmental challenges that targets our most environmentally impactful Steven Webb, Company Secretary facilities. at swebb@premierfarnell.com We monitor and manage our waste, both generated internally and as a result of packaging dispatched to customers. We monitor the weights of paper consumed in our catalogue production and source sustainablyproduced paper where possible. 8 Businesses should encourage the development and We are developing marketing strategies to support p33 and 37 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the needs of customers engaged in the development of alternative energies and “green” technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Premier Farnell businesses operate under the Group p19 forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Ethics. 79 ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS UNITED KINGDOM LTD’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE PREMIER FARNELL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2010/11 NATURE AND SCOPE THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by Premier Farnell plc to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2010/11. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text and 2010 data in accompanying tables contained in this report. The information in the Sustainability Report 2010/11 of Premier Farnell plc and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the management of Premier Farnell plc. SGS United Kingdom Ltd has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the Sustainability Report 2010/11. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification set out with the intention to inform all Premier Farnell plc’s stakeholders. The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending on the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation. This report has been assured as an AA1000AS Type 2 assurance at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: • evaluation of content veracity; • evaluation of the report content and supporting management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008); and • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006). The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees in the UK (sites in Leeds and Preston) and USA (sites in Newark and Springboro); documentation and record review and validation with external bodies and/or stakeholders where relevant. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance process. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS United Kingdom Ltd affirm our independence from Premier Farnell plc, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with IEMA (Environmental Auditor), IRCA (Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner) and Canadian Environmental Auditing Association, accredited in USA through RABQSA International. 80 VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained within Sustainability Report 2010/11 verified is accurate and provides a fair representation of Premier Farnell plc sustainability activities in 2010. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders and we believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS In our opinion the Premier Farnell plc Sustainability Report 2010/11 fulfills all expected elements to demonstrate strong commitments to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Our findings and recommendations for future reporting are summarised below. Inclusivity The Premier Farnell plc Sustainability Report 2010/11 demonstrates the organisation’s commitment to the foundation principle of inclusivity. The stakeholder engagement processes are wide ranging and have become business as usual. In some cases Premier Farnell have used the engagement process as a core element of their business e.g. Element 14. As with the previous report, highlighting throughout the report of impacts of actions on stakeholder groups is an excellent demonstration of understanding of sustainability impacts of the business and that stakeholder groups are taken into account. The development of the CSR regional committees has increased capabilities and inclusivity in the regions. Areas for improvement in the future include a review of the role of stakeholder groups in the governance of the organisation and the expansion of stakeholder identification and mapping at country/site level, including processes to identify site specific stakeholders. Materiality The identification of material issues is based on sound processes including stakeholder engagement and the review of priorities is integrated in the organisation and ongoing. The new Sustainability Chart and 2050 targets are overreaching and developed by engagement both internally and externally using expert opinion and feedback from stakeholders. It is measurable and takes into account the changing sustainability context. Future reports would benefit from further links from stakeholder feedback to actions and responses. Responsiveness The systems for responding to stakeholder feedback from engagement are well developed at group level and systems are being set in place globally. Each cycle of reporting and assurance has demonstrated that these systems are ongoing and led by ensuring a wider scope of business sustainability. Performance against targets shows timely response and report tables on performance against targets are clear and useful for readers wanting to evaluate achievements. Future planning could include a review of the need for reporting to specific key stakeholders groups. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (2006) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS In our opinion, the Premier Farnell plc CSR Report 2010/11 meets the content and quality requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Version 3.0 Application Level C+. Principles In our opinion the content and quality of the report adheres to the ten GRI Principles. Opportunities were identified for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual improvement, including • future reporting would benefit from highlighting more of the geographical and site context on the company material issues; • implementation of internal systems for evaluating data accuracy throughout reporting cycle; • developing the report to be in alignment with Application level B+. 81 Standard Disclosures All of the standard disclosures required for reporting at an application level C+ were included or referenced in the report Indicators More than the required minimum number of core indicators are included in the report. Signed: For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd Jan Saunders UK Systems and Services Certification Business Manager April 2011 WWW.SGS.COM
