DOĞUŞ GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 © Doğuş Group 2010 Third consolidated Doğuş Group Corporate Responsibility Report. Online version is available at www.dogusgrubu.com.tr DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 01 CONTENT I. Introduction 02 Message from the Chairman 04 Message from the Chief Executive Officer 06 About this Report 08 Reporting on Corporate Citizenship Performance 09 Doğuş Group in Brief 10 Corporate Responsibility Approach 13 Sustainability Management 14 Material Issues 15 2010 At a Glance 16 Awards, Recognitions and Certificates 19 Strategic Partnerships and Memberships 21 II. Economic Impact 22 Direct Economic Impact 24 Impact on Public Policy 27 III. Social Responsibility Performance 28 Corporate Governance and Ethics 30 Products and Services 35 Labor Issues and Human Rights 40 Community Engagement 43 IV. Environmental Performance 54 Approach to Environmental Responsibility 56 V. Stakeholder Engagement 64 VI. Reporting Content Index 66 GRI Index 66 UN Global Compact COP Index 75 02 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 03 IIntroduction 4 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 5 Message from the Chairman Strong commitment to corporate Dear Stakeholders, As a corporate entity, we think that we owe much to the society and the environment. Therefore, we feel the social responsibility has always been I am delighted to share Doğuş Group’s Corporate responsibility to ‘give back’. We continue to implement a top priority for Doğuş Group, which Responsibility Report 2010, which presents our corporate social responsibility and sponsorship projects with understanding of corporate social responsibility, our a particular emphasis on children’s development, health, has integrated social, moral and performance and activities in 2010 and our vision going education, environment, culture-arts and sports. This report environmental values in its business forward. covers the activities of both the Doğuş Group of Companies practices. as well as the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, the world economy is adapting itself to the ‘new normal’. The way Looking forward, I hope and believe that corporate social companies operate is changing and the term ‘sustainability’ responsibility activities are carried out on a broader basis and is gaining further significance. The business community not only on a voluntary approach but also as a commitment needs to take more responsibility for its actions and take towards all stakeholders. into consideration broader norms and values in order to be successful in the long-term. It has become crucial for the corporate sector to strike the right balance between the private and the public interests. Economic performance has to be supported by social and environmental responsibilities in order for companies to be successful on a sustainable basis. As corporate citizens, organizations need to focus more on responding to the needs of the society and the environment. Ferit F. Şahenk Strong commitment to corporate social responsibility has Chairman of the Board of Directors always been a top priority for Doğuş Group, which has Doğuş Group integrated social, moral and environmental values in its business practices. As a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, we shape our business and management structure in accordance with these values while upholding transparency and accountability. 6 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 7 Message from the Chief Executive Officer While sustainability has become a continuous part of our daily business activities, we maintained our focus on community engagement efforts in two main areas: education and development of younger generations and, development of arts and culture in our country. Our investments were not limited to our business activities: While sustainability has become a continuous part of Dear Stakeholders, in all our business practices, we have continued to invest our daily business activities, we maintained our focus in people. While keeping efforts to maintain a happy and on community engagement efforts in two main areas: It is our great pleasure to present you Doğuş Group’s motivated workforce, we have also created employment education and development of younger generations Corporate Responsibility Report 2010, our third report opportunities through new investments. In 2011, Doğuş and, development of arts and culture in our country. The since our participation in the UN Global Compact in 2007. Group will further increase its workforce by providing environment and sports continued to be activities that This report not only serves to inform our stakeholders employment to approximately 2,000 people. Group companies supported in 2010. In the following pages, regarding our activities from the corporate citizenship you will be presented with detailed information on all our perspective, but it has also enabled us to learn more about Likewise, corporate sustainability has also become one corporate social responsibility and sponsorship projects. our Group’s strengths and areas of development in the area of the major issues for our Group companies in 2010. of sustainability during the data collection process prior to One of our most significant developments with regards Along with the Group companies, the Ayhan Şahenk reporting and let us take actions. to sustainability was Doğuş Otomotiv’s participation in Foundation (established in 1992 by the Founder and the UN Global Compact, and the subsequent preparation Honorary Chairman of Doğuş Group, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk) For Doğuş Group, 2010 was a year with much success. A and publication of the company’s first Corporate Social has continued to touch the lives of many people through its growth rate of 15% in total assets and 11% in revenues Responsibility (CSR) report. With this report, which is the activities in the areas of education, health, the environment, was due to new investments in many sectors in addition first CSR report of the automotive sector in Turkey; Doğuş and social assistance. to ongoing operations. In all of our business practices, Otomotiv strengthened its pioneer role in the sector. we continued to rely on ethical business, management At Doğuş Group, we aim to continue this momentum and customer satisfaction, generating value for all of our The steps taken by Garanti Bank and Doğuş Media Group in 2011, using every opportunity to better our business stakeholders in the first place. regarding our Group’s approach to sustainability were practices towards a fully sustainable management model. also quite noteworthy. Garanti Bank has taken the lead in Community engagement will also remain as one of our top As one of the largest conglomerates of Turkey and the establishing its Environment Committee, which is chaired at agenda in 2011. surrounding region, Doğuş Group’s economic success the Board level. The Committee is responsible for ensuring managed by such an ethical and transparent business that the policies and programs needed in sustainability We will be pleased to communicate our progress to you all approach is quite important with regards to economic efforts are designed, implemented and delivered across the in the coming years. development. In 2010, we have provided employment and a operations of the Bank. sound working environment to over 29,000 people. We have also contributed to economy with significant investments Additionally, Doğuş Media Group has taken another lead amounting US$ 625 Million and with the taxes we have paid in the media sector in Turkey by disclosing the first carbon which accounts for about 2% of Turkey’s total tax income. footprint report in Turkey. As a result of this work, the Hüsnü Akhan Last but not least, our innovative approach in all our sectors total greenhouse gas emission for the year 2009 has been Chief Executive Officer has also contributed to increasing productivity and has calculated as 14,800 tonnes of CO2. The target is to reduce Doğuş Group continued to raise the bar for our competitors both in Turkey this emission in the following years. Doğuş Media Group and in the regions where we operate. aims to become a ‘zero carbon’ company in the long-term. 8 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 9 About this Report Reporting on Corporate Citizenship Performance This report, published in April 2011, covers Doğuş Group’s The integration of sustainability practices into Doğuş Group Doğuş Group is committed to providing communication social, environmental and economical performance related to of Companies’ operations is an ongoing process, one which opportunities for raising awareness on corporate the calendar year 2010. Unless otherwise stated, the Report has been assisted by a series of principles put forth by the responsibility issues as part of the company strategy. The covers the businesses of Doğuş Group of Companies, United Nations (UN) Global Compact. This group of principles Group believes that there is additional value for Doğuş Group including its subsidiaries. has been reported at the Communication on Progress three of Companies to raise the awareness of its key stakeholders years ago, to disclose how Doğuş Group has progressed in on social and environmental issues, and to provide a In determining the scope of this report, we have taken into implementing those principles and what challenges it has platform of communication for solutions to broader societal consideration issues across our value chain and all indicators encountered en route to enhancing its social, economic and and environmental concerns. in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guideline. We environmental performance over the past year. have used the principles of stakeholder engagement, materiality, responsiveness and completeness. We have In 2010, a new report centers on progress made by the sought to report on all core and additional indicators, Group of Companies in three thematic areas: economic unless specifically noted as immaterial in the context of our impact, social responsibility performance, and environmental business. It should be noted that the 10 principles of United performance. The report especially highlights the improved Nations Global Compact initialized our reporting approach harmonization of Doğuş Group of Companies’ strategy and this report will be our third Communication on Progress. and performances. Additionally, it emphasizes the need to continue these harmonization efforts and to develop new Our last corporate citizenship report was published in April policies and/or guidelines related to corporate responsibility 2010, covering the calendar year 2009. The report has been areas over the next years. published annually for the past two years and will continue in this manner in the future. Regarding mainstreaming sustainability issues into its operations, the Group has carried out communication programs which ensure that sustainability concerns are part of the planning process for each Doğuş Group of Companies’ strategy from the start. Additionally, the Group has taken strides to develop strategies and policies in the social and environmental impact of its companies and has also taken the lead in defining the impact of Group’s own material issues for the next reporting period. 10 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 11 Doğuş Group in Brief Banking& Real Financial Automotive Construction Media Tourism&Services Energy Services Estate Doğuş Energy Artvin HEPP D-TES Electricity Whole Sale Co. Corporate Responsibility 12 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 13 Doğuş Group in Brief Corporate Responsibility Approach 124 companies, over 29,000 employees A model management style and corporate citizenship At Doğuş Group, we believe that corporate responsibility Furthermore, the UN Global Compact is a direct extension For almost 60 years, Doğuş Group has taken its place among Doğuş Group utilizes a management style that is both is the sum total of our behaviours. It is a reflection of our of Doğuş Group’s efforts within corporate responsibility. By the leading business conglomerates of Turkey and is a customer-focused and productivity-centered. It is not only culture, our values, and the way we conduct our business. committing, we show our support to the ten principles for corporate leader in the region. formed through material gains, but embodies a strong Doğuş Group was founded on the core value of respect sustainability, which are the foundations for the Compact. corporate citizenship approach that is at the center of all for people. From our employees around the world, to our Doğuş Group is active in seven core businesses: business practices of the Group whilst benefiting the entire customers and partners, to the communities where we Through our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we will • financial services society. operate people come first. continue to report on our efforts to support and integrate • automotive the ten principles in our business as well as to promote the • construction Doğuş Group Values For Doğuş Group, corporate responsibility is about how we existence of this initiative in interaction with our suppliers, • media Group companies share a set of core values based on manage our impacts on society and the environment. We customers and other partners. • tourism and services integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, unity and strive to operate responsibly and act with integrity and thus • real estate responsibility. These values, a part of the Group’s beliefs make a positive contribution to the economy, our people and • energy and convictions since the very beginning, continue to guide our local communities. and drive business decisions made by each company within With 124 companies and over 29,000 employees, Doğuş Doğuş Group. We seek to eliminate or mitigate corporate responsibilityGroup has created strong customer loyalty while building related risks, where identified, in partnership with our brand value with its high-tech infrastructure. employees, and other stakeholders through the application of good practices. When appropriate, such as with the Ayhan A key actor in the Turkish economy with strong global Şahenk Foundation, we also work in partnerships. Equally, recognition we seek opportunities in respect of corporate responsibility, Doğuş Group consistently offers services based upon its including ways to reduce our environmental impact and philosophy to satisfy the customers while building their trust. costs, or develop solutions for societal issues in the Group. As a result, the Group has created reputable brands at global A regional focus standards, attracting international investors as it serves as an Doğuş Group continues contributing to Turkey’s ongoing Today, Doğuş Group reaches more people, including more excellent ambassador for Turkey. The Group has contributed process of transformation and innovation. Utilizing its customers, more employees and more communities than to this process by the synergy formed with global giants that global perspective, world-class brands and noteworthy ever before. As a result, this year our aim is integrating include: General Electric in finance and real estate, Volkswagen partnerships, the Group’s vision, particularly with regard to corporate responsibility deeper into our businesses AG and TÜVSÜD in automotive, Alstom and Marubeni in services, is a valuable asset to Turkey. and to position ourselves to address critical social and construction, MSNBC, CNBC and Condé Nast in media and environmental challenges in a way that will drive business Hyatt International Ltd., HMS International Hotel GmbH The Group is able to maximize the value of its brands by value. (Maritim) and Aldiana GmbH in the tourism sector. utilizing the highest quality human resources and the most advanced technology to maintain the high standards that Doğuş Group plays a significant role in the Turkish economy have made it a regional leader in the service sector. with the high level of employment it creates, the taxes it pays and the total business volume it generates within the country. 14 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 15 Sustainability Management Material Issues Materiality analysis helps Doğuş Group to: Doğuş Group defines its competitive edge and draws The corporate sustainability performance of Doğuş Group is • Clarify issues driving long term business value Economic Impact its future roadmap through three basic means: strong one of the responsibilities of the Group’s Board of Directors. • Identify, prioritize and address risks governance mechanisms, effective global collaboration and Sustainability risks and opportunities are also monitored Material Issues • Identify and capture opportunities close, transparent communication with its stakeholders. The in coordination with companies’ divisions and other Group • Align sustainability and business strategies; help focus • Investments Group monitors and analyzes the progress of its operations Board Committees. sustainability activities • Employment and as well as its citizenship efforts. • Build and maintain a strong brand and reputation • Public Policy More information on governance structure, committees • Gain competitive advantage • Stakeholder Engagement Doğuş Group utilizes a management style that is both subject to Board of Directors and other relevant information • Anticipate and manage change customer-focused and productivity-centered. The Group not on management in Doğuş Group is available at the Social • Assess performance over time only focuses on financial performance, but also embodies a Responsibility Performance section of this report. strong corporate citizenship approach that benefits the entire In terms of reporting, the materiality principle helps Doğuş Social Responsibility society. Group in the following ways: • Robust basis for identification of issues Material Issues Doğuş Group has conveyed its group-wide Risk Management • More focused reports • Ethics and Governance approach in support of “sustainable profitability and risk • Greater assurance that key issues are covered • Products and Services management-oriented development” and “a management • Stronger integration between sustainability and annual • Labor Issues and Human Rights style conducive to maximizing value added for its reporting • Community Engagement stakeholders”. In light of the recent developments in the • Rationale for use and selection of reporting standards and world economy, Doğuş Group, with diverse business indicators operations in different regions and countries, has already been cognizant of the fact that it has to monitor and make The Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines defines provisions for various risks. material issues as “topics and indicators that reflect the Environmental Responsibility organization’s significant economic, environmental and Material Issues Doğuş Holding’s Risk Management Department, established social impacts, or that would substantively influence the in an effort to implement Risk Management across the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” Materiality • Ecological Approach Group, operates under the Holding’s CEO and the Risk and is the threshold at which an issue or indicator becomes • Energy Efficiency Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Risk and sufficiently important that it should be reported. • Water Audit Committee determines shareholder risk preference, • Waste ensuring that appropriate risk management applications The methodology used for defining the material issues for are in place. Meanwhile, the Group CEO has the ultimate Doğuş Group is based on GRI key performance indicators responsibility for Corporate Risk Management. and the sectoral priorities of Doğuş Group of Companies. The performance of selected peers of the companies is used as benchmarks for determining industrial material issues. 16 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 17 2010 At a Glance of Ramadan in 2010, the Foundation served “iftar” dinners to approximately 2,500 people per day and hosted 43,000 Garanti Payment Systems • The Environmentally Friendly Bonus Card is produced people in total. using the minimum amount of PVC possible; it degrades faster than other cards. Banking and Financial Services • The Bonus Academy is created for young people to share the knowledge of marketing of Bonus. Over 2,000 people Garanti Bank attend the Academy every year. Also Bonus Academy makes Doğuş Holding based financial literacy initiative of Turkey, reaches out to • Giving utmost importance to contributing culture and arts available the resumes of its graduates with over 300,000 • In 2010, on its sixth anniversary, D-Marin Turgutreis masses via: the multi-platform weekly TV show on CNBC-e, in a sustainable way, Garanti brought together its three Bonus merchants, helping to create job opportunities. International Classical Music Festival took place on July a page on the highest circulated national newspaper Posta, cultural and artistic institutions under Garanti Kültür A.Ş. 19-20 & 22-23, hosted many gifted artists and well-known and a program in the radio channel KralFM, which has the highest rating. Para Durumu is also broadcasted on the daily to form a “corporate” structure. Garanti Kültür A.Ş. will Eureko Sigorta orchestras from Turkey and other countries, including the morning show of Capital Radio and published on the monthly actively commence operations by early 2011 with exhibition, • Under the motto ‘Conscious Employee Action’, a world-renowned Turkish pianists İdil Biret and Fazıl Say, and research, archive and education functions, and serve as project was initiated in 2009 to reduce the paper, energy the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. The proceeds obtained women’s magazine ELELE. Para Durumu actively uses the new epicenter of culture and the arts in İstanbul upon and water use in order to respect the environment. As a from the Festival was donated to the TOHUM Autism social media channels via Facebook and Twitter, as well as completion of the renovation of the historical buildings part of this project, Eureko Sigorta has also developed its Foundation to be used for educational materials at the operating a very popular blog and website in Galata and Beyoğlu, comprising some 15,000 square own environmental policy, which covers the integration of Foundation’s private school for children with autism and for www.paradurumu.tv. Para Durumu also reaches out to meters. The company will be engaged in contemporary art, environmental concerns in all business practices. the training of teachers specialized in this area. In 2010, a university students and entrepreneur women via physical architecture, design, and cultural and social studies. total of 17,250 audience followed the festival, with a 2,250 seminars. • Garanti founded the “Teachers’ Academy Foundation”, Automotive increase compared to the previous year. The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation creating a sustainable institutional framework for the • The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra, in cooperation • The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation supported the “Girls Go conduct of the project. Since April 2009, starting with 5 pilot Doğuş Otomotiv with Disney, performed four concerts in İstanbul in to School” (Kızlarımız Okullaşıyor) campaign led by the cities, 20,483 teachers in 58 cities had been reached by the • The company has been signatory of UN Global Compact 2010, with the “We Travel the World through Magical Governorship of Şanlıurfa by building a 24 classroom end of 2010. since 2010. Soundtracks” concert series. In 2010, the story behind the high-school and a 200 students dormitory for female • “Deniz Yıldızları” (Sea Stars) Project, which was • Published the first corporate social responsibility report of establishment of the Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra was students in Şanlıurfa. launched in 1998 with contributions from Garanti employees its sector in Turkey. told by Dr. Erdal Atabek, social psychologist and mentor of • The number of people who benefited from the “Mobile and their friends, completed the construction of the 320-seat • InfoRooms aim at increasing the efficiency and the orchestra, in a book named “The Music Calls You”. Healthcare Units” totalled 24,041, thereby reaching a conference hall, the Semi-Olympic indoor swimming pool effectiveness of waiting rooms of Doğuş Otomotiv • In 2010, the Symphony on Campus (Kampüste Senfonik cumulative number of 376,000 since the initiation of the and the sports centre with 600 seats in 2010 in Darıca. customers, as well as stressing the link between traffic and Akşamlar) project took place with 6 concerts in universities project in 1997. • Garanti Bank established an “Environment Committee” in-car safety to allow for an easier understanding. of 5 cities; Kars-Kafkas University, Erzurum-Atatürk University, • Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment Project (Ayhan in order to better assess and standardize the environmental Rize University, Giresun University and TrabzonBlackSea Şahenk Sevgi Ormanları) continued without interruption and social risks of projects during the crediting processes. TÜVTURK Technical University. At the end of the tour, the project to provide maintenance support to Ayhan Şahenk Forests • Garanti was the main sponsor of 2010 FIBA World • In collaboration with the Ministry of Transport and exceeded its target audience by reaching 5,500 people in total. Championship that took place in Turkey. Communications and other related stakeholders, Traffic • Doğuş Group supported the Stationery Support of Endearment planted in Marmaris, Bodrum, Niğde and Responsibility Action started in May 2010. The project Campaign (Mektuplu Kırtasiye Yardımı Kampanyası) with İstanbul, in line with a protocol signed with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. Garanti Pension and Life consists of 3 subprojects: Safe Vehicle Action, Responsible 1,000 packages filled with basic stationery items needed • In 2010, aiming to lure students working on the street back to Citizen Action and `Bosom Buddies’ Action. for primary education. The campaign, which is organized • AŞV approximately 1,500 tonnes of waste paper from the school on a full time basis, Garanti Pension launched a unique • TÜVTURK Call Center answer nearly 250,000 calls monthly by Aktif İleti ve Kurye Hizmetleri A.Ş. aims to bring equal Doğuş Group of Companies was collected and managed since 2007. corporate social responsibility project called “Pen in Hand: with a total of 100 customer representatives. Under the opportunities in education for economically disadvantaged Educating, not Employing Children”, in collaboration with the “Count Me Too in Transport, Communication and Life!” students. • Clothing was provided to 1,000 students and food Ministry of National Education and Bosphorus University. campaign, TÜVTURK Call Center employs 60 disabled • Para Durumu, the first private media and interaction staples to 2,500 poor families in 2010. During the month 18 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 19 Awards, Recognitions and Certificates Doğuş Holding • “Training and Development Award” by the Personnel customer representatives who work from home in 18 saving. All three marinas hold Blue Flag and 5 Gold Anchors • Ferit F. Şahenk, the Chairman of Doğuş Group received: Management Association of Turkey (PERYÖN) diverse cities all over the country. flags from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association). This • 2010 Woodrow Wilson Social Responsibility Award • Garanti’s 2009 Annual Report Silver Award in the • The station environment and waste directive and policies is an international environment award given to beaches • “The Best Businessperson of 2010” by the Vision Awards Competition by the League of American have been developed. Waste follow-up documents allow for and marinas that possess the requirements concerning Economist Turkey Magazine Communications Professionals (LACP) local monitoring. environmental protection and sustainability measures. • “Most Succesful Businessman of 2010” by • Garanti’s 2009 Annual Report GOLD Award (1st place) for • To make the car seat covers (which are made obligatory İmedya TV Green/Environmentally Sound Annual Reports; GOLD Award by the Ministry of Transportation) 100% recyclable, a pilot Real Estate • “Turkey’s Most Admired Companies 2010” by Capital (1st place) for Non Traditional Annual Report; HONORS project has been initiated and is being expanded to all Magazine Award for Financial Data among international banks in stations. Doğuş Real Estate MerComm Annual Report Competition the ARC Awards • During company’s operations in 2010, instead of tap water Banking and Financial Services • Garanti 2009 Annual Report Gold Award at the Galaxy Construction from the municipality, underground water sources were Awards Competition by Mercomm • The Natural Wastewater Treatment Plant related to utilized. Garanti Bank • “Best Investor Relations Department” award, “Best Boyabat Dam and HEPP Project has been performed by • Best Managed Company in Central And Eastern Investor Relations Annual Report” award, “Best CEO for Doğuş Construction with the support of experts in this Energy Europe by Euromoney Project Finance Magazine Investor Relations” award IR Awards by Acclaro and area. Adopting the principles of protecting natural resources • The investments for the dam and hydroelectric power plant • Best Bank in Turkey by Euromoney Project Finance Thompson Reuters Extel Survey and minimizing negative environmental impacts, it placed will serve for reducing the energy dependency of Turkey and Magazine emphasis on taking measures toward decreasing existing thereby contribute to our national economy. • Best Bank in Turkey by The Banker Magazine Garanti Bank International negative impacts. • A system has been developed for waste management. • Quality Award STP: Straight Through Processing by JP • Silver medal at “Best Trade Bank in Eastern Europe” • The Sinop – Boyabat (Via Tunnel) Motorway Project: Waste products have been categorized according their risk Morgan Chase Bank ve Commerzbank AG category by Trade & Forfaiting Review magazine Along the projected route, there are 5 different areas (total and responsibilities are appointed. Recycling / safe disposal • Straight Through Processing (STP) Excellence Awards by • Bronze medal “Best Trade Bank in Soft Commodities” length of 8,8 km) where terrain observations and drillings of non-recoverable waste methods are determined by Deutsche Bank category by Trade & Forfaiting Review magazine were accomplished. To reduce damage to forests, steepmanagement. • Garanti Masters Private Banking Best Private Bank in • The 3rd best bank in the Dutch savings market based on a sloped high cutting excavations were eliminated. Turkey by The Banker and PWM (Professional Wealth survey conducted by independer.nl. Management) Media • Garanti Masters Private Banking Best Local Private Garanti Pension and Life • Since 2008, NTV’s summer line-up has been mainly Bank by Euromoney • Respect For Human Award by Kariyer.Net composed of environmental programs, called the “Green • Garanti Bank Call Center Gold award at the category of • www.garantiemeklilik.com.tr, 1st Prize by Golden Spider Screen”. This project aims to call attention to environmental Best Contact Center by 2010 Contact Center World Awards Web Awards problems and raise public awareness on related issues; • www.garanti.com.tr Golden Spider Web Awards 1st • Hobby Clubs Project, Distinguished Honoree Award in thereby answering all questions and correcting common Prize in Online Banking by DorukNet categories of Ads and Campaigns and Financial misunderstandings about “green” issues. • Garanti iPhone e-Trader application ‘First Prize’ in the Services by Stevie International Business Awards • Doğuş Media Group has been the first institution in Turkey Financial Services category by Stevie Business Awards • Hobby Clubs Project, Award Of Excellence, category of to disclose its carbon footprint report. • Garanti Bank SA “The Most Active Card of the Year” in Marketing Consumer Services Financial Services by PRSA Romania by Cards Forum Silver Anvil Awards Tourism and Services • Garanti Bank SA Best Selling Credit Card by No Cash • Hobby Clubs Project, Golden Compass Award, Golden Magazine 2010 Compass Public Relations Awards by TÜHİD D-Marin Marinas Group • “Year’s Corporate Responsibility Program” Award Women • D-Marin Turgutreis, D-Marin Didim and D-Marin Göcek Entrepreneurs by European Excellence Awards Garanti Leasing Marinas are all managed with an environmentally friendly • International Stevie Award for ‘Corporate Social Responsibility • “Turkey’s Most Admired Leasing Company” by Capital perspective, giving utmost importance to energy and water Programme of the Year in Europe’ “Female Entrepreneurs Magazine Project” second place award “No Limits in Teaching Project” 20 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 21 Garanti Factoring Best Use of Multimedia and Adults categories, while Beyoğlu Construction • The Europe’s Top 25 Business Hotel, by CNBC-e Business • “Most Popular Factoring Company” award by Capital Magazine Digital Interactive Screens project was deemed worthy of a Magazine ‘Certificate of Achievement’ in the Best Use of Digital Signage Doğuş Construction • Maritim Hotel Grand Azur, “Award of Excellence” by the Garanti Mortgage • Bonus Card 2010 IAB MIXX Awards Winners • ISO 9001 Quality System Lloyd’s Register Quality British tour operator Thomas Cook For garantimortgage.com; Digital Out-of-Home Advertising category Silver Award Assurance (LRQA) • “Outstanding Achievement” Award in Financial Services • Bonus Card’s 10th anniversary advergame, Silver medal in • ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard LRQA D-Marin Marinas Group category in Interactive Media Awards Interactive Digital Out-of-Home category at the Mixx Awards. • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health Safety and • The Best Marina Operator, Turkey’s Oscars of the tourism • “Outstanding Website” Award in Financial Services The first prize in the “Most Creative Use of Digital Media” Assessment Series LRQA industry by Skalite International İstanbul category by Web Awards category at the MCI Digital Age Awards, The “Best Game• Respect For Human Award by Kariyer.Net • “Distinguished Honoree” Award in Financial Services Based Marketing Campaign” category at AVEA GIA Awards D-Marin Turgutreis category by Stevie Awards • www.bonus.com.tr Midas Finalist Winner by Media • D-Marin Turgutreis Marina holds the Blue Flag and Five • “Award of Distinction” in Financial Services category by International Awards Group Gold Anchors flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Communicator Awards • www.bonus.com.tr MCI Digital Age Awards 2010 Most Doğuş Media Group Association) since 2004 Creative Website Award • In 2010, more than 80 awards were earned in different For kiracinindrami.com; • Money Card web site www.money.com.tr Outstanding areas, from various ministries, organizations, associations and D-Marin Didim • “Midas Finalist Winner” in Direction of Art category by Website by Internet Advertising Competition Awards 2010 foundations, professional chambers, universities, and high schools • The Best Marina Investment of Turkey by Capital Midas Awards • Flexi Card’s www.flexicard.com.tr Davey Awards Silver • Several awards by well-established educational institutions Magazine Award in Financial and Professional Services Categories such as Schools of Fevziye Foundation and Association • D-Marin Didim Marina received the Blue Flag in 2010 and Garanti Asset Management of Kabataşlılar, reputable universities such as Galatasaray, Five Gold Anchors flag from The Yacht Harbour Association • “Respect For Human” Award by Kariyer.Net Garanti Technology İstanbul and İTÜ and major institutions of the sector such D-Marin Göcek • Garanti Technology, Garanti Bank Video Contact Center as Association of Journalists, Economics Journalists’ • After its participation to D-Marin Marinas Group, D-Marin Garanti Securities Project, Most Innovative UC and Collaboration Project of the Association and Association of Advertising Agencies Göcek continued to hold the Blue Flag and Five Gold • “Best Investment Bank in Turkey” between the years Year by Cisco Networkers Innovation Awards 2010 Anchors flag from The Yacht Harbour Association in 2010 2007 and 2011 by Global Finance • Garanti Technology, ‘Best New Product Launch’ Award by Tourism and Services The Telecoms World Awards/Middle East 2010 Energy Garanti Payment Systems Doğuş Tourism Group • Bonuslu Avea Most Innovative Use of IT Award – by Automotive • Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas, 2010 Gold Key Award for Boyabat HEPP (D Energy with 34% share) Banking Technology Awards in the UK Excellence in Hospitality Design for Best Guestroom • 2010 The Best Project Award (Best Managed Companies • Bonuslu Avea Best New Product Award by Telecoms World Doğuş Otomotiv • The Best Hotel Chain in the World & Hotel Chain with Best in Central and Eastern Europe 2010) by Euromoney, Project • Bonus Card and Shop&Miles, “Best Brands of Turkey”, • The new SEAT Ibiza Ecomotive, “the most economic car Overall Customer Service by Business Traveller USA Finance Magazine included in Superbrands 2010 Turkey catalogue of its class in the world” with a fuel consumption of a mere • Campaign organized in celebration of the 10th anniversary 3.7l of diesel per 100 km. by German newspapers Bild am of Bonus Card (Bonus Card’ın 10. Yılı Şerefine Köprülerden Sonntag and Auto Strassenverkehr Bedava Geç Türkiye), offering free passage across the Strategic Partnerships and Memberships Bosphorus bridges: Turkish Direct Marketing Association vdf Awards, First Prize in three categories: Integrated Promotional • Human Management Award by the Personnel Marketing, Most Creative Direct Marketing Implementation Management Association of Turkey (PERYÖN) In 2010, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following • DenizTemiz TURMEPA Turkish Marine Environment and Guerilla Activities. The “Most Daring Project”, while organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: Protection Association events organized for celebrating the 10th anniversary TÜVTURK • WEF World Economic Forum (Strategic Partner) • PERYÖN Personnel Management Association of throughout the year were honored with the first prize • The subproject of Traffic Responsibility Action; Safe Vehicle • DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board Turkey • MediaCat Felis Awards, Blue Ribbon, named the ‘lovemark’ Action Roadshow 2010, First Prize in Roadshow category • TÜSİAD Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s • KRYD Enterprise Risk Management Association from amongst the first place holders of 23 categories by Turkish Direct Marketing Association (TDMA) Association • TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • MediaCat Felis Awards Bonus Card 10th Anniversary campaign • Disabled People Project, Jury’s Special Award by IMI, • Corporate Volunteer Association • Finance Professionals Foundation of Turkey brought the first prize for the Best Use of TV, Best Use of Cinema, İstanbul Call Centers • KİD Corporate Communications Association • TÜFİDER Financing Institutions Association 22 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 23 IIEconomic Impact 24 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 25 Direct Economic Impact Doğuş Group is one of the largest conglomerates in Turkey broader in other countries, such as Russia, Netherlands customer contact points, 89,202 vehicle sales and a total car employment opportunities it created with the Gebze Center and makes a significant contribution to the Turkish economy. and Romania. In 2010, Doğuş Group of Companies’ total park exceeding 700,000. Shopping Mall project. We have direct impacts through employment and the investment was US$ 625 million; and the expected amount product and services as well as the taxes we pay, which of investment in 2011 is US$ 750 million. Construction Energy account for about 2% of all taxes paid in Turkey. Moreover, Doğuş Construction is currently undertaking a total of 8 The Doğuş Group operates in the energy sector through the industries with which we are involved support economic As Doğuş Group, our sustainable economic growth targets projects: three in Turkey and five abroad. The total contract D Energy. Considering Turkey’s growing dependence on growth by improving innovation and productivity. are intended to help us and our stakeholders grow in ways value of these projects is US$ 3.7 billion and the company’s energy, benefiting from domestic and renewable energy that benefit the entire society and the environment. This share amounts to US$ 2.8 billion. The company currently sources carries strategic importance for the country. We make direct economic contribution through our is one of the key elements of our corporate responsibility employs around 7,000 people (including subcontractors) in In addition, renewable sources are playing key role by stakeholders. Our economic impact is most significant in strategy. domestic as well as international projects and had a turnover supporting endeavours for decreasing carbon emission Turkey, where most of our employees are based, but as of TL 716 million in 2010. level. To that extent, hydroelectric energy a domestic, we expand internationally, our economic impact becomes renewable and clean energy source has started to assume Media greater importance in Turkey, as recognized in the strategic The Group has broadened its operations from TV to paper published by the State Planning Agency. D Energy Financial Highlights magazines, radios, digital and print media and has become also bases its future strategies on this premise. Within the the leading media organization providing thematic content to current portfolio, that has 1 GW licensed installed capacity, Thousand TL the public. Currently, with 1,172 employees, Doğuş Media the Artvin Hydroelectric Power Plant (332 MW), in which 2008 2009 2010 Group is one of the largest companies in the media industry D Energy holds 100% stake, is the latest investment of Revenues 6,950,442 7,819,616 8,654,592 in Turkey. In 2010, the Group achieved a market share of the company following the Boyabat Hydroelectric Power Gross Profit 1,982,175 2,667,310 2,744,273 9.8 % (10.4% TV Channels, 20.2% Radio Stations, 15.5% Plant (513 MW), in which it holds a 34% stake, and the EBITDA 1,177,524 1,329,406 1,667,054 Magazine, 3% Internet) with a turnover of TL 254 million. Aslancık Hydroelectric Power Plant (120 MW), in which it EBIT 1,040,183 1,133,383 1,425,944 holds a 33% stake. Total amount of investments of these Tourism and Services three projects exceeds US$ 2,250 million and financing has Net Profit 437,145 782,887 966,015 In the tourism and services sector, Doğuş Group operates been secured in 2010 through syndicated loans. In order to General Administration Expenses (965,799) (1,028,810) (1,153,172) with Doğuş Tourism Group, D-Marin Marinas Group and comply with environmental rules and legislation, D Energy Sales, Marketing and Distribution Expenses (181,680) (143,407) (204,878) D-Gym. Doğuş Tourism Group owns six five-star hotels, cooperates with university professors and with the related Total Assets 37,894,960 42,923,044 49,285,930 two five-star holiday villages, and a travel agency as well as governmental institutions, and fulfils its responsibilities with Total Shareholders’ Equity 5,556,161 6,728,866 7,701,796 the Arena Giyim retail company. D-Marin Marinas Group best effort. currently operates with D-Marin Turgutreis, Didim and Göcek marinas. Furthermore, D-Marin Dalaman is in the pipeline, More information on Doğuş Group’s businesses can be and the Group began co-operating with NCP Group for the found at the Group’s website and the full description of Banking and Financial Services Shanghai); over 3,000 ATMs; an award-winning Call Center; operation of Marina Mandalina in Sibenik-Croatia in 2009. Group’s subsidiaries’ financial results can be found at 2010 Garanti Bank caters to all the financial needs of its 10 million and state-of-the-art internet and mobile banking platforms Finally, D-Gym started its operations in 2009 in Maslak, Doğuş Group Annual Report at the Investor Relations section customers with almost 17,000 employees. Garanti operates built on cutting-edge technological infrastructure. and aims to bring corporate class quality to the sports and of the website. as an integrated financial services company, with its nine fitness industry in Turkey. In 2010, Doğuş Group generated a subsidiaries offering services in payment systems, pension, Automotive turnover of TL 215 million and employed 2,327 people in this leasing, factoring, securities and portfolio management. With more than 1,700 employees, Doğuş Otomotiv is sector. Garanti’s consolidated total assets reached TL 136.8 billion Turkey’s leading automotive distributor and the leading (US$ 90 billion) at the year end of 2010 with an 18% automotive importer in Turkey. The company represents 14 Real Estate increase. Garanti Bank provides a wide range of financial international brands, each one the leader of the following The Doğuş Group operates with two companies in the real services to its 10 million customers through an extensive sectors: passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, heavy estate sector: Doğuş REIT and Doğuş Real Estate. In 2010, distribution network of 853 domestic branches; 6 foreign commercial vehicles, industrial and marine engines, cooling Doğuş REIT had a turnover of TL 10 million and employed branches (in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta); 4 international systems. In 2010, the business had a turnover of TL 3.4 10 people. Doğuş Real Estate had a rental income of TL 7 representative offices (in Moscow, London, Düsseldorf and billion with more than 800,000 customers, more than 500 million and employed 18 people in addition to the indirect 26 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 27 Operational Map 1. Russia Garanti Bank Moscow-Headquarters Garanti Bank-Representative Office 2. Kazakhstan Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 3. China Garanti Bank-Representative Office Impact on Public Policy 4. Ukraine GBI-Representative Office Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 1 Garanti Pension and Life As a requirement of the law no. 4632, Prime Ministry 5. Turkish Republic Garanti Pension and Life operates with the insight that Undersecretariat of Treasury authorized the ‘Pension 13 of Northern the development of private pension systems will increase Monitoring Center’ (‘Emeklilik Gözetim Merkezi’ or in 12 11 10 16 15 4 2 Cyprus consumer confidence in the sector and will benefit the short EGM) in order to ensure that the Individual Pension 9 Garanti Bank-4 Branches country and the company. System operates in a safe and efficient manner, and the 14 6. Libya rights and interests of participants are protected. With the 7 5 Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 8 3 Garanti Pension and Life is one of the founder shareholders amendments made by another law, on June 14, 2007, the 6 7. Malta of Pension Monitoring Center (Emeklilik Gözetim Merkezi definition of the functions and tasks of EGM were added Garanti Bank-Branch A.Ş. (EGM)) and also a member of Association of the to the law no. 4632. As an e-governance application, EGM 8. Morocco Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey. is established to produce accurate information on behalf of Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. the Turkish Treasury for daily electronic monitoring of the 9. Switzerland Garanti Pension and Life has an active role at the companies operating in the system. GBI-Representative Office Pension Monitoring Center, founded on July 10, 2003 D-Auto Suisse SA-Lausanne as a requirement of related regulations and Individual Doğuş SA-Geneva Pension Savings and Investment System Law under the 10. Luxembourg authorization of Turkish Prime Ministry Undersecretariat of Garanti Bank-Branch the Treasury. EGM is established to provide the efficient 11. Germany and secure management of individual pension systems Garanti Bank-Representative Office and also to supply the required data for both controlling GBI Branch public authorities (Undersecretariat of Treasury and Capital 12. UK Markets Board) and to the community to protect the rights Garanti Bank-Representative Office and benefits of the participants. Garanti Pension and Life Doğuş Int. acts in accordance with the ethical principles of Association 13. The Netherlands of the Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey and GBI-Headquarters believes these principles serve to increase the current public 14. Bulgaria trust to the sector. Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. 15. Romania Garanti Bank SA-Headquarters & 65 Branches SC Motoractive Credit SA Ralfi IFN SA Domenica Credit SA 16. Croatia D-Marin NCP Marina Mandalina 28 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 29 IIISocial Responsibility Performance 30 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 31 Social Responsibility Performance • Review of Group risk levels to ensure that they are in line with predetermined levels of shareholder risk preferences and, The Committee is made up of Human Resources Managers from the Doğuş Group companies and convenes a minimum • Advising the Board of Directors in determining risk plans and of twice a year as agreed upon in advance by the Board of Doğuş Group has a social impact area covers the following Taking a responsible approach to business has been a guiding actions taken with regard to risk management within the Group. Directors. More information on the Commitee is available on four major issues: principle of Doğuş Group since its establishment. Today, our the Labor Issues and Human Rights section of the report in • Governance and Ethics Group’s values resonate strongly with the contemporary Audit responsibilities of the Committee are; the following pages. • Products and Services emphasis on corporate responsibility and stakeholder • Overseeing the efficacy of actions taken by Group • Labor Issues and Human Rights engagement. Basically, our approach to the impact area is companies in response to the results of financial, Detailed information about Corporate Governance Structure • Community Engagement disclosed in this report, supported by exemplary case studies operational, and information technology audits performed by of Doğuş Group can be found online at the Investor and projects from the Group companies. the Doğuş Holding Internal Audit Department, Relations Section of Doğuş Group’s corporate website. • Evaluating the efficacy of the internal control processes of Group companies and advising on ways to improve the Code of Ethics Corporate Governance and Ethics internal control environment, The Code of Ethics provides a framework regarding • Overseeing the efficacy of financial control and internal acceptable and appropriate practices for our employees audit activities within the Group, and other stakeholders. We periodically review our code of Corporate Governance The Doğuş Group Board of Directors is supported by the • Overseeing the security, efficiency and effectiveness of ethics to ensure relevancy as the Group grows and confronts Doğuş Group, sensitive to corporate governance principles in following three sub-committees and the Legal Advisory the information systems used by Doğuş Group companies new business issues in the regions and industries in which its professional approach, does not distinguish between its Council. and reviewing and approving their contingency plans and, we operate. The Code includes disciplinary measures clearly shareholders, and acts in accordance with ethical codes in all • Assisting the Board of Directors to ensure that the mentioned in the Code of Discipline. fields of endeavour. Legal Advisory Council business activities of Group companies are in compliance The Legal Advisory Council: with the requirements of applicable laws and regulations. Ethical principles are spelled out and documented in these The Doğuş Group Board of Directors is the senior decision• Evaluates law-related issues pertinent to Doğuş Group, procedures under the following headings: making authority, and holds ultimate responsibility for stakeholder • Identifies important matters within these issues and, Disciplinary Committee • Time and resource utilization at the companies, interests across all group companies. The Board consists of • Specifies the legal processes to be followed and the The Disciplinary Committee is established to ensure the • Relations with customers and subcontractors, suppliers of twelve members including its Chairman and convenes as the measures to be taken in all such matters. appropriate execution of company activities to the benefit goods and other companies and individuals with whom the Group’s business requires but at least four times a year. of the company. It is structured to convene whenever company has commercial relations, The Risk and Audit Committee a situation requiring its assessment arises. Disciplinary • The acceptance of gifts, invites, aid and donations, Members of the Board of Directors The Risk and Audit Committee was established to assist Regulations define irregular company operations, be they • Relations with the media, Ferit F. ŞAHENK – Chairman and advise the Board of Directors. The Committee consists internal or external as stipulated by company regulations, • Actions that will result in a conflict of interest, Süleyman SÖZEN – Deputy Chairman of three Board members elected by the Board; it meets instructions or other related laws, decrees or legislation • Safeguarding of information pertaining to the companies, Hüsnü AKHAN – Board Member/Doğuş Group CEO regularly a week prior to Board meetings. governing authorization, or other stipulated situations. personal information, professional misconduct, security and Aclan ACAR – Board Member The Disciplinary Committee comprises the Doğuş Holding harassment. Ahmet KURUTLUOĞLU – Board Member Risk Management responsibilities of the Committee are; CEO, one Board member, the relevant Department Director, Doğan GÜNAY – Board Member • Ensuring that a functional risk monitoring system transmits the Doğuş Holding Human Resources Department Manager Ethical Principles are available on the Group’s intranet and Erman YERDELEN – Board Member important issues to the Board, and the Legal Council. can be accessed by all members of the staff. In addition, Gönül TALU – Board Member • Reviewing regular information flow from Group companies the group companies also have their own ‘Ethical Principles’ Muhsin MENGÜTÜRK – Board Member and evaluating risk assumed in Group strategies, business The Human Resources Coordination Committee booklets and related regulations. Sadi GÖĞDÜN – Board Member plans, budgets and investments. It also evaluates managerial The Human Resources Coordination Committee was Şadan GÜRTAŞ – Board Member actions to address risk along with the general risk established to assist the Board of Directors with human As Doğuş Group is a participant to the United Nations Global Yücel ÇELİK – Board Member management processes within each company, resources management practices at Doğuş Group companies. Compact, the Group is committed to aligning its operations 32 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 33 and strategies with the 10 universally accepted principles in sector of Banking and Financial Services, the policies of the Trainings on anti-corruption for the employees have also Garanti Asset Management human rights, labor standards, the environment and antiFinancial Crimes Investigation Board under the Ministry of been held at Garanti Bank. Garanti Asset Management maintains its operations in line corruption. Finance, Republic of Turkey are strictly followed. with the CMB’s regulations, MASAK policies and related Anti-corruption related trainings at Garanti Bank in 2010 laws. The company’s Audit and Compliance departments Doğuş Group Anti-Corruption Policy The Garanti Bank Audit Department, Anti-Fraud Department, are responsible for the monitoring and management of Good business ethics is a key area in our Code of Ethics Internal Control Unit and Compliance Officer, who all report Training Number of Employees anti-corruption measures. All employees of the company are which every Doğuş Group employee reads, accepts and to the Audit Committee, make periodically intensive study provided with the Ethical Principles in the Workplace Handsigns. Bribery and corruption are unacceptable behaviours, of corruption risks. Basic Forgery 943 books that underline the rules of engagement with suppliers as is affirmed by Doğuş Group’s Ethical Principles. Verifying criminal accounts 2,440 and customers. The Audit Department of Garanti Bank proactively and detention of financing terror Doğuş Group has based its anti-corruption policy on investigates especially fraud actions by the third parties Management of operational risks 2,431 Garanti Leasing/Garanti Fleet Management transparency and accountability where all businessoutside the bank, with an utmost dispatch. The compliance Information of Legislation for 1,420 Garanti Leasing’s Audit Committee is responsible for the related parties are highly interdependent and prone to officer and his team work diligently to enforce laws and Secure Operation management and monitoring of anti-corruption measures the consequences of each others’ actions. In line with regulations within the context of anti-money laundering. The Branch Operational Risk Points 576 in the company. Furthermore, almost all of the employees this policy, the Group integrates globally accepted ethical Audit Department performs systematic audits that cover all and Notable Cases received MASAK trainings in 2010. and social measures in all of its operations and business activities and units of the Garanti Bank in accordance with practices and regularly communicates the results of its applicable legislation and especially the Banking Law and Garanti Bank International Garanti Factoring activities to its stakeholders. Bank regulations including possible corruption attempts. Within its Compliance Policy, Garanti Bank International not The MASAK Compliance Officer manages the processes These audits are performed independently of day-to-day only complies with laws and regulations regarding corrupwithin the company operations. All employees of Garanti As part of its anti-corruption policy, Doğuş Group requires activities, and mainly focus on internal control and risk tion, but also requires the same approach from all of its Factoring attended MASAK trainings on verifying criminal the same kind of view through management style on the management systems. In the same context, audit work corresponding banks. All employees of Garanti Bank Internaaccounts and prevention of financing terror in 2010. part of all of its stakeholders, both in the national and is carried out in the domestic and international branches tional receive web-based trainings on anti-corruption. international contexts. The Group holds the principle of nonof the Garanti Bank and in units at the headquarters and Garanti Pension and Life involvement with any party who is acting contrary to globally in the subsidiaries that are subject to consolidation. The Garanti Bank Moscow Within the context of fighting against corruption and bribery accepted standards and/or who is unable to provide reliable main target of such investigations is the prevention of Regarding anti-money laundering, which is one of the imporissues, Garanti Pension and Life’s business work stream disclosures with regards to its actions. Doğuş Group’s such activity before any loss or problem occurs. After the tant cornerstones of anti-corruption, Garanti Moscow continand processes are constituted with a point of view which anti-corruption policy is embodied in the Group’s “Code of audit reports, if any case is noticed, the Law Department ues its operations under the written and approved policy and absolutely prohibits any kind of initiative. The basic ethical Ethics” and most of the Group companies have developed continues legal processes. procedures of Russian laws and regulations. In this context, principles for internal business operations and enforcement their own documents on anti-corruption. the related banks’ employees regularly attend government in case of non-compliance are managed by the company’s training sessions. Ethical Principles and Personnel Code. Furthermore, against Banking and Financial Services the internal and/or external corruption and bribery risks, Garanti Securities according to the MASAK policy and procedures with the Garanti Bank The MASAK (Financial Crimes Investigation Board) Complirelated legal regulations, the Inspection Committee, under There is a “Zero Tolerance” approach at Garanti Bank for ance Officer manages the processes within company operathe control of Audit Committee, and the Compliance Officer any kind of corruption and related attempts from inside or tions. 75 of Garanti Securities’ employees attended MASAK carries out inspections within the company. outside of the Bank. Corruption-related risks are considered trainings in 2010. Furthermore, the Human Resources Dewhile framing the business plans and procedures. Any partment gives detailed explanation of the company’s Ethical Garanti Pension and Life publishes sample case studies about documents related to immoral behaviour, bribery and/or Principles and Personnel Code to first-time employees and bribery and non-ethical incidents for awareness and guidance corruption are downloaded to the Bank’s intranet for the a copy of the code is given to them for the future considerto employees on the company intranet system. All employees guidance of Garanti Bank employees. Furthermore, in the ations. of the company have completed MASAK training in 2010. 34 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 35 Automotive All vdf employees receive MASAK trainings. MASAK collects data, receives suspicious transaction reports, analyzes and Products and Services Doğuş Otomotiv evaluates them in the scope of the prevention of laundering, The Doğuş Otomotiv Ethical Principles, which address criminally accumulated gains, and terrorist financing, shares Doğuş Group provides products and services through various Automotive all Doğuş Otomotiv employees, executives and key the results with the relevant units and makes the obligatory sectors. While the requirements of product and service stakeholders, consist of issues such as the subjects to be inspections. safety change depending on the operating group involved, Doğuş Otomotiv taken into consideration while carrying out activities, the each of these groups has its own quality operating systems Any vehicles, sold by Doğuş Otomotiv that are found to be ethical bases on which to build relations with company’s LeasePlan and processes. Nevertheless, the common impact areas of defective for any reason and that could put the customer’s stakeholders, and corporate expectations on these issues in There is a compliance officer in LeasePlan who directly the Doğuş Group of Companies are combined as follows: safety and health at risk are immediately reported to keeping with corporate mission and principles. The Doğuş reports to the Managing Director. The officer attends • Customer Health and Safety the manufacturer via a data processing platform. When Otomotiv Ethical Principles Statement has the nature of a monthly Risk Committee meetings and informs the • Responsible Marketing and Labelling necessary, specially trained experts examine the vehicle guide for all of the company’s employees. Doğuş Otomotiv’s management about the compliance regulations and issues. concerned on the spot and submit detailed reports to the manufacturer. Furthermore, recall actions identified and ethical principles cover general values and the ethical Every employee who has any kind of suspicion regarding any Customer Health and Safety principles procedure rests on this basis. instance of bribery or corruption can communicate directly notified by the manufacturer are put into practice within with the Board, according to the LeasePlan Fraud Policy and 7 working days, and their rate of actualization in the field Banking and Financial Services is efficiently followed up. All the facilities and procedures TÜVTURK Response Plan. TÜVTURK gets written statements about independence, provided to customers are explained in detail in the Garanti Bank Customer Hand Book and Guarantee Manual given to the objectivity, integrity and confidentiality regarding its Construction Privacy and confidentiality are as important for Garanti Bank as customer on delivery of the vehicle. No legal proceedings shareholders from 48 business associates, as well as they are for its customers. The same approach is followed by have been filed against the company with regard to any suppliers and employees. The Company has also an Doğuş Construction all Garanti subsidiaries. In keeping with its service philosophy adverse situation relating to rules and regulations regarding effective internal auditing process. The Code of Business Ethics is one of Doğuş Construction’s focused on customer satisfaction and security, and indeed as a product and service information or product labels. most important documents. It describes the company’s requirement of the business of banking, Garanti Bank complies Secret customer audits exist to detect any possible ethical values, reflects its culture and sets forth its individual with some essential principles in order to protect the privacy of Detailed information on Doğuş Otomotiv brands’ technical corruptions in TÜVTURK’s stations. Inspections are also and collective commitment to conduct business legally, any information that customers may provide to the Garanti Bank specifications related to customer safety can be found on continuously monitored by a surveillance system. When ethically and with integrity, at all times and in all projects corporate website and to the Garanti Online Branch. the company’s website at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr. an issue is identified, the case is taken to the ‘Employee performed by the company. Assessment Committee’ and the necessary corrective and The personal information of customers has never been Recall Actions punitive actions are taken. The Risk Committee, which The Code may not cover every project situation or ethical shared with any third parties without permission and Frequently discovered defects that give rise to customer includes a board member, handles the evaluation process dilemma that Doğuş Construction may encounter, but confirmation of the owner of the information in accordance complaints are prioritized by evaluating all technical reports for cases related to headquarters. All TÜVTURK employees it helps the company to recognize issues, consult the with relevant legislation. Additionally, the security of that reach the manufacturer, and are taken for examination. received a half-day training regarding corruption from the appropriate policies and seek advice when the right course customer information is protected in that only authorized The manufacturer notifies all their distributors by a ‘technical legal department. of action is not clear. No matter what the grade, position or employees are permitted to access the information, and corrective action directive’ (technical bulletin) of the function, all employees are expected to read and follow the any such access use has been recorded. As the issue is specifications of any defect, explains its cause and details vdf Code as well as to learn, understand and comply with the also regulated by the Banking laws and legislations, the the method for repair. These technical bulletins are sent out 4 Eyes Principle policies which underlie the Code. importance of the issue and the way of behaviours are by the manufacturer’s related department. vdf utilizes the ‘4 Eyes Principle’ in its business practices, stated to employees from the first date of employment and which is the segregation of various functions, crossTwo employees of Doğuş Construction attended the Euro repeated, either written or orally, on a number of occasions. Traffic is Life checking, dual controls, double signatures, etc. In other Forensics seminar on Risk of Misconduct in 2010. Any kind of violation is investigated, and disciplinary Ever since 2004, the community awareness program of words, it is a requirement that all business should be decisions are made by the Disciplinary Board. Doğuş Otomotiv entitled “Traffic is Life” aims to increase conducted by at least two individuals. 36 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 37 social and customer awareness on various safety issues private sector corporations and individuals, along with the out at Public Training Centers; the total number reached this way delivery, so vehicle controls and important safety notifications such as safer driving in traffic, increased pedestrian public institutions and organizations, to provide various is about 32,000. are continuously tracked by the Leaseplan employees, and awareness and effective use of and adherence to traffic solutions to the problems suffered in traffic, underscoring reminders are sent regularly to fleet customers. rules. Safe use of the vehicles Doğuş Otomotiv sells, and the principle of personal responsibility. On this basis, Traffic Additionally, Responsible Citizen Action reached 712 university for which it provides after-sales services, continued to be Responsibility Action is a corporate social responsibility students at the seminars in 6 universities, where 11,792 items Tourism and Services a top priority issue for the company among its community project aimed at target groups with general training and were distributed. engagement targets in 2010. In order to attain that goal, awareness-raising activities. Doğuş Tourism Group Doğuş Otomotiv fully shares responsibility for its vehicles Within the scope of Bosom Buddies Action, two seminars Since our hotels provide food and beverages, food hygiene not only during sales but also in the after-sales phase. The project stems from the fact that it is possible to produce were held in December 2010 for representative teachers and safety (i.e. the preparation of food and beverages The “Traffic is Life” community engagement program will durable and sustainable solutions to maintain safety of life from 16 cities. This project continues; it anticipates reaching according to predetermined health standards), is of utmost continue to be developed to provide the utmost benefit for in traffic only through the participation of the stakeholders 1,750 teachers, nearly 70,000 students, 70,000 parents and importance for the customers’ health and satisfaction. HACCP the society we live in. of the issue. The project is coordinated by the Ministry of 3,000 school bus drivers in 152 schools. (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) System is an Transport and Communications and with the contribution important system in terms of food safety. Hygiene, sanitation InfoRooms of several stakeholders comprising of other governmental Following the main introductory film, ‘Kaza’ (Accident) of and food safety are very important in hotel kitchens, and failure Another program launched by Doğuş Otomotiv in 2009 as a key bodies, public institutions, the academia and NGOs. Traffic Responsibility Action, a total of 7 films were made to pay sufficient importance to these concerns may threaten part of “Traffic is Life,” is called the InfoRooms. This program for three subprojects. Kaza reached 500,000 audiences kitchen employees’ and hotel guests’ health. For this purpose, aims at increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of waiting All the activities carried out in the development and in theatres during August-September 2010, and were compliance with HACCP regulations is audited twice a year rooms for Doğuş Otomotiv customers, and stresses the link execution phase of the project have been presented for the broadcasted on television more than 3,300 times. Celebrities by ISIS and Johnson Diversey, in all production areas of the between traffic and in-car safety. Continued in 2010, this program consideration of the stakeholders during the Stakeholder supported the project on television and radio stations in kitchens in the establishments under Doğuş Tourism Group. depicts facts that positively inform its customers on safe driving, Meetings held on May 4, July 15, and December 23, 2010; particular on NTV Radyo, NTV Spor Radyo, N101, Kral FM, vehicle maintenance and life cycle, presenting this information the project has been structured in line with their ideas and NTV, CNBC-e and e2. Traffic Responsibility Action pages D-Gym in a visually effective and accessible fashion. InfoRooms present suggestions. on social networks such as Twitter and Facebook have had D-Gym offers its customers a hygienic washing service, and the customers easy and direct information on issues they most about 6,500 likes. all the halls of the site are covered with a nano-technological frequently come across; they can write comments and wishes in Traffic Responsibility Action is executed through three surface material which prevents microbial growth for five notebooks designated for that purpose. subprojects: Two web pages were developed within the scope of the years. The swimming pools of D-Gym are disinfected by a) Safe Vehicle Action’s target audience is commercial project: an ozonic system. Finally, D-Gym also provides ambulance TÜVTURK vehicle drivers in particular; • www.trafikhareketi.org updates the knowledge on traffic, and service to its members, if required. To protect TÜVTURK customers’ health and safety during b) Responsible Citizen Action’s target audiences are • www.candostlarihareketi.com for primary school students. service at TÜVTURK Stations is one of the company’s “Our university students and the public; and Responsible Marketing and Labelling Promise to Customers” principles: c) ‘Bosom Buddies’ Action’s target audiences are teachers, Additionally, before the holiday of the Feast of Sacrifice, students and their parents. one million Safe Vehicle Cards and 124,000 posters were Our Communications Policy, applicable for all Doğuş Group Safe Service Principle 6: distributed all over the country thanks to the efforts of the of Companies, states: no employee or agency will place a “Our customers are safe at our vehicle inspection station. All the Traffic Responsibility Action started in May 2010. Safe stakeholders. print, broadcast or Web advertisement or sign an advertising supportive actions are taken for personal and vehicle safety.” Vehicle Action reached nearly 80,000 individuals in the field contract without the approval of the related company’s activities and 2,300 commercial vehicle drivers at the training In 2011, Traffic Responsibility Action will continue activities business unit communication department or corporate All TÜVTURK customers are insured against all possible seminars; 163,000 informative and communicative materials in other cities. communication department. health and safety risks during the service processes. were distributed in 18 cities. LeasePlan All advertisements, including those for trade, business or Traffic Responsibility Action Responsible Citizen Action reached 815 teachers and instructors Fleet management service is directly concerned with customer consumer publications, sponsorships and trade shows, must Traffic Responsibility Action, which is supported by working in Public Training Centers in 9 cities, and 55,942 items health and safety. Leaseplan is aware of its responsibility to be approved by the appropriate communication department TÜVTURK, arose from efforts to ensure the support of were distributed during these seminars. The courses are carried prevent potential equipment failure of the vehicles before prior to publishing. 38 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 39 Product and Service Labelling and Correct website, call center, and visual materials at its stations as of corporate banking customers, 63% of the respondents TÜVTURK well as oral information given by station employees. answered “very satisfied” or “satisfied” with Garanti Bank. The most recent customer satisfaction survey was Information • 10,000 daily visits are made to the website conducted in October 2010. The sample base used eight • Approximately 10,000 calls are received by the call center Garanti Pension and Life groups with the following criteria: Banking and Financial Services • The stations have continuously updated brochures and In the market surveys conducted in 2010, 65% of Garanti • Customers with/without appointment posters Pension and Life customers were “definitely satisfied” • Owners of light/heavy vehicles Garanti Pension and Life • The employees contact 20-25,000 customers daily or “very satisfied”. Also in the Customers Loyalty Index, • Passing/failing inspection There are different kinds of audit systems in Garanti Pension Garanti Pension and Life customers are in the ‘loyal and Life to ensure accurate information for its customers from Survey Results % All information provided to TÜVTURK’s customers is in customers’ group with the index score of 68. the beginning of the customer relations process. Individual line with the laws, regulations and directives regarding the Overall Satisfaction 93 Pension Customers are informed by the Head Office of the vehicle inspection service, without any support from 3rd Automotive Satisfaction with the speed of inspection service 85 company before the legal withdrawal period, so that in the parties. The communication mechanisms built within the event of any kind of misinformation, the company provides Satisfaction with the personnel at the vehicle company assure the correct flow of actual information. Doğuş Otomotiv the correct information; if the customers change their minds, acceptance 95 Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out for all brands the necessary cancellation is provided without any loss of the Satisfaction with the vehicle inspection technicians 95 vdf represented by Doğuş Otomotiv. Reformative actions are customers. Satisfaction with the appointment taking process 97 vdf accurately informs its customers in timely fashion taken in Authorized Dealer and Authorized After-Sales by either authorized sales consultants and customer Services Centers according to the results of these surveys, Garanti Pension and Life sends all agreements with respect to representatives at vdf Call Center, or by communication and shared with the brands. Tourism and Services policy dates by post to its customers. The customers are regularly materials and through the media. vdf pays utmost attention informed by SMS, e-mail or phone calls during the service 2010 Doğuş Otomotiv Customer Satisfaction Survey Results to providing correct, accurate, transparent information D-Gym process, according to their customer segments at various times. (Over 120) which is prepared for consumers in product and service The health complex, with the most advanced technological All customer information processes are integrated with other brochures, leaflets, other sales and marketing materials at Volkswagen Pass. Cars After Sales Service 89.09 infrastructure and possibilities, values its customers highly, business units; all these processes are covered by internal audits. the dealers and showrooms, and on the website. About the Volkswagen Vehicles After Sales Service 89.76 and provides all possibilities to increase their quality of life reconsiderations of any kind of products or services, all of and comfort level. Automotive Audi After Sales Service 88.13 vdf customers are being informed through all channels. SEAT After Sales Service 89.71 D-Gym, while providing services beyond the expectations of TÜVTURK Porsche After Sales Service 97.13 its customers, bases its services on customer satisfaction The vehicle inspection information provided to TÜVTURK Customer Satisfaction Volkswagen Pass. Cars Sales 104.64 and trust principles. customers before the inspection is of crucial importance to the Volkswagen Vehicles Sales 103.77 efficiency of stations; TÜVTURK aims that customers who arrive Banking and Financial Services D-Gym Member Feedback Questionnaire % Audi Sales 100.83 with sufficient information, do not experience any problems during SEAT Sales 95.92 Overall Success Point 84 the vehicle acceptance process due to missing documents, and Garanti Bank that the vehicles do not fail the inspection for minor reasons which Twelve market surveys were conducted in 2010, to learn the Porsche Sales 97.72 Ratio of members evaluating D-Gym as successful 80 could be easily overcome. All customer communication channels concerns and obtain feedback from more than 8,000 Garanti DOD Sales 86.97 provide information for this purpose. Bank customers. In the Advertisement and Brand Image DOD Purchasing 87.62 Survey, made weekly during the year, Garanti Bank stands Scania Sales 85.35 The vehicle inspection service is provided in line with in the forefront among its peers in the sector by providing Scania After Sales Service 92.48 all laws, regulations and directives. TÜVTURK strives to advantagous products and services, giving fast and friendly Krone Sales 85.49 communicate any changes and/or modifications about the service, meeting customers’ requirements, and providing innovative approaches. In the market survey among the Meiller Sales 75.25 vehicle inspection regulations which can be important to the customers. This kind of information is shared immediately customers of commercial banking, the 78% of Garanti Bank through all the company’s communication channels. customers replied that they were “very satisfied” or “satisfied” For this purpose, TÜVTURK makes use of its corporate with their relations with branch offices. In another survey 40 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 41 Labor Issues and Human Rights Employees Doğuş Group increased its workforce in 2010 compared Doğuş Group has a salary scale which is developed for each kind of position; all position and job proposals are made to the previous year. As of December 2010, the number of according to this scale. Every year, the Group participates at Doğuş Group employees is over 29,000. the Hay Group Survey regarding salary research and thereby has the chance to benchmark with its peers and with the Human Rights is highly respected and always upheld by discipline, termination, and retirement processes. These Number of employees by industry market. Doğuş Group salaries are at the same level as the Doğuş Group, both in the workplace and in all the areas in principles are also included in Doğuş Group’s Ethical market median. which it operates. Principles Procedure. Doğuş Holding/Körfez Aviation 1,1% Respect to Freedom of Association and the Right Real Estate 0,1% to Collective Bargaining Our Ethics Policy defines our overall management We seek to create an environment that removes barriers Energy 0,3% approach, including that pertaining to human rights. This and promotes inclusion, fosters effective recruitment, Ayhan Şahenk Doğuş Group respects freedom of association and the right policy is consistent with the Ten Principles of the United development, motivation and retention so that each Foundation 0,1% to collective bargaining and acts in line with the related Nations Global Compact, which are aligned with the business entity is able to maximize employee contribution to Tourism and national social security and labor regulations, both in Turkey Services 8,0% and in the regions it operates. ILO (International Labor Organization) Conventions, the meeting business objectives. To ensure that our processes Media 4,0% Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are working properly and that employees understand our (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN policies and guiding principles with regard to treatment, Construction 10,7% GarantiBank International is part of a formal agreement Universal Declaration of Human Rights. respectability and integrity, we systematically provide with the Dutch Collective Labour Union and the agreement Automotive 6,8% training, gather feedback and take action to improve our includes health and safety clauses. Doğuş Group publicly and fully reports to the UN Global work environment. We have also set high-level mechanisms Banking and Financial Compact’s Communication on Progress for the last three to support these practices. Services 69,0% Among other Doğuş Group companies, the unions of years. Reporting contents in this manner are recognized as TOLEYIS (Turkey’s Hotel, Restaurant and Entertainment commitment in sustainability reporting that includes Human Doğuş Group Human Resources Coordination Workers Trade Union) and OLEYIS (Union of Hotel, Rights. We report in accordance with global reporting Committee The ratio of women in Doğuş Group’s total workforce slightly Restaurant and Entertainment Facility Workers of Turkey) are principles and disclose those reports on our public website. The Human Resources Coordination Committee was established increased in 2010 compared to the previous reporting available at the Doğuş Tourism Group’s sites, located in the to assist the Board of Directors with human resources periods. southern part of Turkey. Unionization also exists in Doğuş Equally important for the Group and closely related to the management practices at Doğuş Group companies. Construction Group at a level of 38% of all employees. issue of human rights is the respect of and compliance with Gender Balance Labor Standards. Doğuş Group uses its best endeavors to The Committee is made up of the Human Resources Year Women Men Occupational Health and Safety fulfil and further improve labor standards through its human Managers from Doğuş Group companies and convenes a Occupational Health and Safety is a major issue for Doğuş 2008 45% 55% resource practices. A safe and healthy working environment minimum of twice annually, as agreed upon in advance by Group, especially regarding the sectors where intensive 2009 45% 55% is very crucial to increase employee performance, loyalty and the Board of Directors. field work and exposure to hazardous materials exist. The 2010 46% 54% innovation. These supportive elements for a best place to Group’s “Basic Rights and Responsibilities” document work are considered key to Doğuş Group of Companies. The major responsibilities of the Committee include: shares detailed information on Health and Safety and First Doğuş Group provides equal opportunities regardless of • Carrying out human resources practices within Group Recruitment and Remuneration Aid and is shared with all employees on the Group’s intranet. gender, race, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability companies and know-how sharing, The Doğuş Group’s Recruitment and Remuneration Additionally, Group companies also develop and conduct or religion. Respect for the dignity, rights and ambitions • Arranging work groups relevant to planned issues, Policy prevents all kinds of discrimination and favoritism their own policies and programmes in this area to further of all people are a cornerstone of business excellence. • Sharing information about potential candidates from within including discrimination involving gender, race and religion. inform their employees on the issue. We treat all employees equitably regardless of local the Group and possible vacant positions and Age and disability are also covered by this policy, unless economic conditions, traditions and cultures. This applies • Developing common projects to increase employee they constitute any impediments with reference to the to recruitment and remuneration, career development, commitment. requirements of the job in question. 42 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 43 Banking and Financial Services Doğuş Construction is certified by Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management, OHSAS Community Engagement Garanti Leasing 18001:2007 Occupational Health & Safety Management, and Actions of the company are taken in line with employee’s ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management systems. health and safety, according to the provisions of the The communities where we do business are important orchestra. The Orchestra is comprised of conservatory students collective bargaining agreement. Doğuş Tourism and Services stakeholders for Doğuş Group. We promise to make the between 11 and 18 years of age from different regions of Turkey, community a better place, and we are committed to that and introduces the wonder of symphonic music to Turkish Automotive D-Marin Marinas Group promise. Our community involvement is a combination of children as performed by their peers. Private health insurance is provided to all full-time CSR projects, philanthropy, employee volunteerism and Doğuş Otomotiv employees working at the marinas. Also, all employees are awareness campaigns, in addition to sponsorships. In 2010, in cooperation with Disney, the Orchestra Employee health and safety is a material issue in Doğuş given emergency and fire safety training. performed 4 concerts in İstanbul with the “We Travel Otomotiv’s human resources policy. The company takes the World through Magical Soundtracks” concert series, Corporate Social Responsibility Projects supportive actions, audits the processes and plans Training and Development reaching a combined audience of 3,500. Furthermore, 25 necessary steps. Doğuş Otomotiv implements awareness Training and development is critical to the ongoing success Doğuş Holding members of the Orchestra also joined the Presidential programs among its employees regarding safety and of our company as it contributes greatly to the career Symphony Orchestra in October 2010 at the Symphony on epidemic illnesses. More than 75% of the total workforce is development and effectiveness of the employee, which Child Development Campus Tour 2010, another significant project of the Group represented on Health and Safety Committees. ultimately contribute to the satisfaction of customers and Doğuş Kids (Doğuş Çocuk) in the area of arts and culture. business partners. Established in December 2004, Doğuş Kids is the social LeasePlan responsibility platform of Doğuş Group and it is based on the In 2010, the story behind the establishment of the Doğuş In 2010, secure driving training was held for LeasePlan All employees have an annual performance review. The perspective that our future will be largely shaped by today’s Kids Symphony Orchestra was told by Dr. Erdal Atabek, Social employees who deal with driving during their daily business. review assists in identifying both professional and personal children and child development. This perspective should be Psychologist and Mentor of the Orchestra, with a book named First Aid training was provided to six employees of the development opportunities. These opportunities are then given utmost importance by all players today, including the “The Music Calls You”. With this book, Doğuş Group aims company, and they received their certificates. There is also fulfilled through internal or external trainings. For instance, business sector. to not only share the path the Orchestra has gone since its an LP Crisis Committee, including the General Manager, the average days of training per employee at Doğuş Holding was establishment, but also highlight the relationship between HR Manager and the IT manager among its members, which 4 days in 2010. Contributing to the development of young children, through music and child development. takes actions and precautions for emergency cases. In 2010, education, entertainment activities and projects since its there were several practice drills. The number of training sessions which the Doğuş Group inception, Doğuş Kids aims to create a more conscious Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Website employees attend during the year is not limited to those and responsible society in the areas of child development, Having reached its target member number of 100,000 in less Construction in the annual curriculum. Personal and professional education and culture and arts. than 5 years, the Doğuş Kids website was replaced by the development programs, foreign language trainings, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra website as of July 2010. Doğuş Construction professional development programs abroad are all fostered. With this objective in mind, Doğuş Kids engages in The Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra website aims to create Local and international occupational health and safety partnerships with other institutions including a communication platform among the orchestra members requirements are meticulously enforced in every phase of Performance Management non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and furthermore, it aims to inform and educate young people construction work. Compliance with project-specific and At the beginning of every year, Doğuş Group employees state and governmental bodies. All of these other on classical music. general environmental and labor safety requirements of each declare their business targets to the management. At the institutions share the Doğuş Kids’ vision of cultivating social project is key to the high service quality offered by Doğuş end of the year, the realization ratio is determined by the change through our children. Education Construction to its clients. Accordingly, employees are employee together with Human Resources department and Send Me to School Campaign (Baba Beni Okula Gönder) continuously provided training courses to keep up with the the supervisors. The performance management system of Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Since 2006, Doğuş Holding has been providing scholarship changing requirements in the areas of Quality, the Environment, Doğuş Holding will be revised in 2011. The “Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra” was established in 2006 for the education of 50 female students on an annual basis, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. as Turkey’s first national and permanent children’s symphony through its support to the Send Me to School campaign, a 44 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 45 joint effort with the Milliyet newspaper, together with the this important endeavor trying to make a sustainable change Para Durumu opts to bring about personal finance education education. The Foundation targets to complete both projects Association in Support of Contemporary Living (ÇYDD). in Turkish society in her capacity as a Social Entrepreneur. As to government employees (3 Million people in Turkey): before the 2011/2012 school year and present them to the a result of this initiative, Mrs. Denizmen was honored by the use of the Ministry of National Education. Stationery Support Campaign (Mektuplu Kırtasiye White House Entrepreneurship Summit, and by the Global • The initiative organizes seminars with different profession Kampanyası) Clinton Initiative, as a Young Global Leader 2011 at World groups; police officers, teachers, doctors etc. Discussions Health In 2010, Doğuş Group supported the Stationery Support Economic Forum. with the Government Personnel Department further focus In 2010, the number of people who benefited from the Campaign (Mektuplu Kırtasiye Yardımı Kampanyası) with on establishing a web-based financial education program “Mobile Healthcare Units” project totalled 24,041, thereby 1,000 packages filled with basic stationery items needed Also, Para Durumu is recognized as a Financial Literacy that can reach out to 3 million state employees. reaching a cumulative number of 376,000 since the initiation for primary education. The campaign, which is organized initiative of Turkey by OECD. The initiative reaches out to of the project in 1997. youth (University students) via physical meetings as well. Para Durumu aims to be a catalyst to develop the national by Aktif İleti ve Kurye Hizmetleri A.Ş. aims to bring equal In 2010-2011, it visited 12 universities across the country strategy on financial literacy: opportunities in education for economically disadvantaged Environment students. where average participation was 1000 students. It also In the context of Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment • This requires efforts on research, policy, practice and visited high-schools and elementary schools in different Project (Ayhan Şahenk Sevgi Ormanları) which was founded coordination in general. For this, Mrs. Denizmen has been Financial Literacy parts of Turkey meeting with 200 young female students with the aim of leaving a healthy and liveable environment regulary visiting top executives of Ministry of National Para Durumu (The first financial literacy initiative of between ages 15-18 in Şanlıurfa and bringing them along to for future generations, 540,000 trees have been planted to Education, Ministry Responsible for Women and Family Turkey that reaches out to masses) Harran University, which was their first visit to a university. date in the forest areas which were demolished through fires, Affairs, Ministry of Finance and financial regulatory Financial literacy is an individual’s ability to make informed These special programs were presented as a model for mining or erosion. institutions such as Capital Markets Board, İstanbul Stock judgements and effective decisions about the use and financial education to the Ministry of National Education. Exchange, Inter Card Center, Credit Bureau, Banking management of his/her money. Thus, financially literate Regulatory Institution and the Central Bank of Turkey. In 2010, the Foundation continued to provide its maintenance Para Durumu has soon become an address where people consumers manage their income, save and invest wisely support to Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment planted in seek out to solve and be guided for personal finance and avoid fraudulent practices. The term has gained much The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation Marmaris, Bodrum, Niğde and İstanbul without interruption, in problems, financial product questions, saving for a house, importance all around the world, since each ‘person’ and line with a protocol signed with the Ministry of Environment budget decisions, investment choices, credit card issues, ‘household’ is the base of economic sustainability in a and Forestry. The maintenance support involved repairing and ‘making it through’ problems. It has become a popular Since its inception in 1992, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation country. fences and doors, as well as tending plants and replacing (and only) venue for people to “talk about money” in public. has been undertaking initiatives in education, health and dead ones with fresh plants. Para Durumu, the first private media and interaction based the environment as well as offering social aid to those in financial literacy initiative of Turkey, reaches out to masses Para Durumu special projects with children (Elementary disadvantaged areas. As in previous years, the Foundation Social Aid via: the multi-platform weekly TV show on CNBC-e, a page school students): continued to implement significant projects in 2010 for the As a part of the Foundation’s ongoing commitment to on the highest circulated national newspaper Posta, and • The initiative implemented a six week project with Lütfi benefit of our people and community with a responsible provide social aid to the underprivileged, the Ayhan Şahenk a program in the radio channel Kral FM, which has the Banat Elementary school where children were taught how to perspective to help our government in fulfilling its social Foundation provided clothing to 1,000 students and food highest rating. Para Durumu is also broadcasted on the use and manage money, how to invest in the environment, welfare duty. staples to 2,500 poor families in 2010. During the month of daily morning show of Capital Radio and published on the health and education. The initiative has worked with 70 Ramadan in 2010, the Foundation served “iftar” dinners to monthly women’s magazine ELELE. Para Durumu actively students, planted trees, and visited İstanbul Stock Exchange. Education approximately 2,500 people per day, hosting 43,000 people in uses social media channels via Facebook and Twitter, as The special program was presented as a model for financial In 2010, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation supported the total. well as operating a very popular blog and website www. education to the Ministry Responsible for Women and “Kızlarımız Okullaşıyor” (Girls Go to School) campaign led paradurumu.tv. Family Affairs. by the Governorship of Şanlıurfa by building a 24 classroom For detailed information about the foundation and its high-school and a 200 student dormitory for female students projects: www.ayhansahenkvakfi.org.tr Para Durumu is spearheaded by Özlem Denizmen, who is Para Durumu encourages women (Entrepreneurs): in Şanlıurfa. By supporting this project, the Foundation aims the Executive Vice President of Strategy at Doğuş Holding. to help female students get secondary level education and • Mrs. Denizmen is the official ‘Personal Finance’ educator Doğuş Holding empowers and encourages Mrs. Denizmen in thereby contribute to the creation of equal opportunities in of KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey). 46 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 47 Banking and Financial Services Garanti Pension and Life plans to continue and increase its the education programs held by the banking and insurance deprived children who attend schools in the cities of support in this field. department of Cappadocia Vocational School and Gaziantep and Hatay in Southern Turkey. Education preparations of the students for the Individual Pension • Science Laboratory – Eureko Sigorta volunteers built a Teachers’ Academy Foundation (Öğretmen Akademisi “Deniz Yıldızları” (Sea Stars) Project Licensing Exam, and is contributing to the development of science laboratory for students at Yaşar Doğu Primary School Vakfı) The Deniz Yıldızları (Sea Stars) Project has been supported the students towards being prepared for business life. in İstanbul. Garanti, recognizing the role education plays in upgrading by the donations of Garanti employees, customers, and • Ercişili Emrah İlköğretim Okulu Book Donation Campaign – the overall well-being of the society, set up a foundation in friends since 1998. Every year 2,500 students receive Garanti Pension and Life managers have been lecturing students volunteers donated 8 parcels of books for students in Van, 2008, an initiative exhibiting its sensitivity in this aspect and education at the campus in Darıca, which includes a primary on “Life Insurance” and “The Individual Pension System” since which were delivered by regional volunteers. its long-term commitment. The objectives of the Teachers’ school and four vocational and technical high schools. the 2008-2009 academic year. Garanti Pension and Life also • Computer Donation to Göztepe Dosteller Primary School Academy Foundation include, among others, supporting With their construction completed in 2010, the theater and supports the students by offering summer practice and job for Deaf-and-Dumb Students in October 2010. the personal and professional development of teachers conference hall with 320 seatings, the semi-Olympic size opportunities. The company maintained its support to the school • 2010 New Year gifts were the “sharing certificates” of who educate future generations. In this context a five-year indoor swimming pool, and the indoor sports facility with in 2010, too. TEGV. Each certificate recompenses the annual education protocol has been signed with the Ministry of National a spectator capacity for 600 opened their doors for the expenses of each student. Education in relation to the Foundation’s first project, students. Garanti Technology-Support to Hacı Yakup Primary ‘’Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok’’ (No Limits in Teaching) which seeks School-Düzce Eureko Sigorta-Traditional New Year activities at Selahaddin to contribute to the current education model, supporting Garanti Pension and Life “Pen in Hand: Educating, not Aware of its responsibilities to community and education, Korkmaz Education and Hands-on-Training School analytical thinking and research. Formulated to provide Employing Children” Project Garanti Technology has aimed at meeting various educational About 30 employees of Eureko Sigorta made a first visit to teachers with training activities on personal and professional In 2010, aiming to lure students working on the street back expenditure needs since the 2009-2010 academic year, Selahaddin Korkmaz Mentally Disadvantaged School, located development, 100,000 elementary school teachers, directors to the school on a full time basis, Garanti Pension and Life making common cause with the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. in a socially and economically disadvantaged area of İstanbul. and inspectors will receive face-to-face training. The project launched a unique corporate social responsibility project Garanti Technology gives financial support to 25 students at The volunteers have celebrated the New Year with nearly 100 started in April 2009 with pilot runs in five cities, and called “Pen in Hand: Educating, not Employing Children”, Hacı Yakup Primary School in Gölyaka, Düzce. mentally impaired students on a week day at the end of the year, reached almost 20,500 teachers in 58 cities by the end of in collaboration with Ministry of National Education and for the last three years. The employees have shared home-made 2010. The aim is to spread the project across the country. Bosphorus University. As a part of the project, more than Eureko Volunteers Activities cookies, danced with the children and given them some gifts 1,500 children at 19 primary schools in İstanbul were taught Starting from 2008, Eureko Volunteers, who represent all including stationery, books, polar hats, etc. Eureko Sigorta has Community Volunteers Foundation (TOG) at their individual schools to enhance their achievements Eureko Sigorta employees, focused its activities in the field provided the school with an insurance policy against fire and Since 2003, Garanti has been the main corporate sponsor and increase their loyalty to school. In addition, nearly 100 of education, donation of computers and training sets, and robbery, as well. of TOG, a foundation that acts toward achieving social Garanti Pension and Life employee volunteers participated school renovations. harmony, solidarity and change through the involvement and in school activities on weekends and provided educational • Computer Donation to Köprülü Hamdi Primary School in Health leadership of youth. support in foreign language and other courses. They also Çanakkale in June 2008 under the agency conference. (ES Support to the Itinerant Health Services Project joined personal development activities with the children Agencies Meeting) Since 2005, Garanti Pension and Life has been a permanent Since 2006, Garanti Pension and Life has supported several such as acting, dancing, painting, photography and chess. • Sivas Gaziköy Primary School Book Campaign In supporter of the “Itinerant Health Services Project” carried children’s education and personal development projects November 2008, Eureko Volunteers collected a wide variety out by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. The Project has been carried out by the Community Volunteers Foundation. In the pilot phase, 6% of the students stopped working of stationery, children’s books and encyclopedias from fellow implemented by means of modern health vehicles designed Granting the Foundation a specific percentage of its monthly completely. Having achieved a very significant success by colleagues and donated them to a campaign in support of a particularly to render service in the fields of “Visual Health”, sales, Garanti Pension and Life supports many projects taking many children off the streets in its first year, Garanti primary school in Sivas. “General Health” and “Children’s Health”. Health services are carried out by the young Community Volunteers, including Pension and Life will continue to support the project in the • Antakya Demirköprü Primary School Visual Education – offered free of charge to individuals without social security and/ help to school repairs in villages, helping street children, following years by reaching more schools and children. Eureko Sigorta donated 13 LCD TVs to Antakya Demirköprü or with limited financial income, children at elementary education helping younger children whose parents have limited means Primary School in June 2009. age taking precedence. in their preparation for university exams, teaching literacy, Support to Cappadocia Vocational School • “My sweet little friend” – In August 2009, Eureko Sigorta and offering computer courses at Youth Service Centres. Since 2008, Garanti Pension and Life has been supporting volunteers donated almost 400 small packages to young, 48 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 49 Women for professionals and experts to discuss changing economic Clubs benefit from discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, Automotive Supporting Women Entrepreneurs and market conditions, evaluate regional and international training and hobby equipment they use in their different Garanti, the first private bank in Turkey providing services opportunities, explore potential areas of business, and find hobby fields. The Hobby Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum. Education specific to women entrepreneurs, supports entrepreneurial regional solutions in cooperation with local businesses and com, gives members the opportunity to discover the Cooperation between Trade Schools and Doğuş women in terms of encouragement, training and funding. officials, these meetings gathered 23,000 SMEs in 62 different different aspects of their hobbies and share their thoughts Otomotiv Garanti Bank, in cooperation with the Ekonomist magazine, cities so far. and accomplishments with other members. New events Doğuş Otomotiv is determined to contribute to education organized the fourth edition of “Turkey’s Women Entrepreneur are organized every month to allow members the chance to and employment by developing cooperation with trade Competition”. The Bank has, for the second time in 2010, been Women Entrepreneur Gatherings develop their social lives and communities concurrently. schools. For this purpose, new laboratories and classrooms the main sponsor of the International Women Entrepreneurship In 2007, in collaboration with Turkish Women Entrepreneurs have been installed at Şişli Industrial and Vocational College & Leadership Summit organized by KAGİDER (Women Association (KAGİDER), a small-scale training event was held Art and Culture and Samandıra Industrial and Vocational College, and new Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) across 9 cities. for 100 women. From 2008 onwards, the context and scope Garanti Kültür A.Ş. curricula have been developed for both. Doğuş Otomotiv of these events expanded; Women Entrepreneur Gatherings Garanti, via its own cultural and artistic institutions, provides supports trade schools to participate in international “Send Me to School” (Baba Beni Okula Gönder) Project are held annually in 5 cities across Turkey, where training is solid support to culture and the arts in Turkey, and takes on competitions and the Ministry of National Education to Since 2006, Garanti has annually been providing scholarship provided on fundamental topics, to enable women to create “sustainable” initiatives in these areas. Platform Garanti organize such competitions. Every year, 50% of the 50 for the education of 100 female students through its support new opportunities for their businesses and establish networks. Contemporary Art Center signifies the first example of these graduates of Volkswagen classes are employed at the to the “Send Me to School” project, a joint effort of Milliyet Moreover, women get a chance to meet with role models initiatives, which was decided to continue with its activities company’s authorized dealer and service organization newspaper and the Association in Support of Contemporary who share their experiences, and gather tips about marketing, after they were taken over from the Ottoman Bank in 2001. (with 60% directly at Doğuş Oto). In addition, internship Living (ÇYDD). management, technology, future trends and EU integration. As Platform had been regarded as one of the world’s top few opportunities are offered to nearly 100 students studying at of 2010, 2,000 women had participated in 9 cities. institutions in contemporary art, while it was active between these trade schools. Eureko Sigorta Multi-Purpose Community Centre 2001 and 2010. In another wing, the Ottoman Bank Museum (ÇATOM) Risk Management Meetings and the Ottoman Bank Archives and Research Center, vdf’s Support to Education The project, funded by Eureko Achema Foundation (EAF), The concept of risk management aims to protect and develop established in 2002 to perpetuate the invaluable legacy of the vdf has been supporting education through its contributions started in 2009 with the collaboration of GAP and Çermik a company’s core values while enabling it to assess potential Ottoman Bank, told the story of an establishment and of a to the Community Volunteers Foundation. The company Governmental District. Its primary aim is to create opportunities risks using the right management methods and tools to period, contributed to collective memory with endeavors in the also donates its disused IT office equipment and computers for women to become aware of/identify and proactively solve deal with them in a way that is in keeping with the unique social and economic area, and offered a comprehensive activity to the Association in Support of Contemporary Living their problems; ensure that women can participate more in structure of that company. With this in mind, Garanti Bank program. Transformed from Garanti Art Gallery, Garanti Gallery (ÇYDD). In 2010, vdf donated 21 computers and monitors public domains, and utilize public services more often, as well is offering representatives of the business world a series of was established in 2003, and hosted projects that combined all as part of this support; 16 of these computers are used at as to increase women’s employment and entrepreneurship “Risk Management Meetings” which hold great importance disciplines concerned with architecture and design. “Contemporary Life Dila Kurt Education House.” in Çermik district of Diyarbakır. Since the establishment of for helping companies prepare for any and all eventualities. ÇATOM, several health seminars, psychological support Each producing major projects in its own field, these three Accessibility programs, income generating activities, rural projects, and such Garanti Pension Hobby Clubs Project entities were brought together under Garanti Kültür A.Ş. TÜVTURK Count Us in Too! social and cultural programs as going to theatre, cinema, picnic In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life initiated the Hobby Clubs in 2009, and the new structure will actively commence “Count Me Too In Transport, Communication and Life!” have taken place. ÇATOM reached a total of 4,342 persons Project with the purpose of keeping customers happy by operations in 2011 with exhibitions, research, archive and (Ulaşımda, İletişimde, Hayatın İçinde Ben de Varım!) is a through programs, facilities and events held in 2010. providing pleasant moments not only after their retirement education functions, and will be engaged in activities in the project initiated by the Turkish Ministry of Transport and but also during the accumulation phase. Currently, the Project national and international arena. İstanbul will be presented Communications. It is based on the belief that disabled Customers covers 22 different hobbies ranging from arts to sports and with a new epicenter of culture and the arts covering an individuals can work despite their disadvantages, and thus Garanti Anatolian Meetings (GAS) is implemented with the participation of 200 partners, all of area of 15,000 m2 when the historical buildings in Galata both they and their families might hold on to life more firmly. In 2002, Garanti initiated a series of conferences, known which are the leading institutions in their fields. (former OBM building) and Beyoğlu (former Platform Garanti TÜVTURK contributes to this meaningful project of high as Garanti Anatolian Meetings, to bring together SMEs and building) reopen their doors, upon completion of the ongoing spiritual values by saying ‘Count us in too!’ TÜVTURK local administrators from all around Turkey. Paving the way Garanti Pension and Life members participating in Hobby renovation. has offered job opportunity for disabled citizens at the 50 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 51 TÜVTURK Call Center. In addition to those who come to Tourism and Services Corporate Sponsorship Projects Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey-Symphony work, TÜVTURK has made the necessary hardware and on Campus Project substructure accessible for new candidates, and created an Education The Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey, which was Doğuş Holding environment where individuals are able to provide call-center Doğuş Tourism Group maintains its support to Ayhan Şahenk established in 1826, has been one of few orchestras in the services from their own homes. The fact that victims of Alantur Primary School in Alanya Kestel, which was built by world that has managed to survive to date. In November Art and Culture traffic accidents answer the questions about the services the Group in 1985 and extended in 2005 with the addition of 2007, Doğuş Group signed an agreement, with the Ministry D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival provided at TÜVTURK vehicle inspection stations, and 8 extra classrooms. of Culture and Tourism, to become the main sponsor of the Doğuş Group continues to contribute to the development of make a contribution to the traffic safety, however indirectly, classical music and to provide support for this kind of music. Orchestra for a period of 3 years and to start the “Technical assigns a special sense and significance to this service. Other social initiatives of Doğuş Tourism Group include Betterment Project” of the concert building of the Orchestra. The Group strives to ensure its access to a wider section of fundraising support to “Make a Wish” (Bir Dilek Tut) The renovation work was completed in less than a year, by the population and help Turkish artists produce world-class In line with its employment policy for the Call Center, Foundation at Grand Hyatt. October 2008, covering the renovation of the entire inner pieces. Since 2005, Doğuş Group has been organizing the TÜVTURK gives priority to employing individuals with any D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival in building and the concert hall, the landscaping as well as the kind of disability due to a traffic accident. Following the Health renewal of the orchestral and office furniture. Bodrum. This Festival highlights the support that is required participation of TÜVTURK in “Count Me Too In Transport, A Doğuş Tourism Group company, Arena Giyim, supports for the development of diverse forms of music. Communication and Life!” project, such employment has the global fight against AIDS, the terminal disease of our In line with its sponsorship of the Presidential Symphony accelerated; currently, TÜVTURK Call Center employs 100 era. Arena contributes to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Orchestra of Turkey, in 2009, Doğuş Holding has initiated D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival is a individuals, including 60 customer representatives who work tuberculosis and malaria within the scope of Emporio a new corporate sponsorship project: “Symphony on member of the European Festivals Association (EFA) which from home. Armani’s “Red” Campaign. Campus”. The objective of this project is to take the is the umbrella organization for festivals across Europe. For more than 50 years, the Association has grown into a dynamic orchestra on a tour, covering state universities in Anatolian Since the date when TÜVTURK decided to expand the Since 2006, Product Red items have held the spotlight within cities where the orchestra has never visited, to promote network representing more than 100 music, dance, theatre scope of the project all over the country, new employees the scope of this Campaign, by virtue of the involvement of classical music among university students and regional and multidisciplinary festivals, national festival associations and have joined the call-center staff from different cities. During well-known celebrities from all over the world. These items communities. The pilot tour of the project, which took place cultural organizations from about 40 (mainly European) countries. the recruiting procedure, candidates with clear voices and have been on sale at Emporio Armani stores, owned by Arena between October 13-17, 2009, covered the cities of Konya, smooth diction were determined through phone interviews Giyim. The Fund receives a donation of 40% of revenues Niğde and Gaziantep, reaching a total audience of 2,200. İdil In 2010, on its sixth anniversary, the Festival took place on first, and then trainers were sent to their cities, where they generated from sales of the Product Red collection, which Biret, the distinguished Turkish pianist, accompanied the July 19-20 & 22-23 and hosted many gifted artists and wellgave theoretical training regarding vehicle inspection. The will expand its range each season. These donations support orchestra as the soloist throughout the entire tour. known orchestras from Turkey and other countries, including second phase of the training involved visits to inspection projects aimed at developing treatments for AIDS, offering the world-renowned Turkish pianists İdil Biret and Fazıl stations; with the participation of local business associates, nutritional and psychological support, and preventing the In 2010, the project took place between October 17-23 Say, and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. The proceeds theoretical training was reinforced by on-site observations transmission of the disease from mothers to children. with 6 concerts in 5 cities; Kars Kafkas University, Erzurumobtained from the Festival was donated to the TOHUM and inspections. Following instruction on the computer and Autism Foundation to be used for educational materials at Atatürk University, Rize University, Giresun University and communication substructure, the candidates were ready to Real Estate Trabzon Black Sea Technical University. At the end of the Foundation’s private school for children with autism and answer initial questions and become employed within the for the training of teachers specialized in this area. the tour, the project had exceeded its target audience by Community body of TÜVTURK Call Center. reaching 5,500 people in total. The project will continue, DOĞUŞ REIT intends to contribute to the social, cultural, artistic The Festival has already constituted a loyal audience of its covering more regions and universities, in the coming years. and economic development of communities, in which it operates. Currently, 60 disabled employees from 18 cities all over the own which constantly increases each year. In 2010, a total of The company has been implementing several social responsibility country answer nearly 250,000 calls monthly along with 17,250 audience followed the festival, with a 2,250 increase Leyla Gencer Voice Competition projects to achieve this. The most significant example of these other 40 customer representatives. TÜVTURK believes it set compared to the previous year. Since 2006, Doğuş Holding and Garanti Bank have been projects is the company’s support to the Dudullu Cultural Center, an example for all corporations on solutions for facilitating the sponsors of the Leyla Gencer Voice Competition. This with the aim of supporting the social and cultural development the employment of the disabled. international voice competition was started by Ms. Gencer of the area, in parallel with the Evidea Residential Project in herself in 1995, and it has supported several young opera Çekmeköy. 52 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 53 singers, from all over the world, through their career paths. actively involved in the arts, and also in supplementing and help basketball become a commonly played game and Automotive The 6th Biennial Leyla Gencer Voice Competition was held in classroom education. Through the ongoing Garantireach a broad base in Anatolia. At 12 DABO schools, 33,000 İstanbul on August 26, 2010. sponsored İstanbul Modern training programs, over 300,000 youngsters received basketball training in 55 centers to date. Sports children and teenagers have received training to date. Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sport Complex Santral İstanbul NBA Skills Challenge Since 2006, Doğuş Group has supported the Darüşşafaka In cooperation with İstanbul Bilgi University, Doğuş Group In 2010, Garanti also sponsored “The Enemy inside Me”, To bring the American National Basketball Association (NBA) Ayhan Şahenk Sport Complex facilities located in Maslak, became the strategic founding partner of the International the first ever retrospective exhibition in Turkey of the closer to Turkish basketball fans, Garanti has been the main İstanbul, at the Darüşşafaka High School, one of the most Modern Art Museum and Cultural Center, Santral İstanbul internationally acclaimed artist Kutluğ Ataman. sponsor of the events held by NBA in Turkey in 2008, 2009 prominent and influential schools in Turkey. in 2006. Opened in September 2007, Santral İstanbul, the and 2010. Young players aged 13-18 uploaded short videos first power station of the Ottoman Empire, has recently The Lycian Way displaying their basketball skills on www.nba-garanti.com, The Ayhan Şahenk Sport Complex is a multi-purpose center turned into one of the main attractions in İstanbul in terms of Garanti sponsored a way-marking system according to for a chance to attend the NBA camp in the USA. Winners with the ability to host various cultural activities in addition culture & arts. international standards along the Lycian Way, a 500 km of the contest were sent to the 5-day instructional camp in to sports events to world-class standards. Doğuş Group will long-distance trail stretching from Fethiye to Antalya, and Orlando, Florida, as a prize. continue to support the complex in the forthcoming years. İstanbul 2010 European Capital of Culture further contributed to tourism in the region by publishing a İstanbul was designated as the European Capital of Culture guidebook for the Lycian Way in 2006. Equestrian Sports for the year 2010 along with Pec of Hungary and Essen of Believing that the discipline and aesthetics inherent Germany. Doğuş Group was among the corporate partners Garanti Mini Bank International Children’s Film Festival in equestrian sports coincide perfectly with its service of the İstanbul 2010 European Capital of Culture Project. Garanti has been the main sponsor of Turkey’s first film notion, Garanti Masters Private Banking has undertaken festival for children, the Garanti Mini Bank International sponsorships of various equestrian competitions and events Banking and Financial Services Children’s Film Festival, organized by the Turkish Foundation since 2005. Additionally, the business line is the official of Cinema and Audiovisual Culture (TÜRSAK). The festival, sponsor of the Turkish Equestrian Federation since 2008. Art and Culture which started six years ago in İstanbul, has, for the last two Garanti Jazz Green years, expanded to Anatolia, reaching children in İzmir, Urfa, Football Garanti, aiming to broaden and spice up music lovers’ Mardin, Diyarbakır and Adıyaman. In order to contribute to improvement in football, and horizons in the genre of jazz, is among the leading sponsors broadening the scope of its commitment to support sports, of jazz music in Turkey, extending long-term support with Sports Garanti became one of the main sponsors of the Turkish the slogan “Garanti Jazz Green”. Garanti has, for the past 13 Basketball National Men’s Football Team in 2008. Garanti extended years, been the main sponsor of the International İstanbul A long-time supporter of basketball a game that reflects the range of its support to football and became a prime Jazz Festival, organized by the İstanbul Foundation for Garanti’s values of teamwork, dedication, confidence and sponsor of the Garanti Beach Football League that has been Culture and Arts (İKSV). Supporting İstanbul Jazz Center, discipline the Bank has been the main sponsor of the 12 organized by the Turkish Football Federation (TFF) since Tamirane and Salon İKSV concerts and sponsoring one of the Giant Men (Turkish National Men’s Basketball Team) since 2006. top music venues in İstanbul, Babylon, for ten years, Garanti 2001 and of the Turkish National Women’s Basketball Team has been creating opportunities to listen to worldwide since 2005. Garanti was also a main sponsor of 2010 FIBA famous jazz artists. World Championship that took place in Turkey. İstanbul Museum of Modern Art 12 Giant Men Basketball Schools Project Garanti Bank sponsors the education program of İstanbul Since 2002, Garanti has supported the 12 Giant Men Modern, Turkey’s first and only modern and contemporary Basketball Schools (12 DABO) which were initiated in art museum. The program aims to play a central role in cooperation with the Turkish Basketball Federation in an raising creative, literate and inquisitive individuals who are effort to inculcate basketball culture in young children, 54 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 55 IVEnvironmental Performance 56 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 57 Approach to Environmental Responsibility efforts are coordinated by the Environment Committee, chaired at the Board level, and includes three senior sustainability efforts. The Environment Committee is responsible for ensuring that the policies and programs executives of Support Services, Loans and Project and needed in sustainability efforts are designed, implemented Acquisition Finance, and four department heads from and delivered across the operations of the Bank. The Commercial and Corporate Loans, Project and Acquisition Committee also advises on strategies regarding climate Finance, Investor Relations, Financial Institutions, Internal change and the regulatory environment. Environmental responsibility is an extremely important Doğuş Holding pays special attention to environmental Control and Compliance Departments. subject for Doğuş Group. We are aware of the fact that issues regarding its corporate activities, particularly The Sustainability Team is responsible for the design, serious threats like climate change, scarcity of resources and corporate identity materials and aims to minimize their The Committee is deliberately structured in this way to integrate development and implementation of an Environmental the increasing energy demand constantly affect the world. negative impacts on the environment. All corporate reports sustainable and environmental concerns and opportunities Management System (EMS) in 2011, and for steering it towards of Doğuş Holding have been printed on recycled paper and into all operations and products and to ensure that they are achieving external ISO 14001 accreditation by 2012 at the latest. For that purpose, Doğuş Group aims to manage its at the required minimum amounts since 2008. consistent with internal policies and related regulations. It also Particular attention is to be paid to international commitments businesses to minimise negative impacts on the ecological coordinates activities building up new processes, getting new as they arise, to best practices, and to ways the Bank can build environment and to maximise the benefits the company The Ayhan Şahenk FoundationPaper Recycling tools, and developing new policies that may be needed during appropriate responses and measures into its sustainability brings. This includes reducing resource use, emissions and Practices environmental assessments within the Bank. program. waste from our facilities. Since 2002, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation has been coordinating the waste paper recycling practices The Committee oversees activities with regard to assessing CDP Submission Climate change is among the Group’s corporate implemented within the Doğuş Group of Companies. and mitigating risks derived from both direct and indirect In 2010, Garanti Bank calculated its first greenhouse gas responsibility risks and reducing the impact of our impacts of the Bank, with the help of its Sustainability Team inventory (or “carbon footprint”) for 2009 and reported these companies is crucial for the future of our business, reflecting The Group employees are strongly encouraged to use the paper and the Environmental Impact Assessment Team. The emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Total CO2 recycle bins located at the offices. Bins are periodically collected Sustainability Team is led by the Executive Vice President emissions for 2009 were 47,781 tonnes (in CO2e). The bank the stakeholders’ concerns about the issue. by the Foundation and delivered to recycling institutions licensed of Support Services and is composed of participants from will calculate the emissions for 2010 as well. Doğuş Group of Companies does not only take precautions by the Turkish Ministry of Environment and Forestry. Construction, Corporate Communications and Brand Management, Purchasing, Training, Human Resources, 2009, the carbon footprint was calculated following the against climate change through its practices, but also works Paper Collected by the Internal Control and Compliance, and Investor Relations industry standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol from The World to bring innovative solutions against the environmental Ayhan Şahenk Foundation year/kg departments. The Sustainability Team conducts weekly Resources Institute and the World Business Council for threats and the resulting needs of its stakeholders. Doğuş 2007 322,770 meetings to monitor performance regarding previously Sustainable Development. Consistency and data accuracy Group is eager to respond to these growing demands by 2008 353,800 determined goals, and collects input from all related is critical for credibly reporting any progress to reduce providing innovative products and services and getting ready 2009 354,920 departments of the Bank to be utilized in sustainability efforts. emissions. Therefore, the bank remains committed to for the future with a vision toward minimum consumption of 2010 376,845 continuously improving data collection to support climate natural resources. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Team works change management activities. Doğuş Holding During 2010, the paper collected for recycling from Doğuş to mitigate environmental risks occurring through financed Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been one of the corporate Group of Companies amounted to 376,845 kg, thereby projects and all other credit granting activities. The EIA team Garanti Bank intends to reduce its direct carbon emissions members of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. reaching 5,500 tonnes between 2002 and 2010. is led by the Executive Vice President of Loans and composed by focusing on energy efficient operations. This will be DenizTemiz Foundation was founded on April 8, 1994 by of participants from Corporate and Commercial Loans, Project achieved through an optimization of energy consumption leading business institutions and the marine sector with the Banking and Financial Services Finance, Financial Institutions, Corporate Banking Coordination, in buildings, the purchase of energy efficient IT and office aim of protecting the seas and the 8,333 kilometer coast line Commercial Marketing, and Internal Control departments. equipment, and improved energy efficiency by means that stretches from Hopa to the İskenderun region around Garanti Bank of behavioral change and a reduction in business travel. most of Turkey. The Environment Committee The Environment Committee meets at least four times When it is cost-competitive, the bank intends to purchase Garanti Bank’s environmental and corporate sustainability annually, to monitor progress and provide input to electricity from renewable energy sources as well. 58 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 59 Reducing emissions is not only an environmental issue. In Key Projects total amount of carbon emissions across all properties per Indirect Impacts From Lending Programmes many cases there is also a financial benefit from reducing Over the last 2 years Garanti Bank has significantly increased square meter; 559 of 756 servers have been virtualized in Garanti aims to reduce potential environmental and social energy consumption, paper consumption and travel. the level of training and information sharing carried out data centers, equivalent to 74% of the total. impacts that might be generated by the projects financed by remotely using Webinars, interactive remote learning and Garanti in addition to its direct impacts derived from internal Approach to Emission Reductions teleconferencing. Environmental Management operations. Based on the information collected, the bank expects, for 2010, In order to manage Garanti Bank’s environmental a roughly 30 to 40% increase in absolute emissions due to: Looking at other environmental impacts, Garanti has, impact systematically and efficiently, an Environmental For this purpose, Garanti Bank is planning to establish its • Inclusion of on-site fuels, which were omitted in the 2009 wherever applicable, moved to consolidate printing Management System (EMS) will be implemented. It is own corporate policies, procedures and industry specific inventory, which is likely to increase the footprint by 10% or operations either at the print centre or with the use of intended that the system will ensure that Garanti Bank guidelines and a rating system in relation to the assessment more local networked units. A new program to increase the use continually improves its environmental behaviour and of environmental and social impacts of the projects (a • Inability to find competitively priced wind energy (purchase of double sided printing, wherever this is permitted under regularly reports on environmental conditions internally as threshold will be introduced) to be financed. The main of which allowed for a reduction of more than 20% in the banking regulations, is currently in preparation. well as externally. purpose of these studies is to be able to take certain 2009 inventory) business decisions in lending processes (e.g. to finance a • 9% growth in total number of branches in 2010, from 792 Electronic waste is handled to maximize recycling The EMS will be based on the Environmental Policy and project or not, or to introduce certain conditions to financing) to 863 opportunities. 105,000 kg of electronic waste was disposed will set forth procedures, responsibilities and controls for in accordance with such policies, procedures, guidelines • A slight decrease in per facility emissions, due to between the years 2009 and 2010. For more general waste, individual areas. The system will be reviewed on an ongoing and rating systems through a standardized, objective and deployment of energy-efficient technologies and behaviours Garanti Bank established a waste segregation initiative. basis by the Environment Committee and will ensure that scientific approach. Hence, a project for the Establishment adjustments are implemented. System design will begin in of Policies, Procedures and Industry Specific Guidelines for It is clear that the major contributor to the carbon footprint is In recent years, Garanti Bank has worked to digitalize a 2011, and will adhere to the requirements of ISO 14001. The Environmental and Social Project Assessment in Lending electricity consumption, the major element of which is in the number of processes in order to optimize customer service bank intends to achieve accreditation for all operations as Processes will be launched in 2011. cooling, lighting and IT systems in the branches. and minimize costs and paper consumption. For example soon as possible. the bank has worked to increase the number of customers Within this process, a quantitative risk level of a subject Garanti Bank’s largest CO2 emissions and direct who receive accounting reports and statements in digital Reduction targets and objectives will mean actively project will be determined for “go” or “no go” decision. If environmental impact comes from the energy consumption document format rather than paper documents. Today, implementing initiatives to introduce new behaviors and a “go” decision is given, depending on the rating, certain in buildings. As part of the sustainability commitment, a more than 60,000 daily customer request-pages that were technologies. Given growth objectives, even maintaining environmental actions for the financing may also be refurbishment program has been authorized for branches, previously sent by ordinary mail are digitalized, giving energy consumption at a current baseline value will actually addressed. The required actions might include additional which aims at giving them a ‘greener’ profile: replacing airconsiderable savings and reducing transportation emissions. mean an overall reduction in consumption. Efforts to reduce investigations and studies such as site investigations, conditioning units with systems that are up to 40% more energy consumption will not be confined to CO2 emissions. measurements, analysis and assessment, environmental and efficient, and reducing the overall electricity consumption of In 2010, Garanti began piloting use of ATMs that allow for social management plans, periodic monitoring and reporting, a typical branch by 10%. This is a key role for Construction “real-time” cash deposits. In essence, this equips machines Subsequently, the bank will be looking at supply chains and etc. Department, working closely with Garanti Technology and with the ability to “recycle” money, dramatically reducing supplier behaviour, and will be setting goals that require all with Procurement staff. The energy profile of a branch is a the need to service machines. In addition to enhancing new suppliers of selected product groups to have at least a By the end of 2011, Garanti aims to revise its corporate critical element in determining its priority for refurbishment. customer convenience, this also reduces the greenhouse minimal environmental management system or a certified environmental lending policies in the light of the findings of gas emissions associated with service calls by allowing realenvironmental management system. this initiative. Sector-based standards will be identified and For 2010, a slight absolute decrease in CO2 emissions from time account updating and thus allowing the reuse of money projects that do not meet these standards will be excluded air travel is expected, even with a significant increase in for cash withdrawals at the machine. By the end of 2011, it All of these endeavors will be fully reported to the senior from financing. international travel reflecting the increasingly global nature is planned to have 308 such machines in operation. management as well as to the stakeholders and client of the business. This decrease comes from measures to groups. The progress and sustainability results will be WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Fund-Turkey) cut domestic travel through increased use of internet-based In 2007, the bank began to consolidate and “virtualize” reported via website as they become available, which will Garanti Bank has been the main sponsor of the WWFtraining and teleconferencing. servers in data centers. This effort elevates real time allow for faster dissemination of achievements as well as Turkey since 1992, thereby helping the conservation of computing power per server, reducing total server need (and discussion of any areas where work has not proceeded as natural resources and creating enhanced public awareness associated electricity use) as well as the tremendous cooling fast as preferred. on environmental issues. Additionally, through the demand that servers require. Data centers emit the greatest “Environmentalist SME” package devised in 2009, the Bank 60 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 61 assists businesses to operate in a liveable environment, with makers. Many estimates of the aggregate net economic Eureko Sigorta Otomotiv Corporate Social Responsibility Report at www. sustainable resources. effects of climate change are now available. Such estimates An awareness volunteer program called “Conscious dogusotomotiv.com.tr. are generally long-range projections and are therefore Employee Action” began in 2010. The Eureko Sigorta Garanti Payment Systems subject to much uncertainty. Nevertheless, there is a general employees try to decrease the paper, electricity and water TÜVTURK Bonus Card was created in partnership with WWF-Turkey, consensus that climate change is very likely to reduce consumption and increase awareness on the importance The creditors of the TÜVTURK project claimed a disclosure for those who want to give nature a hand. many countries’ annual GDP (gross domestic product) on an of minimizing consumption. The motto of the program, of Environmental Impact Evaluation which was based aggregate and NPV (net present value) basis. “Are you aware of?” was symbolized by an “eco-sensitive on The Equator Principles. The requested Environmental The first product of its kind on the market, Garanti’s WWF penguin” character. Furthermore, Eureko Sigorta disclosed its Assessment Audit was realized by independent auditors Bonus Card promotes a deeper understanding of the Investors are becoming more concerned about climate environmental policy in 2010. The aim of Eureko Sigorta is: in 2009 in the context of control lists including field environmental problems that the world and our country change and corporate responses to it. The 2007 Postseason • to act in accordance with all environmental laws and selection, the essential approvals and licenses, planning and face today and, at the same time, supports the nature Report of proxy-voting in the United States (Risk Metrics regulations, construction phases, operations, labour health and security, conservation projects carried out by WWF. Group 2007) revealed that of the 656 proposals filed by • to increase responsible awareness of employees, waste management, noise emissions, and emergency case shareholders, 80 were related to the environment. The • to promote the efficient use of the resources and possible management. Audits were finalized in sample stations This product provides nature lovers with the ability to get majority of the environmental filings focused on climate recycling, chosen from a variety of locations of TÜVTURK. involved in nature conservation and contribute directly to the change and urged companies to reduce their carbon footprint. • to protect the environment and to add value to the improvement of the environment they live in, by supporting solutions about the environmental issues, TÜVTURK’s direct positive impact on the environment is the projects of WWF. Asset management is confronted with threats related to the • to collaborate with partners and attend to environment exemplified by its services (oil leakage of the vehicles, unpredictable impact of climate change on global markets related activities. inconvenient exhaust systems, petrol leakages etc.) WWF Bonus Card holders receive periodic information as well as the impairment of equity valuations or equity/ including exhaust gas emissions assessments and periodic regarding the evolution of WWF projects and opportunities bond issues due to climate-related effects or mitigation The main target of the company is to be the insurance vehicle inspection. for getting involved in environmental protection activities. policies. As a consequence, investment strategies will need company that respects the environment not only now, but to incorporate climate change by assessing, for example, also in the future, both for the country and the world. vdf Environmentally Friendly Bonus Card; forecasts of future carbon prices, emission footprints of vdf has an electricity automation system for its buildings to • Donates part of earned bonus points to the WWF-Turkey, companies, revenue opportunities arising from climate Eureko Sigorta’s annual paper consumption includes 30% reduce electricity consumption, and intentionally uses eco• Uses recycled paper in all the card-related letters, change, and hedging strategies using carbon markets. recycled paper. friendly company cars. envelopes and other printed materials that are sent out, • Uses less PVC (polyvinyl chloride) plastic in its makeup Garanti Technology Automotive Construction than do other cards. For this reason, it may cause less For reducing the indirect energy consumption, Garanti The preservation of the environment is of great importance environmental harm than other plastic cards do, Technology renewed the old air-conditioners in the company Doğuş Otomotiv in the projects executed by Doğuş Construction. Particular • Reduces the consumption of paper by using e-mail to send building and exchanged light bulbs with motion sensor ones. In many fields related to climate change, while there care is taken to protect natural resources, to minimize out account statements (in return for this, it makes an extra Virtual server applications are used in System Rooms. In this are risk factors that must be anticipated for the world negative environmental impacts and to adopt necessary donation to WWF-Turkey), manner, although the company’s employment and technical of business, it is also true that the precautions taken mitigation measures. To this end, Doğuş Construction is in • Informs cardholders about how the environment and materials are increased, there is a decrease of 6% energy against climate change create various opportunities. full compliance with the applicable environmental laws and nature can be protected, consumption, compared to 2009. Doğuş Otomotiv acts correspondingly, with its concept regulations. • Makes discount campaigns for environmentally friendly of corporate sustainability and in accordance with the products in order to increase the usage of these products. As for reducing the water consumption, the use of bleeder investments that the brands the company represents Morocco, Argana Amskroud Motorway Project valves fixed to the taps resulted in 20% less water use make in environmentally friendly technologies, and the The Argan tree is an endemic species, unique to Southern Garanti Asset Management during the year. precautions they take against risks in these matters. Thus Morocco, and the fruits resemble olives. The oil from the Climate change impacts many natural resources and human Doğuş Otomotiv’s corporate responsibility report evaluates Argan fruit is one of the most valuable plant oils in the world, systems. It threatens access to water, ecosystems, food Electronic waste products of Garanti Technology are being and assesses its environmental impact, and clearly states containing an abundant amount of Vitamin E. The absorption production, and human health. The projected size and sold to authorized recycling companies and the resulting its goals and commitments in this matter to the public. rate of the oil is very high and it is used as a cream to distribution of the economic costs and benefits of climate income is donated to NGOs like WWF. 105,000 kg of Detailed information of the company’s environmental nourish the skin and to delay the aging process. change are of key interest to business leaders and policy electronic waste was disposed in 2009-2010. approach and products and services can be found in Doğuş 62 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 63 The Argan tree exists only in the south-western area of Project was performed adopting the principles of protecting in 2011 by developing various alternatives. The goal is to D-Marin Marinas Group the Moroccan State. This tree is an endangered species natural resources, minimizing negative environmental become a ‘zero carbon’ company in the long-term. Environmental management is strictly handled in all and under protection. Accordingly, in collaboration with the impacts and placing emphasis particularly on taking tourism-related facilities operating under Doğuş Group. The Moroccan Forest Administration, the Morocco, Argana measures that are in the direction of decreasing existing NTV-Green Screen Project marinas are especially important in this respect and several Amskroud Project team chose to build the required depots negative impacts. The construction of this natural treatment Since 2008, NTV’s summer lineup has been mainly precautions have been taken to minimize the environmental only where there were the minimum number of trees. system, where natural flora is used, is quite simple and composed of environmental programs, called the “Green degradation in the surrounding regions. economical. These systems are based on the principle Screen”. This project calls attention to environmental The project team compensated for any potential damage to of filtering wastewater in basins using natural materials problems and raises public awareness on related The D-Marin Turgutreis and D-Marin Didim marinas are wildlife by using the depot areas to grow Argan trees in an available in the environment, and the treatment of water issues, responding to questions and correcting common equipped with waste management systems and include the area of 75 hectares, as identified by the Moroccan Ministry with wetland plants that are grown are small imitations of misunderstandings about “green” issues, including global following infrastructures: water circulation systems inside of Forestry. In this way, the project team aims to protect the the natural structure. Wetlands are capable of using solar warming, renewable energy, organic diets, green holidays the harbor, collection and refinement of household water, wildlife and the natural resources which represent a valuable energy in the environment and renewing themselves. etc., in a variety of formats. The project is being supported solid waste collection points, and bilge water collection forest to the country. They form a wildlife habitat, providing living space for by the other brands of Doğuş Media Group as well, and the services. The waste collection points are licensed by the several species, and ensure that the natural balance of the Group has been awarded prizes by NGOs and academic Ministry of Environment and Forestry and managed by the Sinop – Boyabat (Via Tunnel) Motorway Project atmosphere is protected by consuming carbon dioxide and institutions for its efforts and contributions regarding marinas. Along the projected route, there are 5 different areas (total generating oxygen. They have high capacity of treatment environmental issues. length of 8.8 km) where terrain observations and drillings since they can eliminate organic materials, suspended Furthermore, sea barriers exist in the marinas for the were accomplished. To reduce damage to forests, steepsolids, nutrients, toxic materials, heavy metals and biological Tourism and Services prevention of petroleum spills, and other fuel oil outflow, in sloped high cutting excavations were eliminated. Further, in components. In consideration of the fact that the treatment case of an accident at the marina. geologically stratified flysch beds, “heel fillings” were built system, with no commissioning cost, is very inexpensive Doğuş Tourism Group to form the motorway platform and to reduce the potential in terms of investment and is an environment and human Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbul The marina management also maintains its precautionary risk of landslip from hydraulic underground movements. friendly investment. It aims to increase the environmental Hyatt believes that caring for the environment and the approach to minimize the effects of pesticide treatments Finally, where the motorway route is constructed near awareness of the local community with this type of community are responsibilities that everybody shares. This around the facility and continues its contract with the villages and neighbourhoods, high cuttings were reduced in environmentally friendly projects. belief is central to its commitment to making a difference licensed company which uses environmentally friendly order to conserve the forest and to prevent landslip risk in in the lives of those touched every day. Hyatt implements pesticide material. The swimming pools, available for the settlements. Indeed, it may be appropriate to refer to this technology sustainable practices and empowers its associates to be use of marina guests, were also cleaned through ionization, as “Living Machine” since the treatment procedure is catalysts for change. Together, through the actions and minimizing the use of chemicals for purification. In the context of the project, excavations were completed performed by several aquatic living beings. people, Hyatt strives to care for the environment with the in the Gökırmak Stream borrow pit and stream material was same commitment it shows for its guests. The newest marina of D-Marin Marinas Group, D-Marin gathered to be used in the motorway fillings. Further to a Media Göcek Marina, has also been built and managed with an correspondence between the project administration and the Doğuş Media Group has again been a pioneer by disclosing The global sustainability program, Hyatt Earth, has five areas environmentally friendly perspective. From the beginning Turkish Republican Motorways, the borrow pit excavations the first carbon footprint report in Turkey. Approximately of focus, each essential to success: of the construction phase of D-Marin Göcek and continuing were backfilled with the top layer of soil (i.e., organic layer) thirty companies in Turkey have taken action to measure • Creating a Culture of Environmental Responsibility whilst carrying out its operations, D-Marin Marinas Group which was removed from the motorway route. With this their carbon footprints, which is the first step toward • Conserving Natural Resources and Reducing Greenhouse has attached importance to preserving the natural habitat method, the Stream’s flora was replenished. reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The first company to Gas Emissions where the marina is built. The wavebraker and pontoons in receive the result of the measurement was Doğuş Media • Reducing Waste the marina are floatable and the wavebraker is the first one Where the motorway runs parallel to the Stream in the Group, which had already showed its sensitivity to this • Establishing Responsible Purchasing Practices of its kind in Turkey. project, the Stream bed was modified to prevent soil matter through ‘Green Screen’ for the preceeding three • Integrating Sustainable Practices into the Design & erosion. years. Doğuş Media Group has also been the first media Construction of Our Properties All three marinas hold the Blue Flag and 5 Gold Anchors flag company to measure its carbon footprint, through the from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association). Boyabat Dam and HEPP Construction Project services of Carbon Clear Limited. The total greenhouse gas Grand Hyatt İstanbul and Park Hyatt İstanbul are applying the The Natural Wastewater Treatment Plant that Doğuş emission for the year 2009 was calculated as 14,800 tonnes Hyatt Earth programme in Turkey. implemented under the title of Boyabat Dam and HEPP of CO2. The first target is to reduce this emission by 10% 64 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 65 VStakeholder Engagement Our Stakeholders Means of Engagement Key Stakeholders Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Employee Satisfaction Surveys, Focus Group Studies, Stakeholder engagement is an important part of doing Employees Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities business. It helps us understand our stakeholders, which ultimately strengthens our reputation and business. Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, CRM Practices, Customer Satisfaction Studies, Focus Group Studies, Sectoral Fairs, Periodical As Doğuş Group, we recognize that dialogue with our Customers Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, stakeholders provides important feedback about our CSR-related Activities activities, plans, and strategies, which is critical for our longFace-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Actual and Budget term success. Investors Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSRrelated Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences Some benefits resulting directly from stakeholder Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, engagement include: Business Partners Annual Reports, Actual and Budget Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special • Understanding our stakeholders’ insight about our Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences business practices Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual • Enhancing best practices particularly in the social arena Suppliers Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities • Improving data benchmarking so it is more easily understood Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate • Learning about new marketing opportunities and gaining Dealers/Branches Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities a balanced perspective of our activities and potential consequences Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Research Studies, Internet and Website, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Special Activities, Community/Community Representatives • Establishing more efficient processes for tracking progress CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities on several new sustainability related goals Press and Media Face-to-Face Meetings, Press Releases, Press Meetings, Press Trips, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Every Doğuş Group company prioritizes different stakeholder groups depending on their sector and business activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and NGOs and maintains communication with their stakeholders with Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership, Award Schemes means most appropriate and effective. Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and International Organizations Aside from several means of engagement with its Website, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership stakeholders listed in the following chart, we also conduct Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, a Corporate Reputation Survey biennially with the aim of Business Unions and Platforms CSR-related Activities, Membership, Award Schemes measuring our prior stakeholders’ perception of Doğuş Group’s corporate reputation. Following the completion of Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, Trade and Industrial Union the survey, the results are shared with the Doğuş Holding CSR-related Activities, Award Schemes Board of Directors and follow up actions are taken to constantly better our business and non-business practices. Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Public Institutions CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Employee and Employer Organizations CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Events, Academia CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Competitors CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Memberships within NGOs. 66 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 67 VI. Reporting Content Index Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name and Location Reference Pages 1. Strategy and Analysis GRI INDEX Message from the 4-5 Chairman 1.1 Senior Management Full Declaration Message from the 6-7 In preparation of this year’s report, the reporting project Since Doğuş Group operates with 124 companies in seven Chief Executive team used the GRI indicators by submitting them to the different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied Officer related departments of the Group companies through secto the entire group. The responses gathered from different Message from the 4-5 tor specific questionnaires. The team prepared the report sectors and Group companies were not comparable and Chairman content by consolidating the findings of the questionnaires combinable at all times, therefore limiting the number of Message from the 6-7 collected from each sector. indicators to be used in reporting. Chief Executive Officer Reporting on 9 Corporate Citizenship Basic effects, risks and Response Status Explanations 1.2 Full Performance opportunities Corporate 13 Full The indicator is fully addressed in the referenced pages of the report and other sources Responsibility Partially The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of Approach data and/or information covering the entire group Sustainability 14 Management Material Issues 15 2. Corporate Profile Back Cover Back Cover 2.1 Corporation Name Full Doğuş Group in Brief 10-12 Doğuş Group in Brief 10-12 2010 At a Glance 16-18 2.2 Brands, products and services Full Direct Economic 24-25 Impact Doğuş Group in Brief 10-12 Corporate 30-31 Operational structure of the Governance and 2.3 Full corporation Ethics Doğuş Group Anti32-34 Corruption Policy 2.4 Headquarters Full Back Cover Back Cover Doğuş Group in Brief 10-12 Countries in which the 2.5 Full corporation operates Direct Economic 24-26 Impact 68 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 69 Department Name Reference Department Name Reference Profile Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Profile Indicators Remark State and Location Pages 24 About this Report 8 More information is Reporting on 9 available online in Corporate Citizenship Ownership properties and legal Direct Economic 3.6 Report contents limits Full 2.6 Full Doğuş Group Annual Performance state Impact Report 2010 at the Investor Relations Reporting Content 66 section of the Group’s Index corporate website. About this Report 8 10-12 Reporting on 9 Report scope and contents Corporate Citizenship 24-26 3.7 Full Doğuş Group in Brief limitations Performance More information is Reporting Content Direct Economic 66 2.7 Markets serviced Full available online in Index Impact Doğuş Group Annual Report 2010 at the 3.8 Reporting principles on joint Full About this Report 8 Investor Relations ventures and other subsidiary section of the Group’s companies Reporting Content 66 corporate website. Index Doğuş Group in Brief 10-12 Data assessment techniques 3.9 Partially About this Report 8 2.8 Corporation scale Full and calculation methods Financial Highlights 24 8 About this Report 24 Reasons for the repetition of 9 3.10 information in the previous Full Reporting on More information is report Corporate Citizenship Important changes in size, available online in Strategy and policies Direct Economic Performance 2.9 structure and ownership Full Doğuş Group Annual not revised. Impact situations Report 2010 at the 8 Investor Relations About this Report section of the Group’s Important changes in the report 9 corporate website. 3.11 Full Reporting on scope and contents Corporate Citizenship No important Awards, Recognitions Performance 2.10 Awards Full 19-21 changes. and Certificates Reporting Content 3. Report profile 3.12 GRI Index Full 66-74 Index 3.1 Reporting Period Full About this Report 8 This report did not receive an 3.13 Report supervision Full 3.2 Date of Previous Report Full About this Report 8 independent assurance. 3.3 Reporting frequency Full About this Report 8 4. Governance, Contact information about liability and 3.4 Full Inside the Back Cover Inside the Back Cover sharing practices report About this Report 14 8 3.5 Report contents Full Reporting on Corporate Citizenship 9 Sustainability 30-31 Performance Management Corporation governance More information is 4.1 Full structure Corporate available online in Governance and Doğuş Group Annual Ethics Report 2010 at the Investor Relations section of the Group’s corporate website. 70 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 71 Department Name Reference Department Name Reference Profile Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Profile Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Corporate Message from the Autonomy of the Chairman of 4-5 4.2 Full Governance and 30-31 Chairman the Board Ethics Risk management attitude of Partially Message from the 6-7 Number of Independent Corporate 4.11 the corporation in fields related Chief Executive 4.3 Members in the Board of Full Governance and 30-31 to CSR Officer Directors Ethics Sustainability 14 14 Management Code of Ethics More information is Foreign enterprises and 31 available online in 4.12 activities in areas regarding Full Stakeholders’ and employees’ Sustainability Labor Issues and 4.4 Full Doğuş Group Annual CSR 40 involvement in management Management Human Rights Report 2010 at the Investor Relations Union and association Strategic Partnerships 4.13 Full 21 section of the Group’s memberships and Memberships corporate website. Stakeholder 4.14 Stakeholders list Full 64-65 Engagement Fee paid to senior Corporate 4.5 management and connections Partially Governance and 30-31 Key stakeholders determining 4.15 Partially About this Report 8 with sustainability performance process Ethics Stakeholder participation Stakeholder 4.16 Full 64-65 14 process Engagement Sustainability Management Material Issues Stakeholder participation 15 Processes preventing conflicts 4.6 Full 4.17 and primary subjects, Partially of interest Corporate Stakeholder 30-31 responsiveness performance 64-65 Governance and Engagement Ethics Performance Indicators Reporting on 9 Economic Corporate Citizenship Management Approach Performance Performance Economic Impact 24-25 CSR Management Strategy of Corporate Direct economic value 4.7 Full 13 EC1 Full the corporation Responsibility produced and distributed Community 43-53 Approach Engagement The effect of climate change Sustainability on the financial success of Environmental 14 EC2 Partially 54-63 Management the corporation, risks and Performance opportunities Corporate 13 Corporate liabilities regarding Recruitment and Responsibility EC3 Partially 41 Corporation’s rules of mission defined benefit pension plan Remuneration Approach 4.8 and behaviour regarding CSR Full performance Starting wage level rates Sustainability interval in contrast to local Recruitment and 14 EC5 Partially 41 Management minimum wage in important Remuneration operation locations Message from the 6-7 Investments made for public Community Chief Executive EC8 Full 43-53 CSR performance and the interest Engagement Officer 4.9 supervision of its risks by Partially senior management Message from the 6-7 Sustainability Chief Executive 14 Important indirect economic Management EC9 Partially Officer effects Economic Impact 24-26 72 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 73 Performance Department Name Reference Performance Department Name Reference Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Respect to Freedom Environmental Freedom of organization and of Association and Management Approach HR5 Full 41 Performance collective bargaining the Right to Collective The Ayhan Şahenk Bargaining Percentage of materials used EN2 Partially FoundationPaper 56 Child employment and Labor Issues and as recycled input material HR6 Full 40 Recycling Practices precautions taken Human Rights Products and services that Environmental Operations having the risk of EN6 Partially 54-63 Labor Issues and provide energy efficiency Performance HR7 forced labour and precautions Full 40 Human Rights Attempts to reduce indirect taken Environmental EN7 energy consumption and Partially 54-63 Total number of incidents Performance reductions obtained which resulted in the violation Labor Issues and HR9 Partially 40 Production centres within Environmental of the rights of the native Human Rights EN11 Partially 54-63 public and precautions taken protected areas Performance Environmental Product EN18 Attempts to reduce emissions Partially Performance 54-63 Responsibility Management Approach Performance Attempts to reduce the Environmental Health and safety in the life Customer Health and EN26 environmental effects of Partially 54-63 PR1 Full 35-37 Performance cycle of products and services Safety products Number of incidents in Labor Practices discordance with the Management Approach and Decent Work regulations and voluntary Products and PR2 Partially 35-37 Total number of employees and rules regarding health and Services LA2 their circulation according to Partially Employees 41 safety effects of products and age groups, gender and district services Responsible Benefits provided for the full LA3 Partially Employees 41 PR3 Labelling Partially Marketing and 37-38 time employees Labelling Respect to Freedom Health and safety matters Total number of incidents of Association and Responsible LA9 existing in the agreements with Full 41 displaying discordance with the Right to Collective PR4 Partially Marketing and 37-38 unions regulations and voluntary rules Bargaining Labelling regarding labelling Training and LA11 Employee training Partially 42 PR5 Customer satisfaction Full Customer Satisfaction 38-39 Development Regular performance and Performance Conformity with laws and Responsible LA12 Partially 42 development monitoring Management PR6 regulations regarding marketing Partially Marketing and 37-38 communication Labelling Labor Issues and 40 Inventory of employees’ age, Human Rights LA13 Partially Social gender and minority group Management Approach 41 Performance Employees Human Rights Corporate Management Approach 13 Performance Responsibility Approach Percentage and total number of significant investment 15 Labor Issues and Material Issues HR1 agreements comprising human Partially 40 The influence of our activities Human Rights SO1 Partially rights clauses and screened for on local public Community 43-53 human rights Engagement Code of Ethics 31-32 Stakeholder 64-65 Total number of incidents Labor Issues and 40 Engagement HR4 regarding discrimination and Partially Human Rights precautions taken Recruitment and 41 Remuneration 74 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2010 75 Performance Department Name Reference United Nations Global Compact Indicators Remark State and Location Pages Communication on Progress Index Sustainability UN Global Compact Principles Stance of Performance Information in Report 14 Management Human Rights The Risk and Audit 30-31 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Material Issues – 15 Risk analysis regarding Committee SO2 Full the protection of internationally proclaimed human Code of Ethics – 31-32 corruption Code of Ethics rights. Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 31-32 Doğuş Group AntiPrinciple 2: Businesses make sure that they are not Corporate Responsibility Approach – 13 32-34 complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Ethics – 31-32 Corruption Policy Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 Code of Ethics Corporation’s policies against 31-32 Labour SO3 corruption and trainings on the Full Doğuş Group Antisubject 32-34 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 Corruption Policy of association and the effective recognition of the Respect to Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Sustainability right to collective bargaining; Bargaining – 41 14 Management Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 The Risk and Audit compulsory labour; 30-31 Committee Precautions taken against Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 SO4 Full incidents of corruption Disciplinary 31 Committee Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Code of Ethics – 31-32 respect of employment and occupation. Labor Issues and Human Rights – 40 Doğuş Group AntiRecruitment and Remuneration – 41 32-34 Corruption Policy Environment Attitude against public policy Impact on Public SO5 and assistance activities for Partially 27 Principle 7: Businesses should support a Message from the Chief Executive Officer – 6-7 Policy public policy precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Approach to Environmental Responsibility – 56-63 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Material Issues – 15 environmental responsibility; and Approach to Environmental Responsibility – 56-63 Principle 9: encourage the development and Approach to Environmental Responsibility – 56-63 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Sustainability Management – 14 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and The Risk and Audit Committee – 30-31 bribery. Disciplinary Committee – 31 Doğuş Group Anti-Corruption Policy – 32-34 Report Contacts Deniz Bayel Feyizoğlu Corporate Communications Manager, Doğuş Holding Başak Gürtuna Koçer Corporate Communications Specialist, Doğuş Holding Tel: + 90 212 335 3109 e-mail: bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr CSR Consultancy FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. Tel: +90 212 283 4146 e-mail: info@finansaliletisim.com www.finansaliletisim.com Designed and Produced by İndeks İçerik-İletişim Danışmanlık Tel: +90 212 347 7070 www.indeksiletisim.com This report is printed on 100% recycled paper. Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Ayazağa Mah. Eski Büyükdere Cad. No: 15 Oycan Plaza Kat: 3-4-5 34398 Maslak, İstanbul Turkey Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr
