The Global Compact; Standard Chartered Bank’ Activities and Engagements 2010 About Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited is part of the Standard Chartered Bank Group whose mission is to be; The World’s Best International Bank; Leading the Way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In Uganda, our mission is; “To be the best International Bank in Uganda, leading the way in the financial services sector.” Standard Chartered Bank Uganda has been operating in Uganda for over 99 years. As Uganda‘s first bank, established in 1912, the Bank currently has a network of 11 branches and has 29 ATMs spread across the country. The Bank employs over 500 people. Standard Chartered’s core businesses in Uganda are in Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking (Origination & Client Coverage and Global Markets) products and services. Standard Chartered is committed to the community in Uganda through various community relations programs, working closely with the Ministry of Health, Uganda Red Cross, ECOTRUST, Sight Savers, World Vision and Water Aid among others. Standard Chartered Bank won the Euromoney Award for Best Bank in Uganda, 2009 and 2010, the emea Finance Best Bank in Uganda 2009 and 2010, and was recognized by Consumer Insights as the best bank in customer service in Uganda. The Bank also won the Federation of Uganda Employer’s Award for best in Training and Development for 2008. Standard Chartered Bank Uganda is a registered member of the United Nations Global compact and in compliance with the ten principles in their day-to day activities. Corporate Social Responsibility Standard Chartered has demonstrated its commitment to the community through the various community projects it has undertaken in partnership with the Ministry of Health, Uganda Red Cross, Sight Savers, ECOTRUST, UWASNET, World Vision, Church of Uganda, Water Aid, Land O’ Lakes and Ministry of Education. The Bank as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility has focused on the economically disadvantaged targeting Youth, Health, Education, micro-finance and environment, leading to reduction of poverty, enhancement of health and education in the communities in which we operate as well as supporting sustainable initiatives. Provision of safe drinking water Standard Chartered Bank in partnership with World Vision and UWASNET (Uganda Water and Sanitation network) drilled 6 boreholes in Butaleja District in 2010 a project worth Ugx 40 million ($17,000). The projects are already benefiting thousands of households in Namaji Village, Hasahya village, Highland village, Otahajadamba village, Mawanga Village and Namunasa village all in Butaleja district. The bank undertook this project because in addition to poor accessibility to safe and clean water especially in the rural areas, most of the natural water sources were contaminated, thus making them unsuitable and dangerous for human consumption. Furthermore, The Bank made water easily accessible to the people which had a tremendous impact on their quality of life in the following ways; Accessibility to clean water enabled the people to live with more dignity and consequently have a positive impact on their health. The reduced collection times of water from far away wells provided the communities with more time for other economic activities thus enabling them to contribute to the economic development of our country. With improved health, people are enjoying better living standards and devote their energies to income generating activities Supporting Education Standard Chartered Bank Uganda signed an agreement with World Vision Uganda to construct a school for the children living in internally Displaced People’s camps in Gulu District – Northern Uganda. The school project is situated 16 kilometers North of Gulu town at one of the Internally Displaced People’s camps called Cet Kana. We undertook this project because over 1.6 million displaced people in Uganda were living in camps and were in dire need for classrooms for the education of their children. The children studied under trees and their studies were affected by weather, in addition to lack of clean water, food, shelter and health services. Standard Chartered also chose this project because education is a fundamental right for all children and we believed the classroom environment could help create stability and provide a platform for conflict resolution in this war torn region. Over 80% of the people who lived in IDP camps were women and children, and over 350,000 children in the region could not go to school due to insecurity. 151 of 197 of schools in Gulu had been relocated or merged and the situation had led to overcrowding of the host schools. The venture was an expensive one and to complete it, the Bank invested Ush 180 million (US$ 98,901). The school has the capacity to accommodate at least 600 children every year. The school is fully equipped with seven classrooms, an administrative block and sanitation facilities with water tanks and toilets. The Bank also donated an assortment of text books and 150 desks to the school during the handover. HIV/AIDS Awareness programs Standard Chartered Bank Uganda has a program set to sensitize its staff and the community about the HIV/AIDS pandemic that has claimed many lives and is still claiming more as statistics show an increase in the HIV prevalence and infections. Our staff are encouraged to test for HIV/Aids and when found positive, they receive free Anti-retroviral drugs. The Bank works in partnership with the Joint Medical Research Center and AIESEC to create awareness in schools, markets, other organizations and any other forum where we are given a chance to share the messages. The Bank also distributes free condoms to its staff and shares its toolkits with other organizations to enable them undertake their own sensitization programs. From 2006 to date, Standard Chartered Bank has created awareness to over 35,000 people. Health – Sight restoration program – “Seeing is Believing” The “Seeing is Believing” (SIB) project was launched in 2003 to celebrate the Bank’s 150th anniversary. The campaign was initiated by employees and they have been the driving force behind it ever since. The first objective was to raise funds to pay for 28,000 sight-restoring cataract operations; one for every member of staff employed at that time. The Bank achieved twice this initial target that year, raising enough money for 56,000 sight restorations. Since 2003, the ambition of SiB has grown significantly. o Sightsavers are our implementing partner in Uganda though we also work in partnership with the Ministry of Health and hospitals around the country to screen, treat, operate patients with cataracts and other eye ailments as well as create awareness. o In 2010 the Bank held a fundraising gala and invited its corporate clients to partner with it in order to achieve a record 5,000 operations. The Bank made an investment of $70,000 (Ugx 168m) and the staff contributed $13,000 (Ugx 30m), while the implementing partners Sight Savers contributed $33,000 Ugx 80m. The 15 corporate partners made a contribution of $50,000 (Ugx 118m) bringing the amount of money spent to $ 167,000 (Ugx 400m). Standard Chartered Bank Uganda’s achievements under “Seeing is Believing” over the years Seeing is Believing statistics to date Year No. people No. surgeries screened 2003 700 43 2004 900 55 2005 1,530 125 2006 2,155 125 2007 4,501 377 2008 14,315 1,402 2009 24,252 2,273 2010 29,497 5,023 Total 77,850 9,432 Prevention of Malaria program – “NetsforLife” The name “NetsforLife” invokes the main objective of the program which is linked towards saving the lives of pregnant women, children under 5 years and people living with HIV through the distribution and use of specially treated bed nets. Standard Chartered Bank Uganda in partnership with Church of Uganda’s Planning, Development and Rehabilitation (PDR) have run the “NetsforLife” project since 2006. To date we have donated 230,000 Long Lasting Insecticide Treated Mosquito Nets to dioceses across the country. As part of our operations, in each diocese one district is selected and one sub-county is chosen from each district. The specific sub-counties are always selected with the involvement of the Diocesan and District officials of the respective Dioceses and Districts to address areas with the highest need. In preparation of the distribution of the nets, Standard Chartered together with PDR undertakes several activities which include; Community mobilization, Formation of malaria control committees, Selection and training of malaria control agents, Registration and verification of target groups/individuals, Training of community members, Identification of research assistants for the baseline survey and their subsequent training. And the actual distribution of the nets to the beneficiaries who are children under 5 years of age, pregnant women and chronically sick people (people living with HIV/AIDS). These people are identified with the help of Malaria agents and the Diocesan staff. The program seeks to address two major problems: Teach people about Malaria – causes, effects, management of Malaria patients and ways of controlling it. Provide access to insecticide treated nets due to unavailability and high costs. Environment In Uganda, the recent published State of Biodiversity report mentions that we are loosing biodiversity at a rate of 1% annually. In 2010 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda therefore entered into partnership with Ecotrust (Environmental Conservation Trust of Uganda) in a drive to plant 3 million trees at a cost of UGS 461m over a period of time. The target of the project is to plant trees in all the four different regions and so far we have planted 60,000 trees in Mbale district and 13,000 trees at the Bishop Stuart University and the neighboring Kabulangire Hill in Western Uganda. Having covered the Eastern and Western regions of Uganda in 2010, the next areas to be covered this year will be in Northern Gulu and Central Uganda. The ultimate objective of the project is to help contribute to the country’s sustainable development through preservation and conservation of the environment. Standard Chartered Bank therefore focuses on the restoration of indigenous forests. The Bank is therefore promoting native tree species contributing to the provision of wood but also to the continued existence of our native species and the biodiversity they embrace. We focus on planting trees around the bare hills, river banks and watersheds as they provide multiple environmental benefits. Below are some of the smaller initiatives we have undertaken in the recent past to preserve our environment:1. We planted over 100 trees in the compound of the school for internally displaced children which we built in Gulu, Northern Uganda, last year. 2. We planted over 50 trees in Salaama School for the Blind where we renovated a building block. 3. We screened Al Gore’ An Inconvenient Truth to 200 customers. 4. Over 150 staff have viewed “An Inconvenient Truth”. 5. We encourage staff to use fibre bags / baskets instead of polythene bags. 6. 30 members of staff toured Mabira forest, the biggest forest in Uganda, which the government wanted to give away to investors to grow sugar canes. This plan seems to have been abandoned. 7. We collect plastic water bottles and pass them on to a factory that recycles them. 8. We donated UGS 4m (USD 2,500) to facilitate the activities of the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA). 9. We discourage staff from printing unless it is absolutely necessary. 10. We encourage staff to recycle paper. 11. We have introduced double page printing and it is rapidly spreading across the Bank. 12. Paul Rippey, a student of Al Gore, made a presentation to staff about global warming. This had been modified to bring the message closer home with examples from Africa, East Africa and Uganda in particular. 13. We made arrangements for Paul Rippey to make the same presentation to members of parliament. 14. We donated a copy of “An Inconvenient Truth” to his Excellency the President of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni. 15. Some of our departments have sensors on their lights i.e. lights only come on when there is someone within a certain radius. 16. We have installed double sided printers to replace single sided printers to reduce the amount of paper we use. Protecting Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; The Bank ardently respects and promotes the right to equal protection by practicing fairness. For instance; all staff must go through a disciplinary hearing where they are given a fair hearing prior to dismissal. The Bank employees also have the right to appeal the decision of the disciplinary hearing committee if they believe it is too harsh or unfair. All staff exercise the freedom of speech using the various forums like departmental meetings, one-on-one meetings with managers and we also promote this right through “Speak up” Policy and open door policy. Employees exercise their right to vote in a general election as evidenced by the Bank’s closure of its business to allow staff to exercise this voting right. We also respect the employee’s right to privacy, right to marry, right to property and support them to achieve them. Upholding Labor Standards Standard Chartered Bank also abides by the labor laws of Uganda and works in line with International Labor Organization standards. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The Bank allows Collective Bargaining in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution of Uganda wherein Right of Association is a Fundamental Right. Standard Chartered Bank respects the right for association of its employees at all times and further facilitates it by organizing staff events and allows staff to associate and discuss issues that affect them which are escalated and resolved through various forums. This is also done through the Staff welfare committee; this is one of the avenues where representatives collect feedback from staff as regards anything that may be causing them pain and is addressed in the right forum. HR has representation on this committee to ensure follow through on staff issues / concerns. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The Bank employs staff after mutually agreeing and signing off on the terms and conditions of employment; job description and code of conduct thus eliminating forced labour. All appointment letters have a clause of staff consent where the staff signs if they have understood and agreed to the terms and conditions of the job. The staff also individually set their objectives with guidelines provided by the Line Manager and they are discussed and agreed upon. • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; All employees of the Bank must have a qualification from a tertiary institution prior to getting a job. This ensures the Bank is not employing anyone under 18 years of age. • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Standard Chartered, there is a written policy on non-discrimination and equal opportunity for Employment encased in “Diversity and Inclusion” “As part of its Recruitment Process, Standard Chartered Bank ensures equal opportunity for all eligible applicants for employment without any discrimination against; gender, race, religion, caste, color, ancestry or marital status. In line with this policy, Standard Chartered Bank employs disabled persons and a blind person. Opportunity for employment is solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant. Career growth opportunities will be based entirely on individual merit.” An Ethos of Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and bribery As per the Standard Chartered Bank’s Code of Conduct, the Bank adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices and all forms of bribery are prohibited. Staff are called upon to remain committed to do the right thing, conduct themselves in an honest, open and professional manner and to live our brand promise; Here for Good. The policy on gifts and donations, as explicitly mentioned in the terms & conditions clearly points out that “ Standard Chartered Bank employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of its business. The Bank also rolled out the anti bribery e-learning which is mandatory for all staff. The e-learning teaches staff how to mitigate bribery
