TIM Participações Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 1. Message from the President 2 2. About the report 4 2.1 Scope 4 2.2 External Assurance 6 3. Organizational profile 7 3.1 Portfolio 8 3.2 Mission, Vision and Values 8 3.3 Shareholder structure 9 3.4 Awards received in 2010 9 4. 2010 Highlights 10 5. Sustainability 14 6. Corporate governance 15 6.1 Principles and policies 17 6.2 Our stakeholders 18 6.2.1 External 19 6.2.2 Internal 20 6.3 Legal compliance 21 6.4 Public policies 22 7. Economic performance 23 7.1 Significant achievements 24 7.2 Value chain 24 7.2.1 Direct economic impacts 25 7.2.2 Indirect economic impacts 31 8. Environmental performance 33 8.1 Environmental goals 34 8.2 Materials 35 8.3 Energy 36 8.4 Water 38 8.5 Climate changes 38 8.5.1. Carbon Inventory 39 8.6 Waste 41 8.7 Environmental impact of products and services 43 9. Social performance 48 9.1 Diversity and equal opportunities 51 9.2 Diversity in governance 53 9.3 Health and safety 56 9.4 External public 59 9.5 Society and government 61 9.6 Communities 62 9.7 Social projects 64 10. Annual social accounting 66 11. Global compact 68 12. GRI content index 69 13. Credits 75 1 Sustainability Report 2010 1. Message from the President The brand repositioning and the recovery of innovation as characteristics, which started in 2009, paved the way for sustainable development in 2010... Divulgação If I had to define 2010 for TIM Participações S.A. (TIM), average number of call minutes per user, reaching 129 I would choose two words: resilience and consolidation. in 2010. People without borders make companies withThe brand repositioning and the recovery of innovation out borders: TIM became market leader in the long disas characteristics, which started in 2009, paved the way tance call segment, with a 48% market share; a result for sustainable development in 2010 and allowed the that indicates a change in consumer behavior, in addiconsolidation of our Company’s turnaround: we are curtion to contributing to the reduction of transportation rently the second largest company in the mobile segment, needs, causing a drop in CO2 emissions (the main gas in terms of value generation. We launched differentiated present in the greenhouse effect responsible for global plans, with inclusive profiles, not only for voice, but also warming). for data, in order to benefit an increasing number of consumers. And these movements were conducted in accorThus, with its community concept, TIM increased its scale, dance with environmental issues, by minimizing possible benefitting its consumers, the environment, and its busiimpacts generated by this growth. ness, which grew and strengthened, reaching significant results in 2010: it was the carrier that achieved the high“Clients speaking more, for less” summarizes the soest growth in number of clients, with 9.9 million additional cial inclusion characteristic of our community concept, lines and an incremental market share of 34%. The inlaunched with the Infinity and Liberty plans. These crease of this customer base improved TIM’s profitability, plans, which represent more than 80% of the carrier’s with growth of 6.1% for its total net revenue and 29% for customer base, leveraged an increase of 30% in the its EBITDA margin. 2 Sustainability Report 2010 In addition to this growth, TIM reinforced its commitment for the actions related to the Global Compact principles, to customer service quality. The agreements that TIM along with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators. executed with Fundação Procon São Paulo (Consumer Protection Agency) and with Departamento de Proteção Minimizing the possible environmental impacts arise Defesa do Consumidor (Department for Consumer Proing from our activities is also one of our commitments. tection and Defense – DPDC), for the reduction in the numThe Company analyzes and follows up on the effects of ber of complaints received by these agencies are proof of the waste caused by the turnover in the replacement of this effort. cell phones and EMR emissions from Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs) to the environment. The launch of an ofThese initiatives, in our view, are also part of a management fering model based on a separate TIMChip (SIM card), style that focuses on sustainable development and whose which postpones the replacement of cell phones, is an topics, starting in 2010, are included in the meetings of the example. In addition, we invested in shared networks Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, and sites in order to reduce the environmental impact on one of the committees of the Company’s Board of Direcaccess systems. tors. The recognition for this effort resulted in TIM’s inclusion, for the third consecutive year, in BM&FBOVESPA’s TIM is also involved with the community: the project TIM Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), and Carbon Efficient Música nas Escolas (TIM Music at Schools), created in Index (ICO2), launched in 2010 by the Exchange. In order 2003, provided for the creation of four additional Brazilian to understand and provide transparency on the emissions music orchestras; its first album was launched in 2010, that impact upon the environment, TIM enhanced its 2010 thus completing its lifecycle in December, 2011. The proinventory, an area of work that will be the basis for the gram has already benefitted over 20,000 students in pubdefinition of the Company’s climate change policy. lic schools in 13 Brazilian cities. By the end of its cycle, the project will have created six Brazilian music orchestras. Our Social and Environmental Responsibility Policies – which guide TIM’s actions – are based on the UN Global The challenges of sustainable management continue and, Compact principles, to which the Company has been a in 2011, TIM will work to further enhance its sustainability, signatory since 2008. We use our sustainability report to offering value to our clients and to the community in which inform the Company’s Communication on Progress (COP) we operate. Luca Luciani 3 Sustainability Report 2010 About the report 2. About the Report For the third consecutive year, TIM has published its sustainability report with the application level B+ of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). ©iStockphoto.com/Thomas_EyeDesign Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines GRI application level TIM has published its sustainability report in compliance This report achieves a self-declared B+ application level with the guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative by GRI, which establishes the reporting of all profile (GRI), version G3, for the third consecutive year. items, information on management style, and a minimum of 20 performance indicators, including at least one of Period covered the following areas: economy, environment, human This report covers the period from January to December, rights, labor practices, society, and accountability for 2010. The previous report covers the year of 2009. the product. Indicators 2.1 Scope TIM reports 68 indicators, of which 47 are essential and To compose the materiality matrix, 43 interviews were 21 are additional. As a result from its quest for continuconducted among company directors and representaous improvement in sustainability management, 17 intives of stakeholders. dicators were added to this report. The data published here was collected quarterly, by the various areas of the The contents of this report refer to the activities of TIM Company, involving 19 different data centers. The objecParticipações S.A. and its subsidiaries, TIM Celular S.A., tive is to increasingly expand the understanding of and and Intelig Telecomunicações LTDA, with limitations of compliance with these topics in the various departments scope. Part of the indicators on the environment, product of the Company. responsibility and society does not include information on Intelig. 4 Sustainability Report 2010 About the report Materiality Matrix The incorporation of Intelig in December 2009, created the need for recalculation of the information published in the 2009 Sustainability Report for the purpose of comparability with the results of 2010. Indicators with this 01 reformulation can be identified through the footnotes of 04 0203 the tables. 07 Level of importance to stakeholders 08 05 10 The adoption of GRI guidelines – which are inter06 09 national references for the reporting of social, economic, and environmental dimensions – reinforces the 11 Company’s commitment to transparency towards its stakeholders. TIM’s main areas of interest are divided into the following categories: clients, suppliers, competitors, civil society organizations, community, internal stakeholders, shareholders, and environmental regulatory agencies. In addition to the Sustainability Report, TIM publishes its Annual Report. In order to facilitate the reading and Level of importance to the company the integration of information between the two docuMain Subjects ments, some points of the Sustainability Report refer, 01 – Economic Perfomance 07 – Suppliers and Distributors 02 – Customer Relations 08 – Public Regulation – Anatel with clear indications, to data published in the Annual 03 – Human Rights 09 – Products Report. 04 – Corporate Governance 10 – Community Relations 05 – Human Resources 11 – Health and Safety 06 – Environment This report’s materiality matrix is the same as that used in the 2009 reporting process. Prepared by the consulting company BSD, the materiality followed GRI External Assurance G3 guidelines and principles. 22 open interviews were The information contained in the 2010 Sustainability Reconducted with directors, managers, and employees port was verified by the independent auditing company – representing 19 areas of the Company – and 21 inPwC, according to a statement published in link, considterviews were conducted with representatives of exering the GRI G3 guidelines determined for the analysis. ternal stakeholders:clients, suppliers, competitors, civil society organizations, community and environmental Contact regulatory agencies. 11 main topics were identified, as For further information on sustainability, access the website shown in the chart below. More details of the matrix www.timbrasil.com.br contact the sustainability managepreparation process are available in the 2009 Sustainment by e-mail through sustentabilidade@timbrasil.com.br ability Report. or +55 21 4009-4096. 5 Sustainability Report 2010 About the report 2.2 Assurance report ing into consideration the materiality and the volume of Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report information presented in the Sustainability Report; (ii) on the Sustainability Report for 2010 of TIM obtaining an understanding of the internal controls; (iii) Participações S.A. examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting quantitative and qualitative data in the Sustainability Report; To the Board of Directors TIM Participações S.A. (iv) interviewing the managers responsible for the information; and (v) comparing information of a financial nature with that in the accounting records. These proceIntroduction dures were deemed sufficient to allow a limited level of We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance assurance and, consequently, do not include all those engagement on the Sustainability Report for 2010 of TIM required for issuing a broader assurance report, as set Participações S.A. prepared under the responsibility of forth in said standard. the Company’s management. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal Scope and Limitations control over the proper preparation and presentation of The objective of our engagement was to verify whether the Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to provide the data included in the Sustainability Report for 2010 of a limited assurance report on the information disclosed TIM Participações S.A., with respect to the obtaining, in the Sustainability Report of TIM Participações S.A. for measurement and calculation of quantitative information, the year ended December 31, 2010. is presented in accordance with the criteria and guidelines for sustainability reports from the Global ReportProcedures Applied ing Initiative (GRI-G3). Opinions, historical information, Our limited assurance engagement was performed descriptive information and information resulting from in accordance with the Brazilian Standard NBC TO subjective evaluations are not included in the scope of 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and the work performed. Review”, issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC). This standard requires that we comply with Conclusion ethical requirements and plan and perform the asBased on our limited assurance engagement, we are surance engagement to obtain limited assurance that not aware of any significant modification that should no matter has come to our attention that leads us to be made to the information included in the Sustainbelieve that the Sustainability Report for 2010 of TIM ability Report for 2010 of TIM Participações S.A. for Participações S.A. is not in accordance with the crithe year ended December 31, 2010, for this informateria described below (Scope and limitations), in all tion to be fairly presented, in all material respects, in material respects. accordance with the criteria described above (Scope and limitations). In a limited assurance engagement, the evidencegathering procedures are more limited than those performed in a reasonable assurance engagement; São Paulo, April 19, 2011. therefore, less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment, inPricewaterhouseCoopers cluding the assessment of the risks of material nonAuditores Independentes compliance of the Sustainability Report with the criCRC 2SP000160/O-5 “F” RJ teria described below (Scope and limitations). Within the scope of our work we performed, amongst others, Sérgio Eduardo Zamora the following procedures: (i) planning the work, takContador CRC-1SP168728/O-4 “S” RJ 6 Sustainability Report 2010 Organizational profile 3. Organizational profile With the incorporation of Intelig, TIM increased its number of internal stakeholders to 10,559 in 2010, with 10,138 direct employees. ©iStockphoto.com/skynesher The first wireless carrier with a national presence, TIM In 2010, TIM invested in the expansion of its coverage via Participações S.A. is a subsidiary holding of Telecom ItaGSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) technollia Group, one of the leaders in the European telecommuogy and 2G capability, as well as in the expansion of 3G nications industry. TIM makes substantial investments in coverage. Through GSM technology, the Company has a networks and IT and maintains synergies with its controlnational coverage of approximately 94% of the urban popling group via the sharing of experiences and the adopulation and is present in 3,203 cities. Furthermore, in relation of best practice policies, always providing innovative tion to 2009, TIM closed the year with more than twice the experiences to all its clients. number of 3G cell towers (a growth of approximately 120%) and covering more than 54% of the urban population. Headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, TIM operates in Brazil through its subsidiaries: TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig TeleThroughout the country, TIM also has extensive data covercomunicações LTDA. In December 2009, the Intelig mergage: 100% GPRS (General Packet Radio Service), of which er process was completed, allowing TIM to increase its 79% have EDGE. Another service offered by the company internal stakeholders to 10,559 in 2010, of whom 10,138 is international roaming plans, with more than 450 networks were its own employees. available, in approximately 200 countries, in six continents. 7 Sustainability Report 2010 Organizational profile 3.1 Portfolio 3.2 Mission, Vision and Values The Infinity and Liberty plans represent over 80% of Innovation, transparency and professional excellence TIM’s customer base, which grew by 24% in 2010. are among the principal values of the company, whose mission is to always be close to the customer. With an extensive portfolio, TIM offers fixed/mobile telephony and Internet services (mobile or landline access). Mission In 2010, the number of subscribers increased by 24%, To be close to clients, offering innovative possibilities for reaching approximately 51 million lines. The Infinity and connectivity, focusing on their various expectations and Liberty plans represent more than 80% of the client base. needs, and contributing as an agent of social developThe pre-paid Infinity plan amounted to 39 million lines and ment through sustainable management. the post-paid Liberty/Infinity segment registered more than 3.5 million clients. Vision To be the first choice amongst clients, providing innovaIn terms of plans for individuals, in 2010, the Company extive and high quality services, becoming a benchmark of panded the Infinity and Liberty families, launching Infinity profitability of the Brazilian telecom market. and Liberty Web offers. It also launched the pay-per-call concept, intended for calls placed to landlines, through Values the Infinity Mais offer. > Proactiveness For the business segment, TIM offers various services > Transparency to small, medium, and large companies for flexible and efficient optimization of communication. It offers various > Speed tools that provide innovative solutions, according to the needs of each company, using modern technological re> Professional Excellence sources with maximum security. Moreover, the Company is in line with new trends and aims at meeting the needs > Innovation of the various profiles of consumer and business clients. More information about the products can be found on the > Entrepreneurship company’s 2010 Annual Report. > Customer focus > Team spirit Pre-Paid 39mi The pre-paid infinity plan amounted to 39 million lines and the post-paid Liberty/Infinity segment registered more than 3.5 million clients. 8 Sustainability Report 2010 Organizational profile 3.3 Shareholder structure 3.4 Awards received in 2010 TIM Participações is a holding company controlled by TIM TIM received 14 awards, among which the renowned Brasil Serviços e Participações S.A., a subsidiary of the World Finance Telecoms Awards 2010. Telecom Italia Group, one of the leaders in the telecommunications industry in Europe > World Finance Telecoms Awards 2010 (World Finance magazine) – Best wireless carrier in Latin America. Telecom Italia > 10th Brazilian Teleservice Association (ABT) Award – 100% Best Practices in Customer Service, winner in the Internet and Mobility category with the Content Portal Telecom Italia International N.V. Project; also chosen Case of the Year, 2nd place in the . category Quality Management. 100% Tim Brasil Serv. Minority > Top of Mind 2010 Award (State of Santa Catarina). e Part. S.A. Interest > Londrina Top Brands 2010 Award (State of Paraná). ON: 77% ON: 23% PN: 61% PN: 39% > Top of Mind 2010 Award (State of Paraná). Total: 66% Total: 34% > IMPAR Award (State of Paraná). Tim Participações S.A. > Nossa Gente (Our People) 2010 Award (State of Amapá). 100% 100% > ORM ACP Award (State of Pará). Tim Celular S.A. Intelig > Top of Marketing Award – Associação dos Dirigentes de Vendas e Marketing do Brasil (Association of Brazilian Sales and Marketing Directors), (State of Pará). TIM has been a member of BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE in the Brazilian acronym) since 2008. > Top of Mind Award – Correio de Uberlândia (State of TIM is a public company whose shares are traded in the São Minas Gerais). Paulo Stock Exchange and ADRs are traded in the New York Stock Exchange. > Highlight in Top Consumer Award – Excellence in Consumption Relations and Respect for the Environment, granted by Instituto Nacional de Edudação do ConsuShareholder Common Preferred Structure Shares % Shares % Total % midor e do Cidadão (National Institute for Consumer TIM Brasil and Citizen’s Education – Inec) and by the magazine serviços e 650,537,118 77.14 990,098,815 60.65 1,640,635,933 66.27 Consumidor Teste/State of Rio Grande do Sul. participações S/A Others 192,744,359 22.86 642,354,768 39.35 835,099,127 33.73 > CW300 Award – Largest in Telecom and Cellular Voice Total 843,281,477 100.00 1,632,453,583 100.00 2,475,735,060 100.00 Services. > Diário Comércio, Indústria e Serviços Newspaper (DCI) Award – Most Admired Company in 2010 – Winner in the Shareholder structure updated on December 30th, 2009, after the incorMobile Telephone category. poration of Intelig. > Orgulho de Pernambuco (Pernambuco Pride ) Award (DiáMore information can be found in TIM’s Annual Report and rio de Pernambuco). Consolidated Financial Statements. 9 Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Highlights 4. 2010 Highlights In 2010 TIM was able to meet most of the goals established in 2009, some with better-thanexpected results. As part of the strategy of continuous improvement of wards these goal is presented below. More information its sustainability management, TIM committed to a set on each of these goals will also be presented throughout of goals in its 2009 Sustainability Report. Progress tothis report. Goals Unit Of December Goal December Topic Indicator Status Measure 2009 2010 2010 One day off for the employee % that voluntarily takes part in the Volunteerism (Company’s 1 1.6 Reached Programa Cidadão sem Fronteiras own staff) (Citizens without Borders Program) Number of hours Training (total hours: in the (Company’s Training hours 456,606 715,000 897,954 Reached classroom + online + on the job) own staff, interns, and contractors) Training coverage % Not Training coverage (number of people taking part in at (Company’s 98 97 82 reached least one training course) own staff) % Training Sustainability (Company’s Sustainability (number of people taking part in own staff, 20 35 Reached Training at least one training course on interns, and sustainability) contractors) Collection of old cell phones, Environment/ batteries, and remaining Metric tons 19 12 14.65 Reached Batteries accessories for recycling Percentage of waste recycled over Environment/ total % 49 51 60 Reached Waste waste generated in the offices Environment/ Reduction in the consumption of Not kWh 1,000,000 759,752 Energy electricity in the offices reached Environment/ Reduction in the consumption of m3 2,400 22,094 Reached Water water in the offices Aggregate Number of suppliers assessed on Suppliers total 26 70 74 Reached sustainability issues as of 2009 10 Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Highlights According to the table on the previous page, the goals were Suppliers reached, with the exception of the indicators for training TIM always conducts procurement processes to select coverage and for reduction in consumption of electricity in products and services that offer high quality and safety the offices. In the first case, the goal was not reached beand that respect the environment, while also being suitcause, due to lack of integration with TIM’s database, the ed to the best market conditions. In 2009, the Company training courses offered by Intelig were not totaled. started a dialog on sustainability with its main suppliers, which were expanded from 26 to 74. In the second case, the goal was not completely reached due to technical limitations found in older administrative Environmental regulatory agencies buildings. In these locations, the air conditioning sysIn 2010, TIM started taking part on the Empresas pelo tems still consume high levels of energy 76% of the goal Clima platform (Companies for the Climate). Organized by was reached. FGV’s Centro de Estudos de Sustentabilidade (Center for Sustainability Studies), the group prepares companies for In addition to the goals, in 2010, we highlight our a low-carbon economy. participation, for the third consecutive year, in the BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) Internal stakeholders portfolio, and in the BM&FBOVESPAand BNDES’s CarTIM closed the year with 10,559 internal stakeholders, inbon Efficient Index (ICO2) portfolio. In 2010, TIM also cluding 10,138 employees, 218 apprentices, 177 interns, became one of the first mobile carriers in Brazil to reand 26 administrative contractors. One of the priorities of ceive the environmental certification ISO 14001. This the Company is to attract and develop valuable profescertification was attributed to the Monitoring Managesionals. Therefore, it created the program Talentos sem ment, Performance Information, and Network Quality Fronteiras (Talents without Borders), which selected 84 activities of the Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and Santo André (SP) young talents in 2010. This initiative searches for the best operating units. young individuals in the job market so that, in the future, they assume important positions in the Company. Clients and services TIM has always aimed at being close to its clients, Socio-environmental projects offering innovative possibilities for connectivity, meetThe project TIM Música nas Escolas (Music in Schools) ing their various expectations and needs. In 2010, the is one of the social programs developed by TIM. This Company continued to add to its portfolio new ofinitiative has already benefitted over 20,000 students of ferings in its Liberty and Infinity plans to address the public schools in 13 Brazilian cities. In 2010, the project growing demand for data services . The launch of Inwas developed in six of these cities.The Company also finity Web also deserves to be highlighted, since it altakes parts in Programa TIM ArtEducAção (TIM ArtEducalowed users to navigate on the Internet using their cell tionAction Program) which, in 2010, engaged over 5,000 phones for only R$ 0,50 per day. This offer provided youths in 12 cities located in Minas Gerais. Another impordigital inclusion to multiple social strata. In addition tant project is the partnership between TIM and the NGO to plans and services, TIM offered new unlocked cell WWF, which sponsors the largest awareness movement phones to the market and allowed cell phones in use against Global Warming, in the country: “Earth Hour”. by its clients to be unlocked, free of charge, among other offers. Society and government In 2010, TIM took part in discussions with the Comitê Also in 2010, the Company became the market leader Gestor do Programa de Inclusão Digital (Managing Comin terms of network quality, beating its competition, acmittee of the Social Inclusion Program – CGPID), with the cording to the parameters established by Anatel. The aim of contributing to the development of Plano Nacional lowest dropped call rates were also reached, with an de Banda Larga (National Broadband Plan – PNBL). This average of 0.6% in the last quarter of the year. These plan is a set of goals and measures, created for promoting results highlight our commitment to the quality of serinfrastructure in the telecommunications industry in the vices provided. country. 11 Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Highlights Another highlight was the training courses for the The Company is also against all forms of discrimination, Company on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), which is harassment, and child and forced labor issues in its opan anticorruption procedure. In 2010, 998 training hours erations and businesses. These issues are covered in were provided. During the course on ethics, all TIM’s its Social Responsibility Policy. internal stakeholders were informed about the Global Compact principles, especially Principle 10, which Commitments for 2011 related to corruption. For 2011, TIM reaffirms its commitment to some of the goals established in its last Sustainability Report. Goal Actual Unit Of Commitment Topic Indicator December December Measure 2011 2010 2010 One day off for any employee that % voluntarily takes part in the Volunteerism (Company’s 1 1.6 1 Programa “Cidadão sem Fronteiras” own staff) (Citizen without Borders Program) Number of hours Total hours (Company’s Training 715,000 897,954 715,000 in the classroom + online + on the job) own staff, interns, and contractors) % Number of people taking part (Company’s Sustainability in at least one training own staff, 20 35 20 Training course on sustainability interns, and contractors) Collection of old cell phones, Environment/ batteries, and remaining accessories Metric tons 12 14.65 12 Batteries for recycling Environment/ Percentage of waste recycled over % 51 60 55 Waste total waste generated in the offices Environment/ Reduction in the consumption of kWh 1,000,000 759,752* 300,000 Energy electricity in the offices Number of suppliers Aggregate Suppliers assessed for total, 70 74 140 sustainability issues as of 2009 *The goal for reducing electricity consumption levels in the offices was not fully reached due to technical limitations found in older administrative buildings, which still have air conditioning systems that consume high levels of energy. Note: The goals related to training coverage and water consumption in 2010 will no longer be part of the commitments for 2011. 12 Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Highlights Challenges IM has the great challenge of developing eco-efficiency Another important energy efficiency action performed projects that aim at expanding the client base without by the Company is the tests conducted by the Power generating an identical increase in energy consumption. Saving project throughout 2010. In 2011 the project enters into an expansion phase. The new network funcThe energy eco-efficiency indicator is another important tionality avoids energy waste through a more rational item that allows TIM to monitor its energy consumption. use of resources. This indicator correlates the volume of services transmitted (bits) and the energy consumed (joules) in the TIM intends to continue pursuing profitable growth, provision of services by the Company. The Company without losing sight of its main challenge: the incorporaobserved a growth for this indicator throughout 2010, tion of new technologies to its products and services. representing gains in eco-efficiency, with positive quarThe Company will also continue to keep up with the terly variations of approximately 30%, especially due to speed of the market, without losing sight of its longthe new technologies employed, which enabled this reterm vision, implied in the effort of all individuals tosult even in a year of increased traffic of data and voice. wards more sustainable growth. With the stakeholders’ participation, we will combine technology, competencies, and creative potential to successfully solve both sides of this equation. 13 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability 5. Sustainability In 2010, for the third consecutive year, TIM was included in the Sustainability Index (ISE) of BM&FBovespa ©iStockphoto.com/thomazl The Telecom Italia Group initiated in 1997 its approach to Another highlight was TIM’s inclusion, for the third conthe issue of sustainability as part of its management strategy secutive year, in the BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Susand to be part of the most important sustainability indices tainability Index (ISE), and in the Carbon Efficient Index in the global market. (ICO2), launched in 2010 by BM&FBOVESPA and BNDES. In Brazil, TIM also strives to follow this path, aiming to Throughout this report, TIM’s actions towards sustainable develop the same type of culture within the organization. development will be shared. For the Company, the sustainability challenge resides in balancing the current and future needs of the three pillars of the sustainable development: economic, environmental, and social. In 2010, TIM took another important step towards management through sustainable development: the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, which reports directly to the Board of Directors, became responsible for the discussion of sustainability-related topics. 14 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance 6. Corporate governance Ethics, transparency, good faith, loyalty and truthfulness are TIM’s basic guiding principles for its businesses. ©iStockphoto.com/pixdeluxe TIM´s governance structure is based on the best interBoard of Directors national management practices. The Company conTIM is managed by a Board of Directors, a collegiate deducts its businesses with ethics, transparency, good liberation body that manages the highest levels of the faith, loyalty, and truthfulness. It is a publicly traded Company. It is composed of nine members elected to company managed by a Board of Directors and an two-year terms and eligible for reelection, and of five inExecutive Board, and is supervised by a Supervisodependent members. The Brazilian legislation, the Comry Committee, which also plays the role of an Audit pany’s Bylaws, and the Internal Regulation of the Board Committee. of Directors establish the duties and responsibilities of the members of the board. All decisions are registered The principles that guide TIM’s businesses are: in minutes. > freedom of decision; Board meetings are normally held on a quarterly basis; however, they can be extraordinarily summoned by its > access to information; Chairman, its officers, or the Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman of the Board can invite to the meetings any > fair treatment, and member of the Executive Board, other executives of the Company, or third parties that may provide inputs on > transparency. subjects to be discussed by the Board. The guests do not have the right to vote. 15 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance The Board of Directors has two committees with advisory Complaints registered by any person, either anonymously roles, which are composed of members of the Board: the or otherwise, concerning accounting, internal accounting Remuneration Committee and the Internal Control and controls or audit affairs can be sent to the Supervisory Corporate Governance Committee. Committee/Audit Committee. According to section 7 of Telecom Italia Group/TIM’s Code of Ethics, the eventual The list of the current effective members of the Board of informants are protected from any retaliation. In addition, Directors and their respective positions, and the five inthe Supervisory Committee/Audit Committee’s Annual Redependent members, can be found at www.tim.com.br/ri port for the General Shareholder Meeting records these occurrences and their treatment, maintaining secrecy over None of the members of the Board of Directors or the Exthe names of the informants, except for the cases otherecutive Board owned, or were the named beneficiaries, wise provided in law. of 1% or more of the Company’s common or preferred shares at the end of 2010. Complaints and reports can be sent by mail or by e-mail to comitedeauditoria@timbrasil.com.br. Shareholders and employees can make recommendations to the highest governance body either through the webAddress: site www.tim.com.br/ri or through the complaint channel on the company’s website www.tim.com.br. Comitê de Auditoria/Auditoria Interna Av. das Américas, 3434, Bloco 1, 7.o andar Supervisory Committee Barra da Tijuca The Supervisory Committee operates on a permanent ba22640-102 – Rio de Janeiro – RJ – Brasil sis, inspecting the acts of the Company’s management and informing shareholders. The Audit Committee, repreRemuneration of the administrators sented by the Supervisory Committee, has been in operaThe remuneration of the members of the Board of Direction since 2004. It is composed of renowned independent tors and Executive Board is registered in the Minutes of professionals who are not in any way associated with the the Company’s General and Extraordinary General MeetCompany. ings, conducted on April 27th, 2010, available on www. tim.com.br/ri. Remuneration for members of the Board is Of the five members of the Supervisory Committee, one not related to TIM’s economic, social and environmental is mandatorily elected by preferred shareholders, one can performance. be elected by minority shareholders, provided that they make up the quorum required by law, and the others are Right to vote elected by the controlling shareholder. In order to see the During the shareholders’ meetings, each common sharecurrent members of the Supervisory Committee, access holder has the right to vote. However, preferred shareholdthe website www.tim.com.br/ri. ers can address or take part in the shareholder’s meeting without the right to vote. Preferred shareholders elect, by The Supervisory Committee is responsible for: majority, one of the members of the Supervisory Committee and his/her alternate member. Each shareholder has > independently monitoring the actions of the Executive the right of first refusal for the subscription of shares in Board and verifying their compliance with legal duties any capital increase, proportional to their equity interests. and bylaws; Dividend Policy >p  roviding opinions on annual reports, business plans, According to the TIM Participações’s Bylaws, 25% of the and managerial budgets; adjusted net income is distributed between shareholders, either as dividends or interest on own capital every fiscal > reviewing and offering opinion on the Company’s finanyear, ending on December 31st, pending the availability of cial statements. resources for distribution. 16 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance The Company is also obliged to pay a non-cumulative Code of Ethics preferred dividend over its preferred shares, in an amount Our code of ethics provides advice and guidelines for the equivalent to 6% of the share capital divided by the total conduct of employees in all hierarchy levels, according to number of common and preferred shares or 3% of the Telecom Italia Group’s principles and in compliance with shareholders’ equity, whichever is greater. It is mandatory the laws of the Country. In addition, it defines the Comto maintain a legal reserve, to which 5% of the net income pany’s main objectives, which are the generation of value is added at the end of each fiscal year, until it amounts to to its shareholders, using resources efficiently, improving 20% of the capital. the excellence of its products and services, innovating, and being attentive to its customers. Sarbanes-Oxley Act TIM reinforces its commitment to the highest corporate The code of ethics requires that employees do not take governance levels by complying with the provisions repart on illegal behaviors or misconduct, ensuring full quired under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, transparency to the market, investors and the community once again receiving this certification in 2009. in general in relation to the company’s activities, except for strategic information. 6.1 Principles and policies TIM’s relationship with suppliers, clients, consumers The Code of Ethics is available on the intranet to all emand the community is governed by the Code of ployees and is constantly disclosed by means of various Conduct. activities. Since 2003, TIM Participações has adopted a Policy for Code of Conduct Disclosure, Use of Information, and Trading of Securities, In its Code of Business Conduct, TIM establishes criteaccording to the provisions of the Comissão de Valores ria for the relationship with suppliers, clients, consumers, Mobiliários (Brazil’s Securities and Exchange Commisand community, avoiding situations or behavior that can sion – CVM). As a result, the company established a code potentially damage the Company’s interests and aiming of conduct that must be followed by all employees with at a fair and equitable relationship with the market and the access to privileged information, in addition to the impobusiness environment. sition of restrictions on the trading of Company’s shares during certain periods. Global Compact Created by the United Nations (UN) in 2000, the Global For TIM, sustainability is a highly relevant issue. As deCompact brings together representatives of private iniscribed in the previous chapter on Sustainability, we aim tiatives from around the world, who have committed to to balance three dimensions: economic, environmental, complying with ten basic principles in the fields of human and social dimensions. To do so, we have implemented a rights, labor relations, environment, and the fight against set of policies aligned with our mission and values, which corruption. is available at www.timpartri.com.br/tim As signatories to this initiative since 2008, TIM Brasil and > TIM Brasil’s Social Responsibility Policy Telecom Italia Group aim to incorporate these principles into their strategies, culture, and daily operations, as well > Environmental Policy as into our relationships with employees, partners, suppliers, clients, and society. >S  upplier Relationship Policy for TIM’s procurement process The Company uses its Sustainability Report for disclosing Communication on Progress (COP) for actions related to > Marketing Communication Policy the principles of the Global Compact, along with the GRI Index indicators. 17 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance Fight against corruption 6.2 Our stakeholders TIM does not tolerate corruption or illicit acts, such as The continuous improvement of its relationship with frauds, bribes, extortion, and conflicts of interest.Therestakeholders in business is one of the commitments fore, the anticorruption guidelines are described in several assumed by TIM. internal documents about the conduct of employees and suppliers as a whole, with specific provisions on the topic. TIM believes that its business conduct must take into Among these documents, we highlight: the Code of account the expectations of all those with whom it Ethics, Code of Business Conduct, Guidelines for the interacts, namely the Company´s stakeholders. These Procurement of Materials, Goods, and Services, Policy stakeholders are dividid into eight categories: on Business Trips and Reimbursement of Expenses, Management of Gifts and Inducements, and Policy on the > Clients Distribution of Invitations to Events Promoted by TIM. > Suppliers Moreover, TIM complies with Italian Law 231/2001 on corruption in relations with public officials, which sets forth > Competitors severe sanctions for crimes committed in the interest or for the personal gain of directors/employees in the rela> Non-governmental organizations tions with public officials. Therefore, the company adopts the 231 Organizational Model by Telecom Italia Group, > Environment (environmental regulatory agencies) whether to prevent the personal liability of the individual committing the crimes set forth in the Decree from reach> Community ing the legal entity, or as an instrument required for the regulation of internal processes. All in compliance with the > Internal stakeholders principles of transparency, good standing, and loyalty that guide the Companies of the Group. > Shareholders In Brazil, for all procurement processes, TIM complies TIM considers the needs of all stakeholders not only bewith the laws in effect, the principles of the Code of Ethcause it believes it is fair to do so from an ethical standics, the 231MO Model, the internal normative documents point, but also because it is convinced that it is the only related to this policy, and the ten principles of the Global way to maintain its business over time. Compact. The document covers specific conventions related to anticorruption practices, presents specifications Among the commitments assumed by TIM is the continufor conduct in the handling of legal and arbitration proceous improvement of its relationship with its stakeholders dures, and aims at avoiding the exposure of the Company and its environmental performance. Therefore, the Comto risks of this nature. pany has become a signatory of the UN Global Compact and works, as statedin our Code of Ethics, to enforce the As previously described, the Supervisory Committee/Auprinciples set forth in this commitment, both internally and dit Committee is responsible for receiving complaints from externally. all individuals in relation to accounting, internal accounting controls or audit affairs, as well as equally anonymous and confidential reports from employees of the Company or its affiliates on questionable accounting or audit issues. Complaints can be sent by e-mail, through the Complaints Channel or mail. The names of the persons filing the complaints or reports are confidential. In its annual report for the General Meeting, the Supervisory Committee/Audit Committee publishes information on the complaints and reports received throughout the year and the results of their investigations. 18 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance 6.2.1 External stakeholders Suppliers TIM believes that the conduction of its business TIM conducts procurement processes in order to select should consider the expectations of all those with products and services that offer high quality and safety whom it interacts. and that respect the environment, while also being suited to the best market conditions. Among the criteria used by Clients TIM are the compliance with requirements such as deadAs a subsidiary of the Telecom Italia Group, TIM bases lines, cost, and quality, and the guidelines set forth in the its excellence in products and services offered on the Code of Ethics and Code of Business Conduct. Whenever attention devoted to customers and on the desire to meet possible, TIM prioritizes Brazilian suppliers. their needs. The objective is to ensure a response that is immediate, qualified, and directed at the demands of our In its agreements with suppliers, TIM sets forth proviclients, supporting its conduct with honesty, courtesy, sions related to ethical aspects, respect for human and and collaboration. labor rights, environmental protection, the fight against corruption, and compliance with labor laws. Concerning The Client Relationship Center (CRC) is the main sustainability, in 2009, TIM started a process for assessing communication channel between the Company and the its main suppliers, aiming at identifying opportunities for consumer, receiving requests, doubts, and complaints, improvement. In 2010, 74 suppliers had been assessed. and registering new prepaid subscribers. The main channel for communication between TIM and its To assess customer satisfaction in relation to the services suppliers is the website www.timcommerce.com.br. provided, TIM conducts two surveys – one monthly, to evaluate client satisfaction in relation to CRC, and another Competitors semiannually, to check client’s general satisfaction with TIM maintains a cooperative relationship with its comthe Company. We consider that this mechanism allows petitors via various trade associations and work groups us to identify opportunities for improvement. on technical matters. One such example is its presence in Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Another tool used by TIM is the online monitoring of social Serviço Móvel Celular e Pessoal (National Union for Telenetworks, such as blogs, websites, and social networks. phone and Cellular/Personal Mobile Service Companies Thus, we try to identify issues that are relevant to the – Sinditelebrasil), an entity that has replaced Associação stakeholders, which cannot be found in formal channels. Nacional das Operadoras Celulares (National Association of Mobile Carriers – Acel). The consumer can also use the channel TIMTIM por TIMTIM, via Twitter, to obtain commercial and institutional informaThe Company has also prepared an informative manual on tion. The address is: www.twitter.com/timtimportimtim. Defense of Competition, to make its employees aware of the importance of compliance with the laws in Brazil that deal with competition, as well as to prevent infringements. The document reflects TIM’s commitment to the development of the industry and the promotion of progress in the Brazilian economy as a whole, working to ensure the well being of consumers, with social responsibility and respect for the law. 19 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance Environmental regulatory agencies TIM establishes channels for informal and permanent conTIM’s Environmental Policy, prepared in 2009, was intact with the community. This communication is frequentspired by the guidelines provided by the Global Reporting ly initiated via regional offices or by the Press Relations Initiative (GRI) and the UN’s Global Compact. The prin& Sustainability Department, through the Sustainability ciples that guide our policy are: Management. TIM’s main forms of action are: > Continuous Improvement and Prevention of Pollution > Donations  – intermittent support to specific good causes; > Waste Management > Investments in the community – social action projects > Electromagnetic Emissions with long-term involvement; > Legal Compliance > Initiatives in the community – activities related to supporting the results of the Company, conducted in the > Consumption of natural resources communities. > Technological Innovations TIM can either develop projects in partnership with institutions or support them throughout their development, > Communication always considering their characteristics and alignment with Company strategy. Requests for support to social One of the greatest challenges found in the telecommuprojects can be sent for analysis via e-mail to projetosonications industry is the management of waste generated cial@timbrasil.com.br. More information can be found on by the disposal of cell phones and accessories. Aware of section Social Projects in Communities. this dilemma, TIM tries, by means of its waste management policy, to minimize the production of waste and pro6.2.2 Internal stakeholders mote its selective collection and recycling. Further details The Company maintains an open relationship with its are provided in the Environmental Performance. internal stakeholders and shareholders. Furthermore, TIM maintains contact with the main enviInternal Stakeholders ronmental regulatory agencies, such as state and muIn relation to internal stakeholders, TIM seeks two-way nicipal departments for the Environment, Construction communication, aimed at spreading the Company’s valWorks, and Urban Development, among others, as well as ues and informing its employees about new products and with Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos services, while, at the same time, motivating them to exNaturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute for the Environpress their ideas and share their experiences. ment and Renewable Natural Resources – Ibama). The corporate intranet, which combines institutional Community and civil society organizations contents and systems that are essential to the daily For TIM, the best way to contribute to the economic well activity of employees, is always being enhanced to being and growth of the communities in which it operates become more collaborative and interactive. The main is to offer efficient services and advanced technology. offices also have TIM News, an innovative communicaThus, investment in research and innovation is essention channel by which the main national and regional tial. The Company also operates in a socially responsible information related to the business, people, and orgamanner, maintaining transparent relations with its stakenization is broadcast to television sets located in arholders. Furthermore, TIM fosters and supports social, eas of large circulation. Employees suggest stories and cultural, and educational initiatives that aim at improving take part in interviews, which encourages integration people’s quality of life. within the Company and enriches the contents of the news channel. 20 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance New employees experience, as soon as they join TIM, an All information that is relevant to these stakeholders, such integrating environment during the activities developed as the disclosure of results, communication of relevant in the adaptation week. The Company promotes internal facts, estimates, and analysis are published on the webrecruitment, prioritizing the reallocation of talents before site (www.tim.com.br/ri), which is constantly updated. Anselecting professionals from the wider market. other channel for relations with shareholders is Twitter (www.twitter.com/tim_ri). TIM also maintains a constant dialog about work relations with the unions that represent the workers. With the same 6.3 Legal compliance commitment, the company periodically conducts organiIn 2010, 82 administrative suits filed by consumers zational climate surveys. By understanding the concerns were settled. of its employees, the company can motivate them and improve the work environment. In 2010, TIM registered an increase in the value of fines and compensations paid under the direction of Agência Shareholders Nacional de Telecomunicações (National TelecommuniTIM communicates with the market and investors in accations Agency – Anatel) arising from proceedings and cordance with its values of honesty, transparency, and procedures related to clients and consumers in compariequality in access to information. The contents of the son with 2009. This amount, which was R$2,277,000 in communication are regulated, according to the applicable 2009, reached R$12,177,000 in 2010. The reason for this regulations, by proper internal procedures. The segment increase was a higher concentration, in 2010, of the conin the Company in charge of this communication is the clusion of various proceedings from previous years, which Investor Relations (RI) area. were rendered final and unappealable. Administrative proceedings Client/Consumer Competitor 2009 2010 2009 2010 Proceedings filed throughout the year (new proceedings) 118 97 4 4 Proceedings concluded throughout the year 33 82 4 5 Proceedings filed against our Company and ruled valid 6 16 0 1 (unfavorable to the Company final ruling) Proceedings filed against our Company and ruled partially 0 0 1 1 valid (favorable to the other party, without abatement of action) Proceedings filed against our Company and ruled invalid 27 66 1 1 (favorable to the Company, without abatement of action) Proceedings dismissed without trial of merit of the client/ 0 0 3 2 consumer claim These include Procedimentos de Averiguação de Denúncia (Complaint Investigation Procedures PAVDs) and Procedimentos Administrativos de Descumprimento de Obrigações (Administrative Procedures for Non-Compliance with Obligations PADOs) 21 Sustainability Report 2010 Corporate governance 6.4 Public policies Legal proceedings 2009 2010 TIM took part in discussions for the creation of the Proceedings filed 46,590 civil 48,165 civil National Broadband Program (PNBL – Programa Nathroughout the year (new proceedings) 28 criminal 14 criminal cional de Banda Larga), which intends to expand, by 2014, the availability of broadband Internet access. Proceedings concluded 49,744 civil 46,362 civil throughout the year 18 criminal 32 criminal In 2010, TIM took part in discussions promoted by Comitê Proceedings ruled valid (unfavorable to the 9,705 civil 10,001 civil Gestor do Programa de Inclusão Digital (Managing Com1 criminal 4 criminal Company – final ruling) mittee of the Social Inclusion Program – CGPID), aiming at contributing to the development of Programa Nacional Proceedings ruled partially 9,432 civil 10,976 civil de Banda Larga (National Broadband Program – PNBL). valid (final ruling) PNBL is a set of goals and measures created to expand, Proceedings ruled invalid (favorable to the Company 10,804 civil 11,323 civil by 2014, the offer of broadband Internet access and to without abatement of 16 criminal 27 criminal promote the growth of the capacity of the telecommunicaaction) tions infrastructure in the country. Proceedings decided 19,803 civil 14,062 civil through litigation 1 criminal 1 criminal This initiative was developed through the representasettlement tion of Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Serviço Móvel Celular e Pessoal – Sinditelebrasil and Associação Brasileira das Prestadoras de Serviço de Environmental proceedings 2010 Telecomunicações Competitivas (Brazilian Association of Competitive Telecommunications Carriers – Telcomp). Administrative proceedings (Active) 129 Administrative proceedings (New) 12 Sinditelebrasil has succeeded Associação Nacional das Legal proceedings (Active) 50 Operadoras Celulares (National Association of Wireless Carriers), which institutionally represents the carriers Legal proceedings (New) 2 authorized by Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações – Anatel to provide Personal Mobile Services (SMP) in Brazil. TIM had been a member of Acel since 1998 and is currently a member of Sinditelebrasil. In turn, Telcomp has the mission of promoting a fair and neutral competitive environment in the provision of telecommunications services, contributing constructive and ethically to the regulation of the industry, as well as encouraging social responsibility and corporate citizenship. 22 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance 7. Economic performance Investments totaled R$ 1.7 billion in 2010, only to expand network coverage and capacity. ©iStockphoto.com/mario13 TIM believes that the creation of value becomes sustainaWith an increase in 2010 of 24% of its subscriber base, ble over time, as the Company is able to effectively inteTIM reached 51 million clients, accompanied by an incregrate the expectations of the context in which it operates, ase of 11% in its EBITDA margin and 9% in its Free Opealong with the scope of its economic goals. rating Cash Flow for the same period. In terms of market share, TIM regained second place in the prepaid segment In 2010, the investments made by TIM totaled R$1.7 and achieved second place in Revenue and EBITDA. billion for the expansion of coverage and capacity, to keep up with growth in voice and data traffic. Most investments In order to strengthen the data offer, TIM launched Infinity was allocated for the expansion of 2G coverage and caWeb in the second semester of 2010, which, in four monpacity, as well as for the expansion of 3G coverage. The ths, reached the milestone of 1 million users a day. The Company has national coverage of approximately 94% new Infinity and Liberty plans represent more than 80% of the urban population. TIM closed 2010 with more than of the customer base. The prepaid Infinity plan totaled 39 double the 3G cell towers it had in 2009, representing gromillion lines and the post-paid Liberty/Infinity segment rewth of approximately 120%. gistered 3.5 million clients. 23 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance 7.1 Significant achievements 7.2 Value chain The voice segment was responsible for improving TIM is committed to disseminating the principles TIM’s outcomes in the first quarter of 2010. adopted in its Code of Ethics throughout its entire value chain. In 2010, TIM reached 100% of the network quality goals established by Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações The direct economic impacts, as seen in detail below, (Anatel) in 11 of the 12 months of the year (in February, allow the creation of job openings, as well as revenue the indicator was 99.5%). and taxes derived from products and services bought and sold by TIM, generating resources for its logistic Voice services represent the main area of activity, being chain in both directions. Furthermore, due to the nature responsible for the improvement in results of the Comof the services it provides, the Company supports the pany for the first three quarters of the year. However, after economic growth of the country, contributing to the imthe third quarter, TIM went beyond this initiative, compleprovement of the efficiency and productivity of compamenting the data plans with the launch of Infinity Web, nies and individuals. Liberty Web, and smartphones. In terms of indirect economic impacts arising from its buTIM was chosen the best mobile carrier in Latin Amesiness, TIM is committed to spreading the principles of its rica in the World Finance Telecoms Awards 2010, an Code of Ethics to its value chain as a whole. The Comaward granted annually by the magazine World Finance pany is constantly reviewing its policies, in order to incluand that identifies best practices in the telecommunicade aspects to assess and promote sustainability practices tions industry, such as innovation in services provided to its suppliers. to clients. This strategy resulted from innovation in the voice segment, creating plans that charge per call insteIn this section, we present the direct economic impacts ad of minutes, offering the user the possibility of talking generated in relation to the economic performance and more, for less. to the Company’s presence in the market, as well as the indirect impacts to stakeholders, analyzed from a sustaiMore information on the financial results is available in the nability standpoint. Annual Report. Goals 100% 100% of network quality goals established by Anatel were achieved in 11 of the months of 2010. 24 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance 7.2.1 Direct economic impacts Resources create jobs and contribute to the country’s economic growth. Added Value Statements 2009 (R$ 2010 (R$ Value creation Thousands) Thousands) (A) Gross revenue 16,652,476 18,622,780 (B) Goods and services acquired from contractors (7,709,176) (8,059,261) Cost of services provided and goods sold (4,609,369) (4,982,366) Materials, energy, contractors, and others (3,099,807) (3,076,895) (C) Gross added value (A – B) 8,943,300 10,563,519 (D) Retentions (depreciation and amortization) (2,913,966) (2,993,461) (E) Net added value (C – D) 6,029,334 7,570,058 (F) Transfers Results of equity income 833,828 698,519 Results of equity investments Financial revenue (G) Added value for distribution (E + F) 6,863,162 8,268,577 Added value distribution 2009 (R$ 2010 (R$ Thousands) Thousands) Personnel and charges 460,366 503,543 Salaries 316,920 318,093 Social Security charges 17,345 35,850 Private Pension Plan 4,725 7,542 Benefits 109,192 108,396 Profit Sharing 12,181 33,662 Government 4,756,745 4,297,729 Taxes, fees and contributions, 4,756,745 4,297,729 net of subsidies (exemptions) Investors 1,304,678 1,255,590 Interest and Leases 1,304,678 1,255,590 Shareholders 204,149 496,611 Interest on shareholders’ equity and dividends 204,149 496,611 Withheld 137,224 1,715,104 Profit/Loss for the fiscal year 137,224 1,715,104 Note: Results for 2009 include Intelig data for the month of December, both in the generation and distribution of value, due to the conclusion of 100% of the Intelig merger process in December, 2009. Financial benefits received from the government 2009 (R$ 2010 (R$ Category Thousands) Thousands) Rebates from taxes and fees 88,851 36,663 25 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance Climate changes In 2010, TIM took an important step in its sustainability > Higher energy costs and rationing of its supply due to management, transferring the role of discussing such the fact that a large part of the energy generated in Brazil issues to its Board of Directors, via its Internal Control comes from hydroelectric plants. and Corporate Governance Committee. The Company also has a Press Relations and Sustainability Depart> Shortage of renewable energy sources. ment, which, among other actions, aims at disseminating sustainability throughout the various areas of the > Influence of humidity and salinity on the life cycle of company. equipment. Another important initiative was TIM’s inclusion in the Em> Negative impact on mobile telephone signals, in case of presas pelo Clima (Companies for the Climate) platform, a higher precipitation rates. group that aims at preparing companies for a low-carbon economy, organized by Centro de Estudos de Sustent> Adverse financial impact as a result of the increase in the abilidade da Fundação Getúlio Vargas (Fundação Getúlio cost of insurance coverage for natural disasters. Vargas’s Sustainability Studies Center – FGVCes). To start the assessment of risks and opportunities in relation to > Impact on employees’ health and well-being. climate changes, TIM chose to offer transparency on the company’s emissions and prepare action plans aiming at > Loss of income for consumers. their reduction. >D  isruptions or deterioration of the provision of teleTIM assesses the CO2 emitted by its operations, based on communications services as a result of possible the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) methodolimpact of environmental disasters on network infraogy. The emission factors provided by the United Nations structure. Environment Programme (Unep) and Ministério de Ciência e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and Technology) were In addition, as a result of climate change, TIM may be also used. exposed to a change in the behavior of consumers and society in general, who may increasingly choose to asThe assessment of risks and opportunities is conducted sociate with environmentally responsible companies that annually and approved by the senior management of the adopt transparent practices. Therefore, investors from all company. It is available to the public in the website of the over the world are considering these issues when making Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): www.cdproject.net. investment decisions. Risks Another risk scenario is the fact that climate change, by As regulatory risks, TIM identified sectorial plans estabcausing possible environmental disasters, may cause lished based on the Política Nacional sobre Mudanças consumers to lose income, thus reducing their service Climáticas (National Policy on Climate Changes), which purchasing power. At present, TIM is not able to calculate can also include the Telecommunications industry. the possible financial implications of this scenario. TIM understands that its presence in all Brazilian states Opportunities may be affected should the predictions of climatic events The creation of sectorial plans for mitigation and admaterialize, interfering with its business activities and aptation to climate change can generate the need to causing possible physical risks: reduce, for example, domestic and international trips for employees. Hence, companies may chose alterna> Greater power consumption to maintain network equiptives, such as a higher use of videoconference or home ment at the desired temperature. offices. 26 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance Energy supply in the country – based mainly on hydroelecCompany assumes that the telecommunications sertric plants – is a segment that can be affected by climate vices may be used to reduce the emissions arising from changes. Therefore, the demand for telecommunications the movement of people, in addition to being the base and broadband services will increase, creating opportunifor the optimization of production processes and logisties for TIM, given that its business allows the reduction of tic workflows in various industries, significantly reducemissions in other industries via information technology ing emissions. and communications. Private Pension Plan This opportunity was highlighted by the Smart 2020 reComplementary Pension Plan TIM/Intelig – port, published in June, 2008, by The Climate Group and Itaú Previdência Aberta Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). TIM offers its employees a defined contribution pension plan managed by Banco Itaú, in which the employee conHowever, at the moment, the telecommunications industributes the same amount as the Company and with the try does not have any regulatory requirements related to possibility of making retroactive payments for the length climate changes. of time the employee has worked for the Company. Even so, in order to prepare for future regulatory requireThis amount is calculated based on the salary the perments, TIM continually improves its greenhouse gas inson receives. Up to R$2,620.00, TIM contributes1% of ventory and its eco-efficiency calculation, which considthe employee’s salary, while the employee is exempt from ers the bits transmitted in its network (voice and data) over contribution. the total energy consumed in the performance of such services. More information can be found section Energy. If the employee receives a higher salary, the amount of the contribution made by TIM up to a cap of R$2,620.00 Attitudes that preserve is 1% and, for the remaining amount, the Company’s perTIM aims to contribute to the reduction of the environcentage contribution is 6.6%, and so is the employee’s. mental impact of its activities. In its product portfolio, for In this plan, all employees are eligible and can join at any example, the Company offers cell phone models with low time, provided it is within the period of time agreed upon environmental impact. The option of these models allows between TIM and Itaú. and contributes to changes in habits, which favor the rationalization of daily activities and energy saving, helping Complementary Pension Plan Intelig – to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. HSBC Previdência Fechada This closed defined contribution pension plan is manTIM PDV is a product that relates to climate change aged by HSBC. After the Intelig merger with the TIM opportunities. It is a top-up mode for prepaid cell group, it was defined that this plan would be closed phones, which is performed online, directly at the to new admissions. A proceeding has been filed with points of sale. Therefore, it reduces the consumption Previc for the modification of the regulation of this penof natural resources, eliminating the greenhouse gas sion plan. If any employees are transferred from Intelig emissions arising from delivering top-up cards at the to TIM, the contributions to this plan are suspended points of sale. and a new pension plan managed by Itaú is offered; therefore, the employee is responsible for choosing TIM Chip Avulso is another service provided by the Comself-sponsorship, deferred proportional benefit or the pany, which allows customers to purchase a separate SIM transfer of its savings to another plan. New employees card and does not require the purchase of new phones. hired by Intelig are offered the plan managed by Itaú. Thus, the unnecessary turnover of cell phones is avoided, Employees that worked for TIM and were transferred reducing electronic waste generated by the disposal of to Intelig maintained the plan managed by Itaú, with no phones, batteries, and accessories. modifications. TIM’s strategy focuses on the convergence of services The only employees with an active status in the Intelig – and mobile network products, involving mobile and HSBC plan are those that work for Intelig and were not fixed telephone services and mobile broadband. The transferred to TIM. 27 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance Sistel and TIMPREV In regard to the pension plans managed by closed benefit plan entities, TIM currently sponsors the following plans: Entity/ Plan Type(1) Sponsor Manager TIM Celular and TIM Nordeste, jointly and severally with the other telecommunications PBS-A BD Sistel companies arising from the privatization of the Telebras System TIM Participações and TIM Nordeste, jointly and severally with the other Pama/PCE(2) BD Sistel telecommunications companies arising from the privatization of the Telebras System PBS – Tele Celular Sul BD HSBC TIM Participações e TIM Celular TRCA – Atypical Contractual Relationship Instrument BD TIM TIM Participações Management Agreement BD HSBC TIM Celular Part of the policy of the health insurance plan of the BD TIM TIM Celular employees related to former members of Pamec TIMPREV SUL CD HSBC TIM Celular PBS – Tele Nordeste Celular(3) BD HSBC TIM Nordeste TIMPREV NORDESTE(3) CD HSBC TIM Nordeste (1) BD = Defined Benefit Plan; CD = Defined Contribution Plan. (2) Pama/PCE is a health insurance plan offered to retired employees. (3) Plans PBS-Tele Nordeste Celular and TIMPREV NORDESTE will be presented separately for the last time, due to the merger between TIM Nordeste and TIM Celular. There are closed defined contribution pension plans The employee and employer contribution percentages are managed by HSBC (TIMPREV SUL and TIMPREV NORthe same and are defined as follows: DESTE), in which only those employees who were members of the defined benefit plan managed by Sistel were > Employees receiving salaries equal to or less than 12.5 offered migration, while this plan is not offered to any URT (TIM Unit of reference) contribute 0.71%; other employees. Therefore, only former employees of the Telebras system participate in this plan. > Employees receiving salaries that range between 12.5 and 218.3 URT contribute 4.73% and deduct 0.5025 URT from this amount. 28 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance The value of the URT in 2009 was R$216.23. On account of the spin-off of Telebras in June, 1998, the Company chose to terminate this complementary retireHSBC also manages four defined benefits plans (PBS ment plan. As a result of the termination of this plan, the – Tele Celular Sul, Management Agreement, and PBS company allowed the members of the plan to receive a – Tele Nordeste Celular) covering TIM’s employees and cash payment for the accumulated benefits, or transfer beneficiaries who chose not to join the Company’s detheir accumulated benefit obligations to the PBT – Sistel fined contribution plan. These plans are offered to a plan. The majority of employees that were members of closed number of participants, and the participation of the plan opted for cash payment or for joining the PBTnew individuals is forbidden. Sistel plan. In these defined benefit plans, the contributions of the The remaining balance will be used to cover the benefits members and the sponsors are determined annually by of those employees who have not took their option (four HSBC, according to the requirements of the plan. In Deemployees on December 31, 2010 and 2009). cember, 2010, all these plans had collateral assets that exceeded the actuarial commitments and the costing TIM is responsible for paying the pensions defined by the anticipated for the 2011 fiscal year is zero. In 2010, the Company’s retirement plan; however, there are separate two remaining members of the PBT-TIM defined benefit funds deposited monthly for funds managed by HSBC. plan were migrated to the TIMPREV SUL defined contriIf these funds do not have sufficient resources to cover bution plan. the payment of pensions, TIM is responsible for topping up the contributions. The annual contribution envisaged Finally, there is the PBS-A benefits plan managed by Sisfor the defined contributions plans in 2011 (the only ones tel (closed private pension entity), which originated at the with non-zero costing requirement) is R$136,000. In the time when the Telebras system was privatized, and only case of the PBS-A plan, managed by Sistel, TIM’s rehas participants who already received benefits; therefore, sponsibilities follow the same principle, whereby the rethis is a closed number of members. sponsibility is assumed jointly and severally by the various sponsor companies. The peculiar feature of this plan is the fact that it is sponsored not only by TIM Group companies, but also by all Remuneration telephone companies created under the privatization proTIM’s salary floor was fixed in a Collective Bargaining cess. The PBS-A is currently in surplus, and no costing Agreement (ACT in the Brazilian acronym), executed with requirements are expected on the part of the Company or the employees’ class union. Thus, the minimum salaries participants. are adopted as determined in the ACT, rather than the regional office salary floor. The table below compares the Atypical Contractual Relationship Instrument local minimum salaries (or national minimum salaries for In succession to the partial spin-off process of Telecolocations where no regional minimum salary exists) with municações do Paraná S.A. (TELEPAR) the Company is the lowest salaries paid by the Company regardless of the the sponsor of complementary retirement plans created salary agreed upon in the ACT. in 1970 under a Collective Bargaining Agreement and ratified by the Atypical Contractual Relationship Instrument entered into between the Company and the unions representing the then-existing professional categories. The agreement covers 86 employees hired prior to December 31, 1982, granting them a complementary pension. This right is only granted if these employees retire after completing the minimum term for retirement (30 years for men and 25 for women). 29 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance 2009 Employees % below or Local minimum Lowest salary receiving the above the local salary (R$) paid (R$) lowest salary minimum salary Office São Paulo (SP) 530.00 555.44 8.9% 4.8% Office Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 531.55 539.00 8.0% 1.4% Office Espírito Santo (ES) 465.00 648.00 9.7% 39.3% Office South (PR) 620.46 500.32 0.2% 19.4% Office South (SC) 465.00 648.00 16.9% 39.4% Office South (RS) 511.29 648.00 9.5% 26.7% Office Mid-West (DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO and AC) 465.00 648.00 4.4% 39.35% Office East (MG, BA and SE) 465.00 523.64 0.2% 12.7% Office Northeast (PE, AL, PB, RN, CE and PI) 465.00 465.00 9.2% 0% Office North (PA, AM, MA, AP and RR) 465.00 613.00 16.1% 31.8% 2010 Employees % below or Local minimum Lowest salary receiving the above the local salary (R$) paid (R$) lowest salary minimum salary Office São Paulo (SP) 570.00 578.60 24.5% 1.5% Office Rio de Janeiro (RJ) 603.31 539.00 9.4% -10.7% Office Espírito Santo (ES) 510.00 648.00 16% 27.1% Office South (PR) 668.50 522.00 20.8% -21.9% Office South (SC) 616.00 648.00 27.7% 5.2% Office South (RS) 523.07 648.00 19.5% 23.9% Office Mid-West (DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO and AC) 510.00 648.00 6.9% 27.1% Office East (MG, BA and SE) 510.00 545.48 0.2% 7.0% Office Northeast (PE, AL, PB, RN, CE and PI) 510.00 510.00 30.2% 0% Office North (PA, AM, MA, AP and RR) 510.00 613.00 17.8% 20.2% National minimum monthly salary at the end of the year: R$465.00 (2009) and R$510.00 (2010). 2009 2010 Ratio between the highest and the lowest monthly 73.8* 61.87 salary paid by the Company to its employees *Amount calculated using the average salaries of directors and CEO vs. the lowest salary paid by the Company. 30 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance Local suppliers In 2010, purchases from Brazilian suppliers represented Aiming to spread the same values adopted by the Com98% of the total purchases made by the Company. pany throughout its supply chain, TIM started a process for assessing its suppliers in relation to sustainability Total purchases by the company issues. (R$ thousands) Until 2009, the group was restricted to the main suppli2009 2010 ers of the Company and 26 suppliers were assessed. In From local suppliers 5,610,975 5,254,977 2010, the sustainability assessment involved 74 suppliers, therefore reaching the cumulative goal established in the From other suppliers 2,404,704 129,090 last sustainability report. The results of this assessment are not considered in the All contracts and purchase orders have a clause that processes for qualification and supplier selection. They guarantees observance and compliance with TIM’s Code serve only to strengthen mutual commitments made in of Ethics and the Global Compact principles, including the Policy of Relationship with Suppliers, in the prorespect for human rights and labor, principles of envicurement process and to identify opportunities for joint ronmental protection and antis-corruption principles. The advancement. Company is not aware of any cases of noncompliance or violation of rights of indigenous peoples. This policy sets forth guidelines for procurement and includes socio-environmental responsibility requirements 7.2.2 Indirect economic impacts for goods and services acquired, in addition to the continTIM is committed to disseminating the principles uous improvement of the relationship between the Comadopted in its Code of Ethics throughout its entire pany and its suppliers. value chain. As with all organizations, the activities conducted by TIM Sustainability Criteria create indirect economic impacts in the sustainable deIn 2010, TIM also modified its Procedure for Procurement velopment context. These impacts are additional to the of Materials, Goods, and Services. Currently, in the event direct impacts of the financial activity and flow of funds of equal technical terms and conditions, sustainability cribetween the Company and its stakeholders, affecting the teria must be used as a tie breaker between suppliers. well-being and long-term development communities or This assessment is conducted using a questionnaire, other stakeholders. which aims to identify practices adopted by the supplier, such as environmental policy and certifications, fight It is not the Company’s practice to conduct specific against slave and child labor, right to union association, surveys to identify the needs or priorities of the commucompliance with regulations, etc. nities where it operates prior to making indirect investments. These situations are analyzed based on normal In addition, included in TIM´s Procedure for Registration contact with stakeholders in the various areas of the with Suppliers and Lessors is the need to conduct a preCompany. vious query to the sites Brazilian Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and Brazilian Pact to Eradicate Slave See below some initiatives implemented by TIM that demLabor. This measure aims to keep the Company from onstrate these indirect economic impacts. maintaining any type of relationship with partners that do not comply with the guidelines indicated by the Company TIM PDV – Recarga Online in the ethical provision of its commercial agreements. With TIM PDV, there was a reduction in the share of topup sales through physical cards since its implementation TIM does not adopt procurement policies or practices in August 2008, thus reducing the use of raw materials and procedures that prioritize local suppliers, since it and natural resources while also reducing waste.The paoperates locally. However, whenever possible, the Comper receipt is replaced by a text message sent to the client pany tries to develop relationships with suppliers headwith the details of the transaction. quartered in Brazil. 31 Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance The solution does not require physical logistics for delivInfinity Web ery, since the retailer receives the amounts to be marketBrazil has over 64 million Internet users, who use the web ed via the system, reducing CO2 emissions arising from very intensively, despite broadband access not being the transportation of cards. The tool, also called Recarga widespread. This demonstrates a high use potential, inVerde, reduces the risks of theft to the retailer and allows dicating repressed demand. If the final prices for Internet all top-up amounts to be available, that is, provides more subscription were reduced, the penetration of the service convenience to clients. could increase significantly. TIM Fixo Pré The Infinity Web plan, launched in September, 2010, inLaunched in March, 2010, TIM Fixo Pré is TIM’s prepaid tends to expand Internet access to clients from various landline service, which offers the opportunity of expandsocial strata. The service is offered for R$0.50 for 24 ing people’s access to fixed telephone services without hours. This cost allows the client to be connected to the mandatory monthly expenses. Internet, without restrictions of time or location, for one day without requiring subscription to the service or any In addition to not requiring a subscription, there is no minitype of participation in any offers. mum monthly top-up: the line receives and makes calls with the same fees as landline, offering the client the reTIM believes that, with Infinity Web, one of the greatest duced cost of a landline and the control over the amount barriers to the expansion of Internet access is eliminated, to be paid (which is a characteristic of prepaid plans). because one does not need a computer to be connected to the web. Any person with a compatible cell phone can TIM Fixo Pré can be used by its clients for various bank use the service. and credit card registers and other situations that require a landline. 32 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance 8. Environmental performance In 2010, TIM became one of the major carriers in Brazil to obtain the ISO 14001 environmental certification. ©iStockphoto.com/arekmalang Public commitments TIM’s commitment to more sustainable management is proven through the various voluntary commitments asTIM strengthens its commitment to sustainable develsumed by the Company. In addition to being a signatory opment by promoting – according to its Environmental of the Global Compact, the Company complies with the Policy – the continuous improvement of environmental Carbon Disclosure Project and is a member of the platperformance, complying with the legislations in effect, form Empresas pelo Clima. Furthermore, it is a memregulatory agencies, and Telecom Italia Group guidelines. ber of BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio for the third consecutive year. At the end In order to define its strategies, TIM also takes into account of 2010, TIM also became a member of the Efficient Carthe environmental aspects considered essential by stakebon Index (ICO2) portfolio, launched by BM&FBOVESPA holders, as described in the section About the Report. The and BNDES. most relevant environmental indicators highlighted in our materiality matrix are the collection and recycling of cell In 2010, TIM became one of the first carriers in Brazil to phones, batteries, and SIM cards (high materiality) and the obtain ISO 14001 environmental certification. This certifiimpact arising from the installation of cell towers on the cation was attributed to the activities of Monitoring Manenvironment and community. agement, Performance Information, and Network Quality in the operating units located in Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and Another relevant environmental issue raised by stakeSanto André (SP). holders was greater attention to conscientious consumption, which involves educating internal stakeholders in this respect. 33 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance The company also maintains a structured program of For 2010, TIM met and/or exceeded most of the environawareness and education on sustainable development for mental goals established in its last sustainability report. internal stakeholders. In 2010, TIM offered online sustainThe commitments assumed and achieved refer to: waste, ability training to 35% of its internal stakeholders. water, handsets and batteries, and suppliers. However, the goal of reducing the consumption of electricity in the 8.1 Environmental goals offices was not met. Despite its efforts, the Company The environmental goals concerning solid waste, reached 76% of this goal. The reduction was not fully water, batteries and devices, and suppliers were met, mainly due to technical limitations found in older adreached in 2010. ministrative buildings, which still have air conditioning systems that consume high levels of energy. Performance in relation to environmental goals Environment 2010 Goal 2010 Result Percentage of waste recycled over total waste Waste % 51 60 generated in the offices Reduction in the consumption of electricity Electricity kWh 1,000,000 759,752 in the offices Reduction in the consumption of water Water m³ 2,400 22,094 in the offices Collection of old cell phones, batteries, and remaining Batteries Metric ton 12 14.65 accessories for recycling Suppliers Number of suppliers assessed for Number aggregate Suppliers 70 74 sustainability issues total as of 2009 34 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance 8.2 Materials Materials Used by Weight or Volume In 2010, the total consumption of paper was reduced by 39.16%, compared to 2009. The most significant Consumption of 2009 2010 Variation paper in kg decrease (64.07%) occurred in the purchase of bags. Paper for internal use 92,078 60,622 -34.16% Bags 290,563 104,408 -64.07% The development of actions that aim to reduce the waste Marketing 1,194,424 611,453 -48.81% of materials and ensure the sustainable use of natural Billing 981,688 780,209 -20.52% resources is one of the principles of TIM’s Environmental Total 2,558,753 1,556,692 -39.16% Policy. One of the major consumables of the Company is paper, which is used for issuing bills, in office work, in paper bags, and leaflets in points of sale. Materials from recycling In 2010, TIM continued to replace recycled paper with The total consumption of paper in 2010 was reduced FSC certified paper (Forest Stewardship Council) in its by 39.16% from 2009. The most significant reduction billing activities. Therefore, the percentage of recycled (64.07%) was found in the purchase of bags, due to the materials used has been decreasing yearly, while the convolume stored as inventory in stores. Paper used for sumption of FSC paper continues to grow. marketing leaflets and billing, sectors that correspond to 89.40% of paper consumption in the Company as a whole, The remaining consumption of white paper is due to the was reduced by 36.05% during the year. In the offices, the activities of the legal and fiscal areas, varying according to consumption of paper was reduced by 34.16%. the demand on these departments. 2009 Consumption of paper in kg Total Recycled FSC White Paper for internal use 92,078 90,768 1,310 Bags 290,563 290,563 Marketing 1,194,424 1,175,824 18,600 Billing 981,688 608,732 372,956 Total 2,558,753 2,165,887 391,556 1,310 Percentage 100.00% 85% 15% 0% 2010 Total Recycled FSC White Paper for internal use 60,622 59,869 753 Bags 104,408 104,408 Marketing 611,453 106,701 504,752 Billing 780,209 12,900 767,309 Total 1,556,692 283,878 1,272,061 753 Percentage 100.00% 18.23% 81.72% 0.05% Variation 2009/2010 Total Recycled FSC White Paper for internal use -34.17% -34.05% -42.52% Bags -64.07% -64.07% Marketing -48.81% -90.94% 2,614.65% Billing -22.52% -97.88% 105.76% Total -39.16% -86.91% 224.94% -42.51% 35 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance 8.3 Energy During 2010, there was a reduction in the number of The company’s energy consumption in 2010 decreased vehicles in the administrative fleet and reduced use of by 5% compared to 2009. Of this total, 95% were rethe executive fleet, given that the criteria for eligibility lated to the consumption of purchased electricity. for the use of Company cars included a smaller number of employees. Thus, the consumption of gasoline Essential to the development of human activities, energy is a decreased by 38%. TIM adopts the following measures strategic resource in the climate change scenario. For TIM, aimed at reaching its energy consumption goals for the the search for energy efficiency has been a priority. In 2010, offices: the consumption of energy by the Company was in line with the previous year, presenting a 5% variation in relation to > Computers are turned off after working hours; 2009. Of this total, 95% corresponded to the consumption of acquired electricity, which, in the case of Brazil, is a mixed > Monitoring of air conditioning system; source, where renewable energy (hydroelectric power) is predominant. > Search for energy efficiency by means of new alternatives for the lighting system; The main variations in the consumption of energy occurred due to the reduction in the use of diesel for the generators of > Partial illumination of rooms used at night and on the Company’s cell towers and in the use of gasoline in the weekends. Company’s fleet. Energy efficiency TIM has generators in its Base Transceiver Stations (BSTs) in In addition to measures for the reduction in energy conorder to ensure the continuation of services in case of power sumption, TIM structured a working group, created in outages. In 2010, there were fewer cases of power outages May, 2010, for the development of an energy efficiency by the power utilities, which resulted in a reduction of 57% in program. Among the actions of this program is the reasthe consumption of diesel by the network generators. sessment of all energy demand agreements with local utilities in order to readjust the actual demand for energy Consumption of direct and indirect energy and obtain reductions in cost. The next step will be to 2009 2010 assess the replacement of old inefficient equipment by Total direct energy GJ 84,745 49,714 other more efficient air conditioning and reprographic equipment. Gasoline GJ 66,421 41,054 Diesel – Vehicles GJ 1,323 1,277 The energy eco-efficiency indicator is another important Diesel – Generators GJ 17,000 7,383 factor that allows TIM to monitor the consumption of enTotal indirect energy GJ 1,049,619 1,030,696 ergy. This indicator correlates the quantity of services Electricity GJ 1,049,619 1,030,696 transmitted (bits) and the energy consumed (joules) during the provision of services. We observed an increase Total energy used GJ 1,134,364 1,080,410 in this indicator throughout 2010, which represents a gain in eco-efficiency, with positive quarterly variation of approximately 30%, mainly due to new technologies being employed. Tim Brazil Aggregate Eco-efficiency 2009 116.82 120.00 112.86 115.00 Bit-Joule 104.64 110.00 103.84 105.00 100.00 95.00 1 2 3 4 36 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Tim Brazil Aggregate Eco-efficiency 2010 both in terms of management capacity, and power consumption and demand for air conditioning. The immediate result of this action was the improvement of TIM’s 178.63 environmental efficiency of energy, reducing the energy 200.00 162.29 138.85 149.73 consumed in the sites. Bit-Joule 150.00 100.00 Eco-friendly handsets TIM offers to its clients alternative products that have re50.00 duced energy consumption or use alternative energies, 0 including the following devices: 1 2 3 4 > Blue Earth: introduced to the Company’s portfolio in 2010, this device is produced with plastic recycled from PET bottles and has a solar battery. It also offers Power Saving services such as Eco profile, which automatically The tests for the Power Saving project, which continued adjusts the device to save more energy and has throughout 2010, were another important energy efficiencalendar reminders for important dates related to cy action developed by the Company. The new network ecology. functionality avoids energy waste via a more rational use of resources. If there is no demand, equipment is set on > Motorola Spice: new Android smartphone uses 25% standby, being turned on again when necessary, thus alrecycled plastic. lowing an intelligent energy consumption by the Network area. The results are being assessed by the Company, > Motorola W233 Eco: device with batteries that offer a aiming at expanding the project to 1/3 of the network durlonger life cycle, thus using less energy. ing the course of 2011, with the required care related to service quality maintenance. >S  amsung Solar E1107: the first device that allows the user to charge the battery with solar energy In addition to Power Saving and the calculation of ecoand that can maintain an uninterrupted voice efficiency, the company took administrative actions to conversation from 5 to 10 minutes, after being reduce the use of energy, also aiming to lower spendcharged for one hour. ing on this resource. Some major changes adopted in 2010 contributed to the reduction of energy demand: Recarga verde (Green Top Up) the shutdown of the old Data Processing Centers, the As previously mentioned, the use of the online top-up sysshutdown of the TDMA network and the adoption of new tem, TIM PDV, used in the cell phone itself, contributes to management control of energy bills in RBS. The various a reduction in the consumption of raw materials, natural measures to improve conservation and energy efficiency resources, and the disposal of cards. adopted by the company promoted the reduction of energy costs. Furthermore, online top up allows a reduction in the emission of CO2 arising from the transportation of cards, TDMA Shutdown offers less risks of theft, more product availability and Another effort aiming at energy efficiency was the migracustomer satisfaction, and brings cutting-edge technoltion of the client base that used TDMA technology to the ogy to the market. More information in chapter Indirect GSM technology. This transfer allowed the shutdown of Economic Impacts. theTDMA equipment, with a consequent reduction in energy consumption of the network area. In addition to being more efficient, GSM and 3G equipment supports a higher capacity per unit. These technologies are also characterized by being more efficient, 37 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance 8.4 Water Wastewater The target for water reduction in the offices was exTIM does not dispose of wastewater that causes highly ceeded as a result of improvements in the water innegative environmental impacts and no bodies of water stallations and awareness programs for the internal are significantly affected by collection or discharge of the stakeholders. water used by the Company. Thus, all wastewater disposal performed by TIM is conducted through public sewage Despite the low impact that TIM’s activities have on wasystems, with a final destination defined by the companies ter consumption, the Company seeks to reduce its water in charge of this service. use, as a result of the Company’s concern for the sustainable use of natural resources. The origin of the water collected by the Company is basically the urban supply 8.5 Climate change network. TIM participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which aims to determine the emission of greenTotal water collected house gases by companies. 2009 2010 Collected* m³ 1,376 272 TIM considers Climate Change a strategic topic for its business and works in order to monitor its impacts and Supply systems m³ 192,538 170,066 position itself in relation to climate challenges. To do so, Total m³ 193,914 170,338 it maintains mechanisms and procedures for assessing its Increase in the volume of emissions and for the internal dissemination of the topic. water collected compared % 2% -80% to the previous year As part of this process, TIM takes part in the Carbon Dis*Volume used in TIM’s RJ Regional Office, located in São Cristóvão (RJ) closure Project (CDP). The goal is learn about the green(rainwater). house gas emissions of the organizations and provide transparency on these emissions to the market. Launched In 2010, the volume of water collected by the rainwater by investors and financial institutions interested in a better harvesting system installed in the Rio de Janeiro office understanding of how corporations manage and quantify decreased by 80% in relation to the previous year, the various issues associated with Climate Change, the representing a percentage of 0.16% of the total volume initiative also questions management strategies and pracof water consumed by the Company. The reason for this tices used to minimize emissions. reduction was lower rainfall volume during the year. Thus, TIM has the opportunity to demonstrate how the Administrative activities are the main consumers of various direct and indirect activities are monitored, includwater at TIM. Renovation work carried out in 2010 also ing the combustion of fuel by TIM’s own vehicle fleet and contributed to reducing the consumption of water by the by vehicles used by sales consultants, the consumption Company. Devices and equipment that help to reduce of the energy and emissions arising from air travel by emthe use of water were installed, such as faucet timers, ployees on business and management measures focused automatic flush valves for toilets, and other water saving on the reduction of emissions. devices. TIM also takes part in the program Empresas pelo Clima Water awareness programs for internal stakeholders (EPC), a voluntary initiative launched in 2009 and coorwere intensified in 2010 with posters in the bathrooms dinated by the Center for Sustainability Studies of the and kitchen areas of administrative units. Inspections Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGVCes), which brings toare constantly conducted in bathrooms and kitchen gether industry leaders concerned with climate issues areas to avoid water waste and leaks. All these measures worldwide and their effects. The purpose of this platform contributed to reaching the goal for the reduction of water is to develop a Brazilian protocol for preparing carbon inconsumption in the offices, which intended to achieve a ventories, taking into account the Brazilian energy system reduction of 2,400 m³ by December 2010. This goal was and the composition of fossil fuels. It also aims at helpexceeded, reaching savings of 22,094 m³. ing participating companies in the work involving their inventories and at fighting for improvements in legislation, in order to encourage a more conscientious approach by organizations in the face of climate change. 38 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Looking ahead, this platform seeks to help companies 8.5.1. Carbon Inventory achieve their greenhouse gas reduction goals and the acAmong the direct emissions of C02 monitored by TIM tion plans for achieving this objective. in 2010, the burning of fuel by its fleet of vehicles and those vehicles controlled by the company is included. To understand the profile of its emissions, since 2008, TIM has been preparing its CO2 inventory based on the In 2010, the Company included in its carbon inventory the GHG Protocol methodology, on the guidelines provided fugitive emissions arising from the gases used in air conby the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep), ditioning equipment. During the period, we monitored the on the emission factors provided by Ministério de Ciênemissions from the following activities: cia e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and Technology – MCT), and on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate > Direct Emissions (Scope 1 – GHG Protocol): Change (IPCC). Until 2009, the inventory was prepared by TIM’s staff. •B urning of fuel by TIM’s own fleet and by vehicles controlled by the Company (sales consultants); In 2010, seeking greater accuracy and completeness of the calculation of direct and indirect emissions of green•B urning of diesel used for the generation of energy; house gases, TIM received the assistance of ICF International, a US-based consulting company with over 20 years •F ugitive Emissions arising from the gases used in air experience in climate change. conditioning equipment. The emission inventory is an excellent management tool > Indirect Emissions (Scope 2 – GHG Protocol): in which the sources of emissions of the Company are identified, enabling the identification of opportunities for • Consumption of energy purchased. the reduction of emissions, in addition to the adoption of policies for fighting climate change. > Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3 – GHG Protocol): Actions to raise awareness amongst internal stakeholders •B urning of fuel from air travel by employees; on reducing energy consumption and selective waste collection were regularly applied throughout the year. •B urning of fuel from daily commuting by employees; •B urning of fuel from the outsourced fleet in charge of distributing the products marketed by the Company at the points of sale. 39 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance CO2 emissions (in metric ton CO2) 2009 Factors 2010 Factors Scope 1 4,172 3,260 Company’s own fleet 3,823 Unep 2,487 IPCC Generators 349 Unep 548 IPCC Fugitive emissions 225 GHG Protocol Scope 2 7,172 14,680 Consumption of electricity 7,172 MCT 14,680 MCT Scopes 1 and 2 11,344 17,940 Scope 3 15,947 18,244 Air travel 2,479 GHG Protocol 2,355 Defra IPCC (car and bus) Commuting 12,849 GHG Protocol 14,520 MCT (train and subway) Outsourced fleet 619 Unep 1,369 IPCC Scope 1 In addition to air travel, we have included in this scope the In 2010, TIM included the CO2 emissions arising from fugiCO2 emissions arising from the daily commuting of emtive gases used in air conditioning equipment. ployees to and from the office and from the outsourced fleet used for distributing the products we market at Scope 2 points of sale. Emissions arising from electricity consumption increased significantly in 2010 (104%), due to the increase in the Employee commuting: emission factor provided by the Ministry of Science and A survey was conducted involving around 5% of internal Technology, which considers the Brazilian energy matrix stakeholders in order to calculate the emissions arising and its supply in view of the Sistema Interligado Naciofrom these commutes. The survey considered those emnal (National Power Grid – SIN) (emission factors: 2010 – ployees who use cars as their main means of transpor0.0512 tCO2/MWh; 2009 – 0.0246 tCO2/MWh). Therefore, tation to and from work, using gasoline as their primary the reduction of 1.8% in the Company’s energy consumpfuel. TIM also considered the composition of the gasotion in 2010 did not result in any reduction in the emisline produced in Brazil and its mandatory percentage of sions arising from this activity. anhydrous ethanol. For 2010, the average adopted was 23.8% calculated based on the rate of 20% for 90 days Scope 3 provided by the Mapa Normative Instruction No. 7 of Scope 3 is the most significant, representing 51% of the January 11th, 2010, and the rate of 25% of the National Company’s emissions. Petroleum Agency for the subsequent nine months. Emissions arising from air travel by employees remained stable in 2010 in relation to 2009. 40 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Outsourced fleet 8.6 Waste The increase in emissions of 125% is due to the fact that A total of 14.61 metric tons of electronic waste was TIM expanded its estimate in 2010, considering 100% collected in 2010; of this total, 3.3 metric tons were of the volume transported by the outsourced fleet, while exported to Belgium and Japan. in 2009 the emissions reported for the outsourced fleet amounted to 25% of the transportation of these products. Waste management is one of the principles of TIM’s EnIn 2010, the total consumption of fuel during the transporvironmental Policy. The Company seeks to minimize the tation of products (devices, SIM cards, and cards) was production of waste in its activities and to stimulate its seestimated based on the measurements of the previous lective collection, recovery, and recycling. Furthermore, it year plus the variation on the volume transported between operates to prevent post-consumption damage, develop2009 and 2010. This consumption was then extrapolated ing programs to collect and dispose of potentially demagto the products transported by other companies. ing products in an environmentally sound manner. Aware that the electronic waste generated by the disposal R-22 0.159 of mobile devices and their accessories poses a challenge Metric ton to the telecommunications industry, TIM maintains proceEmissions of R-141 b 0.016 ozone-depleting dures for the proper management of this environmental substances R-22 0.01 aspect, monitoring, quantifying, and controlling the waste Metric ton of CFC-11 produced, hazardous or otherwise. Among the programs R-141 b 0.002 equivalent developed by the Company for this end, we highlight: > Programa Recarregue o Planeta and Programa PapaPilhas: both aimed at the collection of batteries, discarded devices, and other accessories, ensuring their proper disposal. > Programa de Coleta Seletiva: aimed at internal stakeholders; the Company conducts internal campaigns to raise awareness in relation to selective collection and makes waste bins available in order to allow the proper sorting and collection of waste. In 2010, these programs collected 14.61 metric tons of electronic waste, of which 3.3 were exported to Belgium and Japan, where it is disassembled and transformed into raw materials for other production processes or used to generate energy for the breakdown process. 41 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Generation and disposal of waste Non-hazardous waste In 2010, TIM’s total generation of waste increased by The non-hazardous waste of the network results from de33%. This increase is basically due to the replacement bris generated during the construction works conducted of batteries in TIM’s network, which is conducted periin the sites (areas in which the Base Transceiver Stations odically and varies according to the life cycle of these (BTSs) are concentrated and network monitoring centers). batteries. Moreover, there was an increase in the waste During this period, with the end of some interventions resulting from some construction works conducted in the conducted in the BTSs, there was a great volume of waste sites, areas that concentrate Base Transceiver Stations generated by these construction works. (BTSs), and network monitoring centers. The information in the tables below does not include the waste collected All hazardous waste generated by the network is returned via Papa-Pilhas and Recarregue o Planeta. to the manufacturers. The volume of non-hazardous waste generated in the sites is sent to sanitary landfills via public Waste Generated urban waste collection. Total Waste 2009 2010 Generated Selective collection is performed. In the main offices, Hazardous Metric 88.36 238.16 organic waste is sent for public collection under the reton Metric sponsibility of the municipal authorities. Reusable and reNon-Hazardous 738.17 864.20 ton cyclable waste is sent to cooperatives registered in each Metric region. Total 826.53 1.102.36 ton Total Waste Generated in the Offices Goal for waste generated Metric TIM has exceeded the goal established for waste manHazardous 5.57 3.15 ton Metric agement for another consecutive year. In 2010, it was Non-Hazardous 541.34 584.38 ton able to increase the percentage of waste recycled Metric against the total generated in the offices from 49% to Total 546.91 587.53 ton Total Waste Generated 51%. Thus, the Company reached 60% in recycled in the Network waste due to the improvements in the selective collecMetric Hazardous ton 82.79 235.01 tion processes and stronger commitment from TIM’s Metric employees. Non-Hazardous 196.83 279.82 ton Metric Total ton 279.62 514.83 Furthermore, the goal for the collection of discarded cell phones, batteries, and accessories of 12 metric tons was also exceeded, reaching 14.61 metric tons. Types of waste and final disposal Hazardous waste Destination of materials collected via the cell phone, batThe hazardous waste generated by the offices is basically teries, and accessories collection program, in metric tons: composed of fluorescent light bulbs/tubes. A reduction in 2009 2010 the volume discarded, in this case, is justified by the need to accumulate a given volume of waste before collection. Recycling 1.30 4,8 The disposal of these fluorescent light bulbs/tubes is conExport 0.60 3,3 ducted by qualified companies that perform vacuum crushing, separation of solid and gaseous waste and disposal to Note: The remaining material is currently with a transportation company, an environmentally sound destination. which will transport it to an appropriate destination when a significant volume of waste is reached. The increase in the volume of hazardous waste is due to the replacement of batteries in TIM’s network, which is conducted periodically and varies according to the life cycle of these batteries. 42 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Recovery of products and accessories 8.7 Environmental impact of products and services In 2010, TIM started monitoring the percentage of products Radiation and deployment of Base Transceiver Staand accessories that were sold and later recovered due to tion (BTS) have no significant environmental impacts the discarded device and battery collection program. monitored by internal controls. For this calculation, the Company used the volume of The activities related to telecommunications also presitems sold (in units) and the volume of material collected in ent impacts and risks.The implementation and the opthe collection programs mentioned above (in metric tons). eration of Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs) represent In order to obtain a good proportion between these two two non-significant environmental impacts: radiation and volumes, we used the average weight for each item, which implementation themselves. These impacts are monitored was received from the Company in charge of the collecthrough internal controls. tion for the Papa Pilhas program. The license also ensures that the radiation emitted through 2009 2010 the BTSs is within the limits allowed by the World Health Handsets Number 7.556.397 7.962.206 Organization (WHO). Furthermore, it is a network guideline GSM (handsets + kits) Number 7.556.453 7.962.206 for all sites to be implemented in locations allowed by the local relevant agency, authorized by urban and environAccessories Number 1.786 830 mental licenses, when applicable. SIM Cards Number 24.407.544 34.387.530 TIM has a Base Transceiver Station and a data transmisBoards/Modems Number 292.362 287.960 sion cell tower in a Permanent Protection Area (APP) in Notebooks Number 2.523 375 Pico de Jabre, Paraíba, and two other stations which are in listed areas: one of them by the municipality, in Cristo Estimated weight of items sold: kg 1.021.993.12 1.041.542.28 Redentor, Sergipe, and the other by The Historic and Artistic National Heritage Institute (Iphan – Instituto do PatProducts collected by the Company kg 19.000.00 14.609.80 rimônio Histórico Nacional), in Lençóis, Bahia. PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS % 1.86 1.40 In Pico de Jabre, TIM entered into a Statement of ComRECOVERED mitment for Adjustment of Conduct (TAC in the Brazilian acronym), through which the company was obliged to donate equipment, set up a BTS in the municipality of MaSpillages tureia in order to make the Personal Mobile Service signal In the period covered by this report, no significant spillavailable to the local population, in addition to providing ages occurred. traffic signage. In consideration, the clearance of a 12 x 12 m² area of vegetation was authorized by the Environmental Administration Superintendence (Sudema). Regarding the Cristo Redentor and Lençóis BTSs, TIM has an environmental diagnostic project which will survey all data transmission cell towers in the APP. 43 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Electromagnetic fields lations, using, in Brazil, the standards recommended by For a better understanding of electromagnetic fields, the World Health Organization (WHO) under the guidradiation, safety and research in cellular telephony, ance of the Non-Governmental Organization, the InterTIM reproduces in full the text of the National Associanational Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection of Mobile Carriers (Acel), published on the website tion (ICNIRP). www.acel.org.br: The safety level is established based on the exposure “Electromagnetic waves (or fields), such as those conditions of the human body, which are determined used in cellular telephony, are found in nature or are by the specific absorption rate (SAR). The SAR indiproduced by human technologies. The most common cates the average rate per kg (Watts per kg) by which source of electromagnetic waves is the sun, which the energy is absorbed. The values recommended by produces infrared radiation, visible light and ultraviothe WHO correspond to the lowest absorption rate that let light. causes potentially hazardous biological effects (an increase of 1° C in body temperature by exposure to 4 Electromagnetic waves are classified according to their W/kg for 30 minutes), as a precaution divided by 10, for frequency or number of oscillations per second. The the exposure of workers, and again divided by 5 for the unit that measures the frequency of electromagnetic general public. waves is called Hertz, which corresponds to a cycle (or oscillation) of wave per second. For example, when This means a SAR of 0.4 W/kg for workers exposed to seeking to tune to 96.3 FM radio station, you’re lookradiofrequency waves and 0.08 W/kg for users of mobile ing for a station that broadcasts an FM radio signal in phones, or 50 times less than the minimum. frequency of 96.3 Megahertz (1 MegaHertz = 1 million Hertz). There are also fears that non-thermal effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields from mobile phones are harmful The low frequency electromagnetic fields are used in the to health. For over 50 years, the international scientific generation, transmission, distribution and use of electriccommunity has studied the matter and found no evidence ity. RF fields are used in cellular telephony, for radio and tested, reviewed and validated to justify changes in expotelevision broadcasts, for networks in wireless commusure limits currently applied. nication, for radio communication systems and in microwave ovens, for example. Nevertheless, scientific research continues to be conducted around the world, under constant attention of the Radiation can be ionizing and non-ionizing radiation. WHO, which has maintained, since 1996, the Project on Ultra-high frequency ionizing radiation releases large International Electromagnetic Fields (EMF Project) in oramounts of energy that can damage body tissues. In der to provide international and coordinated answers to the case of non-ionizing radiation, as the radiation doubts in this area. emitted by radio waves used in cellular telephony is called, the energy is not sufficient to cause such damThe WHO estimates that more than U$ 250 million have age and only causes an increase in temperature, or been spent worldwide in research on this subject. Anthermal effect. other U$ 130 million should be spent by 2014 on studies conducted by scientists from other European counThe radiation emitted by the antennas installed on towtries, in addition to the United States and Australia. To ers or masts is negligible, even with continuous expodate, the entity informs, ‘there is no convincing sciensure. In fact, the level to which we are exposed due to tific evidence that the weak RF signals from transceiver radiation emitted by the antennas is 50 to 1,000 times stations and wireless networks cause adverse health smaller than the safety level established by Anatel regueffects’.” 44 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance TIM analyzes and monitors, based on the methods provided in Resolution No. 303 of July 2, 2002, issued by the Case study National Telecommunications Agency (Anatel), the electromagnetic emissions at all Base Transceiver Stations Eco-Friendly Cell Phones (BTSs) remaining within the established limits. CalculaWithin the strategy of introducing environmentally friendtions and measurements are considered, including the ly solutions to the Brazilian market, TIM launched two cases of multiuser stations (shared), which assess the new models in 2010. In the previous year, the company technical parameters of equipment (transceivers and anhad already made Motorola W233 available, which was tennas) of other carriers. Additional information on webthe first device launched made from recycled plastic botsites www.anatel.gov.br and www.acel.org.br. tles. This was later it was followed by the Samsung Solar, which is exclusive to TIM and uses a solar battery. Noise On the other hand, measurement of noise level is not govThe models that integrate the portfolio are Motocuerned at federal level, but rather, at municipal level. To obbo A45 Eco, which is also made from recycled plastain the operating license of the ERB, some municipalities tic bottles, and Samsung Blue Earth (S7550) which is require measurement of noise, which can be requested the fourth model, with the same eco-friendly concept, by the Department of Justice or by local residents. Noise launched by TIM. In addition to using 3G technology, emissions occur only upon the requirement of law or pubthe Blue Earth device has a touch screen, is made from lic agency. recycled plastic PET bottles and also has a solar battery. In order for the user to have an eco-friendly lifeThere are three ways of measuring noise: one, which is style, Blue Earth provides services such as Eco profile, determined by municipal and state legislation, and anothwhich automatically adjusts the device to save more er, which is done by the process of preventive and corenergy, and a calendar reminder for important dates rerective licensing and upon request from public agencies. lated to environmental topics. The variation between 2009 and 2010 is due to the occurrence, or not, of the three factors mentioned above. Measurement of EMR and Noise Level Environmental Fines and Violations TIM’s Environmental Policy covers environmental licens2009 2010 ing, by establishing guidelines to comply with legislation Number of sites in which EMR levels were measured No. 1,334 642 by meeting all social and environmental requirements. The Company’s environmental liabilities have been identified Number of sites in which noise levels were measured No. 236 6 and disclosed in accordance with a resolution from the Brazilian Securities Exchange Commission (CVM) and In order to comply with TIM guidelines, which aim at minifunds have been provided for their remediation. mizing negative impacts and promoting the efficient use of natural and energy resources, we proceeded with the Seeking to improve its management processes to comply following measures in 2010: with environmental legislation, the Company hired specialized personnel to identify relevant environmental legis> Providing cell phone devices using innovative technololation and monitor compliance with this legislation. gies that generate lower environmental impact; > Using of technological alternatives that save resources, such as online top-up using TIM PDV (as described in the following case study); > Maintenance of energy consumption optimization programs; > Internal awareness campaigns aimed at reducing consumption of water and energy, and promoting selective collection. 45 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Fines and non-monetary penalties related to Terms of adjustment of conduct relating to environmental aspects environmental aspects Environmental proceedings TIM, whenever possible, seeks to execute Terms of Adin 2010 2009 2010 justment of Conduct (TACs) pertaining to environmental Administrative issues. proceedings No. 183 129 (Active) Administrative Terms of adjustment of conduct relating to environmental aspects 2009 2010 proceedings No. 27 12 (New) Total TACs executed in the No. 0 5 Legal Proceedings period No. 43 50 (Active) Total ongoing TACs No. 2 2 Legal Proceedings No. 5 2 (New) Total TACs completed in No. 0 4 the period Fines and non-monetary penalties related to 2009 2010 environmental aspects Number of fines No. 143 60 Ongoing TACs in 2010: Total value of fines R$ 1,683,061.90 513,061.76 Goiânia – TAC executed between TIM and Goiânia MuTotal number of nicipal Environmental Agency (AMMA), aiming at regulatNo. 165 95 notifications ing 42 Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs). In exchange, TIM is committed to making payment to be converted into In 2010, R$513,061.76 were paid in fines to environmental the acquisition of materials. agencies, due to absence of environmental licensing for cell towers. Based on the criteria of the Brazilian Institute Ceará – TAC executed between TIM and the Ceará State for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Environmental Superintendence aiming at regulating the (Ibama), the activity performed by TIM is not potentially licensing of sites installed in Ceará and outside Fortaleza. polluting. Furthermore, the Company is in compliance with In addition, TIM is committed to paying for fines issued the provisions of the Anatel resolution in regard to the radue to the absence of licensing. diation emitted by its cell towers. Investment in the Environment The significant decrease in the amount of fines and notiIn 2010, the volume of resources invested in the enfications, when compared to the previous year, is due to vironment by TIM was of R$ 334,000, up 29% when the fact that 135 notifications from Sudema-PB in 2009 compared to 2009. The main reason for the increase referred to absence of environmental licensing, and which was that costs were waived due to improved training of were suspended by legal action. internal stakeholders in order to obtain the ISO 14001 certification, and also the support given to the WWF’s In 2010, 40 notifications were issued by the Ceará State Earth Hour. Environmental Department (Semace), due to the non-renewal of environmental licenses, therefore the Company The amount invested in the maintenance of operating executed a Term of Adjustment of Conduct (TAC) in order processes for the improvement of the environment corto regulate all cell towers (including those pointed out in responds to the maintenance expenditure of the program the filings), as well as a Term of Debt Negotiation in order for collecting devices and batteries. This expenditure refer to pay for the fines resulting from the notifications. to the logistics of the program. 46 Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance The investment in environmental protection made by TIM Total investment and expenditure in is aligned with its Environmental Policy, especially with the environmental protection 2009 2010 following principles: Maintenance of operating processes R$ > Keeping an open communication channel with stakefor environmental thousands 204 275 holders, dealing with occasional notifications, observaimprovement tions or complaints in order to improve management’s Initiatives for educating own environmental impacts. internal stakeholders in R$ 55 48 environmental-related thousands matters > Encouraging technological research aimed at developing services and products that keep adverse impacts Investment in R$ to a minimum. environmental education thousands 10 of the community > Disclosing environmental guidelines and encouraging internal and external stakeholders to participate in awareness actions and campaigns, fostering a responsible approach in regard to the environment. Encouraging suppliers, partners and sub-contractors to adopt these principles. 47 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance 9. Social performance In alignment with the Telecom Italia Group, TIM promotes human rights and advocates for fair labor practices. ©iStockphoto.com/airportrait TIM recognizes that in order to fulfill the mission “to based on the Global Compact and on the Company’s be close to clients, offering innovative possibilities Code of Ethics, and the Human Resources Departfor connectivity, focusing on their various expectament, which reports directly to the Presidency, is retions and needs, and contributing as an agent of sosponsible for its enforcement. cial development through sustainable management” an essential element is necessary: people. FurtherIn this report, TIM adopts the following definitions: more, mobile and landline communication is a part of people’s everyday lives, be it in their professional or > Employees – represents TIM’s employees, apprentices personal activities. and interns. The Company seeks a transparent relationship with > Internal stakeholders – represents the sum of TIM’s stakeholders and is in compliance with the Global employees and administrative contractors. Compact principles. TIM’s Materiality Matrix also points out how Customers Relations, Human Rights, In 2010, TIM’s internal stakeholders totaled 10,559 peoHuman Resources, Suppliers and Distributors and ple. Of this total, 10,138 were employees (96%), and the Community Relations are relevant to TIM and to its rest was composed of interns, apprentices and contracstakeholders. tors. This number includes Intelig’s employees, due to its merger with TIM in December 31st, 2009. For this reaHuman Capital son, the figures in the following tables had to be updated In alignment with Telecom Italia Group, TIM promotes human rights and defends proper working conditions for its employees. The Social Responsibility Policy is 48 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance and therefore show different information when compared Regional Offices to the 2009 Sustainability Report. In 2010, the names and the mode of separating regional offices were altered. Therefore, the number of employees In addition to the previously mentioned merger, there was in the Rio de Janeiro Regional Office also includes Heada 2.49% increase in headcount. However, the number of quarters employees. In addition, the Southern states were contractors hired by the Company was reduced by 95.1% separated from the former regional office. Espírito Santo also underwent a change; it was separated from the Rio The Program “Talentos sem Fronteiras”, which aims at rede Janeiro Regional Office. cruiting young professionals, hired 84 people. Over 100 job positions opened throughout 2010. There were no significant changes in the percentage of women working in the Company headquarters, offices, Internal stakeholders by type of relationship with the Company sales force or stores. 2009 2010 Employees 9,813 10,138 Number of employees by region* 2009 Apprentices 164 218 São Paulo Regional Office 1,554 Rio de Janeiro Regional Office 278 Interns 318 177 Southern Regional Office 630 Total Employees 10,295 10,533 Midwestern Regional Office 315 Administrative contractors 527 26 Eastern Regional Office 416 Total internal stakeholders 10,822 10,559 Northeastern Regional Office 439 Northern Regional Office 267 % of total internal stakeholders Headquarter 1,535 Own Customer Relationship Centers 3,797 2009 2010 *Division of regional offices in 2009. Employees 90.7% 96.0% The figures were altered – when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Apprentices 1.5% 2.1% Report – due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. Interns 2.9 % 1.7% Total Employees Number of employees by operating unit 2010 Administrative contractors 4.9% 0.2% São Paulo Office 2,949 Total internal stakeholders Rio de Janeiro Regional Office* 2,892 Rio de Janeiro Regional Office – Espírito Santo* 25 The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. Southern Regional Office – Paraná** 1,251 Southern Regional Office – Santa Catarina** 83 Southern Regional Office – Rio Grande do Sul** 133 Midwestern Regional Office – 304 DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO, AC Eastern Regional Office – MG, BA, SE 401 Northeastern Regional Office – PE, AL, PB, RN, CE, PI 1,860 Northern Regional Office– PA, AM, MA, AP, RR 240 Headquarter * Own Customer Relationship Centers * *The Rio de Janeiro Regional Office includes the Headquarter and the local Customer Relationship Center (CRC). **Separation of Southern states from the former region. 49 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Holding company and regional offices Men Women Total (number) (% in relation to total for the position) 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Executive Directors 87.2% 87.8% 12.8% 12.2% 41 47 Managers 8.1% 7.2 3.7% 3.3% 761 667 Professionals 27.9% 29.6% 22.6% 22.7% 3,262 3,324 Sales Force/Stores 12.6% 13.0% 14.5% 14.8% 1,753 1,769 Relationship/Fraud Consultants 0.7% 0.7% 2.3% 2.8% 193 228 Interns 2.8% 1.4% 2.1% 1.3% 315 174 Apprentices 0.7% 1.0% 1.3% 1.5% 124 156 Total 53.4% 53.5% 46.6% 46.5% 6,455 6,359 The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. The Customer Relationship Center, which is an important communication channel with the market and has as strategic objective to raise the level of customer satisfaction, increased its headcount in 2010. A greater number of men was hired, however, women still make up the majority of employees in this sector. CRC Men Women Total (number) (% in relation to total for the position) 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Managers 23.1% 29.0% 76.9% 71.0% 26 31 Professionals 31.0% 31.0% 69.0% 69.0% 339 294 Relationship/Fraud Consultants 21.7% 23.2% 78.3% 76.8% 3,432 3,784 Interns 100.0% 66.7% 0% 33.3% 3 3 Apprentices 37.5% 41.9% 62.5% 58.1% 40 62 Total 22.8% 24.1% 77.2% 75.9% 3,840 4,174 The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. Years with the Company Employees who have been working for TIM for 1 to 5 years are still the majority, representing 45.5% of the total workforce in 2010. There was a significant increase in the number of employees who have been working for up to a year in the Company, representing 29.3% (up from 20.8% in 2009). % Of total number of employees Employees by years with the Company 2009 2010 Up to 1 year 20.8% 29.3% From 1 to 5 years 57.3% 45.5% From 5 to 10 years 16.4% 18.2% From 10 to 20 years 4.9% 6.4% From 20 to 30 years 0.4% 0.4% Over 30 years 0.2% 0.2% Absolute Number of employees 10,295 10,533 The figures in the 2009 column were altered – when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report – due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. 50 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance 9.1 Diversity and equal opportunities Employees by education background (%) TIM’s Social Responsibility Policy does not allow any form of discrimination and constraint in its work relations. 0.0% TIM’s Social Responsibility Policy recognizes that diversity is a value and a practice to be fostered throughout the Company, not conducting or allowing any expression or 24.7% form of discrimination in its work relations. 61.9% Gender Women still comprise the majority of employees, accounting for 58.1% of the total. In the CRC, the percentage is 75.9%, in most positions and roles. In this area of the 5.5% Company, women hold 71% of management positions. Total 10,295 1.2% In the regional offices and headquarters, women represent 43.1% of workforce, holding 12.2% of executive di2009 rector positions and 3.3% of management positions. Complete High School Attended Elementary and Middle School Complete Higher No formal education Education Education Employees who hold a graduate degree, Master’s or PhD With Graduate/ represent 5.1% of headcount. The percentage of employMaster’s/PhD ees who hold a university degree is 27.1%, while 64.2% Degrees have completed high school and 3.5% have attended elementary and Middle school. Employees by education background (%) 27.12% 5.15% 64.24 3.49% 0.0% Total : 10,533 2010 Complete High School Attended Elementary and Middle School Complete Higher No formal education Education With Graduate/ Master’s/PhD Degrees The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. 51 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Age Group Color/Race TIM’s staff are young. 78% of the employees are in the 18 There were no significant changes in this item in 2010. The to 35 age group. People between 36 and 45 years of age criteria for the definition of race are defined by the employrepresent 16% of total employees. ee’s self-declared statement, as established by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). White employees represent 71.2% of the total. Together, pardo* and black employees account for 26.3% of employees. Employees by age group Employees by Color/Race 4.0% 15.5% 14.2% 74.8% 78.8% 0.3% 0.7% 3.6% 0.8% 0.1% 0.7% Total : 10,295 Total 9,613* 2009 2009 3.6% 22.7% 71.2% 16% 78% 0.3% 0.4% 4.72% 1.7% 0.19% 1.2% Total 10,533 Total 10,533 2010 2010 From 18 to 35 years of age Under 18 years of White Asian-descent Pardo ageApprentices From 36 to 45 years of age Over 60 years of age Amerindians Black Unknown From 45 to 60 years of age *The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. The figures in the 2009 column were altered when compared to the 2009 *According to IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics), Pardo is Sustainability Report due to the merger with Intelig, in December 2009. a broad classification that encompasses Brazilians of mixed race ancestry, mulattos, and assimilated indigenous people. 52 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance 9.2 Diversity in governance The groups in the company responsible for goverTotal participants in the groups responsible for TIM’s corporate 2009 2010 nance are comprised of men between the ages of 36 governance by gender and 60. Men 18 21 The Company’s groups which are responsible for govWomen 2 1 ernance are: The Board of Directors and its Specialized Committees (Remuneration Committee and Corporate Governance and Internal Control Committee), the SuTotal participants in the groups pervisory Committee, Executive Board and the Secretary responsible for corporate 2009 2010 General of the Board. The current composition of these governance by color/race groups – which are predominantly composed of white White 20 21 men between 36 and 60 years of age – does not represent Black 0 0 the same diversity profile seen in the Company’s operating units. Pardo 0 0 Asian-descent 0 1 There are no formal initiatives to ensure/expand the diverAmerindians 0 0 sity or the participation and representation of various social groups in the groups responsible for the Company’s governance. However, TIM does not discriminate and/or make any distinctions based on the different categories Total participants in the groups of existing social groups in the hiring process, whether responsible for corporate 2009 2010 governance by age group or not for positions in the Company’s Governance. The Company, aiming towards optimum performance and From 18 to 35 years of age 0 0 greater protection of its shareholders, seeks highly qualiFrom 36 to 45 years of age 7 7 fied people in the market, regardless of race, religion, genFrom 45 to 60 years of age 4 6 der, among others. Over 60 years of age 9 9 Gender and salaries > TIM does not associate its salary policy with any type of discrimination. The Companhy’s values reflect market behavior. In 2010, the difference between the average salary of men and women continued to decrease. Some examples can be highlighted: in stores and call centers, where half the company’s workforce are concentraded, women’s average salaries are slightly higher than men’s (4% and 2% respectively). 53 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Ratio between nominal salaries Turnover = number of paid to men/women terminations divided by the 2009 2010 headcount of the previous year Holding company and 2009 2010 regional offices Employees hired* 2,041 3,216 Executive Directors/Managers 1.21 1.27 Employees laid off** 3,111 2,896 Professionals 1.12 1.20 No. of employees 9,231 10,533 Sales Force/Stores 1.36 0.6 *Considers external recruiting only. **Considers terminations by death and retirement. CRC 2009 2010 Executive Directors/Managers 4.82 1.30 2009 Employees hired and Professionals 1.23 1.14 Men Women laid off by gender Relationship Consultants 1.0 0.97 Employees hired 829 1,212 Employees laid off 1,213 1,898 Note: Nominal Salary: The fixed amount paid to an employee for the perNo. of employees 4,322 5,973 formance of their duties. This does not include additional compensation, such as that based on tenure, overtime, bonus, payment of benefits or any other additional amounts. 2010 Note: Amounts greater than 1 indicate higher salaries for men compared Employees hired and Men Women to women. Amounts smaller than one indicate the opposite, higher salaries laid off by gender for women. Employees hired 1,271 1,945 Employees laid off 1,122 1,774 Staff turnover No. of employees 4,412 6,121 In 2010, TIM’s turnover rate was 29.17%, as shown in the table below: Remuneration and benefits 2009 TIM’s Benefits Policy covers several benefits, such as medical and dental assistance, life insurance, private penTerminations Turnover (%) sions, meal vouchers, grocery allowance, transportation Voluntary 1,298 12.61 allowance and day care allowance. These benefits are provided to employees, irrespective of the operating unit Involuntary 1,802 17.61 in which they work. Total 3,100 30.22 Executive Directors and managers are entitled to international health assistance; the executive board is also entitled to vehicle and fuel allowance. All employees 2010 participate in the Company’s profit sharing program. Terminations Turnover (%) Executive directors and managers receive MBO-based Voluntary 1,534 15.67 compensation, and other employees are entitled to profit sharing (PLR). Involuntary 1,325 13.50 Total 2,859 29.17 54 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Collective Bargaining Agreements Amount spent on benefits, by The negotiations for the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2009 (R$ 2010 (R$ type of benefit (annual social thousands) thousands) 2010/2012 started in December and finished in January, accounting Ibase) 2011. The main demand from the union was satisfied, Food with the provision of an actual increase to more than 51% Expenses relating to restaurant meals, meal vouchers, snacks, 43,265 43,461 of employees and a full restatement of the aggregate food baskets, and other items inflation rate to all other employees. Furthermore, an related to employee meals increase above the inflation rate for social benefits, Private Pensions in addition to maintaining the conditions negotiated Special retirement plans, 5,081 8,520 pension funds through previous collective bargaining agreements can be highlighted. Health Health plans, medical assistance, preventive medicine, life quality 35,531 39,552 All TIM employees are included in the agreements enprograms, and other expenses relating to health, including retirement tered into through collective bargaining. The Company Occupational health and safety 2,574 2,574 respects the employees’ rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining in accordance with Brazilian Education Expenses relating to regular laws, policies and other guidelines to which the Comeducation at all levels, refunding pany adheres, such as, for example, the Global Comof expenses relating to formal education, scholarships, magazine 383 2,375 pact. However, TIM does not perform regular monitoring subscriptions, library expenses of operations in which employees’ rights to freedom of (except personal items) and other expenses related to education association or negotiations may be at risk. Culture Expenses relating to events and Publications from the unions are communicated internalartistic and cultural expression ly, and the Company also promotes meetings between 0 0 (music, theater, cinema, literature and other arts) for internal the parties. Moreover, union members have free access stakeholders to TIM’s premises. Professional Training and Development Resources invested in training, Employees are free to join the union of their category courses, internships (except 7,615 5,500 (SINTTEL), and 375 of them are members. 100% of salaries), and expenses specifically assigned to qualification programs TIM’s employees are represented by unions, in accorrelated to employee activities dance with the Brazilian legal system. TIM negotiates Day Care Center or 85 collective bargaining agreements per year with 26 Day Care Allowance 1,825 1,824 unions. Local day care center or day care allowance for employees’ children The Profit Share Program (PPR 2010) negotiations were Profit Sharing 11,508 54,736 completed in October, when TIM/Intelig and the unions Others entered into a collective bargaining agreement. Profits Insurance, leisure activities, transportation, housing and other 12,036 11,245 were calculated based on the clusters and will be paid benefits offered to employees and according to goal achievement table, which ranges from not detailed above 80% to 160%. TIM previously informed employees about the implemenAmount spent on social 2009 (R$ 2010 (R$ charges thousands) thousands) tation of operational changes that may affect them. However, the minimum term for disclosing this communicaTotal compulsory social charges 131,456 117,536 tion has not been established. 55 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Cipa is in accordance with the NR-05 in the prevention 2009 2010 of occupational accidents and diseases. These actions Number of unions representing are taken together with the Specialized Service of Safe26* 26 the Company’s employees ty Engineering and Occupational Medicine (SESMT) or Number of employees covered the Company’s Occupational Safety representative. by collective bargaining 9.231 10.334 Over 75% of employees are represented by these comagreements mittees and all occupational accidents or diseases are % of employees covered by registered. collective bargaining agreements 90 98 in relation to the total number of internal stakeholders Acting on prevention In addition to the actions taken by the Committees in *the number of unions was corrected in this report, as last year’s figure 2010, TIM organized the Environmental Risk Prevention was incorrect. The error occurred due to an agreement which covered two Program (PPRA) and the Occupational Health Control regions which are supported by two different unions. Program (PCMSO), also considering the Customer Relationship Center activities. Moreover, the Internal Occupational Accidents Prevention Week (Sipat) took place, Labor claims and the Commission for Prevention of Occupational AcIn 2010 there were 6,172 labor claims against the Compacidents (Cipa) was created. TIM also promoted the Labor ny, of which 2,714 were considered founded and 406 were Gymnastics Program, the Voice Conservation Program, ruled groundless. The total amount of compensations and offered flu shots, and promoted the TIM Quality of Life fines paid due to court order, including the amount paid in Program, which provides information on the Internet as court settlements was of R$267,000. These claims had a well as in offices, motivating employees to have health40% increase when compared to 2009. ier lifestyles. 9.3 Health and safety The agreements made with the unions also include health TIM has 11 Internal Commissions for the Prevention and safety aspects. One of the topics included is the elimof Accidents (CIPA) with over 50 employees. ination of health risks through collective and individual protection, prioritizing the elimination or neutralization of TIM follows all legal requirements for health and safety agents that might be harmful to employees’ health. Furin the workplace, as directed in its Social Responsibility thermore, SINTTEL and TIM promote campaigns and Policy. TIM has assigned a representative responsible for studies in order to find solutions to occupational health health and safety, who will ensure that all measures imand safety issues. plemented are followed. Upon being hired, all employees receive integration training on policy and procedures for The rates related to occupational accidents improved in health and safety in the workplace. 2010 when compared to 2009, as shown in the table below: No serious occurrences were registered. There were TIM currently has 11 Internal Commissions for Prevenno cases of occupational diseases reported to INSS or to tion of Occupational Accidents (Cipas), which are disthe Ministry of Labor. tributed throughout the Company’s units and include over 50 employees. Cipas are formed by employees who are appointed by the Company’s executive body and by employees appointed by their peers, in the proportion of 50% for each group. A person is trained to be in charge of performing prevention activities in units where there is no minimum number of employees. 56 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Occupational accidents 2009 2010 Average training hours per employee In 2010, TIM invested a total of R$3,614,825.83 in 450,067 Number of accidents 5 4 training hours for its employees (the training hours for inwithout lost time* Number of accidents 36 16 terns and contractors are not included in this total). The with lost time* amount invested was down 29% when compared to 2009, Frequency rate (Number of accidents with lost however, the Company achieved its goal by holding more 2.59 1.25 time per million man-hours online training courses. worked) Severity rate (Number of lost days as a result The table below presents the average training hours per 52.59 13.95 of accidents per million manyear – online and in classroom, in or out of the office – by hours worked) employee, according to functional category. *Lost time refers to absences registered in the Occupational Accidents Communication System (CAT). 2009 2010 Executive Occupational Disease* 2009 2010 No. of hours 38.15 13.08 Directors Registered cases of Managers No. of hours 18.22 31.23 occupational disease Disease resulting from 61 0 Other positions No. of hours 43.52 14.90 occupational situations or activities, or occupation-related Sales Force No. of hours 18.49 18.14 injuries. Relationship *The discrepancy between 2009 and 2010 is due to change in Consultant No. of hours 22.48 71.65 (CRCs) methodology. Development and training Training of employees In 2010, TIM expanded its sustainability training to othTraining of TIM’s own service staff and contractors is coner functional categories. Up to 2009, TIM’s goal was tinuous and also relies on e-learning courses developed to obtain management buy-in with this training. This according to a new style adopted by the Company, which resulted in 73% of managers being trained on sustainuses more informal language and more dynamic content. ability in 2009. In 2010, 20% of all internal stakeholders participated in the sustainability training, which was In 2010, TIM Friends was created, which is a relationship made available through the Company’s e-learning tool. site for consultants, and it aims at creating more interaction between operation attendants. The initiative promotes The goal for total training hours (classroom, online and the concept of community in the exchange of knowledge on-the-job training) was also reached, totaling 897,954 and best practices, it promotes the philosophy of pleashours. ing clients, and it also motivates employees through a recognition program. However, the Company did not reach the goal for training coverage involving the number of people who parThe Company also has agreements that offer discounts ticipated in at least one training course in the year. at universities, language courses, and at other educational institutions, in addition to motivational competitions, benefits and a work environment that focuses on quality of life. Call Center employees are offered relaxation and body posture classes – which use innovative concepts, such as Pilates, walks, notions of taekwondo and body combat – they attend lectures related to current subjects, they also have access to a library, Internet café, snack bars and restaurants. 57 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Qualification program productivity, behavior and collectives. These criteria are International Education previously agreed upon, and all employees are encourThis program was developed through a partnership with aged to take part in training programs and seek excelthe top ten institutions according to the ranking of the Filence in customer service. nancial Times (such as London Business School, Wharton, Harvard, Stanford, Insead, MIT) and the program’s main The results of the assessment are shared with employgoal is to reduce competence gaps between managers ees and serve as a support for decision making regardand professionals with high potential and/or holding key ing employees’ career plans. The annual average of these positions. In 2010, 21 employees were covered by this iniresults is converted to a concept which summarizes the tiative, which represented an investment of approximately CR development, aligned with the corporate Development R$750,000. TIM will continue with this Program in 2011 Management process. and other employees will also be included. For professionals undergoing a termination process, Online Qualification TIM complies with legislation regarding severance The goal of this program is to qualify and offer career oppackages. portunities to high-performance employees who earn up to R$3,500.00. Of the 61 employees who entered the proPerformance assessment gram, 55 still remained active by the end of 2010; in 2011, In June 2010, all 4,982 employees eligible for perforthe number of placements will be extended to 150. mance assessment were evaluated. Customer Relationship Center (CRC) employees take part in the Excellence Workshops Consultant Program, as described in the Competency In 2010, workshops were organized in order to promote Management. the redesign of organizational skills. 150 Company managers attended the Innovation workshops which had the Employees have their performance assessed annually, participation of international experts (Renee Mauborgne, based on activities/goals established for the period and Nicholas Negroponte, Rosabeth Moss Kanter) and the group competencies defined for each function. ManagDecision Making workshops (together with COPPEAD). ers are assessed based on their goals/results and on the alignment of their actions with the managing model of Competency management the group. TIM believes that investing in the qualification of internal stakeholders is beneficial not only to the Company, As part of this process, a feedback meeting between the but also to the improvement of employees’ performance. manager and the employee is held so that both can jointly Therefore, the Company develops programs which aim at define which competencies should be developed for the developing the necessary competencies to achieve busicoming year. Subsequently, the Individual Development ness results; the program takes into account the future Plan for each employee is prepared, in which the actions and possible challenges as well as technological and marto be taken are defined in order to support the developket advancements. ment of such competencies. The actions related to the employee’s careers and merits result from these assessIn addition to the programs mentioned above, the Comments and development plans. pany offers specific technical training focused on the technical qualification and recycling to perform in the corresponding role. TIM also provides institutional training, familiarizing employees with the company. In order to assess the Relationship Consultants (CR), TIM carries out the Excellence Consultant Program, which provides indicators for the “Crescer” (Grow) Program, which aims at promoting the professional development of employees who work in the Customer Relationship Center (CRC). These employees are evaluated on a monthly basis on several indicators, such as quality, 58 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance 9.4 External public > Expansion of the customer service channels, A new philosophy in services was implemented, diversifying the possibilities of clients obtaining fast based on a more conciliatory and efficient stance. answers to their queries. The creation of the Content Portal *144# was one of these initiatives. This portal Our clients is a free communication channel, which allows TIM In 2009, TIM started a market repositioning process, clients quick access to information, provides easy which also involved the area responsible for customer access to services, and instant answers through their relations. The quality of customer services was highown cell phones. Portal *144# provides clients with lighted as one of the Company’s strategic priorities and, the opportunity to manage their preferences and get consequently, the Customer Satisfaction area started to important information within seconds, combining self report directly to the Company president. The change in service with mobility. Clients are able to check plans, structure allowed more efficiency and speed in addresspromotions, services, top-ups, remaining credit on the ing clients’ needs. TIM+ plan, favorite numbers, request copies of their bill, passwords and purchase content. Under the new organization chart – in association with the process in other areas to simplify offerings and expansion Impact on customer service of the network infrastructure – a new philosophy was imBetween 2009 and 2010 there was a significant increase plemented in the customer service area, based on a more in the client base, which could have generated an increase conciliatory and resolute proposal: in customer service demand. However, with the revision of the portfolio and the simplification of new products, due > Focus  on training of attendants so that they are able to the launch of the Infinity and Liberty plans, the underto empathize and have a better relationship with standing of the products by users was facilitated. clients. In addition, network coverage was expanded and the > Investment in closer observation of consumers through communication model with clients was changed, which qualitative surveys and monitoring activities. contributed to a decrease in complaints. Consequently, due to actions to reduce complaints, a significant reduc> Investment  in the implementation of an end-to-end tion in demand was observed. customer service model, in which each operation should provide all information, from contact By the end of 2010, the Company had approximately 51 management to addressing users’ demands. For this million clients – up 24% when compared to 2009 – and project, a new variable remuneration system was there was a decrease of 12% in calls received at the call created that allows associating the remuneration of center between January 2009 and December 2010. the call center partners (Atento, CSU, Almaviva and AeC) to the quality of customer service. Partners who Another result that proves the success of management’s receive a positive evaluation in customer service and focus on quality of customer service was a reduction in deal with customers’ requests in a fast and effective the number of second calls, which was down 60% in the way receive bonuses of up to 12% on top of their period. It was also noted that almost 65% of call center salary, which would represent a significant increase calls are from clients seeking information; therefore, TIM in their income. decided to create more self service channels. To prove the efficiency of this new customer service approach, in April 2010, TIM reached the goal for solutions to reasonable complaints, which had been previously set by the Department of Consumer Protection and Defense (DPDC). Moreover, since August, TIM has been achieving 100% of the goals set by Anatel’s General Plan for Quality Goals. 59 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance TIM is aware that client relations must constantly be imTotal complaints and criticisms solved: proved, therefore the Company has adopted a series of By the Company % 99.40% 99.88% measures to reduce complaints in Procons (Consumer By Procon Protection Agencies), which resulted in a 16% decrease in and by other the number of complaints: Consumer % * 100% Protection Agencies > TIM’s daily monitoring of the Procon 0800 channel (MiBy Anatel % 89.60% 97.88% cromanagement); By Courts % ** 96.26 > Motivational campaigns for CRCs employees in order to *The percentage of complaints solved by Procon exceeded 100%, since improve customer service; the number of actions finished in 2008 and 2009 was higher than the number of actions received, due to ongoing actions from previous years. > Communication of culture for effective problem-solving in customer service (Front End), guiding CRC attendants **The percentage of complaints solved by courts exceeded 100%, since to be pro-active and flexible during the contact, thus, the number of actions finished in 2008 was higher than the number of ackeeping customers from contacting Consumer Defense tions received, due to ongoing actions from previous years. Agencies. The Company had no cases of non-compliance with regIt is possible to highlight the main actions which were reulations and codes related to impacts from its products sponsible for improvement in this area: and services on health, or cases of non-compliance with regulations and codes related to labeling and information > Development of a management method for Network on products and services. quality indicators, with daily previews, allowing the monitoring and achievement of established goals; Contact channels TIM’s main customer service channel is the CRC which > Improvement of the sales system to reduce on-hold time addresses all doubts and suggestions from consumers in customer services; via e-mail, telephone, fax, mail or through the website www.tim.com.br – available 24 hours a day, seven days > Increase in the number of CRC attendants to ensure the a week. established service time; The Company also offers self service channels on > Creation of service level agreement goals (SLA) for the its website, in the exclusive area; and the innovative internal areas, to ensure the established deadline to adportal *144# which allows clients to easily find answers dress demand. to their queries and requests through their own cell phones. 2009 2010 TIM’s Twitter profile (http://twitter.com/timtimportimtim), Total calls received by and the Portal *144# received the Troféu Ouro (Golden No. 148,206,990 115,011,728 customer Trophy) and the Business Case of the year, in the ABT services Average time on Awards, held by Garrido Marketing and by Fundação hold to customer Seconds 41’’ 38’’ Getúlio Vargas (FGV). service phone lines Total services by Surveys No. 5,892 5,024 the Ombudsman In order to assess client satisfaction with services reTotal complaints received: ceived, TIM carries out monthly surveys through specialBy the Company No. 15,140,423 10,247,904 ized independent institutes. The Company also carries out By Procon two semiannual surveys in order to assess client satisfacand by other tion with all areas of the Company. Consumer No. 21,699 19,050 Protection Agencies By Anatel No. 180,132 211,209 By Courts No. 46,590 48,165 60 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance The main reasons for client dissatisfaction with TIM, in9.5 Society and government dicated in the surveys are: Lack of signal in some areas In 2010, 998 hours of training were taught, focusing on (coverage), lack of promotions and customer service the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). through the telephone (long waiting time for customer services and limited capability for solving complaints). Anti-corruption training In 2010, TIM registered complaints or legal actions re2009 2010 ferring to corruption practices involving the Company or Average individual its employees. Incidents of fraud were registered, facts customer satisfaction No. 8.28 8.06 were investigated and the proper measures were taken, score* such as: terminating the employment of the employees Average individual involved. Furthermore, the Company filed charges with customer satisfaction No. 7.64 7.46 score for CRC* the Police Authorities, so that the proper measures could be taken. *The scores presented above refer to the average scores in the semiannual surveys. The Company provides training focused on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), which is widely recognized as Impacts of marketing communications an anti-corruption procedure regarding financial inforThe Brazilian Advertising Self-Regulating Code (Conar) is mation. In 2010, 998 hours of training were held. TIM, the entity that ensures ethical values in the Brazilian adthrough a Base audit, considered only the hours of vertising sector. TIM, as well as other advertisers, comparticipants who finished the course in the highlighted munication agencies, and media in general, seek to follow period, as shown in the table below. Therefore, the inits principles. In addition, TIM has a Marketing Communidicators decreased, since the number of hours of particication Policy, which ensures the alignment of marketing pants with ongoing status were not considered. The final communication projects and actions with its mission and distribution is as follows: principles in relation to Sustainability. Total Hours In 2010, 13 claims were filed against TIM at Conar, 9 of Type of training 2009 2010 Public which were filed by competitors and 4 by Conar itself. Training for Control Employees Among them, 7 ended in 2010, of which 5 had to have Test Owners– SOX 156 96 working directly changes to the advertising, one suspension of advertising, (6 hours) with SOX Overview of and one was ruled in favor of TIM. Sarbanes-Oxley Act 106 82 Internal Stakeholders SOX (2 hours) Product labeling Course on Ethics 747 820 Internal (1 hour) Stakeholders It is of the manufacturers’ responsibility to provide adTotal 1,009 998 equate information and/or warnings regarding devices, accessories and spare parts marketed by TIM, as per the terms of article 12, caput, in the Consumer ProtecThe course on Ethics refers to the principles established tion Code. in the Global Compact, such as Principle 10, which deals with corruption. At the end of the course, a test is apCustomer privacy plied in order to facilitate the employees’ understanding, In 2010, there were four lawsuits filed by clients against through a hypothetical situation, on how to act in a posTIM alleging violation of privacy. The Company is awaiting sible situation involving corruption. a ruling on its appeal against two of the action. The other two are still pending decisions. TIM does not provide any type of training regarding policies or procedures related to human rights. 61 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Fighting discrimination and harassment The Program was developed by TIM based on its respect TIM is committed to eliminating discrimination, harassfor consumers and the Brazilian economy, as well as TIM ment, child labor and/or slave labor or any other similar itself and its internal stakeholders. activities in its operations and business chain. The Company addresses such issues in its Social Responsibility TIM’s internal stakeholders, especially those who deal Policy, available on the Company’s website or intranet. with clients or consumers, distributors, suppliers, and Moreover, TIM is a signatory to the Global Compact, competitors on a daily basis, need to understand antitrust whose guidelines cover commitment to these subjects, legislation and the operation of the agencies responsible promoting them inside and outside the Company. for its application in Brazil, in order to identify and avoid acts potentially contrary to the established rules.Thus TIM All purchase agreements and orders are supported by a contributes to the protection of freedom of competition in clause guaranteeing compliance with ethics and respect the markets in which it operates. for human and labor rights, with environmental protection principles and anti-corruption measures; these initiatives TIM defends full competition in the markets in which it are all covered in the Global Compact. This clause sets operates and believes that companies which are more efforth that the contracted supplier recognizes the position ficient and innovative should be rewarded for their merits. of the Company and commits to communicating these Undoubtedly, this is the only mechanism that allows the values and principles in an ethical and socially responsible fulfillment of the social function of wealth circulation and way, throughout its business chain. by which consumers can benefit from the offer of products with better quality and lower prices. TIM does not have a specific communication channel dedicated to the recording and receiving of complaints on In 2010, there were three lawsuits against TIM for illegal cases of discrimination or harassment, involving internal competition. or external stakeholders. The Supervisory Committee/Audit Committee currently deals with cases which are sub9.6 Communities mitted through the Reporting Channel. Through qualitative market surveys, TIM evaluates the impact of its products on socio-environmental The Company does not have specific procedures to idenissues. tify operations or processes in its production chain which might pose a risk of representing forced or slave labor or Management of impacts child labor. In 2010, the Company was not informed of any TIM recognizes and manages the main aspects of its case of disrespect or violation of the rights of indigenous business that may have an impact on communities, peoples. especially regarding regulatory requirements, such as those needed to license its Base Transceiver Stations Contributions to political parties (BTSs or cell towers). TIM establishes in its Code of Ethics that making contributions to political parties, politicians or related institutions Among the main environmental aspects and their respecis forbidden. tive negative impacts, the following can be highlighted: Practices for the Defense of Free Competition Products and services TIM’s Defense of Competition Program is a structured set In order to have a qualitative assessment of impacts, most of tools to raise employees’ awareness on the importance of our products and services undergo preliminary tests on of compliance with Brazilian laws on the defense of comgroups of customers before being launched. Through this petition, as well as to prevent the occurrence of infractions qualitative market survey, TIM assesses the impact of resulting from any breach of the legislation. these products on socio-environmental issues. The first actions of this program were the preparation of an informative manual containing detailed information on the rules for defense of competition, recommendations on their proper use, and the detailing of rules of conduct, and specific training for several areas of the Company. 62 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Some qualitative results of this research are reported below: Waste In order to manage the impact of its waste, the Company > New plans maintains programs to collect cell phones, batteries and In 2010, cell phone users interviewed said they now feel accessories which are no longer being used; TIM also they will have more options when choosing a plan. They keeps a selective collection program in offices, among realize that these new plans should make the market others. TIM also has specific procedures for the decommore competitive, and may even reduce costs. On the missioning of sites, which include the closing of the opother hand, they might generate negative impacts, since erations and removal of equipment from the communities, people could replace their devices more often, generatproviding a final and adequate destination. ing more electronic waste. Social Projects in Communities > Information via SMS TIM’s two main social projects had their impact measured People interviewed perceived the information services through a survey with its beneficiaries. TIM’s project Músion traffic and news over their cell phones as being posica nas Escolas (Music at schools) presented consistent tive. For them, receiving information on traffic would results on students’ level of learning, as well as perennials optimize their choice of routes, reduce traffic jams, and, results for these groups. therefore, contribute to the reduction of emissions. The use of the cell phone to read the news reduces the use The assessment of TIM’s project ArtEducAção showed of physical communication media, reducing the need the improvement in students’ relations with family and for printing, therefore, having a positive impact on the teachers. environment. Impact on surrounding communities > Oferta Jovem (Young Offer) Due to the nature of its activities, few modifications were The public interviewed evaluated this segment as posirecorded in the Company’s facilities, other than the cretive, since they would interact more often with family ation or decommissioning of sites. The need to open a and friends. new office was felt just a few times. On these occasions, TIM always attempted to discuss our entry in the commu> IPhone Offering nity with local residents, such as, for example, the agreeWhen people interviewed were asked on how life would ments entered into with the local government of Santo improve with the Iphone, Apple’s smartphone, they André (State of São Paulo) regarding the installation of a highlighted that it provide more people with access to Technology Center and the investment made to improve the Internet through their cell phones and because of the areas surrounding the project. IPhone’s versatility, it would be possible to have only one device, instead of four (cell phone, camera, mp3 Investment in cultural and social projects player, etc). They also emphasized the importance of Since the beginning of TIM’s brand repositioning, in manufacturers guiding users on the best way to dis2009, our cultural and social projects have been reaspose of batteries and cell phones which are no longer sessed. Some of them were closed and others replaced being used. by new ones. Noise and EMR emissions In general, the main criterion established to regulate The country’s radio frequency ranges for mobile teleTIM’s private social investment is to foster the inclusion phone services are regulated by the National Telecomof Brazilian low-income individuals, primarily children munications Agency (Anatel). Based on Resolution No. and youngsters, by investing in educational projects 303, TIM analyzes and monitors the EMR in all the Base which may reinforce the “no borders” concept within the Transceiver Stations (BTSs), keeping them within the essocial scope. tablished thresholds. 63 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Amount Amount 9.7 Social projects in communities Private Social Investment (R$ thousands) (R$ thousands) With a nationwide reach, TIM Música nas Escolas (TIM 2009 2010 Music in Schools), was held in six cities in 2010 and is Education 6,874 7,101 one of the examples of social projects supported by TIM. Culture 8,884 2,359 TIM Música nas Escolas (Music in Schools) Health and sanitation 139 251 In 2010, TIM Música nas Escolas, which has a national proSports 10 163 file, took place in 6 cities. According to plan, the project had a planned life cycle at its launch and was presented to its Fighting hunger and 76 2 government partners (city authorities, municipal and state improving food safety boards of education). Over four cities completed its actions Others 96 438 (Belém, Salvador, Porto Alegre and Recife), preparing dozTotal contribution ens of young musicians. 16,080 10,316 to society Note: Tax incentives are included in the amounts above and correspond to In order to contribute to the continuity of the career of less than 5% of these investments. these young musicians, TIM donated instruments to participants of the orchestras in these cities, and provided Culture certificates of attendance. The TIM UFMG cultural space – Etuc, opened in 2010, resulted from a partnership between TIM, the Minas Gerais Created in 2003, the structure of TIM’s Música nas Escolas State Government and the Federal University of Minas project relies on the musical language and has the purGerais (UFMG), which is represented by the Foundation pose of enabling new forms of learning and improving the of Research Development (Fundep) and is responsible for performance of students in school, while promoting and the contents presented in the project. communicating cultural expressions intended for peace. As a result of the musical education of these Ambassadors Integrated to the Praça da Liberdade Cultural Circuit, for Peace, six Brazilian Orchestras were formed, and in which is located in the center of Belo Horizonte, this proj2010, they gave a total of 88 public concerts. An important ect includes an observatory and a space observation deck, development of this initiative was the release, in Novema planetarium with capacity for 80 people, and rooms for ber 2010, of the first album of the Brazilian Orchestra of the exhibition of scientific, cultural and educational projRio de Janeiro, with new songs from great composers and ects with capacity to receive 300,000 visitors every year. featuring special guests. Claudio Medeiros 64 Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance In 2010, a percussion group was also formed in TIM Música The Company’s website, the Wap Portal and the Twitter nas Escolas in Rio de Janeiro, composed of 30 deaf chilprofile were used to mobilize and inform its users, by didren and teenagers from the Educational Center Pilar Verecting them to the website of the movement and doing a lásquez. The young musicians of these orchestras also mulcountdown for the Earth Hour. TIM advertised the movetiplied their knowledge by helping over 3,000 children, in 13 ment in newspapers of great circulation in Rio de Janeiro schools and holding 236 music workshops promoted by the and São Paulo, and on several Brazilian radio stations. project. They returned to the schools where they initiated the project to teach children on the different properties of Volunteerism sound and means to musicalization. With the program Citizens without Borders, created in 2010 to support volunteerism among its employees, TIM In 2011, a new album will be released, but this time, recordestablished that each employee can dedicate a day of ed by students of the Brazilian Orchestra of Belém. By the work in the year to volunteer work. end of the year, TIM Música nas Escolas will complete its activities in Rio de Janeiro and in Belo Horizonte, finishing The Company promoted and advertised actions for colits life cycle in these cities, as foreseen in the launch project. lection of donations throughout the year, for example, during the floods that occurred in April in Rio de Janeiro, TIM ArtEducAção Program and the floods in July in Pernambuco and Alagoas. In 2010, over 5,000 youths participated in this program in 12 cities of Minas Gerais. The NGO Humanizarte is Among the volunteer actions organized in 2010, the folthe founder and responsible for the coordination of the lowing are highlighted: program, which is conducted through the Minas Gerais’s State Law for Cultural Incentive, and also establishes partChildren’s day at Educandário Romão Duarte nerships with the city authorities of the municipalities inTIM’s employees, with the help from the program Citizens volved in the project. without borders, organized a big party for Children’s Day for youths who are supported by Educandário Romão DuTIM’s ArtEducAção project seeks to promote schooling arte in Rio de Janeiro. In addition to the party, the emand the development of self-esteem and social inclusion ployees raised funds for the purchase of toys and food for for youths through music, dance, theater, capoeira and the institution. The action involved over 50 employees, of storytelling workshops, in addition to other forms of artiswhom 30 were present at the party playing and minding tic expression. The assessment surveys attested the multhe children. tiplying potential of the project, which also contributed to the city authorities on its public policies. CDI-TIM The informal space for learning through technology, creEarth Hour ated by the NGO Comitê pela Democratização da InforIn 2010, TIM developed a partnership with the NGO WWF, mática (Committee for the Democratization of Technology as a sponsor to the largest world movement for global – CDI), already had the computers necessary for its operawarming awareness, Earth Hour. Created by the organizations; however, it needed furniture, which was donated by tion in order to show support to global warming causes, TIM and had the collaboration of citizens without borders the movement asked companies, governments and peoto assemble the furniture. ple to turn off their lights for 60 minutes. Santa’s Helpers In addition to sponsoring the cause, TIM placed its infraThe Postal Service’s Santa Claus campaign, which has structure to the service of this initiative when it performed been held for over 20 years, distributes presents to chila communication campaign, sending text messages invitdren who write letters to Santa Claus at Christmas. In ing clients to participate Earth Hour. The Company shut 2010, it relied on the collaboration of TIM’s employees. the power off in its urban facilities at the time of the action Seventeen citizens without borders became Santa’s and performed a cultural contest, which gave out eco-line helpers for a day, supporting the Postal Service in the cell phones to those who took the best photos during the reading and registering of letters written by students of 60 minutes of darkness. public schools, day-care centers and shelters that help children in vulnerable social situations. The initiative helped many children in the country have their dream come true at Christmas. 65 Sustainability Report 2010 Annual social accounting 10. Annual social accounting Annual Social Accounting / 2010 Company: 1 – Calculation Base 2010 Valor (Thousand R$) 2009 Valor (Thousand R$) Net Revenue (NR) 14,457,450 13,158,134 Operating Income (OI) 1,200,134 553,462 Gross Payroll (GP) 587,159 520,293 Total Total 2 – Internal Social Indicators % over GP % over NI % over GP % over NI (thousands) (thousands) Meals 43,461 7.40% 0.30% 43,265 8.32% 0.33% Compulsory Social Charges 117,536 20.02% 0.81% 131,456 25.27% 1% Private Pension 8,520 1.45% 0.06% 5,081 0.98% 0.04% Health 39,552 6.74% 0.27% 35,531 6.83% 0.27% Occupational Health and Safety 2,574 0.44% 0.02% 2,574 0.49% 0.02% Education 2,375 0.40% 0.02% 383 0.07% 0% Culture 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% Training and Professional Development 5,500 0.94% 0.04% 7,615 1.46% 0.06% Daycare and Daycare Allowance 1,824 0.31% 0.01% 1,825 0.35% 0.01% Profit Sharing 54,736 9.32% 0.38% 11,508 2.21% 0.09% Others 11,245 1.92% 0.08% 12,036 2.31% 0.09% Total Internal social indicators 287,323 48.93% 1.99% 251,274 48.29% 1.91% Total Total 3 – External Social Indicators % over OI % over NI % over OI % over NI (thousands) (thousands) Education 7,102 0.59% 0.05% 6,874 1.24% 0.05% Culture 2,359 0.20% 0.02% 8,884 1.61% 0.07% Health and Sanitation 251 0.02% 0% 139 0.03% 0% Sports 163 0.01% 0% 10 0% 0% Fight Hunger and food safety 2 0% 0% 76 0.01% 0% Others 439 0.04% 0% 96 0.02% 0% Total contribution to society 10,316 0.86% 0.07% 16,080 2.91% 0.12% Taxes (less social charges) 4,214,550 351.17% 29.15% 4,653,885 840.87% 35.37% Total External social indicators 4,224,866 352.03% 29.22% 4,669,965 843.77% 35.49% Total Total 4 – Environmental Indicators % over OI % over NI % over OI % over NI (thousands) (thousands) Investments related to the company’s 275 0.02% 0% 219 0.04% 0% production/operation Investments in external programs and/or 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% projects Total investments in the environment 275 0.02% 0% 219 0.04% 0% Regarding the establishment of “annual ( ) does not have goals ( ) does not have goals goals” to minimize waste, general ( ) complies 0 to 50% ( ) complies 0 to 50% consumption during production/operations, ( ) complies 51 to 75% ( ) complies 51 to 75% and increase the efficient use of natural (x) complies 76 to 100% (x) complies 76 to 100% resources, the company 66 Sustainability Report 2010 Annual social accounting 5 – Functional Body Indicators 2010 2009 Number of employees at end of period 10,138 9,231 Number of admissions during the period 3,220 2,041 Number of outsourced employees 26 527 Number of apprentices 177 224 Number of employees over the age of 45 635 37 Number of women working in the company 6,121 5,730 % of management positions held by women 32.00% 32.76% Number of African descendents working in 2,773 1,867 the company % of management positions held 5.55% 2.12% by African descendents Number of people with disabilities 42 48 or special needs 6 – relevant information concerning the 2010 Total (thousand R$) Goals for 2011 practice of corporate citizenship Ratio between the highest and lowest salary 62 n.d. Total number of accidents at work 20 n.d. The standards of safety and cleanliness in the ( ) (x) administration ( ) all ( ) (x) administration ( ) all workplace were defined by: administration and management employees administration and management employees The standards of safety and cleanliness in the (x) administration ( ) all (x) administration ( ) all ( ) all + Cipa ( ) all + Cipa workplace were defined by: and management employees and management employees Concerning employees freedom of ( ) promotes (x) will comply ( ) will promote ( ) is not (x) complies ( ) will not be association, the right to collective bargaining and adheres with the ILO and adhere to involved with ILO norms involved and internal representation, the company: to ILO norms ILO norms ( ) administration (x) all ( ) administration (x) all Private Pension covers: ( ) direction ( ) direction and management employees and management employees ( ) administration (x) all ( ) administration (x) all Sharing of profits or results includes: ( ) direction ( ) direction and management employees and management employees In selecting suppliers, the same ethical ( ) are not (x) are ( ) will not be (x) will be ( ) will be standards and social and environmental ( ) are required considered suggested considered suggested required responsibility adopted by the company: Regarding the participation of employees in ( ) is not ( ) organizes ( ) will not be ( ) will organize (x) supports (x) will support volunteer work, the company: involved and promotes involved and promote Total number of complaints and criticisms at the company at Procon in Court at the company at Procon in Court from consumers: 10,247,904 19,050 48,165 __n.d.__ __n.d.__ __n.d.__ % of complaints and criticisms addressed or at the company at Procon in Court at the company at Procon in Court resolved: 99.88% 100% 96.26% __n.d.__% __n.d.__% __n.d.__% Total value added for distribution In 2010: In 2009: (thousand R$): 51.98% government 69.31% government 6.09% employees 7.71% employees Total value added for distribution 6.01% shareholders 2.97% shareholders (thousand R$) (DVA): 15.19% third parties 19.01% third parties 20.74% retained 2.0% retained 7 – Additional Information 67 Sustainability Report 2010 Global compact 11. Global compact 10 Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2: Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Labor rights 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor; 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Protection 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Fight against corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org 68 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index 12. GRI content index Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Page Global Compact 1.1 Message from the President. 2 and 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 13 2. Perfil Organizacional Indicator Description Page Global Compact 2.1 Name of the organization. 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 7 Countries where the organization operates and where it has 7 2.5 major operations. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 9 2.7 Markets served. 7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 9 3. Report Parameters Indicator Description Page Global Compact 3.1 Reporting period for the information provided. 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 4 3.3 Reporting cycle. 4 Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 5 report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 5 3.6 Boundary of the report. 4 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary 3.7 5 of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting. 4 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 3.10 5 provided in earlier reports. Significant changes from previous reporting periods 3.11 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in 4 the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 3.12 69 and 74 in the report. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 5 assurance for the report. 69 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Indicator Description Page Global Compact Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1 15 under the highest governance body. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 16 Members of the highest governance body that are independent 4.3 16 and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 16 recommendations. Linkage between compensation and the organization’s 4.5 16 performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 16 conflicts of interest are avoided. The company does not have a Qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest specific procedure to determine the 4.7 governance body. qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board. Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and relevant 4.8 8 and 17 internal principles. Responsibilities for the implementation of Economic, Social and 4.9 17 Environmental Policies. The company does not have a Processes for self-assessment of performance self-assessment process of 4.10 of the highest governance body. performance for members of the Board of Directors. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 26 principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed charters, principles, or 4.12 17 other initiatives. Memberships in associations and/or national/international 4.13 22 advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5 and 18 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 4.15 5 to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 18 a 21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 5 stakeholder engagement. Performance Indicators Economic Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management Approach 11, 23, 26, 31 and 62 Economic Performance Indicator Description Page Global Compact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 25 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 26 7 organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 27 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 25 70 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index Market Presence Indicator Description Page Global Compact EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local 29 1 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 31 suppliers. EC7 Local hiring. 31 6 Indirect Economic Impacts Indicator Description Page Global Compact EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments provided primarily for 31 public benefit. EC9 Description of significant indirect economic impacts. 31 and 32 Environment Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management approach 26, 33, 34, 36, 38 and 41 Materials Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 35 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 35 8 and 9 Energy Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 36 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 36 8 and 9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 36 and 37 8 and 9 improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based 37 8 and 9 products and services. Water Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 38 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 38 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 38 8 and 9 Biodiversity Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN11 Location and size of land owned. 43 8 EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services. 43 8 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 40 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 40 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 38 and 39 7, 8 and 9 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 41 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 38 8 71 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 42 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 43 8 EN24 Weight of transported waste deemed hazardous. 42 8 Products and Services Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 45 7, 8 and 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that 43 8 and 9 are reclaimed by category. Compliance Indicator Description Page Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN28 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws 46 8 and regulations. Transport Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products and members 40 and 41 8 of the workforce. General Indicator Description Page Global Compact EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. 46 7, 8 and 9 Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management approach 11, 20, 21, 53, 55, 56 and 58 Employment Indicator Description Page Global Compact LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and 48, 49 and 50 region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 54 6 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 54 and 55 temporary or part-time employees. Labor/Management Relations Indicator Description Page Global Compact LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 55 and 56 1 and 3 agreements. LA5 Description of notices (schedules and procedures). 55 3 Occupational Health and Safety Indicator Description Page Global Compact LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 56 1 management–worker health and safety committees. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days. 56 and 57 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control 56, 57 and 58 1 programs. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 56, 57 and 58 1 trade unions. 72 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index Training and Education Indicator Description Page Global Compact LA10 Average hours of training per year. 57 6 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 58 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 58 career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Indicator Description Page Global Compact LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 53 1 and 6 employees per category according to gender. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee 53 and 54 1 and 6 category. Human Rights Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management approach 19, 24, 31 and 62 Procurement practices Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR2 Percentage of contractors subject to assessments 62 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 on human rights. HR3 Hours of employee training on policies and procedures related 61 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to human rights, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 62 1, 2 and 6 Freedom of Association Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR5 Policy on freedom of association and level of application. 55 and 56 1, 2 and 3 Child Labor Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR6 Actions taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. 62 1, 2 and 5 Forced and Compulsory Labor Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR7 Actions taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or 62 1, 2 and 4 compulsory labor. Indigenous Rights Indicator Description Page Global Compact HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 62 1 and 2 indigenous people and actions taken. Society Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management approach 11, 12, 17, 19, 20 and 22 Community Indicator Description Page Global Compact SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of 62, 63, 64 and 65 operations on communities. 73 Sustainability Report 2010 GRI content index Corruption Indicator Description Page Global Compact SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s anti61 10 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 61 10 Public Policies Indicator Description Page Global Compact SO5 Public policy positions. 22 1 SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians, and related 62 10 institutions. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior. 62 Compliance Indicator Description Page Global Compact SO8 Description of monetary value of significant fines and total 56 number of non-monetary sanctions. Product Responsibility Indicator Description Page Global Compact Management approach 11 and 19 Product Responsibility Indicator Description Page Global Compact PR2 Non-conformities related to impacts on health and safety 60 1 by products and services. Product and Service Labeling Indicator Description Page Global Compact PR3 Type of product and service information required by labeling 61 8 procedures. PR4 Non-compliance related to labeling of products and services. 60 8 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 60 surveys. Marketing Communications Indicator Description Page Global Compact PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 59, 60 and 61 codes. PR7 Non-compliance related to communication of products and 61 services. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 61 1 privacy. Compliance Indicator Description Page Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 21 and services. 74 Sustainability Report 2010 13. Credits Coordination TIM Participações Communications and Sustainability Department Copywriting and Editing Report Comunicação Graphic Design Report Comunicação Translated Text Gotcha Idiomas Ltda. EPP Photography Opening: DreamPictures/Shannon Faulk/Getty Images About the Report: ©iStockphoto.com/Thomas_EyeDesign Organizational Profile: ©iStockphoto.com/skynesher Sustainability: ©iStockphoto.com/tomazl Corporate Governance: ©iStockphoto.com/pixdeluxe Economic Performance: ©iStockphoto.com/mario13 Environmental Performance: ©iStockphoto.com/arekmalang Social Performance: ©iStockphoto.com/airportrait Cultural and social projects: Cláudio Medeiros Site Program Report Comunicação 75
