Moldcell Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2010 March, 2011 1 Moldcell CEO statement 2010 was a milestone year at Moldcell, a period of significant changes and great achievements. On April 28, Moldcell celebrated its 10 year anniversary and presented a refreshed look & feel of its corporate brand. During the past 10 years of Moldcell’s operation on the Moldovan telecommunication market we have established our strong position in terms of network quality and world class service, innovation and technologies, as well as level of investment. The refreshment of Moldcell brand emphasizes its belonging to a larger “family” of mobile operators owned by TeliaSonera, a leading European telecommunication company present in 20 markets in the Nordic and Baltic countries, in Spain and in the developing markets of Eurasia, including Russia and Turkey. For Moldcell, rebranding did not only mean a redesigned logo (a new brand symbol in the shape of a stone in rich purple color), but also re-designing of or its official sales network (with more than 3 000 points of sales) and the renewal of the products adjusted for simpler and more efficient communication. Still, in the turmoil of all these events, some things do not change. Even more, they have to remain still, in order to remind us of our true mission on this market. I am referring to Moldcell values which we took with us in the New World of Communication: • Pioneering the development of the telecommunication market by bringing the latest technologies and user friendly services, • Being a modern local mobile communication company, • Being part of people’s life, unifying through communication different generations; • Being agile in response to the market and consumer needs • Being an integral part of Moldova, contributing to its economic development and taking care of the society through social responsibility projects. Also, our aspiration to become world-class customer service company, continues to guide us and keep us focused. Another big achievement of 2010 was attaining 1 000 000 Moldcell subscribers! This happened in November and we decided to give back to society by running a social campaign for 340 disadvantaged children from the entire country. I want to take this opportunity and thank our subscribers their contributions and to point out that, in the vision of Moldcell company, 1 million subscribers means the number of people in Moldova who trust our strategy to act in a responsible way making technologies work for the benefit of society and to initiate long-term projects with positive impact on society. 2010 was indeed a year full of events. Among others, it represented one step further in the democratization of our country, striving for political stability and reforms. It also meant terrible damages for local households, caused by floods which affected 10 % of Moldova’s territory in the month of July. 2010 also brought a lot of new initiatives and ambitious social projects for Moldcell. I kindly invite you to find out more about Moldcell activity in 2010 from our Communication on Progress report and I sincerely assure you that, as part of TeliaSonera group, Moldcell is continuously working to the creation of a world of better opportunities. Chiril Gaburici Moldcell CEO 2 Summary: 1. Company profile…………………………………………………………………………………… 4 2. Moldcell vision on Corporate Social Responsibility………………… …………………5 7 3. Technologies for a social change ……………………………………………………….8-12 4. CSR projects for community: “A new day generates new discoveries” – Investments in education …………....13 16 “Ensuring proper living and study conditions for children”…………………………17 – 18 Supporting a healthy life style……………………………………………………… 19 Moldcell turns communication into art……………………………………………….19 – 20 3 1. Company profile Moldcell was established in October 1999 and began its commercial operations as the second GSM operator in Republic of Moldova on April 28, 2000, marking a new stage in the development of the mobile communications industry in the country. Moldcell has become one of the top economic agents in the country, positively influenced the development of the information infrastructure of Moldova, stimulated appearance and growth of the business sectors adjacent to telecommunications, made a substantial contribution to the state budget, as well as manifested a responsible approach towards social phenomena in Moldova and supported local cultural values. The Moldovan mobile operator is part of Swedish-Finnish telecommunications group TeliaSonera. Moldcell shareholder provides telecommunication services in the Nordic and Baltic countries, the emerging markets of Eurasia, including Russia and Turkey, and in Spain. TeliaSonera is now in 20 markets with close to 460 million inhabitants. The number of subscriptions at the end of 2010 reached 156.5 million. For the year 2010, TeliaSonera's net sales amounted to approximately USD 15 billion and TeliaSonera had around 30,000 employees. The TeliaSonera share is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and Helsinki stock exchanges. TeliaSonera provides network access and telecommunication services that help people and companies communicate in an easy, efficient and environmentally friendly way. TeliaSonera creates value by focusing on delivering a world-class customer experience, securing quality in our networks and achieving a best-inclass cost structure. TeliaSonera is an international group with a global strategy, but wherever it operates it acts as a local company. In the emerging markets of Eurasia, TeliaSonera has majority holdings in leading mobile operators in Kazakhstan (Kcell), Azerbaijan (Azercell), Georgia (Geocell), Moldova (Moldcell), Tajikistan (Tcell), Uzbekistan (Ucell) and Nepal (Ncell). TeliaSonera is also a minority owner of MegaFon in Russia and Turkcell in Turkey. Moldcell is responsible for a number of “firsts” in the Moldovan mobile market, including the launch of SMS service, prepaid roaming, per-second charging of voice calls, Car Fleet Management and Mobile Office services, WAP/Internet access, GPRS and EDGE based services. Moldcell was also the first operator to launch 3,5 G services and the full set of Blackberry® services in Moldova. It was the first to introduce roundthe-clock customer care and pilot the Corporate Social Responsibility approach in Moldova. Moldcell’s network currently covers 97% of the population on Moldova’s territory. By now, Moldcell has earned the trust of more than 1 million customers. The operator is represented in over 3,000 points of sale all over the country. Moldcell’s efforts have been highly appreciated by the society and the government, which is reflected in several awards the company has been receiving years in a row. Among them are The Best Tax Payer (4 years in a row), The Grand Prix for the Brand of the Year (6 years in a row). Moldcell’s customer orientation is translated into reality by high quality Customer Care and service approach, for which Moldcell received the ISO 9001:2000 that was successfully reconfirmed during 2009 by ISO 9001:2008. Believing that business can contribute to the creation of a world with better opportunities, Moldcell has integrated Corporate Social Responsibility values in its operation and growth strategies. The company is one of Moldova’s biggest promoters of sustainable business development, based on ethics and transparency. At Moldcell, we believe that only the respect and promotion of fair business will lead to the progress of the industry and of the country we operate in. More than 350 social, educational, health, youth, cultural and charity projects have been initiated or supported by the company so far, and over 400 000 children have indirectly benefited of our projects. Moldcell uses technologies for the service of the community, initiates social partnerships in key areas (education and healthcare), supports local culture and art, and has a clear pro-ecologic position. Since 2006, Moldcell is part of the Global Compact Network in Moldova. 4 2. Moldcell vision on Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility integrates marketplace, workplace, environment and community concerns with business operations in interaction with the stakeholders. Moldcell uses CSR to support sustainable development and to be a good corporate citizen. The very basis of Moldcell´s CSR policy is to honor the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the elementary ILO conventions and to encourage and assist our suppliers, subcontractors and associated companies to do the same. In business, Moldcell´s commitment to CSR is demonstrated and continuously improved by emphasizing the importance of values, business ethics and good working conditions for sustainable growth. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Moldcell supports sustainable development by: • Respecting Republic of Moldova Legislation, the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and ILO conventions • Encouraging suppliers and subcontractors to activate by respecting the above-mentioned documents • Sharing knowledge and encouraging transparency and involvement in society • Developing CSR projects which stimulate positive changes in the community according to objective and transparent criteria • Meeting demands for the protection of privacy and the prevention of abusive or illegal use of information and telecommunications services for reasons of discrimination, racism, violence and all forms of child abuse We continuously work on achieving this by: In the market place • Respecting the legislation of Republic of Moldova • Applying our Business Concept, Our Vision and TeliaSonera Shared Values, but also the Code of Ethics and Conduct • Meeting all applicable regulatory requirements and voluntarily signed charters and codes of conduct to which we have committed ourselves • Emphasizing the importance of our values and business ethics • Supplying services that support sustainable development • Striving and continuously working to obtain world class in customer service, according to ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System. • Contributing to bridging the Digital Divide • Developing telecommunications services that improve accessibility for disabled users Moldcell runs its business in transparent conditions with respect to Corporate Governance. The company fully controls its operation being accurate in financial reporting, it is Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliant; it reports according to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and operates such management information systems as SAP and Hyperion. Moldcell is also an important payer of taxes. From the beginning of its’ activity, company’s contribution to the national economy is estimated at USD 62,5 millions. Out of taxes paid by the Company to the State and Local budgets, it contributed indirectly for the salaries of budgetary employees (10%), capital investments (40%) and other like purchases and utilities for the hospitals, kindergartens, schools, universities, asylums, etc. (50%). Moldcell is proud of its management style and corporate culture that are guided by the Code of Ethics and Conduct, developed and shared among TeliaSonera family members, Code of Conduct of Global Compact Network (GCN) member concerning children labor abolition and GCN Moldova Go Green Office Guidelines 5 In the workplace • Basing our actions on the foundations of the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the fundamental ILO Principles and Rights at Work. Moldcell also encourages suppliers and subcontractors to do the same. We place particular emphasis on: Freedom of association The elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory or child labour The elimination of all forms of discrimination Protection of employee integrity • Increasing CSR awareness and ensuring that employees have adequate competence to assess CSR risks and opportunities within their own work • Creating and sustaining working conditions that promote a healthy work-life balance in accordance with laws and agreements on working time • Offering benefits and bonuses to the employees At the end of 2010, Moldcell family was formed out of 347 employees (52 % female, 48% men). The average age of most employees (60.8%) varies between 20 and 30 years. STAFF DISTRIBUTION BY AGE Age ranges % 20 30 60,8% 31-50 38,04% Over 50 1.15% Also, 42 % of the employees spend more than 4 years working in Moldcell. STAFF AVERAGE SERVICE PERIOD These positive trends are ensured by Moldcell strategy to continuously invest in the development of its employees, who represent the main company asset. The company offers wide portfolio of benefits and social assistance (program of benefits, staff loan, sport activities, additional medical insurance for employees and 6 their families, English language courses). Additionally, the employees have the possibility to participate in international TeliaSonera projects and to contribute to the development of recently entered in TeliaSonera group. The efficiency of the knowledge acquisition, extension and usage process is guaranteed by the diversity of methods, Trainings (professional trainings, workshops, conferences and mentoring programs), being one out of them. In 2010:  179 employees out of 347 participated in development programs and trainings  Total Training Budget spent – 3497h  Technical Training budget spent – 7024.45 USD  10 employees participated in international conferences acquiring international experience In the environment • Operating and developing our telecommunications networks according to best environmental praxis especially in the following areas: Cables, waste from electronic and electrical equipment Hazardous materials, contaminated soils Improvement of energy efficiency Trend to replace business travels by alternative communication solutions (e-mail, teleconferences, web-conference) In the community • Taking into account ethical, social and environmental criteria in commercial community partnerships and in sourcing of telecommunications equipment and services • Launching public – private partnerships with reputable Moldova organizations and developing projects in order to create positive changes in the community • Ensuring transparent communication on CSR activities of the company for Moldcell stakeholders • Make the technologies work for the benefit of the society Moldcell activity in the CSR Committee of the American Chamber of Commerce American Chamber of Commerce is a non-governmental and non-profit organization launched in September 2006, as part of an international network of 112 countries. At the end of 2010, AmCham Moldova comprised 63 company members including Moldcell. In 2010, Moldcell chaired AmCham CSR committee and actively participated in several following projects and activities. At the proposal of Moldcell and with the approval of AmCham CSR Committee and Board, it was decided to organize an internal funds collection campaign and purchase medication for children suffering of Leukemia, hospitalized at Hepatic Onco-hematologic Section of Chisinau Oncology Hospital. The money was gathered due to: The charity lottery within the corporate event organized on the occasion of USA Independence Day and Member companies direct contributions (including Moldcell) On the eve of Christmas holidays, AmCham traditionally runs a charity campaign among members. 10 companies including Moldcell collected goods which were offered to 130 children from a remote orphanage. During the floods that affected Republic of Moldova in the summer of 2010, AmCham members offered support for 15 families affected by the natural disaster. 7 3. Technologies for a social change Moldcell is the national leader in the implementation of modern technologies on the Moldovan market. The technologies helped increasing the data transfer rate and the communication speed. They also bring European quality standards for the mobile telephony of Republic of Moldova. Introducing advanced communication technologies in Moldova is part of the sustainable development direction of the company. For Moldcell, new technologies mean new possibilities, new communication solutions which add value to human lives, facilitate the business growth, are in the service of education and healthcare sector, extend the access to information/studies of young people. New technologies also represent a viable communication platform for transparent and sustainable government. In 2010, Moldcell continued to search and implement solutions and business models that would satisfy the communication needs of different categories of subscribers. Also, technologies were of significant support in extreme situations. Last, but not least we managed to create technological solution for a more eco-friendly business. 1. Moldcell Regional Tariff became a permanent offer. It was launched in 2009, as a cost-efficient way of communicating for subscribers from rural areas, where – according to official statistics – people gain less than in the capital city Chisinau. Therefore, people from other cities, towns except Chisinau have a 25% discount for in-net calls while clients from villages benefit from a 50% discount. Initially, Moldcell introduced the regional tariff as a temporary offer, an anti-crisis measure. Since it gained fast popularity, it was decided to turn “Regional tariff” into a permanent offer, becoming a business model contributing to eradication of poverty in rural areas. 2. Another target group with small revenues and important communication needs is formed by University students. In September 2010, Moldcell initiated a special project called “Aici Moldcell” (“Here Moldcell”), aimed at creating recreation and communication zones in the biggest universities of Moldova. In “Aici Moldcell” zone, subscribers communicate with 50% discount for in-net calls. This tariff is applied to all in-network calls, including those already with the discount. If the subscriber starts talking in Moldcell zone and moves out of the zone during the call, the discount is applied to the whole period of the call. By now the service was launched at 4 universities (3 from Chisinau and 1 at the South of the country), so an estimative number of over 40 thousand students, lecturers and universities guests can benefit from the discount. In the long-term future, Moldcell is planning on extending “Aici Moldcell” to all universities from Chisinau. 8 In July and August 2010, Moldova was affected by devastating floods, which caused significant damages in 42 localities from 13 districts. Viewing communication as an indispensable tool for people in extreme situations, it was of utmost importance to make sure that Moldcell mobile network works according to all quality standards in the affected regions, and do it fast. In just one day, we made this possible, by placing a mobile RBS station in a village where people affected by the calamity were evacuated. Later on, stationary RBS stations were placed on the premises. Also, Moldcell has:  Offered free of charge communication during 33 days for 77 000 subscribers (those affected by the catastrophe, but also collaborators of Service of Civil Protection and Exceptional Situations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who participated in coordinating and liquidating the floods consequences  More than 3 000 000 minutes were consumed during this period (compared to 1 000 000 during the floods of 2008)  Organized and supported funds collection campaigns for families in need. Moldcell subscribers who responded to this call sent over 25 000 SMS-es and contributed with approx 25 000 USD to those affected by the calamities At the initiative of Moldcell employees, an internal goods collection campaign took place. 43 families from Macaresti village received aliments, clothing, foot-wear, blankets and hygiene products thanks to this initiative. Beside, Moldcell used mobile telephony as:  platform of communication for 2 national campaigns of Moldovan Ministry of Health. Informative SMS-es were sent to the subscribers on the occasion of World Blood Donor Day (June 14) and World AIDS Day (December 1).  Technological and logistic support for the social campaign “By offering, you win” Mobile RBS stations are placed in crowded placed during mass gatherings, celebrations of national holidays etc. in order to avoid network congestions. 9  Moldcell Transport Manager (car fleet managemet -MTM) service is available for the companies that are interested in non-stop monitoring of their vehicles. By using MTM, the customers can control their transportation expenses more efficiently, discipline their employees and minimize the negative impact of auto-vehicles on the environment. Bellow, the representative of one of the companies – client of MTM shares his experience on the service: Viorel Filimon, representative of Moldpresa company “Each day we provide press, meaning the latest news, to Chisinau kiosks but also transport it throughout Moldova. It is of extreme importance to deliver fresh press at the opening of the stalls (6.30 in the morning) in each of those 200 kiosks all around the country. We have our own fleet for transporting the editions from the typography and the storehouse to each kiosk 6 times a week. Besides modern delivery, it is essential to always know where the cars of our company are located at every moment, when did they reach their destination, where did they stop and if they fully respect their itinerary This is where our partner, Moldcell company helped us. Thanks to Moldcell Transport Manager, our car fleet is under our control all the time, every second. It is possible to determine with full precision the location of our vehicles at every moment and in any period, to calculate the traversed distance, the running speed and stop duration.”  On-line Monitoring allows Moldcell clients to check on their children at home or kindergarten through a device that operates as a Video camera. The device permits full surveillance on the requested location from the screen of a 3G mobile phone, by video call, in on-line regime.  Bulk SMS service offers commercial agents the possibility to send SMSes on their promo-activities and discount campaigns to their customer data bases saving financial and natural resources  M-Club is targeted towards corporate clients and allows replacing all the discount cards people usually receive in shops, restaurants, health & beauty centers etc. with just 1 mobile card. The discounts can be accessed by Moldcell clients simply sending an SMS to a short numbe  Moldcell Café – the place where technologies serve coffee The first and only cafeteria in Moldova where iPads replace printed menus. 1. First, you check the iPad menu and make your order. 2. The cook gets your order by Internet, saving time and paper 3. Desert is served! Moldcell customers have 10 % discount for any order and they can pay their bill using loyalty points. 10 During Moldcell rebranding, in April 2010, the tariff plans and packages were simplified. The introduction of Cartela Moldcell, Abonament Moldcell and Moldcell Busines played a significant role in saving natural, economical and human resources. Here are some results we obtained after the changes:  Paper consumption for printing promo-materials registered a 6.5 % decrease because we communicate more campaigns in a single leaflet and a more selective approach to which campaigns should be promoted  Unification of bank refill forms allowed us to save 600 000 A6 pages in one year  Unique scratch cards for Cartela Moldcell and Abonament Moldcell  Implementation of electronic discount forms for Moldcell loyalty programs, thus avoiding printing thousands of coupons in this purpose  Moldcell centers representatives no longer fill in contracts by hand, but introduce the information in a electronic system Besides, during 2010 47% of Moldcell customers account refills were done through electronic payments. Moldcell is an active promoter of this advanced and eco-friendly way of paying the bills. 11 International conference “Mobile communication for a social change” Baku, November 2010 The conference was a premiere for Eurasia region and was organized by TeliaSonera group, hosted by Azercell mobile operator in the capital of Azerbaidjan –Baku. The conference took place with the participation and direct involvement of Swedish – Finnish group TeliaSonera top managers (including Cecilia Edström Group Vice President and Head of Group Communications), CEOs of companies members of the group (Moldcell, Azercell, Kcell, Ucell, Geocell, Tcell, Ncell), CSR local and international experts. The guests of the conference discussed the role of mobile telephony in the development of a country, the importance of technologies in today’s world and the numerous CSR projects initiated and supported by companies owned by TeliaSonera. Particular emphasis was given to the impact of mobile communication in:  Social and environment areas  M-Government  Business, trade and economy During the event, Cecilia Edström, TeliaSonera Vice President and Head of Group Communications, stated: “Even though it has a global strategy, TeliaSonera comes with a local, adjusted approach for each of the 20 markets it operates in. We understand that our Eurasia professionals have the most wide and clear view on the problems of their communities. That is why, in Moldova, through Moldcell, CSR activities are oriented towards people who live there and the products are adjusted to the needs of our subscribers there. One thing remains unchanged through the whole group – the permanent ascension towards world class customer service.” Republic of Moldova was represented at the conference by Moldcell managers’ team, guests from Moldovan Ministry of Information Technologies and Communication, the regulatory telecommunication authority NARTI and journalists. 12 4. CSR projects for the community “A new day generates new discoveries” – Investments in education Laboratory of Mobile Communications The first laboratory of mobile communications for students in the Republic of Moldova was inaugurated by Moldcell in May 2010, at the Technical University, Faculty of Radio-electronics and Telecommunications. The decision of creating such a laboratory appeared knowing about aspirations of the University and the difficulties they face at the beginning of the careers. The company uses these initiatives to offer assistance in education of the new generation of specialists and contributes to the minimization of emigration of young specialists. The laboratory has a capacity of 12 seats and the latest equipment successfully used in many countries of Europe. This premiere consists of an autonomous testing switch center that has all functions of a GSM network. Thanks to this center, the students will have a possibility to study the structure, functionality, operating and administration of a GSM network. Besides modern equipment, the Laboratory of Mobile Communications also has a specialized library. Moldcell technical specialists are incited to offer their knowledge and experience to guide students during practical classes. This is what M. Serghei Andronic, Dean of the Faculty of Radio Electronics and Telecommunications, had to say about the project: “The launching of this laboratory is a dream came true, something I have been waiting for a long time. We are very thankful to Moldcell for this initiative, for offering assistance in education of the new generation of professionals and for contributing to the minimization of young specialists’ emigration.” 13 th Moldcell Scholarship, 6 edition, 2010 – 2011 This is a yearly contest for university students in final courses (License and Master), unique in Moldova. Moldcell offers financial support, but also trainings, coaching, special personal development projects, knowledge and experience transfer from our specialists and employment opportunities. During all the editions of the project, 135 students became Moldcell scholars and 21 of them are now part of Moldcell family. Besides, the number of winners per edition grew from 15 to 26 and the total amount of the scholarship grew from 400 to 1000 US dollars, attaining a total budget of 160 000 US dollars. “Your future starts today” Joint project with Moldovan Academy of Economic Studies, where Moldcell specialists deliver presentations and workshops on:  New standards of modern business  Employers’ expectations and requirements During 2 editions of the project, 500 students attended and received participation diplomas. The third edition of “Your future starts today” was launched in the month of February 2011. 14 National campaign for children’ houses of family type access to computer and Internet for 340 disadvantaged children. According to the information of Moldovan Ministry of Education, more 6 000 children from our country raise and are given education in state orphanages. Only 35 % of these children have lost their parents. Most of them have been abandoned or have been separated from their parents according to state authority decision (domestic violence, unsuitable life conditions, poverty etc. etc.) Children houses of family type are formed by people who make the decision of sharing their life and home with orphan children. Even though it existed even during the Soviet Union this institution and alternative to the orphanage became more popular during the last years. In order to promote and support the concept of offering orphan children a warm, familiar, proper environment to grow up, Moldcell decided to equip all 66 boarding houses of family type existing in Moldova at the moment of campaign’s initiation with computers and access to internet (free of charge installation and long-term subscription). The campaign was launched in November, 2010, on the occasion the company achieved 1 million subscribers. This ambitious project, organized in cooperation with the Ministry of Labor, Social Protection and Family, managed to improve the study conditions for 340 disadvantaged children from 21 regions of Moldova. Moldcell subscribers also contributed to the successful implementation of the campaign. Thus, 10 lei from the sum of every connection made in November 2010 and budget for production and distribution of presents that are traditionally sent to the corporate clients of the company were used to facilitate the access of children, beneficiaries of the program, to education. At the event where the results of the campaign were announced, Moldovan Minister of Labor, Social Protection and Family, Ms. Valentina Buliga stated: „This nice and generous campaign was implemented due to our friends – Moldcell company. Our project is aimed at contributing to the growth and development of children from children’s houses of family type that represent an institution created on the basis of families to partially provide alimentation and education of orphans who were left without family care.” 15 It is to be mentioned that Moldcell sister – company Azercell also joined this initiative and offered 10 more computers for the development of the campaig ITineret national contest is a competition for young people, with skills and passion for IT field, organized under the patronage of Moldovan Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications. Moldcell supported the first edition of the contest, where school and university students were able to submit their application on 3 areas: web applications, non-web applications and photo / video graphics. 100 finalists attended a one week IT summer camp with workshops and profile courses. 9 finalists became winners of the competition and one of them, II place winner received a special award from Moldcell side. Collaborations with youth associations: Moldova National Youth Council: the workshop “Social Responsibility of the companies in the promotion of youth activities” took place at Moldcell café. Moldcell CEO presented company’s projects and opportunities for young people and discussed our results and future plans with workshop’s participants. BEST (Board of European students of Technology) Moldova: Moldcell supported BeeTech festival 2 years in a row. Company visits were organized; winners of photo and video contests of the festival were awarded etc. BEC Engineering competition was also sponsored by Moldcell Moldovan Club of Intellectual Games: Moldcell was the partner of Intellectual Games Summer Camp 2 years in a row and helped Moldovan team to get to the International festival “Odyssey of the Mind” 16 Ensuring proper living and study conditions for children Renovation of medical wards in schools from rural areas In this joint project with the Foundation “Catholic Relief Services” Moldova, Moldcell renovated and equipped medical wards in 5 rural schools, from communities – partners of the Project Jobs Plus. Thus, over 2 000 children from Republic of Moldova now have quick access to modern health services. It is to be noticed that, before project implementation, some of these schools did not have basic equipment for emergency situations. The project also has the aim of convincing local residents that it is possible to create positive changes in their communities and that it is in their power to do it. Education for all The program has the goal of facilitating the access to preschool education for children in rural areas. During 4 years (2007 – 2010), Moldcell developed this public – private partnership with the Ministry of Education and local authorities. Calendar of significant events:  During 2008 – 2009, 60 preschool institutions were renovated.  2008 – 2009: 507 preschool institutions received new equipment within the project  2009: community events (“Help him become a Great Personality through theatre”, “We play and become Great Personalities”) in 4 locations took place with the voluntary involvement of Moldcell employees and their children  In 2010, “Education for all” received world-wide recognition and best practice for facilitating the right to education according to the United National Development Group MDG Good Practices (2010) Global Report. The report mentions that, due to Fast-Track Initiative “Education for all”: • 42 % of the kindergartens from Moldova were renovated or/and equipped • Children enrolment rate in kindergartens grew with 14% in rural areas and 11% in cities.  In the month of May 2010, the most active communities – part of the project – were awarded within an official event, joined by Education minister. 17 A house without dangers for your child. National program (2009 – 2010) aimed to prevent domestic accidents of small children (0 to 5 years old). Social partnership with:  Ministry of Health  Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation  Centre for Health Policies and Services As unique private partner of the campaign, Moldcell covered the expenses for the media campaign, including production and placement of TV spots with costs of approx. 43 500 US dollars. In October 2010, the results of the first step of the campaign were announced. After one year of promoting the messages of the campaign:  8 out of 10 people who have small children in their care do concrete things for reducing the risk of domestic accidents  7% more of respondents understand that risks really do exist and 1% less of children suffer accidents at home (intoxications, burns etc.)  68 tragedies were prevented Finally, in 2010 Moldcell announced how the money gathered during a fund collection campaign organized in August 2009 will be used. 20 000 US dollars (10 000 of which offered by the subscribers and 10 000 – by the company) will be spent for purchasing medical equipment for 2 national hospitals which offer medical assistance for severe infant cases. Other projects for children:  The favorite program for children appeared on TV thanks to Moldcell.  On the eve of significant holidays, Moldcell offered invitation to the National Theatre of Opera and Ballet to 150 children from orphanages, but also from arts schools in rural areas. 18 Supporting a healthy life style Moldcell was the General Partner of the Olympic Month, organized by Moldovan National Olympic Committee starting with 2004. The Olympic Month celebration started with an Olympic Jogging race in a Chisinau park. 2000 students for city schools, Olympic champions Nicolae Juravski and Larisa Popova, Chisinau general mayor, Moldcell Corporate Communication section head and local music stars participated at the race. During the next weeks, sports competitions, games and special events took place all over the country. A great open-air concert marked the World Olympic Day (June 20). On the same day, the Olympic Flame reached Chisinau after touring through Moldova. Moldcell turns communication into art th International Ethno Jazz Festival, 9 edition, September 23 26 In 2010, 9 bands from 4 continents came to Chisinau and 2 other cities (including Tiraspol in the separatist region of Transnistria) at the most important jazz event of Moldova. Moldcell supported the festival from the first edition. Especially for this edition:  2 weeks preceding the festival, Moldcell mobile office AERO worked in front of the theatre where the festival takes place, with a special promotion: each Ethno Jazz ticket offered the possibility of a free of charge connection to Abonament Moldcell package  Ringtones and ring-back-tones with melodies from festival were available on internet and Moldcell wap  A purple jazz evening was organized during the festival. All guests were able to get a purple tattoo with festival’s logo and make pictures in the special photo corner. 19 Calendar of 2010 artistic events, sponsored by Moldcell:  February: “Indie Dă-i” first festival of indie music in Moldova  March: Awarding Gala of Moldovan Theatre Union  May: International Festival of Performing Arts BITEI. 15 theatre companies from 8 countries gathered under the slogan “For a better world”. Moldcell subscribers had the opportunity to gain tickets to the festival by participating at a special SMS quiz.  August: open-air concert on the occasion of Moldova Independence Day  September: Anniversary season of National Philharmonics, initiated by an international festival in the memory of composer Sergey Rachmaninoff  October: International Gala of Puppet Theatres “Licurici – 65”, Festival of New Art and Music “Cultural coverage”, premiere of Moldovan first musical “The Gates”  December: Anniversary Gala of “Satiricus” Theatre, New Year’s Eve open-air concert in Chisinau largest square Moldcell express its gratitude towards subscribers for their contribution to operator’s CSR activity. In the vision of the company, subscribers are part of the family that trust our strategy to act in a responsible way, making technologies work for the benefit of society and initiating long-term projects with positive impact on Moldova community. 20
