PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 1 This Report concerns the Portugal Telecom Group in Portugal. The economic, social and environmental data presented result from the consolidation of the reality of the Group’s companies. Portugal Telecom, SGPS Public Company Share capital Euro 26,895,375 Registered in the Conservatory of the Commercial Registry of Lisbon and Collective Person under nº. 503 215 058 Contacts: Abílio Martins Sustainability Committee Av. Fontes Pereira de Melo 40 1069-300 Lisboa Portugal Tel: + 351 21 500 16 21 E-Mail: dcc@telecom.pt Website: www.telecom.pt Revenues Net Income euro 3,742 euro 5,672 million million Clients EBITDA 85.5 euro 1,492 million million Investment Investment in R&D euro 798 euro + 200 million million -7% -31% CO2 Emissions Water Consumption Methodological notes The presentation of this report obeys the following criteria: Global Reporting Initiative Portugal Telecom’s enterprise sustainability report is elaborated in accordance with the directives from the Global Reporting Initiative, G3, A+ level. The index referring to the GRI indicators is at the end of this report and identifies the fulfilment of the requirements demanded by the level, relative to profile and performance indicators, including also the telecommunications sector indicators. Period of the published information This report contains data pertaining to PT’s profile throughout 2010. PT publishes the company sustainability report annually together with the Annual Report, the latest edition of which pertains to 2009. Scope of the report The information available pertains mainly to PT’s activities in Portugal where the Group holds a stake of over 50%. Structure and information published The structure and information published in this report represent PT’s commitment to transparency and sharing policy to the stakeholders, evidencing the targets achieved and the policies adopted in order to guarantee long term business sustainability. This way, PT aims to respond to the issues raised by the market, especially the financial community (investors and analysts) both at national and international level. The identification of the material issues of PT’s sustained management, included in this report, was done in accordance with the analysis of the information received from our stakeholders, through the respective communication channels and a sampling survey. Auditing and truthfulness of the presented data This report is subject to a verification process of all the information contained therein, aligned with the GRI directives in what pertains to contents credibility and quality and auditing guidance by an external independent entity. Criteria used in the presentation of the economic, social and environmental data The data presented is based on the information systems of the Group and is based on the International Financial Reporting Standards – IFRS, fiscal system, labour and environment legislation, the principles of conduct adopted by the Group, the 10 principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations as well as the GRI directives. As a result of the acquisition of PT’s stake in Brasilcel by Telefónica on 27 September 2010 and the adoption of IFRIC12, PT adjusted its financial statements of previous periods in order to recognize Vivo as a discontinued operation and to reflect the impact of the new accounting rule. There are changes in the measurement techniques of eco-efficiency data, in comparison to the calculations from previous years, as the values of another PT subsidiary – PT Sistemas de Informação have been included. There are therefore increases in these values when comparing with previous years. Suggestions for improvement This report incorporates the suggestions for improvement, which are transmitted through the channel open for this purpose at www.telecom.pt. Contribute yourself as well. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 5 5 Methodological Notes 12 CEO Statement Portugal Telecom 16 Highlights 18 Economic, Environmental and social impacts 18 Performance and impacts on society 26 Awards and honours 29 01 Ethics and responsibility in value creation for shareholders 30 Sustainability Strategy 30 1.1. Ethics and responsibility in shareholders value creation 30 1.2. stakeholders dialogue and identification of material issues 36 1.3.management of Risk and opportunities 43 1.4. Transparency and compliance 46 Principles, Codes of Conduct and Policies 46 2.1. Principles and international organisations 46 2.2. Codes and policies adopted 47 2.3. Recording, whistleblowing and alignment monitoring systems 50 Governance Model 50 3.1. organisation Structure 52 3.2. Functions 54 3.3. evaluation and remuneration 60 3.4. Sustainability Committee 63 02 Creating Value for Business 64 Innovation, Research & Development 64 1.1. Facing challenges and creating solutions 65 Incremental Innovation 67 Planned Innovation 69 Exploratory Innovation 70 1.2. Partnerships 73 climate change Combat 73 2.1. Environment preservation strategy 74 2.1.1. Low-carbon value chain 77 2.1.2. Biodiversity 77 2.1.3. Electromagnetic radiation 77 2.1.4. Noise 78 2.1.5. Urban and rural landscape 78 2.1.6. Natural Disasters 79 2.2. Eco – efficiency 80 2.2.1. Integrated performance 88 Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders 88 3.1. Shareholders and analysts 88 3.1.1. Relationship principles 88 3.1.2. Shareholder composition 89 3.1.3. Valuation and dividends 91 3.2. Customers 91 3.2.1. Customer service 95 3.2.2. customer Satisfaction levels 96 3.2.3. Data protection and privacy 97 3.2.4. Content security 97 3.2.5. responsible consumption 100 3.3. Employees 100 3.3.1. Human Resource Management Model 101 3.3.2. Employees Profile 103 3.3.3. Talent Attraction and retention 105 3.3.4. Collective bargaining 106 3.3.5. Organisational climate 107 3.3.6. Training 108 3.3.7. Occupational safety and health 111 3.3.8. Internal social responsibility 113 3.4. SUPPLIERS 113 3.4.1. PROFILE 114 3.4.2. Procurement model 115 3.4.3. Transparency and CONTROL OF UNDUE PRACTICES IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS 116 3.4.4. Supplier selection and hiring 117 3.4.5. Strategic alignment in the value chain 121 03 Creating Value for Society 122 Digital INCLUSION AND Literacy of the Population 122 1.1. ENSURING ACESS AND SERVICES FOR ALL 123 1.2. Digital literacy and knowledge access 129 Social Responsibility in the Community 129 2.1. Social and cultural support by commercial brands 130 2.2. PORTUGAL TELECOM Foundation 130 2.2.1. info-exclusion COMBAT 134 2.2.2. Education and literacy 135 2.2.3. Health 136 2.2.4. Group History and Heritage 138 2.2.5. Environment 138 2.2.6. Support for patronage initiatives and projects 139 2.3. Volunteering 140 Company volunteering Iniciatives 141 Family volunteering Iniciatives 143 Referring Index: GRI and UNGC table 151 External independent verification of report information PortugaL Revenues (euro million) Wireline Retail, voice and data for large companies, ISP and broadband [PT Comunicações 100%]] Euro 1,929 million Voice and data for SMEs [PT Prime 100%] Mobile TMN 100% Euro 1,387 million Main international assets Revenues (euro million) Unitel 25% (*) Angola Mobile 1,133 CTM 28% Macao Wireline, mobile 260 MTC 34% (*) Namibia Mobile 149 CVT 40% (*) Cape Verde Wireline, mobile 84 Timor Telecom 41.12% Timor Wireline, mobile 43 CST 51% (*) Sao Tome & Principe Wireline, mobile 13 (*) These stakes are held by Africatel, which is controlled 75% by PT. Support companies Systems and IT [PT Sistemas de Informação 100%]; Innovation, research and development [PT Inovação 100%]; Backoffice and shared services [PT PRO 100%]; Procurement [PT Compras 100%]; Call centres and telemarketing services [PT Contact 100%]; Pension funds management [Previsão 82.05%] PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 9 PORTUGAL TELECOM PORTUGAL CAPE VERDE ISLANDS SÃO TOMÉ E PRÍNCIPE ANGOLA BRAZIL NAMIBIA CVT Wireline, mobile, internet and data Directel Cabo Verde Directories Oi* CST MTC Wireline and mobile Wireline, mobile, Mobile Dedic-GPTI e Contax* internet and data Contact centre services * To be concluded in 2011 HDT VSAT operation Kenya Postel Directories Directories HUNGARY Macau [RAEM-China] CTM Wireline, mobile, internet and data Directel Macau Directories MACAO KENYA Timor Telecom Wireline, mobile, internet and data TIMOR MOZAMBIQUE Unitel LTM Mobile Directories Elta Teledata Directories ISP and data Multitel ISP and data CEO Statement This year, we have a good deal of new motives to celebrate with you. Therefore, I wish to express now my recognition for everyone’s involvement and collaboration. Notwithstanding the context we live in, full of challenges in the sector and economy in general, we maintain our goal of serving current and future generations knowing that we will be laying every day the foundations for our way of living, working and communicating over the next 100 years. PT is now included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index This year was particularly gratifying for PT, as after a detailed and profound assessment carried out by the SAM Group, PT’s activity in the domain of sustainability was recognized so that we are now included in the most prominent sustainability index at international level, the Dow Jones Sustainability Índex (DJSI). With this recognition, PT became the only Portuguese company simultaneously included in the two main international indices of sustainable development, the DJSI e o FTSE4Good. Apart from being a strong motive of pride for all of us, it is also a new incentive to reinforce our commitment towards the sustainability strategy that we have assumed and incorporated in the company’s management. Strategy and commitments to all stakeholders We pursued our five strategic goals, one of which is to become a reference in the domain of sustainability. This year, we gave priority to issues related to inclusion and digital literacy, security, unemployment, poverty and climate change. We defined our Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy, a complement to the Code of Ethics that we readjusted, and we are extending it progressively to all our value chain. This policy is part of the ten principles enounced in the Global Compact of the United Nations, principles of the International Labour Organisation, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, apart from the principles agreed in the ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators) Sustainability Charter. We face climate changes Energy efficiency and the mitigation of the carbon footprint upstream and downstream in our value chain continue to be our main focus of combat against climate change. 12 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Therefore, naturally, we were founding members and participate actively of the Green Touch initiative composed of a consortium of leading industry partners, research institutions and non-governmental organisations whose aim is to develop solutions to reduce by 1,000 times ICT energy consumption and the respective carbon footprint. We are designing a new Data Centre, which besides being one of the largest in Europe, will also be a sustainability example, located in a remote zone of the country where it will create new jobs, and where cooling and energy will be essentially of photo-voltaic and eolian origin. Investment in Research & Development as an essential pillar in sustainability Our Research & Development culture leveraged by the partnerships established with entities associated with scientific knowledge has a fundamental role in re-creating technological and organisational solutions capable of ensuring improved social, economic and environmental solutions with positive impact for everyone. We planned and we are implementing a new FTTH (Fibre to the Home) network, which will serve current and future generations. This network received the Innovation Award in the Deployment and Operation of FTTH Networks category, which stands for the most innovative fibre optic network in Europe and will leverage services and functionalities that will contribute to making customers benefit from an extensive offering, based on increased cost and energy consumption rationalization. Importance of secure ICT use Questions relative to personal and business data security and protection, were also worthy of special increased attention over last year. We prepared, adopted and are progressively extending to our value chain an Information Security Policy suited to all information and communication systems and technologies. Security and adequate information technology use by the younger generation were also a priority. We prepared a national awareness program – Communicating with Security – that we have divulged and implemented for the Portuguese school community. Concern with Responsible Marketing and Consumption In the current market context, brands and companies use more and more aggressive marketing campaigns whose impact and return on the population are worthy of our consideration. We are therefore focused on a kind of communication that, although very much sales-oriented, includes respect for the values and beliefs of our customers and promotes enlightened product and service use together with improved environmental preservation. This goal will be pursued for years to come. Inclusion and digital literacy as strategic areas We all recognise that inclusion and digital literacy have shown to be fundamental pillars in stimulating new social and professional opportunities and consequently in promoting economy and a more responsible citizenship. The generalised use of information technologies, the growing diversity in the offer of broadband solutions and services as well as community support programs, especially groups of citizens with special needs, continue to remain at the epicentre of the social responsibility initiatives in which we are involved. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 13 CEO Statement Promotion of social well-being Taking into account the economic conjuncture, we are concerned about creating solutions and services suited to families whose income has decreased. We have always privileged solutions that best serve the needs and aspirations of the entire population: finding communication solutions suited to the characteristics and needs of every citizen, including those with disabilities. The recognition that we receive We always feel very pleased and additional responsibility when we see our commitment and results deserve recognition from different national and international external entities. Therefore, I would like to stress that we remain listed in the FTSE4Good index, we achieved the No.1 position, in this sector at national level, at the Companies and Organisations Citizenship Award and we are one of the Top 3 of the Engagement Rating Portugal 2010. The assessment carried out by the SAM Group led to our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Europe and World, while the assessment of the value of the PT brand kept us as one of the Top 500 most valuable brands in the world. Our commitment and recognition This report, in its seventh edition already, aims to be a space of reflection, transparency and sharing of the impacts of our activity on the economy, environment and society. We carry the ambition of improving it each year. This way, I would like to express my thanks to everyone and share with you the synthesis of the evolutions and challenges that we face as well as the results that we achieved over last year by publishing this report, drawn up in compliance with the most demanding level of requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative and AA 1000. Count on us, we shall continue to count on you. Zeinal Bava Chief Executive Officer 14 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Highlights Management policies, the strategic decisions taken, the achievement of the goals of the year and their impact on society are the pillars of PT’s long-term sustainability. Therefore, this report is an act of sharing with all stakeholders, aiming to represent a balance of the company’s performance throughout 2010. The strategic pillars defined by PT’s management over a 3-year period contain ambitious goals in counter-cycle with the conjuncture that society is going through. Sustainability is one of such defined pillars and is underlying to all activities of the company. Strategic pillars STRATEGIC PILLARS 2011 GOALS CUSTOMERS 100 MILLION CUSTOMERS INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 2/3 OF REVENUES LEADERSHIP IN ALL SEGMENTS & GEOGRAPHIES PERFORMANCE 1ST QUARTILE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REFERENCE 16 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Highlights OF THE YEAR Economic Impacts We maintained our presence in 12 countries and 4 continents 85. 5 million customers – We grew by 18.7% (excluding VIVO and including Oi) Our contribution to the nation’s investment is 2.17% Our contribution to national investment is 2.44% Our contribution to sector investment is 59.4% Our contribution to the nation’s employment is 0.22% -13+-+VV 166 -13 -13 56 166 ++ 56 xx == Or R&D investment topped Euro 200 million -2, 14 14 -2, 11 77 We were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index We were the only Portuguese company included in the two top world sustainability indices: DJSI and FTSE4Good We were awarded Silver class in the Telecommunications sector at world level in the FTTH (Fiber to the Home) Council & Eurostat Study Environmental Impacts We reduced our CO2 emissions by 7% Our energy consumption incorporated 42% of renewable energies We reduced water consumption by 31% We reduced administrative paper consumption by 10% We helped organisations of support for victims of natural disasters at world level We were category winners in European Green Mobile Phone at EISA Awards Social Impacts We contributed with 0.72% of our 2010 income from operations to social responsibility and community support initiatives We implemented a Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy We implemented an Information Security Policy We disseminated Minor Protection guidelines in ICT use We increased customer satisfaction level by 0.3% We reduced average service installation time by 19% We reduced the average number of complaints by 16% We improved average employee satisfaction level by 4% We verified the alignment level of 41% of our suppliers and carried out random presential audits to 2.5% of same We consulted with stakeholders, identified new risks and adjusted our action plans We were awarded prizes and honours at both national and international level We updated and disseminated our Code of Ethics PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 17 Economic, environmental and social Impacts Performance and impacts on society For an improved framework and monitoring of its impact at national level and in the electronic communications sector, PT has identified and developed a number of indicators over the years that enable the assessment of the company in the economic, social and environmental domains. This way, it is possible for PT to incorporate the impacts derived from the activities carried out in the course of its organisational strategy, proactively contributing to the sustainable management of its organisation. Impacts on the country (1) In 2010, the weight of PT’s revenues on the nation’s GDP increased slightly – 0.02% although income from operations grew by 0.2% compared to 2009. This trend reversal is due to the fact that Portugal’s GDP grew by circa 1.4%, opposed to the 2.5% decrease observed in 2009. Therefore, PT continues to contribute positively to the increase of the wealth of the country, also maintaining its contribution to national employment. On the other hand, in counter-cycle with the nation’s economic and financial conjuncture, PT continued with its investment strategy, which although with a slight decrease in comparison to 2009, continued to represent an important part of the country’s total investment, having its contribution increased by 0.49%. Pt’s impact on the country 3.00 2.50 2.44% 2.00 2.22% 2.17% 2.05% 1.95% 1.50 1.72% % 1.00 0.50 0.00 0.20% 0.22% 0.22% % OF PT’s REVENUES PT’S CONTRIBUTION TO % OF PT’s INVESTMENT IN IN NATIONAL GDP NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT TOTAL INVESTMENT OF THE COUNTRY 2008 2009 2010 GDP used in previous editions was reassessed to final values as preliminary estimates were being used. (1) National GDP and investment data pertain to 2007, 2008 and 2009. Its source is INE/PORDATA. GDP uses constant prices. 18 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Impacts on the sector (2) At national level, PT continues to have a positive and growing impact in the telecommunications sector and employment, reassessing its leadership and prominence in the development of the sector. PT also continues to be the main national investor in the electronic communications sector, representing 59.4% of total investment in this sector. It is worth highlighting that most of the investment on Next Generation Networks, namely FTTH (Fibre to the home) was made in 2009, having achieved the coverage of 1 million homes. Pt’s impact on the sector 100 90 80 85.75% 86.26% 80.56% 70 60 % 59.40% 50 56.41% 50.55% 50.67% 40 47.84% 45.34% 30 20 10 0 % OF PT’s REVENUES % OF PT’s EMPLYEES % OF PT’s INVESTMENT VS. SECTOR VS. SECTOR TOTAL VS SECTOR TOTAL 2008 2009 2010 INVESTMENT GROWTH RATE* 46.99% INVESTMENT GROWTH RATE OF SECTOR 36.29% 15.15% INVESTMENT GROWTH RATE OF PT 11.22% 7.10% 3.49% 1.71% -7.44% 2007 2008 2009 2010 *This chart was corrected due to printing errors in 2009. (2) Sector data pertain to 2007, 2008 and 2009 and its source is ANACOM. Some ANACOM values have changed vis-à-vis the information published in previous editions, as a result of corrections in previous years made by some service providers. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 19 Economic, environmental and social Impacts | Performance and impacts on society Main economic indicators PT’s activity is significant in Portugal’s economy and in the economy of the countries where it operates. The following table identifies the main indicators that characterize their economic impact. MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS Taxes paid Euro 77.5 million Subsidies received Euro 1.77 million Payments related to post-retirement benefits Euro 38.2 million Customer Satisfaction Index (scale 1 to 10) 7.8 Total Revenues of the Group Euro 3,742.3 million Revenues in Portugal Euro 3,200.8 million Research & Development over income from operations 28.8% Global distribution of wealth to suppliers in Portugal 20% increase Global distribution of wealth to suppliers 19% reduction Creation of Shareholder Value PT’s commitment to its shareholders is value creation. Therefore in 2010, operating revenues increased by 0.2% y.o.y. to Euro 3,742 million, partially driven by revenue growth in international operations. Net income increased to Euro 5,672 million. This growth is due to capital gains obtained with the sale of VIVO in the third quarter of 2010, which was recognized as a discontinued operation. EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) decreased by 4.2% y.o.y. to Euro 1,492 million, partly justified by domestic revenue decline. Still in 2010, PT paid a total dividend per share of Euro 1.575, as Euro 0.575 corresponds to the 2009 exercise and Euro 1 corresponds to part of the exceptional dividend of Euro 1.65 per share announced after Vivo’s disposal. CREATION OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE (3) Operating revenues Euro 3,742.3 million Revenue variation 0.24% Net income Euro 5,672.2 million Net income variation 728% * EBITDA Euro 1,491.7 million EBITDA variation -4,2% Operating costs Euro 2,250.6 million Operating cost variation 3.4% Distribution of dividends to shareholders Euro 1.575 per share * Income drived from VIVO alienation Research and Development Research & Development is an essential foundation in PT’s activity as it is an innovation catalyser and driver, contributing to the development of products and services capable of creative positive impacts on stakeholders. Therefore, PT continues to invest heavily in this area: in 2010, Capex (investment in capital equity) was directed mostly to investment in the implementation of new technologies and services, namely the fibre optic network, the TV service and to investments in 3 and 3.5 G technologies. (3) Economic values pertaining to 2009 have been adjusted in order to recognise Vivo as a discontinued operation and to reflect the impacts of adopting IFRIC12. 20 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 aPpliED RESEARCH & deVELOPMENT (R&D) AND renEWAL OF SERVICES OFFERING Investment in Portugal (Capex) Euro 680.3 million Total investment (Capex) 798.4 million Capex as % of operating revenues 21% R&D More than Euro 200 million Contributions to society In the scope of its responsibility towards society, namely the State, ex-employees with post-retirement benefits, suppliers, the media, among others, PT identifies and reports data and indicators that translate the company’s transversal and diversified impact in the milieu where it operates. CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY Taxes paid Euro 77.5 million Payments related to post-retirement benefits Euro 38.2 million Distribution of wealth to suppliers in Portugal 20% increase Total number of news pieces in the media 52,538 Number of news pieces relative to sustainability 510 Contribution to employment in Portugal 0.22% Contribution of operating income used in the community 0.72% Percentage of PT broadband users 46.8% Lowest wage paid by PT national minimum wage Eco-efficiency PT is becoming more and more efficient in terms of resource use. Except for energy consumption, due to reasons explained later, the company showed significant decreases in CO2 emissions, water and materials consumption, and in waste production. Eco-efFiciEncY (4) For each million Euros of operating revenues PT shows: CO2 emissions 44.26 tons of CO2 7 % reduction y.o.y. (Reasons due to the consumption rationalisation policy and simultaneously to the fact that the electric energy sources used incorporate a significant portion of renewable energies). Energy consumption 485.33 GJ of direct energy 7% increase y.o.y. (Reasons due to the increase of storage needs for television contents and the new Cloud Computing service) Water consumption 76.41 m3 of water 31% reduction y.o.y. (Reasons due to rationalisation projects that contributed to water consumption reduction at PT) Waste production 0.88 tons of waste 10% reduction y.o.y. (reasons due to less waste production namely battery, paper and wood waste) Consumption of materials 7.37 tons of materials (Aggregated data are not comparable to last year, nevertheless an analysis on the consumption of administrative material, leads to a 10% reduction, due to increased consumption rationalisation) (4) There are changes in the measurement techniques of eco-efficiency data in comparison to previous years as the values of another PT subsidiary – PT Sistemas de Informação have been included. Therefore, the values show increases relative to previous years. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 21 Economic, environmental and social Impacts | Performance and impacts on society Customers at the Centre of the Organisation The average customer satisfaction index above 7 (scale 1 to 10), the 30% and 20% reductions in the average time to solve complaints and to repair faults respectively, are some of the goals set for the triennium. This year, we were not aligned in terms of the goal set for the average fault repair time, but there were improvements in the average services installation time, with a 19.4% reduction and highlight should go to the 16% decline in the average number of complaints per 1000 inhabitants. The remaining times are significantly different from the values of the previous year. CUSTOMERS AT THE CENTRE OF THE ORGANISATION Customer base 85.5 million 18,75% increase y.o.y Average number of complaints per 1,000 customers 26.6 16% decrease y.o.y Average time to solve a complaint 4.1 days 5% increase y.o.y Average fault repair time 1.7 days 6% increase y.o.y Average service installation time 8.3 days 19% decrease y.o.y Average customer satisfaction index (scale 1 to 10) 7.8 0. 3% increase y.o.y Talent Capture and Retention Talent capture and retention assume a paramount importance for PT as the quality and satisfaction of its employees is a competitive and decisive factor in the success of the company. PT recruited 104 new trainees, increased the number of training actions and saw the average employee satisfaction level increase by 4%. talent CaptURE AND retenTION Costs & investments with employees Euro 637.1 million Costs & investments with employees as a percentage of operating revenues 17% Trainees incorporated in 2010 – trainees from the management and technological areas in the program 104 Training 6,077 training actions 41 hours training per employee Euro 3.2 million in training actions Employee satisfaction index (scale 0 to 100%) 73% 4% increase y.o.y Occupational Safety and Health PT ensures and actively promotes occupational safety and health for its employees via its Occupational Safety and Health Management Model, thus contributing to an improved quality of life of its human resources, to the reduction and prevention of accidents and to increased productivity and cost rationalization. There no deaths caused by labour accidents in 2010. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH Beneficiaries of the occupational health and safety program 51,064 Labour accidents 289 Assessment of working conditions 125 O&SH training actions 54 programs 22 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Support for Society PT set up its commitment to contribute to a more inclusive and balanced society through ad hoc interventions for underprivileged communities via different initiatives from which we highlight the programs of support for inclusion and digital education, and the promotion of knowledge, health, security, culture and environment. This year, the social and cultural support granted to society through the commercial brands of the PT Group and its Foundation amounted to Euro 5 million, which represents 0.72% of its operating revenues. SUPPORT FOR SOCIETY Social & cultural support of commercial brands Euro 1 million Distribution of the amount per area supported: Culture Euro 0.16 million Health Euro 0.22 million Social Solidarity Euro 0.6 million Education Euro 0.01 million Environment Euro 0.01 million PT Foundation initiatives Euro 4 million Distribution of the amount per area supported: Digital Inclusion Euro 1.24 million Volunteering Euro 0.36 million Education Euro 0.29 million Health Euro 0.12 million Arts / Culture Euro 1.49 million Environment Euro 0.19 million Other Euro 0.3 million TOTAL Euro 5 million Projects worth highlighting in support for society Solutions for low-income markets The offering of PT services contemplates all need profiles, providing an integrated offer for low-income consumers. Contingency plans to ensure the continuity of services delivery In situations of absence of service due to acts of vandalism, natural catastrophes or other situations, PT has available a number of contingency plans that can be activated, ensuring service resumption under acceptable conditions as shortly as possible. Special solutions PT and TMN for citizens with special needs In 2010, circa 3,809 people with special needs (namely people with disabilities for whom PT adapts communication solutions) and social, school or hospital support organisations benefited from solutions made available by PT and subsidized by the PT Foundation. Volunteering The Portuguese community counted on the voluntary collaboration of circa 862 PT volunteers and at least 1,550 hours of service delivered. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 23 Economic, environmental and social Impacts | Performance and impacts on society Promotion of social, school and professional inclusion Star Project – oriented to cerebral palsy In 2010, the Portuguese Association of Cerebral Palsy from Porto, Lousada delegation was included in the Star Project, having been installed a new nucleus for augmentative communication and Internet access. Uranus Project – oriented to intellectual impairment In 2010, a new nucleus in the Association for the Education of Unadapted Children of Mafra was added and the software in 10 of the first phase was upgraded. Astro Project – oriented to students with educational needs During the 2009/2010 school year, the 27 existing nuclei benefited 1,072 students who were assessed and/or trained in the use of special technologies. Additionally, 17 students benefited from PT TeleClassroom solution during their hospital stay and/or during convalescence, or due to severe impairment. John Paul II Project – adapted to neural-motor disability In 2010, the John Paul II Centre received MyTobii equipment. It is a highly sophisticated eye-controlled system to evaluate cases of neural-motor disability with associated visual impairment, experimentation and training, thus enabling its configuration as an excellence centre for such assessment in central Portugal. St. Nicholas Project – adapted to lonely senior citizens In 2010, the area of the project was extended to cover the entire city of Lisbon, being noteworthy the inclusion of the Campo Grande parish. This project currently includes 71 senior citizens. Sunflower Project – donation of technological equipment In 2010, youngsters and adults from several institutions were supported, namely from the Education Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CERCI of Mira-Sintra), Unit of Augmentative Techniques and Communication Alternatives (UTAAC) of the Calouste Gulbenkian Centre for Cerebral Palsy and “Inválidos do Comércio” institution. Two other projects for school inclusion of University students with special needs were also supported, namely: • A Computer Engineering student from the University of Porto with Duchenne muscular dystrophy; • A Sociology student from ISCTE Faculty who benefits from a PT Tele-Classroom system in the scope of UR Project. Snowball Project digital inclusion of people with impairments or disabilities In 2010, the last 19 of the 23 nuclei of the project were installed, in accordance with the priorities defined by the General Directorate for Health. Light and Moon Projects – creation of 14 nuclei for people with mental impairment com or multiple disabilities In 2010, 3 of the 8 project nuclei were installed. Healthcare projects BabyCare – Remote follow-up of newborns During 2010, an extensive maintenance action on the equipment installed at the Dr. Alfredo da Costa Maternity was carried out, having 92 families benefited from this technology. At Júlio Dinis Maternity, 125 families benefited from this technology throughout the year. Babycare’s relevance to humanize healthcare services justified its installation at the Bragança maternity, which now possesses equipment for 6 incubators since mid-December 2010. Telemedicine – Consultations and scheduling In December 2010, a protocol with Marquês de Valle Flôr Institute (IMVF) establishes the support of the PT Foundation through the donation and respective installation of two Medigraf systems (one in Lisbon at IMVF headquarters, and another one in Sao Tome & Principe at Dr. Ayres de Menezes Central Hospital, thus enabling tele-consultations between both countries. My Sapo Health – Personalized management of health information Kicked off in May 2010, this system enables the user to manage different kinds of health information, such as for example personal parameters (weight, blood pressure, heart rate, glycemic index, etc.) and register important information such as allergies, food habits, treatments, medication and scheduling of consultations, etc. There are currently 1,355 registered users. 24 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Skill training and acquisition by underprivileged population A computer, an opportunity – recycling and access to new technologies In 2010, 306 computers were donated to 40 Portuguese institutions throughout the country, and 1,248 equipments went to Portuguese-speaking countries. Communicating with Security – Sharing knowledge to ensure the responsible use of equipment, contents and functionalities Over the 2009/2010 school year, ‘Communicating with Security’ sessions were held in 40 schools for 6,058 students all over the country, involving 67 PT volunteers. Culture and Historic Heritage Publication of Book: History of Telecommunications in Portugal The abovementioned work was the Grand Prize winner of the Portuguese Business Communication Association (APCE) 2010 Award in the Historic Responsibility and Business Memory category. Museum of Vilar In 2010, the museum was visited by 714 people, mostly school groups from different school levels. Environment RITF Project Contribution to the implementation of a recovery plan for the Funchal Municipality after the winter catastrophe (floods and devastation caused by the water flow) in Madeira Island in the beginning of 2010. Funchal Ecological Park Contribution to soil cleaning, removal of burnt trees and eradication of infesting species, in order to regenerate the forest, devastated during a summer fire that affected more than 90% of the park. International Year of Forests The Portuguese community counted on the voluntary collaboration of circa 862 PT volunteers and at least 1,550 hours of service delivered. Contribution of the subsidiaries to the economic development of the respective country The increase and consolidation of PT’s international footprint brings significant economic, environmental and social impacts to the sphere of responsibilities of the Group. Notwithstanding the heterogeneity of the markets where the PT subsidiaries operate, it is important to measure the contribution of each one to the sustainable development of its country. Therefore, the following table shows the contribution of each company to the creation of wealth in the respective countries. COMPANY REVENUES / GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT OF THE COUNTRY (5) Unitel Angola 1.14% MTC Namibia 1.13% CVT Cape Verde 3.34% CTM Macao 0.70% CST Sao Tome & Principe 2.06% Timor Telecom 5.70% (5) The source of the GDP data is the World Bank, pertaining to 2008. The values were translated to Euros using an average exchange rate for the reported period. The exchange rate used was a simple arithmetic average of the exchange rates prevailing at market opening and closing over the 12 months of 2009. Company revenues pertain to 2010. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 25 Economic, environmental and social Impacts | awards and honours Awards and Honours 1. Sustainability Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI) PT is included in the DJSI, becoming one of the world’s telecommunications companies with the best sustainability practices, thus being included in the two top indices in terms of sustainability: FTSE4Good and DJSI. FTSE4Good PT kept its recognition and remained listed in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Yearbook PT was honoured internationally with Gold Class in the Sustainability Yearbook 2011 and Silver Class in the Sustainability Yearbook 2010, by the SAM Group (Sustainable Asset Management), being thus present in the list of the world’s sustainability leaders. Companies and Organisations Citizenship Awards PT was the sector winner at the Companies and Organisations Citizenship Awards, in Technology, Information, Communication and Entertainment, organised by the Leadership and Business School and PriceWaterhouseCoopers. The New Economy 2010 Carbon Leadership Awards PT was the category winner in Best Carbon Reporting Award. Ethibel Excellence Investment Register PT is identified in this index that highlights the best companies in the respective sectors in terms of sustainability and corporative responsibility, in different areas and regions. Engagement Rating Portugal 2010 PT was awarded the Nº.2 position in the Sair da Casca survey, based on the Accountability Rating methodology, to evaluate business sustainability practices and their impact on economy, society and environment. Ranking of the portuguese companies that invest most in R&D PT was listed as the company that invested most in R&D in 2008. Grand Prize APCE 2010 PT was awarded an Honourable Mention in the Sustainability Report category. The Grand Prize of the Portuguese Association of Business Communication (APCE) aims to honour excellence in business communication strategy. Autonomic Cord for Good Services PT was awarded an Honourable Mention in the Sustainability Report category. 26 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2. Customers Call Centre Awards 2010 PT was the winner of the Social Responsibility at the Call/Contact Centre award. European Business Awards PT was one of the 10 category winners in Customer Focus at the European Business Awards, an independent initiative that honours excellence, best practices and innovation in the business European community and the major business groups of member states. European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA) Awards 2010 – 2011 TMN was the category winner in European Green Mobile Phone. Estudo FTTH (Fiber to the Home) Council & Eurostat PT was awarded Silver class at world level in the Telecommunications sector. 3. Human Resources Most Family Resonsible Company Differentiating and innovative initiative conducted by AESE (Business School) and Deloitte World Awards 2010 PT was awarded: Top Performers Gold in Best Recruitment Campaign Top Performers Silver in Best Incentive Scheme Top Performers Bronze in Best Community Spirit 4. Brand Brand Finance ‘World’s Most Valuable Brands’ Survey PT holds position no.373 in the ranking of the Top 500 most valuable brands in the world. Trusted Brands 2010 Two PT brands, Sapo ADSL and TMN, are elected the most Trusted Brands in the respective sectors in Portugal. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 27 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility Managing with Ethics and Responsibility Sustainability Strategy 1.1. Ethics and responsibility in shareholder value creation Transparency, information accuracy and confidence levels in organisation and brand management are, more and more, critical factors in decision processes of citizens, customers or investors relative to their options and capital allocation. PT committed itself to its shareholders to create value ensuring good economic and financial performance now and in the future. Therefore, top management will continue to maintain a voluntary and determined attitude that aims to achieve the possible balance between the legitimate will to generate profit and ethics and respect for environmental preservation and the community where it operates. The level of fulfillment of this balance is a fundamental pillar in the company’s robustness and in the value shared with shareholders and remaining stakeholders. Business ethics and shareholder value creation incorporate the following pillars: TO GENERATE SIMULTANEOUSLY GROWTH WITH PROFIT, SOCIAL PROGRESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY SUSTAINABILITY IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC PILLAR ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR SOCIAL PILLAR SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY AND COMPANY CITIZENSHIP Communication and information technologies are a powerful resource to bring people closer together, dematerialise day-to-day life and contribute to improving everyone’s life. Therefore, PT believes that its activity contributes to benefiting society, enabling value sharing with the community, environment and shareholders. 1.2. Stakeholder dialogue and identification of material issues Being aware that stakeholder options strongly condition the Group’s performance, PT has been promoting dialogue mechanisms with each one, leveraging the necessary information exchange for the adoption of management policies suited to the expectations of all interested parties and particularly the commitments assumed with the shareholders. 30 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PT identifies stakeholders with potential impact on its businesses taking into consideration the following assumptions: STAKEHOLDERS POWER OPINION AND CAPACITY TO TO HAVE IMPACT DIALOGUE AND INVOLVEMENT INFLUENCE OPINIONS AND ON BUSINESS BEHAVIOUR OF OTHERS IDENTIFY RISKS AND LEGITIMACY OPPORTUNITIES The methodology of stakeholder involvement and identification of relevant issues in their relationship with PT uses complementary means and approaches that aim to incorporate market perceptions and trends as well as the probable impact of same on the activity of the company. The communication channels made available by the company are and will continue to be the privileged means of dialogue and involvement with each public. The relationship of proximity built by PT through these channels has allowed anticipating solutions as it contributes in each moment to generate ideas, identify weaknesses and define improvement plans which meet the interests of all parties. The communication channels provided are described below, most of them are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. INTERESTED PARTIES MEANS OF RELATIONSHIP ANALYSTS General Shareholder Meeting Quarterly and annual reports Face-to-face meetings Participation in consultations Call Centres CUSTOMERS Customer Portal Network of own stores and agents, and sales managers Market surveys Marketing Campaings Biil and electronic bill EMPLOYEES Employee Portal Organizational Climate Survey Company Agreement Whistleblowing channels WEBSITE Corporative Intranet SPECIFIC www.telecom.pt CONSULTATION Performance assessment and feedback SUPPLIERS Supplier Assessment and feedback meetings Specialized dialogue team REGULATORY AUTHORITIES Specialized dialogue team Directives issued by the authorities SOCIETY AT LARGE Opinion surveys Statistics and assessment Participation in work groups PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 31 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy The relationship maintained throughout 2010 with the different stakeholder groups allowed registering the concerns and expectations of each one, aggregating the different forms of expressing each type of concern and lastly listing and selecting the following relevant issues with probable impact on the activity of the company. RELEVANT ISSUES IDENTIFIED ECONOMIC Data privacy and personal information Ethics and transparency Continued service delivery Clear and transparent prices and tariffs Innovation Employement ICT access ENVIRONMENTAL Recycling of equipments and other materials Reuse of equipments and other materials Eco-efficient produtcts Biodiversity SOCIAL Non discrimination Youth protection in ICT use Health and product safety Responsible Marketing Balance between family and professional life Occupational health and safety Solidarity and social responsability actions Being sustainability one of PT’s five strategic goals, it was essential to adjust the alignment between the activity of the company and stakeholder expectations, being therefore necessary to know the relative importance assigned to each one of the identified issues and, based upon that, find the materiality profile of each subject and define the improvement opportunities of each group. The matrix shown below is the result of the intersection of the survey conducted by sampling on stakeholders, with studies and analyses published by non-governmental organisations and international analysts. VERY HIGH MATERIALITY PROFILE (10 IN10) Clear and transparent prices Network reliability Innovation and tariffs Non-discrimination Data privacy Family-profession balance Relationship ethics ICT acess IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES FOR STAKEHOLDERS Job creation Health and safety (company and user iniciative) Digital inclusion Responsible Marketing Eco-efficient products Customer satisfaction Bio-diversity promotion Climate change Solidarity and social Energy consumption responsability Recycling and reuse Stakeholder dialogue Social and environmental criteria in the value chain Children and youth security in IT promotion Risk management Capacity of response to natural Legislation compliance disastres Digital education Employee satisfaction Volunteering Electro-magnetic radiations HIGH VERY (7 IN 10) IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES FOR PT HIGH (10 IN 10) ISSUES-ECONOMIC DIMENSION ISSUES-ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION ISSUES-SOCIAL DIMENSION 32 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PT’s sustainability strategy was defined taking into account national, European and North-American legislation, the guidelines from national and international organisations with which it identifies itself, surveys on the different publics with which it interacts and regular benchmarks. The strategic activity guidelines aim to consolidate domestic competitiveness and promote an international growth agenda, always taking into consideration the possible balance among the interests of all interested parties. Adopted sustainability strategy Low value-chain carbon To promote the reduction of direct CO2 emissions of PT through a number of initiatives from the promotion of the use of renewable energies to the reduction of energy needs through the certification of its buildings and cooling of its spaces using freecooling systems. Promote, through the penetration of its products and services, a reduction of the impact of other sectors at environmental level. In fact, the proliferation of information and communication technologies will through the dematerialisation of day-to-day activities, for example through virtual collaboration, and efficiency and productivity maximisation, enabled by the access to new telematics and machine communication solutions, allowing a significant reduction of the carbon footprint of other sectors. Focus on social well-being of its employees and society Internally, PT tries to provide its employees and respective families with training programs (more than 350 scholarships for low-income employees), access to internal libraries without access costs (more than 8,000 titles borrowed) or access to volunteer work initiatives (more than 400 employees already involved) among others. Externally, for the society at large, PT hopes to contribute through a change of how we live by acting in isolation or through protocols with the government and other economic agents. This triennium will reflect to a great extent PT’s three priorities: • Change of the education system in Portugal, providing it with capacities to improve school success; • Infra-structuring of the healthcare services, trying to improve its quality of service and transparency to its users; • Revolution at home, with innovative remote control and security services to simplify day-to-day life. STRATEGIC GOALS FOR THE TRIENNIUM CUSTOMERS 100 MILLION CUSTOMERS INTERNATIONAL 2/3 TOTAL REVENUES ORIGINATED IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP IN ALL SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIES 1ST QUARTILE IN SHAREHOLDER RETURN AND IN OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL REVENUES SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REFERENCE IN ITS SECTOR PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 33 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy IDENTIFICATION OF AREAS WITH OPPORTUNITIES IMPROVEMENT AND ACTION PLANS RESULTING FROM MATERIALITY PROFILE IN 2010 TOP PRIORITY STRONG CRITICALITY MEDIUM WEAK S ON PTI ERCE P OF NT NME IG AL HIGH PRIORITY AREAS OF ACTIVITY Based on the materiality profile found, PT enriched the strategic axes defined for the triennium, reinforcing and aggregating new guidelines in compliance with the matrix drawn up. STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES IN 2010 RESULTING FROM STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATIONS Innovation: To continue the innovation program in the technological, environmental and ECONOMIC social domains Data privacy: To prepare the data and systems security policy a draw up a Guide of Good practices for distribution to customers Employment: To maintain the talent recruitment and retention program Transparent prices and tariffs: To clarify prices of services of services online ICT access: To maintain and develop plans for services adjusted to different income levels and to ensure continuity in service delivery Eco-efficient products: To reinforce our commercial offering with less energy, dependent ENVIRONMENTAL equipments and reusable packages Biodiversity: To continue to support protection programs for species Eco-eficiency: To maintain the rationalisation program for energy consumption and carbon dioxide; to opt for less energy-dependent lighting equipment and cooling systems Environmental impacts: To manage and segment greenhouse gas emissions. SOCIAL Responsible marketing: To draw up a Responsible Communication guide to be adopted by the company and supliers, in this scope Non-Discrimination: To subscribe and adopt the European Code of Best Practices for women and ICT Digital Literacy: To reinforce school voluntering program Communicating with Security program Protection of Minors: To publish online tools and guides secure ICT use Extensions of good practices to the value chain: To align and verify suppliers complying with PT’s sustainability and social responsability policy. 34 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Identified goals and opportunities for the triennium PT’s positioning in the domestic and international marketplace, the feedback from the identified stakeholders and the trends of the international conjuncture induce a number of opportunities and subsequent goals established pursuant to the strategic profile for the current triennium. Environmental sustainability, customer relationship and satisfaction, innovation, social responsibility both internal and external in terms of education, healthcare, and safety, and establishment of synergies and sharing of best practices with the PT subsidiaries internationally are included among the main goals with defined objectives selected for the triennium together with the business growth targets. Therefore, the following opportunities and goals have been identified for the following triennium. In terms of environmental sustainability ICT impact on CO2 emissions at national level is approximately 1%. According to the Smart 2020 Study, the direct impact of the sector may be significantly reduced until 2020. Direct impact of the sector ICT weight on CO2 emissions until 2020 Estimated reduction potential Officeware efficiency 57% 60% Servers 18% 39% Telecommunications equipment 25% 27% Opportunities and goals highlighted Areas of energy consumption of Goals 2020 Efficiency actions for 2011 – PT estimated reduction Lighting, equipment administrative 10% . Implementation of energy efficient bulbs and comfort cooling . Replacement of PCs and displays . Set points for cooling Cooling of exchanges and data 27% . Free cooling centres . Alternative energies Telecommunications and informa63% . Installation of smart meters tion technology equipment Energy certification of buildings* 20 high energy consuming buildings Submit buildings to energy certification until 2010 and prepare improvement plans Car fleet – CO2 emissions 20% reduction Site noise and vibration monitoring 200 sites Water consumption 2% reduction Paper consumptionl 25% reduction In terms of customer satisfaction Average customer satisfaction level Maintain satisfaction level reached in 2008 – 7.3 (on a scale of 0 to 10) Nº. of complaints per customer Average 30% reduction Nº. of faults per customer Average 20% reduction PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 35 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy In terms of innovation and R&D Technological innovation New generation networks and inherent functionalities Operational Efficiency Energy rationalisation solutions – use of alternative energies Self service and self care solutions Web-based solutions Web 2:0 functionalities Society and environment Security solutions Healthcare solutions In terms of education Collaborative education 300,000 laptops with broadband Another 200,000 in the next 2 years – ICT solutions in classrooms distributed at 25% of market value in project Collaborative education Connection of 6,000 schools at 100 Underway High speed networks Mbps – 100 already concluded Online platforms In project Underway In terms of suppliers Audit to suppliers in ethical, environmental and labour Add + 10 % of suppliers to verification processes criteria. Inclusion of energy-efficiency in equipment selection and To be initiated in the acquisitions throughout the hiring year. In terms of Social Responsibility Safeguard Human and Labour Rights and promote a more Prepare PT’s candidacy to certification according to internainclusive society. tional standard in terms of Social Responsibility – SA 8000. Prepare PT’s candidacy to certification according to Obtain certification of the main PT subsidiaries in accorinternational standard in terms of Social Responsibility dance with this international standard. – SA 8000. 1.3. Management of Risks and Opportunities PT has defined, as a priority commitment, the implementation of a process to evaluate and manage the risks that might affect its operations and the execution of the plan and strategic goals defined. Such mechanisms are based on an integrated transversal risk management model, which seeks to ensure, inter alia, implementation of good Corporate Governance practices and transparency in communication to the market and shareholders. As a structured and systematized approach, risk management is integrated in the Company’s strategic planning and operational management procedures, and relies on the commitment of all employees to adopt risk management as an integral part of their duties, notably by identifying, reporting and implementing risk mitigation measures and behaviours. 36 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Risk Management is sponsored by the Executive Committee in articulation with the management teams for the various businesses, at national and international level, in such a way as to identify, assess and manage uncertainties and threats that might affect the pursuance of the plan and strategic goals. The Internal Audit and Risk Management functions, with hierarchical reporting to the CEO and CFO and functional reporting to the Audit Committee, support the Company’s Executive Committee in implementing the risk management system and permanently assessing risk management procedures in place. RELEVANT RISKS/ STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES MANAGEMENT MODEL • To promote the corporate risk management model in line with the PT Group’s strategic goals; • To identify and analyse the main risks to wich PT and its subsidiaries are exposed in the scope of their activity and in their articulation with the market and society at large; • To identify and assesss the main risk factors that might interfere positively or negatively in the normal course of PT and its subsidiaries; • To control and follow up the migration plans associated with risked factors deemed critical; • To ensure high quality of information supporting decision-making processes; • To communicate the results of the risks and opportunities management model and alert for the identification of new critical risks. RESPONSE TO IDENTIFIED RISKS In order to ensure improved transparency and independence of the entire evaluation and control process, it should also be mentioned that the whole process is monitored by the Audit Committee, an independent supervisory body composed by non-executive board members. SUPERVISION OF THE RISKS OPPORTUNITIES MANAGEMENT MODEL Supervise the adoption of principles RELEVANT RISKS and policies for identification and management of the main risks of a financial or operational nature or other relevant risks in connection with RISKS OPPORTUNITIES MANAGEMENT MODEL the PT Group’s business, as well as of measures intended to monitor control and disclose such risks. RISKS DICTIONARY Evaluate each year, all internal SUPERVISION procedures on the matters of risk AUDIT RISK MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY detection and company asset COMMITTEE safeguard. CENTRALISED RISK RECORD Monitor the analysis, revision and implementation of measures and plans proposed within the framework of the Company’s risk management systems. RESPONSE TO RISK PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 37 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy The Risk Management procedure implemented in PT is based on an internationally acknowledged methodology – COSO II, developed by the Committee of Sponsorship Organisations of the Treadway Commission. This approach is based on the identification and analysis of key value drivers and uncertainty factors that might affect value generation and compliance with the plan and strategic goals, being in the scope of the corporative sustainability goals identified as strategic for the PT Group. The risk management process is based on the following tools: • Risk Dictionary to ensure the description, in a clear objective manner, of a common risk language to be used both internally and in the various disclosures made to the market on this matter; • Environment risks: These correspond to risks that depend on external factors that might affect its performance, strategy, operations and organisation. Due to their nature, the origin of environment risks implies that their associated impact must be appropriately anticipated and the materialization of their associated risk factors and mitigation strategy in the event of a crisis must be timely identified • Risks related to business processes inside the PT Group. Process risks result from and are inherent to business activities and internal processes, and Management may ensure their control at their origin, in a preventive manner. • Decision-taking information risks is related to information available and produced by the company that is the basis for management’s decision making process. These risks are divided in operational, financial and strategic decision making. The risks regarding information for decision making are related with the way the organisation produces and manages the information needed to manage their business report to its shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. • Risk Management Methodology to formalize processes and procedures for identification, analysis, mitigation and reporting of relevant risks. This tool identifies: • The intervenients responsible for the evaluation and approval of risks and risk factors that affect the business of the PT Group; • The persons responsible for the management of identified risks and the manner in which such risk should be analyzed and mitigated; • Monitoring procedures for mitigation actions for each risk, according to the risk management strategy adopted by the Executive Committee and supervised by the Audit Committee; • Disclosure and reporting procedures for information issued from the risk management procedure. • Centralised Risk Record of all information associated to each relevant risk, which simplifies the analysis of the correlation between the various risk factors recorded, as well as the ranking the priority of each risk response and the identification of synergies between the various risk mitigation actions. Risk recording as currently implemented associates to each risk: • Risk factors that, in case they materialize, might relevantly affect the PT Group; • Potentially affected strategic goals; • Existing control structures, procedures and indicators to monitor and mitigate risk factors; • Qualitative evaluation of control and residual risk associated to each risk factor; • Quantitative evaluation of impact, probability of occurrence and speed at which the risk factor might materialize; • Improvement or critical risks response plans. 38 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Operational implementation of the risk management methodology is an interactive cyclical process that may be summarised by the following table: RISK MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Identifies main risks affecting the PT Group Defines Risk Managers Decides action on & prioritization of mitigation actions AUDIT COMMITTEE Evaluates risk management model Proposes improvements & changes to model Reviews the main risks RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION Supports the definition & implementation of a risk management model in line with best practices Monitoring risk management model & ensuring that the information from different PT Group companies is correctly integrated Defining, in articulation with Executive Committee & Audit Committee, materially relevant risks Follow up action plans required to guarantee correct treatment of identified risks BUSINESS MANAGEMENT Materially relevant risk management RISK MANAGERS Implement actions required to ensure appropriate control Evaluate & quantify residual risk to which the company is exposed Identify critical areas of risk exposure and propose mitigation actions Realignment of the Risk Management Model, and warn about exposure situations or control environment degradation INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Evaluates the effectiveness of control mechanisms at reliability and integrity level of financial & operational, efficiency of operations and compliance with laws & regulations. environment & stakeholders INTEGRATED PROCESS RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE RELEVANT RISKS ANALYSIS RESPONSE TO RISK RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM RISK MANAGERS IDENTIFICATION OF RISK FACTORS ASSESSMENT OF EXPOSURE LEVEL PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 39 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy From a perspective of continued evolution of the risk management processes, in order to further improve the risk management process, the PT Group plans to implement a new online Risk recording tool in 2011 that will enable to increase the scope of the assessment and streamline the process of identifying, assessing and evaluating risk. During the 2010 financial year, a re-evaluation was carried out on the risk areas that might affect, in a more significant manner, PT Group’s capacity to achieve its strategic goals. Following this re-evaluation, relevant risks were ranked for analysis and detailed assessment, which involved 30 departments/operational areas charged with the management of such risks, in order to identify events and factors that might affect the PT Group’s operations and activities, as well as the control procedures and mechanisms associated thereto. The impact and probability of occurrence was measured for all of the 224 identified risk factors, and, according to the level of exposure or residual risk, a risk response strategy was defined, notably: i) To reduce the risk through the implementation of controls reducing the probability of risk occurrence or its impact in case the risk materializes; ii) To accept the risk in situations where the residual risk is deemed acceptable and the cost of implementation of additional controls exceeds the expected benefits; iii) To share the risk, by reducing the exposure of the PT Group through the total or partial transfer to other entities, resorting to insurance, derivatives or joint-ventures; or v) To avoid the risk, by abandoning the business or procedures generating such risk (e.g.: abandoning a geographical area or a business). All identified risks are detailed in the Annual Report and in the Governance Report. We will highlight here non-financial risks associated with corporative sustainability, which are subject to monitoring. Risk Risk Factors Risk Management Innovation & In view of the background of quick technoloThe PT Group is historically one of the Portuguese companies Technology gical changes in the business sector of the with a larger volume of investment in Research and DevelopGroup, PT is subject to the risk of failing to ment (R&D). In this field, the PT Group holds strategic assets leverage technological advances and developthat allow it to ensure the implementation of innovative ments in its business model, in order to obtain projects, including: or maintain competitive advantages. Main risk factors associated with innovation: • PT Inovação: a company aimed at the technological development of the Group’s businesses, in terms of applied research, • Incorrect identification of new technologies engineering services and development of innovative • Unsuitability of time to market in adoption of solutions and services, both in the domestic and the internanew technologies tional market. • Lack of maturity of adopted technical solutions • OPEN development and innovation programme: having as its • Levels of quality of service delivered not purpose the implementation of systematized research suitable to market expectations practices and information processing, involving the whole • Adoption of non-interoperable solutions organisation, for the materialization of innovative projects. • Insufficient information about market trends • Strategic planning of network infrastructures and rollout of • Non-identification of opportunities to increase new technologies, which implies the preparation of reports operational efficiency and periodic analysis on the evolution, standardization and adoption of new technologies by the sector, including the • Non-incorporation of market trends in business carrying out of international benchmarks. plan • Strategic partnerships with technological, equipment and content suppliers and service providers. 40 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Risk Risk Factors Risk Management Infrastructure The capacity and availability of network infrasWithin this scope, follow-up and risk mitigation actions are capacity for tructures are essential features for the PT carried out as follows: continued services Group to ensure continued critical operations • Securing the telecommunications core network; delivery within high quality parameters aimed not only at customer satisfaction, but also in • Preparation of risk diagnoses for the various technological compliance with regulatory requirements. platforms, identifying dependencies and single failure points; In this way, the PT Group has strongly empha• Definition and implementation of disaster recovery plans; sized the management of this risk, not only at Implementation of systems and procedures aimed at ensuring infrastructure availability level, but also in the determined QoS (Quality of Service) and QoE (Quality of End user increase of infrastructure capacity, in such a Experience) levels; way as to support new product and service • Investment in new generation networks and preventive offers to its customers. ad contribute to the maintenance actions; evolution of the Information Society in • Investment in information systems to support the activity of Portugal and in the countries where it technical teams. operates. In February 2010, following the storm that occurred in the In this scope, the following risk factors are worth Madeira island, the resiliency of the PT Group’s infrastructure highlighting: network and its capacity to respond to natural disasters was put • Absence of response plans to catastrophes or to the test. It should be stressed that torrential rain, floods and crises landslides debilitated or destroyed a significant portion of • Inexistence of risk charts or weaknesses in the critical infrastructure in the island, including the identification of unique failure points telecommunications infrastructure. The PT Group kept a close • Absence of redundancy in critical infrastrucfollow-up of this situation from the first instant and technical ture components means and additional resources were made available in order to swiftly normalize wireline, mobile, satellite and submarine • Saturation of available infrastructure due to communications in the Madeira Autonomous Region. absence of evolution or upgrade plans The creation of a multidiscipline task force to respond to the • Unsuitable planning, management and moniemergency, involving all the company’s technical areas in toring of available capacity Madeira and Continental Portugal, permitted a quick recovery of • Infrastructure obsolescence or weaknesses in 85% of the island’s mobile and wireline communications. The maintenance procedures Group’s prompt action further permitted a more effective intervention by the authorities in their response to this catastrophe, and avoided the isolation of the population in some parts of the island. Environment Pursuing an appropriate environmental policy In this domain, the PT Group has reinforced its environmental has been a concern for Portugal Telecom, in management principles and actions, thus ensuring the certifiorder to reduce the Company’s exposure to cation of associated systems according to the ISO 14001 environmental damages that might consist in: standard and an offering which is progressively more suited to (i) liability towards third parties for any the market. material damage caused; (ii) liability towards Environmental management policies and systems cover the governments or third parties for the cost of following areas of intervention: waste removal, added by possible compensations. • Resource consumption; • Resources used Main factors associated with environmental risk management: • Waste production and routing; • Atmospheric emissions; • Rationalisation of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions • Noise and electromagnetic fields; • Supplier selection and hiring sustainable model; • Unsuitable waste control • Acquisition of less energy-dependent equipments; • Unsuitable control of electromagnetic • Use of alternative energies. radiations and noise Furthermore, it should be stressed that the management • Unsuitable internal awareness actions in terms models are subject to periodic audits, both internal and of resource consumption rationalisation external, and a continuous assessment of any impacts and improvements to be implemented is also carried out. • Incorrect evaluation of negative landscape impacts • Acquisition of products outside the European Union (in countries that do not respect EU environment rules) • Incompliance with applicable legislation. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 41 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy Risk Risk Factors Risk Management Relationship with The risk of occurrence of breach of confidence In this scope, PT carries out actions with a view to involve its Stakeholders by stakeholders due to lack of fulfillment of stakeholders, namely:. Consulta a stakeholders; expectations created, with the inherent . In this scope, PT carries out actions with a view to involve its impacts in their relationship with PT: stakeholders, namely: • Customers . Consultations with stakeholders; • Suppliers . Communication channels available 24 hours a day; • Employees . Customers: monitoring of customer satisfaction level and • Analysts customer contact performance, respect for customer privacy, content security and protection; • Society . Suppliers: ethical principles and social responsibility practices in supplier selection and hiring; . Employees: talent attraction and retention; occupational safety and health policies; internal social responsibility programs; . Analysts: Assurance of adequate market communication. . Society: actions to promote inclusion and digital literacy; development of telemedicine solutions; support for sponsorship and promotion of volunteer work. Ethics in business The Code of Ethics of PT together with the Ethics in PT is monitored through: and Portuguese, European and American legisla. Internal instruments for employee and supplier assessment; relationships tion are the main guidelines of conduct at PT, whose identified risk factors are related to: . Whistleblowing channels; • Incompliance with one or more aspects . Dialogue with stakeholders for identification of weaknesses; included in the Code of Ethics, internal policies and/or regulations; . Internal and external audits to published information for increased accuracy and transparency assurance. • The reputation and/or activity of the company is affected by violations to the Code of Ethics or adopted regulations. 42 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 1.4. Transparency and Compliance The recommendations from international organisations, national, European and North-American legislation, in what concerns listed companies are carefully observed by PT and whenever differences exist, PT expresses its views to these entities by means of its representatives so as to guarantee the assessment of its viewpoints. The compliance with the diversity of recommendations followed by PT, mainly in the areas of governance is evidenced in the respective Governance Report and in Form 20F. We shall mention the following: Entities regulation and supervising PT at national level PT, besides the rigorous compliance with the legal framework in force, maintains an attitude of dialogue and proactivity with the regulatory bodies, by participating at the meetings to which it is invited, cooperating with duly grounded opinions and suggestions and complying with the determinations issued. PT has corporative organic units whose goal is to interpret the recommendations and determinations of the Regulatory Bodies, as well as stimulate the dialogue among all. The Group has kept an attitude of dialogue and cooperation with these entities, participating actively in their various initiatives. In Portugal, the electronic communications sector has been completely liberalised since 2000. Therefore, the legal framework applicable to the sector is oriented to a free competition environment, which along 2008 was accrued with a new operator on the Portuguese market. In 2002, a new regulatory framework applicable to the electronic communications networks and services constituted by a set of European directives that affect the telecommunications sector was adopted. These directives were transposed to the national legal system through law 5/2004, of 10th of February (Law of Electronic Communications). It is a regulatory framework that uses the analysis methods associated with the principles of defence of the competition, applied to a certain set of relevant markets, in order to determinate the entities with dominant position and to adopt a set of ex-ante obligations. Due to technological evolution and the integrating characteristics of the new generation networks, the European Commission initiated, in 2005, the regulatory framework revision process designated Revision 2006, seeking to change the current Directives and the Relevant Markets Recommendation. Therefore, in December 2009, a new regulatory framework for electronic communications in the European Union was published, which includes among others Directive 2009/140/CE (Better Regulation Directive) and Directive 2009/136/CE (Citizen Rights Directive)*. Entities regulating markets and commercial relations in the electronic communications sector, in Portugal: • National Communications Authority ANACOM – whose regulatory function has the following objectives: promotion of competition in the offer of electronic communications networks and services; contribution to the development of the domestic European Union market and, also, the defence of citizens’ interests. *For further information on European Directives for electronic communications check the following link: http://www.anacom.pt/streaming/quadro_regulamentar_comunicacoes_electronicasUE.pdf?contentId=1045301&field=ATTACHED_FILE PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 43 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Sustainability Strategy • Competition Authority – AdC whose main objective is to ensure the respect for competition rules towards an efficient market, the efficient distribution of resources and consumers’ interests. • Media Regulatory Entity – ERC – whose scope of intervention and regulation is the supervision of all entities pursuing social communication activities in Portugal. • National Data Protection Committee – CNDP – whose main goal is data protection and privacy. Issues handled with impact on the activity of the company • Next Generation Networks • Digital Terrestrial Television • Network Hosting Infrastructures • Relevant Broadband Markets • Retail Offers and Tariffs • Radio-electric Spectrum • Numbering and portability • Wholesale reference offers • Digital Dividend • Roaming Regulation • Universal service Litigation issues With ANACOM, the following issues, still unresolved, were subject to litigation: • Undue suspension of telephony service, undue activation of Price Plans and non-sending of detailed bill to customers • Non-sending of information requested by ICP-ANACOM on traffic indicators • Seduction of customers in a situation of pre-selection and disrespect for the guard period • Telephone Directories • Lack of compliance with ORALL wholesale deliberations – resolution decided in favour of PT • ADSL offers • Refusal of portability • Lack of compliance with deliberation on performance and Universal Service QoS goals • ITED – Irregularity in the installation of certified infra-structure as it is not in compliance with applicable technical prescriptions and specifications – resolution in favour of PT With CNDP, the following issue under litigation is still pending, awaiting the respective conclusion: • Direct Marketing Messages received without previous customer consent 44 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 With the remaining entities, there were no additional conflict situations besides eventually any still pending from the past that are still unresolved. Final decisions on conflict situations are fully accepted by the company. Principles subscribed by PT in national and international Organisations* 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact – As a company signatory of these principles that include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the fundamental principles of the International Labour Organisation, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the Convention Anticorruption of the United Nations, PT submits each year the Declaration of Progress required by these relative to the compliance with the principles mentioned above. International Report Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative – (GRI) – PT presents its Sustainability Report according to the guidelines of the GRI that include independent verification of the information therein, by an external and independent entity. ETNO – European Telecommunications Network Operators PT is signatory of ETNO’s Sustainability Charter, collaborates actively in the Sustainability Working Group and presents annually the evolution of its performance. Business Council of Sustainable Development (BCSD Portugal) – PT is a member and collaborates actively in the Workgroups related to Sustainability and ICT Sustainability. BCSD Portugal publishes PT’s Sustainability Report on its website. London Benchmark Group – PT is a member, uses the LBG methodology and participates actively in the respective workgroups relative to the assessment of the impact of the social responsibility initiatives. Fines and provisioned resources for eventual incompliance In 2010, PT paid a fine due to legal environmental incompliance € 11,250.00 PT also made provisions, in accordance with legal advice, to deal with a probable los of resources, the following amounts: • Civil liability – € 18,117,450.00 • Labour liability – € 4,230,646.00 • Other liabilities – € 4,915,363.00 * The remaining organisations of which PT is a member are published on the company’s website. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 45 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Principles, Codes of Conduct and Policies Principles, Codes of Conduct and Policies 2.1. Principles and international organisations PT subscribes, applies within the company and actively participates in the promotion of the sustainability and corporative social responsibility defended by national organisations with which the company management identifies itself. These principles are relative to business ethics, environmental respect and preservation, human and labour rights, anti-corruption and social inclusion instruments. The adoption of these principles is a permanent challenge, demanding a systematic identification of improvement areas in the Group’s business and its relationship with society, promotion and adoption of enhancements and subsequent monitoring. Charters subscribed and/or principles followed International European National 10 Principles of the Global Compact of Environmental and Sustainability Recommendations of Portugal’s the United Nations; Charter of the European TelecommuniBusiness Council for Sustainable cations Network Operators; Development; Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Lisbon Strategy Code of Good Practices of Commercial Communication for Minors (APAN) Recommendations of the InternaEuropean Road Safety Charter tional Labour Organisation; Social Responsibility Charter of the Code of conduct of energy efficiency Union Network International European Code of Best Practices for Women and ICT The issues on the agenda of these organisations are worthy of PT’s active participation in its discussion, study and promotion, apart from being evaluated and interpreted by the company’s Sustainability Committee. Relevant conclusions for the company’s activity and its relationship with society are adopted, being subject to deliberation by the Executive Committee of the holding company and the different Executive Committees of the Group’s business units. 2.2. Codes of Conduct and Policies adopted The codes of conduct and regulations adopted at PT are meant to guide employee attitude towards the organisation, and their relationship with shareholders, regulatory bodies, competitors, customers, suppliers, and society at large. Rigour, honesty, integrity, transparency, information accuracy, anti-corruption, equality of opportunities, environmental preservation and social responsibility are the main guidelines that characterise PT’s activity towards society, apart from full alignment with the legislation applicable, in force at national, European and North-American level. The policies adopted aim to guide the attitude and conduct of the entire value chain, leveraging everyone’s mobilisation beyond what is defined in the Codes of Conduct and established contractual terms. 46 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The Codes of Conduct and policies that orient PT’s activity are published and may be consulted on its website and corporative intranet, and all employees and suppliers are subject to training and/or awareness actions on their contents and impacts. Codes of Conduct Policies adopted Code of Ethics of Portugal Telecom Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers Integrated Quality, Environment and Occupational Code of Conduct for Procurement Health and Safety Policy Company Agreement Information Security and ICT Systems Policy Internal Regulation on Transactions by Group Officers* Regulation on Transactions with Related Parties** Code of Conduct for Social Networks Responsible Communication Guide *** *Regulates matters pertaining to market abuse and transactions on financial instruments emitted by the Group’s companies and defines relevant concepts of “privileged information”, “market manipulation” and “relevant transactions”, among others. This regulation complements the governance rules and the good practices of conduct already implemented at PT to reinforce the prevention of market abuse. ** Defines a set of procedures to ensure the correct identification of related party transactions and define relevant concepts of “transaction” and “related parties”. *** in preparation PT’s operation observes a culture based on the identification, assessment and control of all risks deemed critical for the sustainability of the Group’s business. The Sustainability Committee as part of the Governance Model promotes the adoption of the principles, Codes of Conduct and the use of communication channels in intra-employee relations and between these and the remaining stakeholders, underpinning a dialogue culture, avoiding conflicts of interest and using anti-corruption mechanisms. Therefore, PT does not carry out any lobbying activity and/or contributes monetarily to organisations that do not fit into its commercial management or sponsorship, philanthropy or patronage philosophy. 2.3. Recording, whistleblowing and alignment monitoring systems For better identification and alignment monitoring with all its principles and inclusively definition of improvement actions for eventual weaknesses identified, the PT subsidiaries have available certified information and management systems in compliance with international standards ISO 9001(quality), ISO 14001 (environment), OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) and initiated the certification process to comply with SA 8000 (social responsibility). All employees are trained about the codes of conduct and policies adopted, particularly the Code of Ethics, which includes issues related to non-discrimination and anti-corruption. All Codes, policies and associated procedures are available on the corporative intranet and on the company’s website. Any violation to the codes of conduct, internal regulations or legislation in force, identified and confirmed, is liable to an investigation to ascertain the responsibility of eventual infractors according to the legal terms and rules applicable to the situation. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 47 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Principles, Codes of Conduct and Policies Such situations may be identified in the scope of the daily operation of the company or through denunciation via especially created online channels. These are confidential communication channels and, if the author of the denunciation so wishes, they are also anonymous. Violations to the Code of Ethics 4 violations identified and treated So, for any person who believes that there is evidence of any type of irregularity relative to the codes and principles defined, PT provides denunciation instruments that ensure the confidentiality of its content and the anonymity of the author. Reinforcing management transparency, ensured by the different internal control systems – which are on their turn audited by external and independent companies and organisations – a System for Qualified Participation of Undue Practices (SQPUP) designated internationally as Whistleblowing has been created, whose master guidelines and procedures are as follows: To communicate by electronic message, via an encrypted channel, an occurrence or suspicion justified by verification of the facts by who knows or has consistent reasons to believe that there are evidences of the following situations: • Violation of a law, rule or regulation; • Bad management; • Abuse of authority; or • Large fund squandering. Within this System, an “undue practice” means any matter concerning Accounting, financial reports or Auditing, or other relevant related matters, and it can be communicated by anyone – outside PT (shareholder, customer or supplier) or an employee – who directly or indirectly becomes aware of it. This channel is available on the intranet and on the corporative website of the PT Group. Qualified Participation of Undue Practices – Whistleblowing 2008 2009 2010 Received participations 44 31 20 Participations already solved 40 21 18 Participations under analysis 4 10 2 Simultaneously, another denunciation channel was made available to employees in 2010, also confidential and anonymous, but more suited to matters pertaining ethics in terms of relations, environmental sustainability and social responsibility. Participation of occurrences about relations, environment and social responsibility 2010 Environmental conditions 0 Occupational Health and Safety 1 Discrimination 1 Denunciations are analysed and subject to corrective improvement plans whose results are later assessed and monitored. In some cases, there is a reinforced approach observing more demanding procedures. 48 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Child labour was identified as a possible risk, although Portuguese Law prohibits it and PT deems it totally unsuitable. Considering that business and value chain globalization is more and more a reality as well as asymmetries in terms of culture and labour practices adopted in each country, we started to consider the probability of child labour in our value chain. Therefore, there were procedures defined in order to mitigate the impacts of such situations that eventually might be identified in the value chain of the Group. Specifically, if any PT employee and/or auditor identifies the existence of child labour situations in PT’s value chain, he/she should denounce them in order to initiate the set of procedures defined for child support: • Analysis of the child’s situation and its condition in terms of family; • Exceptionally, if the child’s age allows the continuity of the work, the number of hours in terms of transport, school and work should not exceed 10 hours per day; • Attendance/conclusion of minimum compulsory education; • Its subsistence, providing conditions for its normal physical and psychological development; • All company employees and partners are made aware of the practices to be followed; • Definition of persons responsible for the implementation of aforesaid actions an respective duration; • The effectiveness of implemented actions is assessed and evolution records are kept. In 2010, there were no child labour situations detected in PT’s value chain. In parallel, there is an additional set of procedures relative to the Group’s supplier chain. The Supplier Control Group defines goals and the supplier sample that each year will be subject to: • Commitment to the Code of Conduct (extension of the universe of covered parties); • Auditing; • Sustainability Questionnaire; • Interview. Suppliers covered by each one of the actions described are defined by the Supplier Control Group, based on the following criticality criteria: • Delivery of services on behalf of the Group; • Delivery of services in the premises of the Group’s companies; • Delivery of products for direct integration in the value chain; • Those with negative control evaluations; • Those who were subject of complaints or denunciations; • Other criteria deemed relevant. The evaluation made to the supplier chain is presented in the area of involvement and management of stakeholder relations. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 49 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model Governance Model 3.1. Organisation Structure PT follows the Anglo-Saxon governance model, which is based on the existence of a Board of Directors, an Audit Committee composed of non-executive directors specifically appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders and a Chartered Accountant (“ROC”) elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders upon a proposal by the Audit Committee. PT’s governance model may be schematized as follows: GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS COMPENSATION ROC COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EVALUATION CORPORATE EXECUTIVE AUDIT COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY SECRETARY GENERAL AND COMMITTEE COMPANY’S SECRETARY (EFECTIVE AND ALTERNATE) DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE CONSULTIVE COUNCIL GENERAL HUMAN INTERNAL CORPORATE CORPORATE PLANNING, COMPETITION INVESTOR TREASURY FINANCIAL SECRETARIAT RESOURCES AUDIT COMMUNICATION TAXATION CONTROLLING RELATIONS REPORTING UNIT UNIT AND CORPORATE FINANCE 50 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PT’s organisation structure further includes a Compensation Committee elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders, which is responsible for determining the remunerations of the members of corporate bodies. The members of the corporate bodies and of the Board of the General Meeting of Shareholders are elected for a three-year term of office, and they may be re-elected once or more times within the limits of the law. The adopted governance model maintains a power separation, as the members of the Board of Directors delegate their powers of current management on an Executive Committee. The Board of Directors of PT is composed of a minimum of 15 and a maximum of 25 members. Among the elected, there are executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors and non-executive and non-independent Directors. Functions (%) EXECUTIVE 25% NON-EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT 40% NON-EXECUTIVE AND NON INDEPENDENT 35% Gender (%) WOMEN 5% MEN 95% PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 51 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model 3.2. Functions Composition Corporate Members Board of Executive Audit Evaluation Independence Governance Nr, of shares (date of first appointment) Directors Committee Committee Committee (4) Committee Henrique Granadeiro (2003) Chairman Chairman (1) Yes 150 Chairman Zeinal Bava (2000) Member Member (2) 63,161 (CEO) Member Luís Pacheco de Melo (2006) Member 45 (CFO) Carlos Alves Duarte (2009) Member Member 40 Manuel Rosa da Silva (2009) Member Member 90 Shakhaf Wine (2009) Member Member João de Mello Franco (1998) Member Chairman Member Member (3) Yes 13,308 (5) José Xavier de Basto (2007) Member Member Yes Mário João de Matos Gomes (2009) Member Member Yes Francisco Bandeira (2008) Member 483 Joaquim Goes (2000) Member Member Member 2,437 Gerald S. McGowan (2003) Member Yes Rafael Mora Funes (2007) Member Member 501 (6) Maria Helena Nazaré (2009) Member Yes Amílcar de Morais Pires (2006) Member 2,146 Francisco Soares (2006) Member Member Member Yes Jorge Tomé (2002) Member Member Member Paulo Varela (2009) Member Member 7,134 Milton Silva Vargas (2009) Member Yes Nuno de Almeida e Vasconcellos (2006) Member Chairman 11,190 (1) Inherently in his office as Chairman of the Board of Directors. (2) Inherently in his office as CEO. (3) Inherently in his office as Audit Committee Chairman. (4) According to the rules described in Chapter II.15. below. (5) 322 of which are held by his spouse. (6) 100% held by his spouse. From the beginning of the current term of office (2009-2011), resignation from the office of member of PT Board of Directors was submitted by Executive Director Rui Pedro Soares (17 February 2010), Executive Director Fernando Soares Carneiro (22 February 2010), Non-Executive Director António Palma Ramalho (25 March 2010) and Non-Executive Directors José Maria Alvarez-Pallete Lopéz and Santiago Fernández Valbuena (27 September 2010). 52 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Executive Committee Corporate Assignments Executive Assignments Zeinal Bava • Strategy • PT Portugal CEO • Investor Relations • PT Investimentos Internacionais • Communication & Corporate Image • PT Inovação • Internal Audit • Fundação PT • Regulation & Competition • Institutional & International Relations • Sustainability Luís Pacheco de Melo • Human Resouces • PT Centro Corporativo CFO • Management Planning & Control • PT Compras • Financial Reporting • PT Imobiliária • Corporate Finance • PT ACS • Financial Operations & Treasury • Previsão • Taxation • Internal Control & Risk Management • Service Hiring Strategy • Real Estate • Pension Funds Carlos Alves Duarte • Prime Segment • PT SI • Information Systems Manuel Rosa da Silva • Physical Security of Buildings, Networks & Systems • Quality & Customer Satisfaction • Field Force • Standing Transversal Improvement • Home Networking Shakhaf Wine • Holdings in Brasil • PT Brasil • PT Inovação Brasil PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 53 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model 3.3. Evaluation and Remuneration Evaluation Committee In line with the best national and international practices in the matter of corporate governance, as well as with the recommendations issued by CMVM within this framework and with the Final Rules approved by the New York Stock Exchange on corporate governance following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, PT’s Board of Directors resolved, on 15 October 2008, to delegate to an Evaluation Committee the powers required for the evaluation of the executive members of the management body and of the Board of Directors as a whole. To evaluate the executive members, the Evaluation Committee proposes the establishment of the relevant criteria and goals in terms of remuneration annually in each term of office to the Remuneration Committee, taking into consideration the plans approved by the Board of Directors. It also has consulting functions regarding the selection of the members of the management bodies of the most relevant companies within the PT Group. As provided for under the corresponding delegation of powers, the Evaluation Committee is composed of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and four non-executive directors, including at least one independent director, and their term of office shall be the same as the term of office of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company shall be the Chairman of the Evaluation Committee, unless he is also the Chief Executive Officer, in which case one of the non-executive members designated for such purpose by the Board of Directors shall be the Chairman of this Committee. Composition Henrique Granadeiro(1) Chairman Zeinal Bava(2) Member João de Mello Franco(3) Member Joaquim Goes Member Rafael Mora Funes Member Francisco Soares Member Jorge Tomé Member (1) Inherently in his office as Chairman of the Board of Directors. (2) Inherently in his office as CEO. (3) Inherently in his office as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee is elected by the shareholders at a General Meeting, composed of members external to the Board of Directors, serves the purpose of defining the remuneration policy of the members of the corporate bodies, determining the remunerations applicable taking into consideration the performance (notably taking into account the evaluation made by the Evaluation Committee) and the economic position of the Company. In the case of the executive members of the Board of Directors, the Compensation Committee determines their remunerations on the basis of objective criteria approved by this Committee and the evaluation of their performance by the Evaluation Committee, in the scope of their specific duties and consulting with the Chief Executive Officer. 54 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The current members of the Compensation Committee were elected on 27 March 2009 for the 2009-2011 three-year term of office, which will end on 31 December 2011. Composition Álvaro Pinto Correia Chairman Francisco Esteves de Carvalho Member Francisco Barros Lacerda Member Independence of the members of the Compensation Committee Notwithstanding the necessary articulation of this Committee with the Board of Directors, the composition of the Compensation Committee seeks to obtain the highest possible level of independence of its members from the members of the management body. No member of the Compensation Committee is a member of any corporate body or committee within the Company, and no member of the Compensation Committee has any family connection to any member of the management body by way of marriage, kindred or affinity in a direct line and up to and including the third degree. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 55 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model remunerations earned in 2010 2010 fiscal year COMMITTEES AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2010 Fixed Variable Total Notes Audit Corporate Evaluation (FY 2009) Governance Executive Committe Zeinal Abedin Mahomed Bava 695,038 721,921 1,416,959 Member Luis Miguel da Fonseca Pacheco de Melo 486,526 505,344 991,870 Carlos António Alves Duarte 486,526 459,404 945,930 Manuel Francisco Rosa da Silva 486,526 459,404 945,930 Shakhaf Wine 486,526 459,404 945,930 (a) 2,641,142 2,605,477 5,246,619 Rui Pedro Oliveira Barroso Soares 104,256 459,404 563,660 (b) Fernando Henrique Viana Soares Carneiro 201,403 459,404 660,807 (c) 2,946,800 3,524,285 6,471,085 Audit Committee João Manuel de Mello Franco 271,404 271,404 Chairman Member Member José Guilherme Xavier de Basto 126,574 126,574 Member Mário João de Matos Gomes 183,736 183,736 (d) Member 581,714 581,714 Other members of the Board of Directors Henrique Manuel Fusco Granadeiro 617,812 617,812 Chairman Francisco Manuel Marques Bandeira (e) Rafael Luís Mora Funes 85,316 85,316 Member Joaquim Aníbal Brito Freixial de Goes 85,316 85,316 Member Member José Maria Alvarez-Pallete Lopéz 31,470 31,470 (f ) Gerald Stephen McGowan 44,058 44,058 Maria Helena Nazaré (e) Amílcar Carlos Ferreira de Morais Pires 44,058 44,058 António Manuel Palma Ramalho 24,376 24,376 (g) Francisco Teixeira Pereira Soares 132,174 132,174 Member Member Jorge Humberto Correia Tomé (e) Member Member Santiago Javier Fernández Valbuena 31,470 31,470 (f ) Paulo José Lopes Varela 85,316 85,316 Member Milton Almicar Silva Vargas 44,058 44,058 Nuno Rocha dos Santos de Almeida e Vasconcellos 132,174 132,174 Chairman 1,357,598 1,357,598 4,886,112 3,524,285 8,410,397 (a) This Director’s remmuneration is paid by a Company’s subsidiary (b) Director Rui Pedro Soares resigned to his office on 17 February 2010. In addition to the fixed and variable remuneration in the table above, during 2010 fiscal year Rui Pedro Soares was also paid the amounts described in paragraph I) of Chapter II.3. below. c) Director Fernando Soares Carneiro resigned to his office on 22 February 2010. In addition to the fixed and variable remuneration mentioned in the table above, during 2010 fiscal year Fernando Soares Carneiro was also paid amounts described in paragraph I) of Chapter II.33. below. d) In addition to the amount specified in the table above paid by PT, Director Mário Matos Gomes was also paid Euro 7, 838, 40 by Previsão Sociedade Gestora de Fundos de pensões, S.A. (a PT Group company) for the office og Chairman of the Supervisory Board the performs therein. e) Non-executive directors that have waived their remuneration due to incompability with other professional duties. f ) Directors José Maria Alvarez-Pallete Lopéz and Santiago Javier Fernández Valbuena resigned to their offices on 27 September 2010. g) Director António Palma Ramalho resigned to his office on 25 March 2010. 56 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The remuneration policies of executive and non-executive Directors and of the Chartered Accountant are defined in accordance with the following criteria: I. Remuneration policy for non-executive Directors, including the members of the Audit Committee: The compensation of non-executive members of the Board of Directors, including the members of the Audit Committee, is determined on the basis of a fixed model of an annual compensation established by the Compensation Committee (to be paid 14 times/year), without attendance tickets. This fixed compensation takes into account the fact that some Directors also perform functions in any of the internal committees assisting the Board of Directors in its supervisory functions and/or the fact that some of those are deemed as independent Directors under the terms and for the purposes of article 414(5) of the Portuguese Companies Code. In particular, the Chairman of any internal committee of the Board (who does not also discharge the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors, of Executive Committee or of Audit Committee), as well as the independent members who are part of more than one internal committee, receive a supplement corresponding to twice the remuneration of a non-executive Member. Accordingly, this fixed remuneration considers the performance of functions as a member of the supervisory body, in particular, as Chairman or as financial expert member of the Audit Committee, taking into consideration that the discharge of functions in this corporate body implies the compliance with both the Portuguese rules and the mandatory rules applicable to the Company as foreign private issuer with securities admitted to trading in the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), notably those set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission and of the NYSE. The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of PT SGPS corresponds to an annual fixed amount indexed to the annual fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and does not include a variable component. This fact does not preclude, however, the capacity recognized to the Evaluation Committee of the Board of Directors to propose to the Compensation Committee the granting of a bonus to the Chairman of the Board of Directors at the end of the term of office, taking into account the performance evaluation of his functions. In line with CMVM Recommendation II.1.5.1, although this remuneration policy is drawn up in view of allowing an alignment with the Company’s interests and a remuneration level promoting a suitable performance, no variable remuneration is foreseen for the non-executive members of the managing body nor for the members of the supervisory body (without prejudice to the possibility of granting a bonus to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, in the terms described in the previous paragraph). II. Remuneration policy of executive Directors: The remuneration of executive Directors takes into account the short and medium term performance of PT SGPS, as well as such performance when compared to other companies of a similar dimension and business. The remuneration of executive Directors is composed of a fixed and of a variable portion as described hereinafter. The variable portion: (i) it is only due when a goal achievement average of 85% is reached; and in the case of annual variable remuneration, in the event of a 100% pre-determined goal achievement, may amount to 90% of the fixed remuneration, and (ii) in the case of the multi-annual variable remuneration, in the event of a 100% pre-determined goal achievement, may reach 70% of the fixed remuneration in accordance with the criteria identified below. The goals for this annual remuneration are set at the beginning of each year; those for the multi-annual remuneration are set at start of office term. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 57 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model Fixed remuneration: The value of the fixed remuneration of executive Directors was determined on the basis of a benchmark study. In this study, companies integrating the PSI20, IBEX35, CAC40, DJ Eurostoxx 50 were considered, as well as European telecommunications companies comparable to PT SGPS. In addition, the determination of the fixed component of the remuneration of executive Directors for the current term of office has taken into account the acceptance of the Chief Executive Officer’s initiative to reduce his own fixed remuneration in 10%, as compared to the one established for the previous term of office, in order to mobilize all Group sectors for the accrued effort that the global crisis context means to the pursuance of PT SGPS’ Strategic Plan. Such reduction is applicable to all the members of the Executive Committee. Variable remuneration: The variable remuneration policy at PT SGPS is governed by the following principles aiming to ensure a clear alignment between executive Directors’ interests and Company’s interests, in accordance with CMVM Recommendation II.1.5.1: • Pursuing and achievement of goals through the quality, work capacity, dedication and business know-how; • The PT SGPS’ incentive and compensation policy allowing to capture, motivate and retain the “best professionals” within the market as well as the executive team stability; • Implementing a professionalized management approach based upon the definition and control of the pursuance of ambitious (although achievable) and measurable goals on a yearly and multi-annual (term of office) basis, thus considering the evolution on the performance of the company and of the Group; • Developing a market oriented culture in line with its best practices, measured to the extent possible by a comparison of the company’s performance towards its goals vis-à-vis a benchmarking of its (national and international) reference market; • Pursuing excellence in management, through a set of entrepreneurial reference practices allowing the company’s business sustainability. For this purpose, a management philosophy with economic, environmental and social dimensions shall be implemented. This variable remuneration includes neither share allotment nor stock option plans Annual Variable Remuneration (AVR) Taking into consideration PT SGPS’ practices and model in the last decade, the assessment of the performance of the Group’s executive Directors was indexed, on a yearly basis, to the achievement of goals at a Group level. The determination of the AVR to be granted as a result of the performance in the 2009 financial year is determined on the basis of a percentage of the annual fixed remuneration, calculated through the weighted average of the level of achievement of any of the following indicators (with each one of such indicators being considered achieved only if at least 85% of the goals established for such indicator are reached), and if the company maintains the investment grade qualification at the end of each year (except if the loss of such qualification is a consequence of a strategic decision of the Board of Directors): • Total shareholder return (“TSR”) ratio of PT SGPS as compared with the sector DJ Stoxx Telecom Europe (1st quartile), where the TSR is understood as the sum of the share price variation and the value of the dividend per share. 58 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • Dividend per share delta to be adjusted if the Board of Directors amends the dividends policy; • Earnings per share (“EPS”) growth delta as compared to the budget; • Revenues growth delta vis-à-vis a group of comparable companies; • EBITDA growth delta vis-à-vis the same group of comparable companies; • EBITDA growth delta minus CAPEX as compared to the budget. After determining the AVR in accordance with this methodology, the Compensation Committee may increase or reduce the variable remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and of the other executive Directors, upon a proposal, respectively, of the Evaluation Committee of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officer. In any case and depending on the level of achievement of the pre-established goals, the AVR will not exceed the fixed remuneration in more than 110%. Multi-annual Variable Remuneration (MVR): The determination of the multi-annual variable remuneration is calculated on a yearly basis in a cumulative way throughout the term of office, paid at its end to Executive Committee members remaining at PT SGPS until the end (this requirement is not mandatory if the Executive Committee member is not at PT SGPS at the end of the term of office for reasons not imputable to him), if the weighted average of all indicators throughout the term of office reaches 85% of the established goals. This annual cumulative calculation is made as a function of the weighted average of the level of achievement of the following quantitative and qualitative indicators: • Evolution of total shareholder return (“TSR”) as compared with the sector DJ Stoxx Telecom Europe (1st quartile); • Dividend per share delta to be adjusted if the Board of Directors amends the dividends policy; • Earnings per share (“EPS”) growth delta; • EBITDA growth delta vis-à-vis the values prescribed in the Strategic Plan; • Evolution of PT SGPS’ Sustainability Index according to the DJSI methodology; • Fulfilment of national and international strategic goals. The methodology of annual calculation of multi-annual goals was favoured to the detriment of the calculation of indicator values exclusively at termination of office in order to render more effective the control of the implementation result of the corporate strategy throughout the triennium. If during any annual exercise the amount equals zero, the amounts due from previous exercises will not be lost, if at termination of office, the result obtained from the evaluation of the multi-annual indicators achieves at least 85% of the established goals. Otherwise, the accumulated amounts will be lost. After the determination of the MVR in accordance with this methodology, the Compensation Committee may increase or reduce the variable remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and of the other executive Directors, upon proposal of the Evaluation Committee of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officer, respectively. In any case and depending on the level of achievement of the pre-established goals, the MVR will not exceed the fixed remuneration in more than 88%. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 59 01 Managing with Ethics and Responsibility | Governance Model Alignment of Directors’ interests with the Company’s interests As results from all the above, the AVR and the MVR of PT SGPS’ executive Directors in office in 2009 is subject to their performance, as well as to its sustainability and ability to achieve certain strategic goals of the Group, seeking in this way to contribute to long-term performance maximisation and the pursuance of the Group’s strategic goals and to the alignment of management interests with the Company’s and its Shareholders’ interests. Remuneration policy of the Chartered Accountant During the 2009 exercise, the Chartered Accountant of the Society was remunerated in accordance with the usual remuneratory practices and conditions for similar services, further to its services agreement and the proposal of the Company’s Audit Committee. 3.4. Sustainability Committee It is the Sustainability Committee’s responsibility to ensure that corporate sustainability is a part of and consistent with the Group’s strategy and transversal to all its companies. The Committee has the following main global goals: • Reinforcing the Group’s performance as a sustainable company, and make the Group recognized both internally and externally; • Ensuring the conditions required in order to include PT in the international sustainability rates, aiming at gaining a leading position; • Promoting an upgrade in the sustainable performance of the subsidiaries, stimulating the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the Executive Committees of the same, at least twice each year. The Sustainability Committee has the following duties: • To approve and develop a transversal corporate sustainability strategy that is integrated and consistent with the Group’s strategy; • To ensure the creation within the PT Group of conditions as required for its sustainable growth, in a three-dimensional perspective, in economic, environmental and social terms, in accordance with international criteria; • To recommend to the PT Group companies the appointment of a director responsible for the sustainability function to guarantee the operational implementation of the sustainability strategy; • To guarantee internal and external communication by reinforcing the performance of PT as a sustainable company and making it recognized as such. In 2010, the Committee evaluated a number of new improvement opportunities and proposed to the Executive Committee the following intervention areas: • Approval of the stakeholder consultation and involvement program; • Approval of relevant issues for stakeholders with probable impact on PT’s businesses; • Approval of action plan to eliminate gaps in terms of stakeholders and benchmarks; • Approval of action plan for employee involvement in sustainability initiatives; 60 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • Approval of the environment impact carbon footprint study of the mobile service; • Preparation, adoption and publication of the Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy; • Preparation of Child Protection instruments relative to ICT exposure; • Internal awareness/training actions in the domain of responsible communication/marketing; • Identification of opportunities in infrastructure creation and eco-efficient products & services offer; • Praise to PT’s inclusion in the DJSI. In September 2010, PT was incorporated in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in the telecommunications sector. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index is one of the most accredited indices worldwide, which analyses the performance in terms of sustainability of companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is considered a reference by analysts and investors. Currently, Portugal Telecom is the sole Portuguese company with a presence in the most important world sustainability indices, i.e. Dow Jones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good, of which PT is part since 2005. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 61 02 Creating Value for Business Creating Value for Business Innovation, Research & Development 1.1. Facing challenges and creating solutions We have invested over euro 200 million in In the competitive context of the telecommunications universe, Research & Development (R&D) and IR&D subsequent adopted and implemented solutions have proven to become value creation factors for the Group’s companies, creating positive impact on shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and society at large. Research & Development, together with the partnerships established with national and international entities associated with science and knowledge, are fundamental pillars for PT in its re-creation of economic, social and environmental conditions capable of ensuring, day after day, a balanced future. In 2010, PT contributed to facing proactively the current social and economic situation by leveraging its competitiveness levels in the offer of products and services to the market, demonstrating an increased efficiency and sustainability in its process of implementation, distribution and use. Taking into consideration the generalised access of the population to the information and communication technologies, several projects have been launched in order to extend high-speed internet access, improve rapidity and quality of service to customers and make available an each time more extensive set of services that responds to the expectations of each citizen and of the environment. In this context, it is worth highlighting the kick-off, pioneer worldwide, of the fully ecological SIM Card, entirely made of recyclable, bio-degradable paper. This year, PT was once again a reference worldwide in terms of Research & Development (R&D). Its R&D investment in 2010 topped Euro 200 million, in line with the rank in terms of value of the previous year. The R&D model used at PT aims to be innovative and to mobilize the entire organisation. Apart from the structure units dedicated to Research & Development and the areas that implement projects, the genesis of this new model motivates and includes the initiative and participation of all employees: 64 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TECHNOLOGY ORGANISATION PT TEAMS PARTNERSHIPS MARKET ENVIRONMENT OPEN PROGRAM KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION SELECTION IMPACT IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT INNOVATION INCREMENTAL (SHORT TERM) PLANNED (MEDIUM TERM) EXPLORATORY (LONG TERM) The OPEN Program, launched in 2009 to institute systematic practices and a culture oriented towards applied research and development, was consolidated in 2010, thus proving the recognition of its merits. Besides contributing to technological innovation of products and services, the program started to leverage other R&D areas, enabling both to identify and implement new ways to work, study and interact with customers, and to aggregate new functionalities ad increased environmental sustainability in its market offering. The management of the R&D initiatives is done according to the respective timeframe: • Incremental Innovation – short term measures for continuous improvement • Planned Innovation – medium term developments in the offer of products and services • Exploratory Innovation – analysis of the main technological, eco-efficient and behaviour trends that define long term sector evolution. Incremental Innovation One of the main sources of generation of ideas is the contribution of every employee by means of a Market of Ideas. Circa 60% of all PT employees participated actively throughout 2010 by submitting, discussing and voting ideas. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 65 02 Creating Value for Business | Innovation, Research & Development Open pROGRAM | participaTION REGISTERED EMPLYEES 7,000 +80%* PARTICIPANTS 5,241 +57% PRESENTED IDEAS 5,343 +69% VALIDATED IDEAS 3,703 +156% APPROVED IDEAS 803 x29 IDEAS UNDER IMPLEMENTATION 44** +% VARIATION COMPARED TO 2009 * Excluding duplicated users ** Compared to no idea under implementation in 2009 This method, besides generating more than 40 initiatives under implementation, contributed to a strong increase in the involvement, motivation and alignment of all employees with the company’s sustainability strategy. The implemented initiatives allowed achieving significant improvements (such as for example the reevaluation of the technical assistance process of MEO IPTV – a television service that uses the IP protocol to carry contents) as well as the rationalization of the Group’s environmental footprint. The following incremental initiatives already implemented are worth highlighting: ENVIROMENTAL Rationalisation of paper consumption: EFFICIENCY . Printer configuration for automatic front/back document printing; . ‘Green Toilets’ initiative to promote reduction in paper and water consumption in office toilets; . Unification of document dematerialisation platforms: implementation of intelligent routines for information capture and an easier interconnection between the different systems of the Group, causing a reduction in paper consumption and increased process efficiency; Rationalisation of energy consumption: . Cut of overnight energy supply to computers, with significant reduction in the respective energy consumption; . Media campaign to induce the use of stairs with significant reduction in lift energy consumption; Recycling: . The ‘Recycling Olympics’ consist of the identification and comparison among buildings, of the degree of waste separation in paper containers. CUSTOMER Faster technical team service: SERVICE EFFICIENCY . GPS introduction in PT’s field force fleet, the implementation of a new smart task allocation tool and the distribution of professional PDAs to the technical teams contributed to significant improvements in technical customer service and resource consumption; ETHICS AND Electronic negotiation: EFFICIENCY . Electronic auctions included in procurement procedures: new functionality in procurement information systems with impact on the reduction of acquisition costs, transparency of processes and administrative rapidity; 66 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Planned Innovation Portugal Telecom kept developing new medium term innovation solutions, with impact on the improvement in the offer of products and service made available for customers, leveraging next generation networks and promoting growing environmental efficiency. In this process, PT involved its employees once again through thematic workshops, counting on the participation of multi-disciplinary teams to generate ideas on new and better options to take in each business unit. In 2010, more than 150 employees participated in these brainstorming sessions, having generated circa 400 new ideas, some of them already implemented. Technology i. Products and services New services and functionalities on the MEO IPTV – platform Widget availability on MEO (for example Facebook, Picasa and Flickr); Increase in the number of interactive channels (such as Canal Q and Secret Story; MEO Games kick-off, pioneer solution in the de gaming on demand world; Free application to provide customers with MEO control through their portable equipment – MEO Remote; New functionality to view already broadcast programs, even when not recorded on MEO Box – Restart TV; Multi-platform services MEO Online kick-off: extends MEO television access to any computer with broadband access. Music Box kick-off, multi-platform music service (PC, mobile and TV): allows instantaneous unlimited access to an online library with millions of tunes and the offer of 10 mp3 tunes per month for TMN, SAPO and MEO customers. Eco – efficient equipment First SIM card in the world with ecologic characteristics; Commercialization of Samsung Blue Earth, a rechargeable mobile phone through solar panels. Environmentally and socially responsible services Cloud computing solutions with strong potential for increase in the productivity and efficiency of customer companies, contributing to significant savings in terms of energy and hardware consumption as a result of its use. PT established a partnership with Cisco for the development of these solutions for the Portuguese market. Kick-off of the first Portuguese PHR – Personal Health Record – My SAPO Health that provides citizens with online recording and control of their health and well-being records, monitoring of indicators and management of medical agenda, accessible anytime anyplace; Medigraf Project (solution for remote health services, such as tele-consultation and tele-diagnosis) installed in developing countries such as Angola and Sao Tome, under implementation in Cape Verde and, under study, for Timor; Training solutions in 3D environment; Customised commercial offers for SMEs : Office Box Cafés & Restaurants and Office Box Doctors and Clinics; Fleet management service to locate vehicles through collection of geo-referenced information. This solution has an optional innovative service exclusive on the market that enables fleet managers to extract indicators that enable the implementation of eco-driving actions. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 67 02 Creating Value for Business | Innovation, Research & Development ii. Infrastructures Network infrastructure Connection of 85% of TMN’s mobile sites with fibre optic and preparation of plans for next generation LTE network rollout. TMN was the first operator to conduct real-time tests of this technology at PT Inovação premises in Aveiro (including a mobile tele-class session, high-capacity online gaming, tele-medicine in mobility and the first worldwide TV broadcast via LTE); Network optimisation in terms of quality of service and inter-technology mobility; Development of authentication, security, identity and privacy solutions for next generation telecommunications networks; Cloud computing solutions in terms of services (Saas) and platforms (PaaS); Development of Content Delivery and interactivity solutions for TV platforms. Sustainable Data Centre – one of the largest in Europe PT kicked off a project to build a new data centre, one of the largest in Europe, with more than 45 m2 and an installation capacity of 50,000 servers. This investment will allow positioning the company as an international player in terms of cloud computing, responding to growing customer demand, either in terms of transport and processing capacity for companies, or in new multimedia and info-communication services development. The new data centre will have a new efficiency level that will create direct and indirect jobs for circa five people, save money in terms of energy and cooling of the space and save 93,000 tons of CO2, through a 40% reduction in electric consumption: • Use of renewable energies (data centre with own eolian park and covered by solar panels); • Free Cooling ventilation system – uses low outside temperatures as an aid to data centre cooling; • Monitoring of consumption habits allows selecting the most suitable price plan; • Use of LED lighting.s. Market – Relational Efficiency Several structuring projects were launched to improve the relational efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation. Some of these projects have already produced significant results during 2010. In this domain, it is worth highlighting: Projects PT Customer: Specific portal for customers for access to their portfolio of products and services via an online platform through multiple channels (web, tablet PC, smartphone and TV); CRM – Customer Relationship Management: Customised CRM solution to achieve quality of service improvements, optimise efficiency in customer interaction, intensify commercial focus and leverage knowledge of customer needs; SIT-E: Evolution of order entry software to support B2B (Business to Business) services for a new platform with impact essentially in terms of time-to-market of new products and services, revenue assurance and improvement of the record of business products and services; Residential FOT-BOT: Increase in wireline service fault repair through the consolidation, from an end-to-end perspective, of the organisation structure, processes and know-how. The project allowed an increase in the fault repair rate at the technical front-office and back-office and a reduction in recurring faults. 68 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Environmental Sustainability The rationalisation of the company’s environmental footprint continues to be a generalised concern, whose implemented projects have already produced results: Rationalisation of energy consumption and CO2 emissions Free cooling systems: Reduction in energy consumption in small and medium-sized exchanges by blowing outside cold air by low energy consumption ventilator, avoiding the use of current air conditioning equipment over long periods of time; Application of cold paint on technical cabinets Application of cold paint, composed of ceramic particles, avoiding heat absorption by solar exposure by outside multi-service cabinets, reducing the use of external cooling sources; Lighting systems: Replacement of lights by T5 bulbs and electronic ballasts with flow regulation, with detection of presence and adjustment of lighting level; Water consumption control: Reduction of water consumption in some exchanges through the installation of timed systems and/or water flow regulation. This measure enabled 70% reductions in water consumption; Use of virtual PCs in Call Centres: Use of VDI – Virtual Desktop Infrastructure with significant energy savings. Exploratory Innovation The structured and continuous investment in Research & Development is fundamental for the evolution and creation of innovative solutions in terms of processes, products and technologies, ensuring a long term perspective. The exploratory innovation projects at PT are mainly developed by PT Inovação and SAPO. PT has been investing in intellectual capital and in methodologies in order to create a learning culture conducive to the capacity of generating new ideas, to implement the respective R&D process and ensure the implementation of innovative processes with positive impact on the company, society and environment. Main knowledge areas of PT Inovação • Context Aware services & applications platforms to support future IP Multimedia environments; • Design of cooperative solutions of energy efficiency in wireless networks focused on 3GPP LTE and femtocells; • Evaluation of capacity and coverage gains resulting from the use of the radio-electric spectrum in the TV White Spaces for LTE 3GPP implementation; • Design of a wireless broadband system and a common management system with radio resources in heterogeneous wireless network environments that take advantage from a optical infrastructure to transport radio signals (RoF); • Participation in the Future Internet Platform and its dimensions in terms of architecture, new business and virtualisation models (IaaS). PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 69 02 Creating Value for Business | Innovation, Research & Development Main knowledge areas of SAPO • Development of applications in multi-platform environment • Creation of internet contents • Development of support platforms for online advertising Patents In terms of intellectual property, PT Inovação four provisional patent applications and converted other two provisional applications into definitive filings: • Provisional patent applications: • “Managing Link Layer Resources for Media Independent Handover”, also co-requested by the Aegean University and the Demokritos National Centre for Scientific Research; • “Information System for Public Attendance”, also co-required by UTAD; • “Concentrator for networked sensors and remote meters, supporting diverse network access technologies with automatic fallback strategies, and sensor access security support”; • “Reflective Optic Component integrated in a Fibre Optic Terminal”. • Conversion of provisional patent applications into definitive: • “Method and Mechanism for Control and Mitigation of Transitional Effect in Raman Optic Amplifiers with Bomb Reflection”, in cooperation with the Aveiro University; • “Context-aware MBMS coverage control”, also object of an international patent application (PCT). 1.2. Partnerships The establishment of strategic partnerships with recognised international companies and institutions is fundamental in generating an extended and dynamic R&D eco-system. The partnerships established have different natures: • Technological partnerships; • Strategic partnerships; • Partnerships with Universities • Partnerships with research institutes. Technological Partnerships In order to customers’ access to next generation services supported on a fibre optic network, PT maintained its agreements with top-class international suppliers such as Corning, Cisco and Huawei as well as equipment manufacturers such as Samsung, LG ad ZTE to develop tailored solutions for the Portuguese market. Strategic Partnerships PT establishes strategic partnerships with other telecommunications operators to share best practices and to collaborate in innovative projects. It established for such purpose a collaboration agreement in 2010 with Singtel, leading operator in Singapore, in order to share operational and commercial practices in pay-TV services supported on fibre optic and IPTV technology, and to develop innovative applications for high-speed fixed and mobile networks. Partnerships with International Universities PT works in partnership with several Universities to develop projects of exploratory nature. In 2010, in the scope of the Carnegie-Mellon program, three researched projects in partnership with PT were kicked off. 70 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Carnegie Mellon Programs SENODs Cyber-Physical Systems Technologies for Energy-Optimized Data Centres – development of a number of tools based on cyber-physical system technologies to address energy efficiency and IT set by next generation data centres, such as the one that PT is building; TRONE Trustworthy and Resilient Operations in a Network Environment –development of operational frameworks to increase security and fault-tolerance in de cloud computing solutions developed by PT; NeTS Next Generation Network Operations and Management – development of a new operational framework for the PULSO platform that enables to ascertain in real time the root causes of eventual failures in PT Group’s IP services and networks (with special emphasis on IPTV services). Additionally, PT collaborated in the guidance of several master’s theses from his employees – namely in the development of a low-cost tool prototype for analysis of social networks for telecommunications operators, developed by a group of MSE (Master of Software Engineering) students – and promoted advanced training and talent development for other thirteen employees, having supported their Professional Master and PhD degrees. Partnerships with National Universities At national level, PT has projects underway in the main Universities: Aveiro, Porto, Coimbra, Minho, Trásos-Montes & Alto Douro, Beira Interior, and in Lisbon, at the Engineering (IST) and Science Faculties. In this domain, the following initiatives stand out: Programs with National Universities Web Technologies Applied to educational contexts – materialised in the SAPO CAMPUS project – a tool that brings the services of the new Web 2.0 (blogs, videos, photos, wiki, Messenger, widgets) closer to PLE Personal Learning Environment concepts. VERBATIM Project Natural language processing through the development of advanced artificial intelligence in pattern text recognition. SYLVESTER Project Development of a social network analyser using social tools (such as Twitter and Facebook), for automatic analysis of feelings, leveraging the preciser modeling of content and analysis recommendation systems. MIR Project Graphical advanced processing through the development of advanced artificial intelligence systems for image and video pattern recognition. REACTION Project Computing journalism with information recovery, extraction and aggregation for news integration and organisation. iNeighbour Project Social networks applied to consumption contexts of the senior population, on the basis of the offer of MEO’s new technological solutions Presentation Framework. SEDUCE Project Sociological studies for the conception of TV applications. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 71 02 Creating Value for Business | Innovation, Research & Development Integration of LTE (long Term Evolution) in future network architectures from a mobility perspective Research on a LTE network architecture for integration in current and future networks, from a mobility support perspective on the LTE network and between different networks. MultiPass Transposition of digital identity management technology to the real application domain, transforming mobile devices into ‘wallets’ or digital ‘travelcards’, allowing access to a number of integrated services. PELE – Intelligent Personal Learning Environment Exploration of context-based information collection and extraction tecniques and methodologies and development of a prototype that applies these techniques in a personal learning environmen. inTACT Demonstration of new interaction paradigms, from tactile methods based on gestures (mainly multi-touch) to immersive natural/spacial or tangible interfaces. A Cloud Oriented Approach for People-Provided Services Creation and experimentation of a cloud computing scenario (IaaS SaaS) that responds to needs in terms of resilience, load balancing, security and fault tolerance. Partnerships with Research Institutes PT also has protocols established with different research institutions such as INESC (Instituto de Engenharia de Sistemas e Computadores) and IT (Instituto de Telecomunicações). INESC PT maintains a participation in INESC in order to underpin university projects with potential impact on PT’s business, including SAPO Labs. These projects are implemented in the domain of Contest Aware services and applications to support future IP Multimedia environments as well as the development of algorithms for high-speed networks optimisation and securitization. Instituto de Telecomunicações PT Inovação is a founding associate of the Telecommunications Institute, participating actively in its Aveiro pole where it maintains a resident research group in the areas of interest for PT. Participation in Workgroups PT kept an active participation in several national and international workgroups as a way of sharing knowledge and collecting best practices in different areas of activity: ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators) Sustainability Workgroup. PT is an ETNO member, signatory of the respective sustainability charter and is part of several work groups related to technology, regulation, online contents, fraud, cybercrime, security, occupational health and safety, energy efficiency and digital inclusion; ETSI (European Telecommunications Standartization Institute) The work groups in which PT participates are related to the following areas: network security, next generation networks, intelligent transport systems, new broadband functionalities and reconfigurable radio systems. BCSD Portugal (member of World Business Council for Sustainable Development) PT, as a member, participates actively in the workgroups related to social responsibility, impacts on society and climate change. 72 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Climate change combat 2.1. Environment preservation strategy We know that climate change will have repercussions in company businesses and its potential financial implications are worrying the community and investors. Therefore, we deem essential to identify this issue in the day-to-day management of our company and anticipate strategies that contribute to counter this trend. We believe that the systematic search of solutions that minimise the impacts of our activity on society, together with the contributions that the new information and communication technologies may induce in our customers will certainly promote better environmental quality in the future. Technological evolution, less energy-dependency of new equipments, progressive introduction and availability of renewable energies, remote control through domotics, waste segmentation and collection and its more adequate routing for reuse or recycling are now enabling PT to optimize the relationship between its environmental impacts and the delivery of each time more sophisticated services to the market. On the other hand, the new information and communication technologies and next generation networks already allow us to deliver services to the customers that contribute to reducing their environmental impact, namely carbon dioxide emissions and, in this way, we also contribute indirectly to ecosystem balance. Over the last few years, PT dedicated itself to promoting the implementation of good environmental practices within its organisation, with suppliers and customers, having defined an environmental policy and management system that deserved recognition and the progressive certification of each one of its business units in compliance with international standard ISO 14001. Currently, the environmental strategy adopted by the company aims to implement a number of measures that rationalise the energy-dependency of its activity and its customers, and consequently reduces the impacts of the CO2 emissions related directly or indirectly to the services delivered to the market, which are more and more demanding in terms of volume of stored information and consequently more energydemanding. Therefore, we are founding members and participate actively in the Green Touch initiative, presented in the UK, constituted by a consortium of industry-leading partners, research institutions and non-governmental organisations, whose aim is to reduce by 1000 times ICT energy-consumption and respective carbon footprint. Our impacts are assessed according to the type of actions and practices that we are committed to implementing in order to progressively minimise our carbon footprint. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 73 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat Environmental Impacts of PT Strategy to combat climate change Impacts Actions to Develop Goals to Achieve Direct Implementation of a number Significant redution of CO2 Optimise carbon footprint of practices to minimise direct emissions of the sector impact on the environment (energy efficiency) Indirect Development of solutions and Positive externalities leveraged Sector with positive net technologies with transversal by society contribution impact on sustainability and increase in quality of life of the population 2.1.1. Low-carbon value chain Energy efficiency and the mitigation of the carbon footprint of the value chain, upstream and downstream, are our main focuses of climate change combat. A number of initiatives were assumed aiming at increased energy efficiency and subsequent carbon emissions reduction over the current triennium. It is essential to involve our value chain for such purpose, achieving in this way the reduction of direct and indirect impacts.. Implementation of actions Energy efficiency and the mitigation of Intervention areas at PT Influence areas of Value Chain (Direct Impacts) (Indirect Impacts) the carbon footprint of the value chain, Reduction of . Energy certification of buildings Supplier selection . Inclusion of contractual clauses upstream and energy . Cooling of technical areas with and hiring model relative to environmental consumption free cooling system practices and energy efficiency downstream, are . Energy efficiency criteria in of equipments our main focuses equipment selection and contracting of climate change combat. Maximisation of . Program for the dissemination of Responsible . Provision of guidelines for good adoption of the use of renewable energies Consumption use of services and equipments renewable . Photovoltaic energy and package routing energies . Eolian energy Considering the actions that aim at the reduction of the Group’s direct impacts, in terms of climate change and energy strategy, highlight should go to the commitment and signature of the ETNO (6) Guidelines, a set of guidelines for the implementation of an Energy Policy i the telecommunications industry. Based on this commitment, PT defined a number of actions to implement during the current triennium, aiming at performance optimization and a contribution to the reduction of the impact of the telecommunications sector. (6) ETNO – European Telecommunication Network Operators Association 74 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Energy-efficient infrastructures: Energy Efficiency – Commitments in course * Reduction of Energy certification of . Certification of 20 PT buildings representing circa 40% of PT’s energy buildings energy consumption in Portugal dependency Cooling of spaces . Installation of free cooling equipments in 20 rooms that represent more than 30% of energy consumption of PT’s technical areas . Execution of efficiency tests of free cooling equipments i PT’s data centres Power, lighting of spaces and . Progressive installation of high energy efficiency lighting equipment systems (T5light fixtures) in interior spaces of PT buildings; . Progressive replacement of outdoor lighting and signs of PT buildings with LED lights; Assessment of energy . Evaluation of energy consumption of equipment during its consumption of equipment lifecycle . Execution of efficiency tests to new lighting systems of PT data centres Adoption of Photovoltaic . Definition of a mid-/long-term strategy to use renewable renewable Eolian energies, based on tests to assess efficiency levels: energies Hydrogen . Photovoltaic energy (4 pilot stations) . Eolian energy – (3 pilot stations) . Creation of a carbon-free station – based on hydrogen battery powered by renewable energies Consumption . Creation of a management and control system for energy monitoring consumpti on per production unit Involve Equipment selection and . Assessment of the equipment energy-dependency levels Value chain contracting criteria during their expectable lifetime. * The results of the initiatives underway are presented in the eco-efficiency chapter The telecommunications industry has a marginal contribution (circa 1%) in the current CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, it may play an important role in the global reduction of national emissions. According to the “SMART Portugal 2020” (7) study, the expected indirect impact of this sector alone will enable the fulfillment of the European Union goals, representing this impact circa ten times the direct carbon footprint of the sector. Expectably, the adoption of new services in society, leverage the reduction in the total amount of CO2 emissions by 15%. The commercialization of services and solutions, based on the new information and communication technologies, will contribute decisively to the energy dependency reduction of our customers and consequent atmospheric carbon emissions minimization. The healthcare, education, and domotics domains have already started to become the base of this new paradigm and although still little significant, are already a new window of opportunity in environmental preservation. (7) SMART Portugal 2020 Increasing Energy Efficiency through ICT – BCG Study with PT Group participation PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 75 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat Initiatives to reduce impacts of products and services • 1st SIM Card made of recyclable and biodegradable paper in the world introduced in April 2010 by TMN • TMN is the first operator in the world to launch a SIM card made of recyclable biodegradable paper • Making SIM cards of recyclable biodegradable paper avoids using plastics (PVC, ABS or PET) derived from oil, which take more than 1,000 years to degrade naturally. • These cards were supplied by Incard (Italy) and paper technology belongs to Toppan (Japan), having TMN been the partner chosen for this worldwide launch. • In 2010, TM acquired 25,000 SIM cards made of recyclable biodegradable paper.. • Samsung Blue Earth Mobile Phone TMN launched the Samsung Blue Earth in 2010. Inspired by nature, it has an ecological design with a large solar panel in the back, allowing recharging through solar energy as it was projected to transform solar rays into power source to feed the battery. Made of recycled plastic (PCM), it contributes since its manufacture to the reduction in fuel consumption and carbon emissions, being free from prejudicial substances. The Samsung Blue Earth makes available different ecological applications, namely: • Eco-Walk, which allows counting the steps of a walk and calculate the reduction in CO2 emissions, comparing the option of a walk instead of using a motor vehicle; • Eco-Mode, which allows regulating the brightness of the display, the duration of the backlight of the display and • Bluetooth in order to save energy; • Eco-Calendar, which allows always having available a calendar of the ecologically significat days. Used materials from recycling • Recycled paper PT has been replacing the use of recycled paper with FSC certified paper (paper that promotes sustainable forest management, from where its raw materials are extracted), because it is a cheaper option, being simultaneously environment-friendly. Even so, although this is a generalised practice in the PT companies, at PT Inovação, the acquisition of recycled paper is still significant, as the percentage of recycled paper consumed was circa 45% during 2010. • Recycled plastic The Samsung Blue Earth is made of PCM recycled plastic, produced from water bottles, contributing in this way to the reduction in fuel consumption and carbon emissions during its fabrication process. The equipment, including the battery charger, is free from prejudicial substances, such as flame retarding agents, Beryl and Ftalates. The package of the Samsung Blue Earth is made of environment-friendly materials, easily recyclable paper and soy paint. The box containing the mobile phone may be reused as a photo frame. In this way, the package of the Samsung Blue Earth offers the user a fully ecological experience.. 76 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2.1.2. Biodiversity According to different national studies, namely the Institute for Nature Preservation and Biodiversity, ecosystems and species are globally more and more in danger. This trend may have profound implications on the economic and social development of the human community as it is frequently followed by profound changes in the ecosystem. The General Assembly of the United Nations declared 2010 as the International Year of Biodiversity in order to: • Express the importance of biodiversity for the well-being of populations; • Reflect on the conquests achieved to preserve biodiversity;; • Reinforce the initiatives to reduce biodiversity loss. Aware and aligned with this fact, PT addresses this issue in its strategy, seeking to identify the impact of its activity in biodiversity and developing initiatives that tend to mitigate its harmful effects on the preservation of species. PT’s activity is extended throughout the entire national territory, being the area used in biodiversity-rich habitats insignificant. Antennas are nevertheless one of the places where storks build their nests and therefore PT developed a program to move stork nests to more suitable habitats. These interventions are articulated with the Institute for Nature Preservation and Biodiversity in order to ensure that these actions are done in a correct way ad during the period of migration of these birds. 2.1.3. Electromagnetic Radiation The technological advances of the last century increased the exposure to electromagnetic fields and the population in general is quite worried with the consequences of this new reality. Antennas and telecommunications equipments emit radiation and create electromagnetic fields that PT not only monitors, to verify if the respective emission levels are within the values deemed acceptable, but also makes them available to the public in general through a website whose monitoring data are collected by an eternal and independent entity. • In 2010, under Regulation 96-A/2007 the planned goals were achieved and 346 stations classified as TFE (Building Top or Façade) and 46 I indoor (inside buildings) stations were monitored. There were no values outside the parameters established by Law. • All measurements are sent quarterly to ANACOM, Ministry of Health and Municipalities. • The radiation levels are available on a website of an independent entity with which PT has associated itself and whose address is http://monit.it.pt/. 2.1.4 . Noise The noise sources capable of causing nuisance are different in nature and intensity. and, According to the World Health Organisation, regular exposure to high noise levels may have negative impacts on public health. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 77 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat In fact, telecommunications stations cause noise that may have impact on the quality of life of surrounding communities, so PT monitors randomly the noise emitted. • In 2010, PT monitored the noise of 28 TMN stations and 45 sites of PT Comunicações. • Whenever there are noise levels, causing disturbance and complaints, higher than what is legally defined, PT prepares intervention plans to mitigate the respective impact. 2.1.5. Urban and rural landscape PT has been trying to make a harmonious integration of its buildings, telecommunications stations, antennas and aerial cables, in the rural and urban spaces, interpreting landscape organisation and the history of the location. Therefore, it establishes partnerships with municipalities and other competent entities whose objective is to identify the most adjusted solutions to the landscape harmony of the location. In this context, the following impact mitigation initiatives are worth highlighting: • Installation of towers dissimulated as trees; • Antenna sharing with competing operators; • Installation of poles on rooftops dissimulated with chimneys; • Installation of solutions in hidden/subterranean containers. • Reconversion of container solutions into multi-function using solutions with remote carriers installed on antenna poles. 2.1.6. Natural disasters Summer fires, winter tempests and other natural disasters have significant impacts on PT’s activity: they destroy communications equipment installed in the affected areas, inhibiting the communications of the population. Therefore, PT developed services and plans to minimise the consequences of these phenomena: Natural disasters To minimise the occurrence of natural disasters . Telesurveillance service that allows monitoring the landscape and detect fire situations; To resume communications in as short a time as possible . Partnership with the Civil Protection authorities at district and national level; . Provision of necessary technical and human means to re-establish quickly normal fixed, mobile and satellite communications Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity solutions In 2010, the island of Madeira was hit by the worst tempest of the last years, and later on, there were innumerous fires throughout the whole country. To minimize the seriousness of the human and social consequences, PT made available supplementary technical and human means and resumed quickly normality in fixed, mobile, satellite and submarine cable communications, ensuring an effective 78 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 intervention by the authorities and Civil Protection, ensuring communications inside and outside the affected areas to combat the isolation of the population. The firemen brigades, Hospitals ad Civil Protection authorities are the priority targets of these interventions. 2.2. Eco-Efficiency PT has been incorporating a number of environmental principles and actions in all its subsidiaries. The respective management systems are certified in compliance with standard 14001 and are subject to periodic audits, both internal and external. Employees and suppliers are the main targets in terms of training and involvement for the pursuance of the principles and defined goals. This activity is based on policies and environmental management systems that include the following aspects: • Resource consumption; • Atmospheric emissions; • Waste production; • Waste routing; • Noise; • Landscape impacts; • Electromagnetic fields; • Sustainable model for supplier selection and hiring; • Awareness campaigns. All environmental parameters above were subject to previous evaluation that included the identification and monitoring of impacts and improvements to implement. During the year 2010, we pursued the goals established for the triennium and started to segment greenhouse gas emissions. This year, there were variations in the energy consumption goals as the company increased significantly its needs of information storage relative to television contents and the new Cloud Computing service. Anyway, consumption rationalisation continued as there was a 6.5% reduction versus turnover. Additionally, PT reduced significantly the consumption of water, waste production and atmospheric impacts, reducing CO2 emissions by circa 7% Material consumption was also rationalised, posting a smaller increase as compared to 2009. The data presented in 2010 include as of now another PT subsidiary – PT Sistemas de Informação, which may lead to values higher than expectable. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 79 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat 2.2.1. Integrated Performance Materials Consumption Materials Consumption (t) 2008 2009 2010 Batteries (Distribution network) 48 35 41 Batteries (Network infrastructures) 142 268 138 Electric and electronic equipment 774 1,672 1,958 Waste from activity-supporting infrastructures * 11,772 18,174 18,703 Paper / cardboard TOTAL ** 1,569 3,244 4,741 Administrative paper 534 519 465 Plastics 1,189 1,991 1,551 Toners and ink cartridges 4 4 4 Wood 8 5 11 Total 16,040 25,912 27,148 * Includes cable waste (copper cable with lead, self-supported copper cable, copper cable with plastic, armed copper cable, fibre optic cable, TEDS cable, TE1SE cable), and metal (iron, copper, zinc and aluminium alloys). ** Data from PT Inovação were not included. In spite of the efforts made to assess the total amount of paper products for the calculation of the established goal, such assessment was not made so a comparative analysis with previous years is not possible. Nevertheless, in order to compare consumptions, administrative paper consumption was described separately for a reliable analysis. Therefore, analyzing these consumptions, there is a 10% reduction compared to 2009 and 13% compared to 2008. Direct energy consumption, segmented by primary source Circa 42% of the energy used in our activity comes from renewable energy sources. Globally, energy consumption increased by 8% year on year: in absolute terms, direct energy consumption increased by 7% and indirect energy consumption grew by 17%. Energy consumption (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Energy consumption (electric) 1,368,324 1,468,065 1,581,726 Circa 42% of the Electric energy consumption (wireline) 1,031,942 1,101,537 1,193,081 Electric energy consumption (wireless) 315,020 339,916 362,935 energy used in our Energy consumption (business support) 21,361 26,898 25,710 activity comes from Natural gas 252 12 1 renewable energy Fuel consumption (petrol) 13,208 15,183 12,356 Fuel consumption (diesel) 195,792 208,489 222,182 sources. Total 1,575,576 1,687,749 1,816,264 Note: 2008 values were changed to include PT-SI consumptions, except its electric energy consumption. 80 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 As to energy produced through renewable energies, the table below differentiates the quantity of energy produced by PT from renewable sources and electric energy supplied to PT by operators obtained from renewable sources. Renewable energy consumption used (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Energy produced from renewable sources 110 139 Energy supplied to PT by operators from renewable sources * 578,306 666,707 Total 578,416 666,846 Note: 2009 data not validated in the scope of the Sustainability Report 2009. * Source: EDP e ERSE In short, we can say that circa 42% of PT’s consumption is obtained from renewable energies. Indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Energy (electricity and fuel) consumed by suppliers to support company activities 241,363 304,515 355,919 Initiatives for rational energy use Tangible initiatives in the scope of energy efficiency/rational use of energy occurred in 2010: Initiatives for rational energy use Savings energy Consumption GHG Emissions bill (k€) Reduction (MWh) avoided (tCO2e) d’Alicate Operation (Removal of obsolete equipments from network) 280 4,000 1,207 Freecooling in 156 small PTC buildings 117 1,300 287 Freecooling in 274 TMN sites 120 985 218 Intangible initiatives in the scope of energy efficiency/ rational energy use occurred in 2010: Description Objective Installation of Consumption Monitoring Systems in Picoas, To know in detail the electric energy consumptions Andrade Corvo and Tenente Valadim buildings of the main PT buildings in order to promote its rationalisation Energy diagnosis to HVAC System of Picoas building Identification of improvement opportunities in the performance of this installation As to initiatives in the scope of energy bill control, there was a re-negotiation of the electric energy supply contracts. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 81 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat During the year 2010, two freecooling units were installed to renew the Platforms Room (Data Centre) of PT Inovação in Aveiro as well as thermal solar panels in two PT Inovação buildings in Aveiro, building 0 (5-storey building) and the canteen. Twenty PT buildings were also underwent certification, benefiting from better performances i terms of energy and inner air quality, ensuring in this way better working conditions for PT employees. Total Water Consumption This year, water consumption was reduced by 31%. Water consumption at PT has mainly two purposes: cooling of technical areas and hygiene, and comfort of workers in administrative areas. Administrative areas have implemented strong consumption rationalisation measures, namely training and awareness actions for employees and simultaneously installing equipments that reduce the respective consumptions. In 2010, a few projects that contributed to the reduction of water consumption at PT were executed. From the different projects, highlight should go to the installation of a waterless urinal in the Setúbal building, the installation of a reservoir to recycle water at the Santo Tirso contact centre, installation of flow restrictors in the water taps of the Tenente Valadim building and in the flushing cisterns of the PT-SI building, Tagus Park. This year, water Water Consumption * (m3) 2008 2009 2010 consumption was Total Consumption 285,567 414,307 285,942 reduced by 31 % * The water consumed comes entirely from the public network. Note: 2008 values were changed to include PT-SI consumption. Comparing to the year 2009, there is a 31% reduction in water consumption. Location and areas of the land belonging to the organisation, leased or managed, biodiversityrich habitats PT’s activity covers the entire national territory, being the land in biodiversity-rich habitats insignificant. Area used in biodiversity-rich habitats (m2) 2008 2009 2010 Total area 10,849 10,050 11,300 Strategies and current and future programs for managing biodiversity impacts Landscape Impact PT seeks, in the scope of its activity of building the mobile network, to align these processes with biodiversity maintenance. 82 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 In this context, it carries out actions for relocation of stork nests currently built on telecommunications towers. These interventions are articulated with the Institute for Nature Preservation and Biodiversity in order to ensure that these actions are carried out during the migration period of these birds. These actions, besides having impact in terms of the sustainability of animal life also ensure tower maintenance activities. The dimension of the nests often causes access problems to antennas, with direct impact on the performance of the network. Apart from these solutions for nest relocation, PT also invests in other actions such as: • Installation of towers dissimulated as trees; • Installation of rooftop poles dissimulated as chimneys; • Installation of dissimulated/subterranean container solutions; • Reconversion of container solutions into multi-function cabinets using remote carriers installed on antenna poles. Electromagnetic Radiation Under Regulation 96-A/2007 the planned goals were achieved and 346 stations classified as TFE (Building Top or Façade) and 46 I indoor (inside buildings) stations were monitored. There were no values outside the parameters established by Law. All measurements were sent quarterly to ANACOM, Ministry of Health and Municipalities. The radiation levels are available on a website of an independent entity with which PT has associated itself and whose address is http://monit.it.pt/. Noise Monitoring Aware that telecommunications stations cause noise that may have impact on the quality of life of surrounding communities, PT monitors randomly the noise emitted. In 2010, PT monitored the noise of 28 TMN stations and 45 sites of PT Comunicações. Whenever there are noise levels higher than what is legally defined, PT prepares intervention plans to mitigate the respective impact. We reduced CO2 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight emissions by 7% PT’s CO2 emissions were reduced once again by 7% as compared to 2009, in spite of the increase in in spite of, due to energy consumption. This reduction is due to the fact that the consumption reduction policy continued activity growth, having and simultaneously the used electric energy sources incorporated a significant portion of renewable increased the energy energies. consumption, due to activity growth. xx == == == 14 14 1414 -13+ -13 -13+ -13 -VV 166 166 ++ 56 56 xx == 14 14 -2, -2, 11 77 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 83 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat CO2 Emissions (t) 2008 2009 2010 Scope 1 Direct (petrol) 897 1,902 852 Direct (diesel) 12,673 15,585 16,381 Scope 2 Indirect (electricity) 184,250 138,306 122,144 Scope 3 Indirect (diesel consumed by suppliers) 16,845 22,407 26,243 Total 214,665 177,390 165,620 Considering the established goal for direct CO2 emissions in 2008, there is a 27% increase. Nevertheless, comparing with the year 2009, there is a 3% increase. Analysing globally all the Scopes, there is a 23% decrease in comparison to 2008 and a 7% decrease as compared to 2009. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable fleet program PT took yet another step to make its car fleet, composed of more than 4,000 vehicles, each time greener. In the scope of the Sustainable Fleet Program, there were several actions to induce: car sharing, removal of own vehicles with high pollution indices, selection of operational vehicles on a basis of a technical analysis on fuel consumption and CO2 emission, training actions and divulgation of eco-driving, defensive driving and the promotion of the use of alternative transport such as bicycles, trains and ‘walk to work’. Apart from these actions, the European Road Safety Charter was subscribed in March 2010. This Charter is a European participative platform composed of companies, associations, research institutions and public entities which by signing this charter commit themselves to executing concrete actions to solve road safety problems that they face in the scope of their day-to-day activities. Signature of the code of conduct of energy efficiency In September 2010, PT was one of the companies of the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) sector to sign the code of conduct of energy efficiency, promoted by the European Commission, through the Common Research Centre, commiting itself to reduce the electricity consumption of its equipments. By signing the code of conduct of the broadband equipments (CoC BB), PT is committed to using in building its network and in the installation of customer equipment at home (modems, routers and set top boxes), components with the lowest level of consumption on the market, without loss of service efficiency. This commitment represents yet another contribution to the Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy and, at the same time, is a measure to reduce the energy consumption of customers of broadband services. 84 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 By signing the “CoC BB equipment” charter, PT commits itself to measurable goals of energy consumption reduction for equipments of support for broadband services, namely MEO services, and reflecting such commitment on its customers. Click (Operational Management Tool) 2010 saw the launch of a project to include a new work tool, Clicksoftware, to be used in a context of implementation of a Field Force Management solution. This project aims to: • Improve customer relationship; • Improve the quality of service delivered by fulfilling bookings and SLAs; • Increase productivity through better route management, reducing travel time; • Reduce ecological footprint avoiding travel due to recurring situations and eliminating the need to print paper worksheets. The inclusion of this tool on the PDAs of technicians and PCs of work distributors has impact on the planning and organisation of work and resources, in information communication and access ad in the assessment of operational activities. “Green Healthy Moments” reduce energy consumption More health, more environmental respect and less energy consumption summarise the challenge set to PT employees with campaign “Green ad Healthy Moments” in June 2010 in six PT buildings The reduction in energy consumption derived from the use of lifts reflects employee motivation and involvement in adopting environmentally responsible behaviour. The campaign aimed to raise the awareness and motivate employees to the practice of healthy and sustainable lifestyles, having many started to use the stairs preferably. NOx and SOx emissions In the scope of EU and international commitments assumed relative to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution (UNECE) and the Directive on National Emission Ceilings (EU), Portugal submits annually through the Portuguese Environment Agency, the inventory of greenhouse gases and other atmospheric polluents. This inventory does not include, in what concerns road transport, gases Nox, Sox besides other atmospheric emissions. So, besides CO2, gases CH4 and N2O are monitored, and their values are presented below. CH4 and N2O emissions (t) 2008 2009 2010 CH4 0 N2O 1 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 85 02 Creating Value for Business | Climate change combat In 2010, the amount of water discharged by PT to domestic collector drains was included in the numbers. Discharge of domestic water (m3) 2008 2009 2010 Discharge of domestic water * 232,134 335,183 228,754 * Estimated value according to the established in Regulatory Decree no. 23/95 of 23 August; 2008 and 2009 values not checked. Total quantity of waste per type and destination The execution of PT’s activities requires the incorporation of new or reused materials and/or equipments (M&E) and consequently its withdrawal. In this way, PT has to ensure that the generated waste is duly identified, registered and controlled as to its final destination. Whenever a M&E is removed from active service, it is classified by the company for ‘Reuse’ or ‘Waste’. M&E considered ‘Waste’ are delivered to municipal entities or licensed waste removal operators and routed to a suitable final destination. Waste Production (t) 2008 2009 2010 Batteries Waste (mobiles) recycling ** 0 0 0 Batteries Waste (other) recycling ** 151 235 71 Fluorescent Lamps Waste – recycling ** 2 1 1 Used Oil Waste – recycling ** 2 1 2 Paper / Cardboard Waste – recycling 402 587 393 Glass Waste recycling 6 2 Hygiene Waste physical-chemical treatment ** 3 11 Plastics Waste– recycling 44 80 66 Urban Solid Waste (undifferentiated) – incineration 110 117 139 RE&E Waste (mobiles) – recycling 2 11 27 E&E Waste (other) – recycling 234 177 241 Activity-support Infrastructure Waste – recycling ** 1,524 1,784 1,940 Toner and Ink Cartridge Waste recycling 6 9 10 Wood Waste recycling 626 372 Total 2,477 3,637 3,276 (*) Waste from activity-supporting infrastructures includes: cable waste (copper cable with lead, self-supported copper cable, copper cable with plastic, armed copper cable, fibre optic cable, TEDS cable, TE1SE cable), and metal (iron, copper, zinc and aluminium alloys). (**) Dangerous waste Costs with fines resulting from legal environmental incompliance Costs with fines resulting from legal environmental incompliance (EURO) 2008 2009 2010 Costs with fines resulting from legal environmental incompliance 11,250 86 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 In 2010, a fine of €11.250 was imposed upon PT Comunicações as the result of a complaint filed about noise in the Andrade Corvo building. The fine was paid, the noise impact was mitigated and the process is closed, having PT implemented the necessary actions to correct the causes. Total amount spent in environmental protection PT has been assuming more and more its environmental responsibility through continued investment in the Environmental Management System that allows the follow-up of different indicators on the environmental impact caused by its activities. As of 2009, following data uniforming, it became possible to ascertain environment-related costs and benefits. The amounts of 2008 only pertain to wireline. Total investments and costs in enviromental protection 2008* 2009 2010 Internal manpower (**) 4,492 8,121 6,657 Internal costs 452,812 312,808 256,583 External costs 461,552 649,735 958,433 Total 914,364 962,543 1,215,016 (*) 2008 information is not comparable with 2009 and 2010 values, as in 2008 it only included wireline, and 2009 / 2010 incorporates information from several subsidiaries. (**) Cost hours/man. Nevertheless, summing up costs versus revenues, environmental management showed a positive result, as can be verified below.. Benefits associated with SGA EURO 2008* 2009 2010 Total income 2,141,667 1,187,492 5,640,367 Final results 1,227,304 224,950 4,425,351 (*) 2008 information is not comparable with 2009 and 2010 values, as in 2008 it only included wireline, and 2009 / 2010 incorporates information from several subsidiaries. This result is due mostly to revenues from the valuation of waste and new data relative to the mobile network. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 87 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders 3.1. Shareholders and analysts 3.1.1. Relationship principles PT assumed with its shareholders a commitment to create value, ensuring a good economic and financial performance today and in the future. Transparency, information accuracy and confidence levels in organisation management are, more and more, determinant factors in the evaluation processes of analysts and in the decision of investors relative to their capital allocation options Therefore, the relationship built with shareholders and analysts is based on dialogue, accuracy and information transparency. Apart from the General Meeting of Shareholders, road shows in different markets where the company is listed an where it has investors, PT has specialized teams to dialogue with market analysts and publishes all relevant information for this public on its corporative website. Relationship with the stakeholders Means of relationship Instruments of relationship General Meeting of Shareholders Quarterly, half-year and annual reports Nacional & internacional Road shows Sustainability Report Teams specialised in dialogue Press releases with relevant facts Corporative website Market survey on expectations and trends Share prices in stock exchanges where it is listed Investidors kit Participation in consultations for international rankings 3.1.2. Shareholder composition The share capital in PT is, as from 10 December 2008, 26,895,375 Euros, and it is fully paid up and represented by 896,512,500 shares in the par value of three Euro cents each. The distribution of qualified holdings worldwide has the following profile: REST OF THE WORLD 1% CONTINENTAL EUROPE 29% PORTUGAL 36% NORTH AMERICA 21% UK/IRELAND 13% 88 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Qualified holdings in the share capital in the issuer calculated in accordance with article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code. Qualified holdings Date of report Institutions Nº of shares % of capital % of voting rights 25/Nov/10 Capital Research and Managment 90,421,315 10.09% 10.09% 31/Dec/10 Espirito Santo Group(1) 89,174,416 9.95% 9.95% 08/Jun/10 RS Holding, SGPS, S.A. 60,698,090 6.77% 6.77% 31/Dec/10 Caixa Geral de Depósitos Group 56,158,965 6.26% 6.26% 03/Dec/10 The Income Fund of América, Inc. 45,091,419 5.03% 31/Dec/10 Brandes Investments partners, L.P. 46,953,365 5.24% 4.11% 22/Dec/10 TPG-Axon Capital Managment, LP(2) 37,929,088 4.23% 4.23% 24/Nov/10 Norges Bank 44,324,863 4.94% 4.94% 24/Nov/10 Barclays Group 26,373,929 2.94% 2.94% 31/Dec/10 Visabeira Group 23,642,885 2.64% 2.64% 22/Dec/10 Deutsche Bank AG(3)(4) 22,014,272 2.46% 2.46% 07/Dec/10 BlackRock Inc, 21,025,118 2.35% 2.35% 03/Feb/10 Controlinveste Comunicações 20,419,325 2.28% 2.28% 29/Dec/10 The Royal Bank of Scotland, N.V.(5) 19,720,324 2.20% 2.20% 24/Jun/10 Telefónica, S.A. (6) 18,122,661 2.02% 2.02% 11/Oct/10 Europacific Growth Fund 18,061,608 2.01% 17/Aug/10 UBS AG 17,961,777 2.00% 2.00% (1) PT further disclosed, on 28 January 2011, that BES held a qualified holding corresponding to 89,924,416 ordinary shares representing 10.03% of the share capital in PT and the voting rights pertaining thereto. (2) PT further disclosed that TPG-Axon Capital Management, LP had a long position, totalling 43,929.088 shares (corresponding to a qualified holding as mentioned above and Put Options, which corresponds to a financial interest over a total 6,000,000 shares representing 0.67% of the share capital and voting rights corresponding to the capital), representing 4.90% of the share capital in PT and voting rights pertaining thereto. On 10 March 2011, PT informed that TPGAxon Capital Management, LP now holds a qualified holding and long position of less than 2% of the share capital in PT and voting rights pertaining thereto. (3) On that same date, PT further disclosed that DB AG had a long position, totalling 22,014,272 shares representing 2.46% of the share capital in PT and voting rights pertaining thereto. (4) PT further disclosed, on 7 January 2011, that DB AG now holds a qualified holding and long position of less than 2% of the share capital in PT and voting rights pertaining thereto. (5) On 7 January 2011, PT informed that RBS Holding now holds a qualified holding and long position of less than 2% of the share capital in PT and voting rights pertaining thereto. (6) The said qualified holding was communicated by Telefónica to PT on 23 June 2010, and subsequently CMVM communicated to the market, on 28 June 2010, a draft decision of its Board stating their understanding the voting rights pertaining to the shares covered by equity swap agreements should continue to be attributed to Telefónica. Up to this date, no final decision was disclosed by CMVM, nor did Telefónica communicate to PT any change or rectification to the said qualified holding. 3.1.3. Valuation and dividends comparative evolution of share prices 130 120 PT 110 100 DJ STOXX EUROPE 90 PSI20 80 70 DEC.09 JAN.10 FEB.10 MAR.10 APR.10 MAY.10 JUN.10 JUL.10 AUG.10 SEP.10 OCT.10 NOV.10 DEC.10 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 89 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders PT restated its commitment in 2010 to provide attractive dividends to its shareholders and to simultaneously maintain financial flexibility to keep investing in its key markets and i new products and services, maintaining its long-term competitive position. total shareholder return in 2010 17,8% 17.8% 10.3% -6.6% PSI20 DJ STOXX EUROPE PT MOST RELEVANT FACTS ANNOUNCED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 22 January Portugal Telecom informs about DTT 30 June Additional information on the offer over Brasilcel 8 February Portugal Telecom announces the acquisition of GPTI 4 July Portugal Telecom clarifies recent news about OI 17 February Resignation of Executive Director Rui Pedro Soares 7 July Additional information on the offer over Brasilcel 22 February Resignation of Executive Director Fernando Soares Carneiro 8 July Meo surpasses 700 thousand customers 2 March Portugal Telecom informs about favourable decision regarding fine imposed by the Competition Authority 17 July -Portugal Telecom informs on expiration of Telefonica’s Offer 4 March Full year results 2009 20 July Portugal Telecom clarifies recent news about OI 12 March Notice Annual General Meeting 28 July -Portugal Telecom announces the agreement with Telefonica for the sale of Brasilcel 16 April Filing of Annual Report on Form 20-F 28 July Portugal Telecom and Oi to enter into a strategic partnership 16 April Portugal Telecom’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 5 August 2010 First half results 21 Aprul Dividend Payment – 2009 Earnings 27 September Portugal Telecom concludes the sale to Telefónica of Brasilcel 6 May 2010 First quarter results 27 September Resignation of Non-Executive Director José Maria Alvarez-Pallete Lopéz 10 May Portugal Telecom informs about proposal received from Telefónica 27 September Resignation of Non-Executive Director Santiago Fernández Valbuena 1 June Portugal Telecom informs on the revised proposal received from Telefónica 29 September Portugal Telecom informs that it is in discussions with the Portuguese State 2 June Portugal Telecom informs on the proposal document received from Telefónica regarding the potential transfer of the pension liabilities and pension funds 4 June Notice General Meeting 30 June 2010 29 October PT informs on the extension of the validity of the memorandum of 7 June Proposal of the Board of directors to General Meeting of Shareholders 30 June 2010 understanding with Oi Group and Anatel’s approval of the transaction 10 June Information statement regarding Telefónica’s offer 3 November 2010 First nine month results 15 June PT announces request from Telefónica for the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of the 3 November Shareholder remuneration proposal General Meeting from Telefónica 3 November Shareholder remuneration proposal 29 June Portugal Telecom informs on revised consideration for the proposal received from Telefónica 16 December Exceptional Dividend Payment 30 June Portugal Telecom General Shareholders Meeting 16 December Exceptional Dividend Payment 22 December Portugal Telecom informs about favourable decision regarding fine imposed 28 December Adjustment to exchange price of Exchangeable Bonds due in 2014 As to shareholder remuneration, PT distributed circa Euro 1,380 million to its shareholders divided in the following way: • Dividend relative to fiscal year 2009 of Euro 0.575 per share paid in May 2010, amounting to Euro 504 million; • Exceptional dividend of Euro 1.00 euro per share paid in December, as an anticipation of 2010 profit advance, amounting to Euro 875.9 million. 90 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The following chart shows the evolution of shareholder remuneration over the years as well as a forecast for 2011: 1.575 1.30 (1) 0.575 0.575 0.48 0.48 0.35 0.16 0.22 0.10 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (1) Subject to shareholder approval at General Meeting of Shareholders 3.2. Customers 3.2.1. Customer service With a vast customer base, PT knows that success in the relationship with each one depends on the quality of the information available on the respective consumption profile, as well as its capacity to meet expectations and to interact with each consumer. The customer service area deserved special attention, once again, over last year. The growing service sophistication and the widening of the group’s commercial offering indicated an increase in the quantity of contacts for clarifications, complaints and/or fault participations. Therefore, we launched a number of initiatives that allowed deepening the knowledge about each customer, adjusting the service offer and response capacity to each need. Relationship is a responsibility of all group employees irrespective of functions and/or responsibilities that they perform in the organisation. Areas of customer focus • Listen to customers • Personalise the relationship with each customer • Innovate in the offer to the market • Offer quality services • Ensure continuity in service delivery • Ethics in the commercial relationship PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 91 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders In this context, PT continued to wish being recognised as the Portuguese company that has the best customer relationship, and over the year 2010, received such recognition from several entities (described at the beginning of the report) With this added responsibility, PT continued to seek the path to excellence in this matter and reinforced the communication channels with customers, in order to meet the expectations identified in market surveys. COMMUNICATION CHANNELS WEBSITE Available 24 hours per day 365 days per annum CUSTOMER PORTAL Management done by customer and customisation to respective display ONLINE WIKICARE Enables customers to give suggestions for improvement CAMPAIGNS CUSTOMER MANAGERS EMPLOYEES PT CUSTOMER STORES AND AGENTS CUSTOMER Receives customers and consumer defence organisations PERSONALISED CONTACT OPINION POLLS SATISFACTION SURVEYS CONTACT CENTRE Available 24 hours per day 365 days per annum BILL Allows electronic format 92 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 The path to excellence in customer relationship is based on a company-wide management model. CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT MODEL SEGMENTS PERSONAL RESIDENT SMEs COMPANIES WHOLESALE CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT PLATFORMS CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP PLATFORMS OPERATIONS & NETWORK COMMERCIAL NETWORK COMMERCIAL OFFERING MARKETING BUSINESS SUPPORT AREAS Anticipating solutions and improving customer service – Tactical Centre With more than 100,000 daily contacts, PT had the problem of recording situations for which it had no suitable, fast and efficient solutions, thus possibly affecting the quality of service and consequently the level of satisfaction of its customers. Therefore, it created an observatory where every case exposed in the scope of customer service is monitored and where new problems are identified and suitable solutions defined. This observatory, designated Tactical Centre, strongly contributed to accelerate the response to customers and to improve the success rate in contacts made via contact centre. Goals of the Tactical Centre • Focus on customer impact – To improve customer experience, reducing the number of technical and non-technical calls and fault participation • Articulation of different interventions: • To articulate the intensity of interventions with meteorological forecasts (fault estimate); • To measure the impact of network interventions on the quality of service to the customer; • To promote communication, involvement and company-wide participation: customer support, technical areas, operations, business PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 93 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders • Control of impact on Customer – analytical and objective quantification • Continuous monitoring – to reduce perception-based analyses • Service assurance – provided by the technical team dedicated to the tuning of the upgrade processes In 2010, 385 new situations were identified, distributed by the following areas: Identified situations by the Tactical Centre Wireline 159 Wireless 211 Common areas 15 From the identified situations, circa 90% are corrected immediately minimising the negative impact that these occurrences cause to other customers and to the customer services of the company. Examples of identified situations and solved in the scope of the Tactical Centre: Common Areas: the quality of the telecommunications services is affected by atmospheric conditions, so after a bad weather alert from the National Authority for Civil Protection (ANPC) there were a number of preventive actions defined in the scope of the Tactical Centre, together with the technical areas in order to minimize possible negative impacts derived from the bad weather for the days identified during October. This operation minimized the negative impact that atmospheric conditions usually provoke on telecommunications. Wireline: Due to human error, the price update of the fixed telephone service of the residential segment caused an impact on the prices of this service for the business segment. When this situation was detected in the first billing cycle, it was solved at once, avoiding inconveniences to all the other business customers in the remaining billing cycles in the same month. Wireless: In April, due to a request from the business units, the minimum top-up values were changed. Due to human error, the new top-up values would not update the validity of the card for another 30 days as it should be. This correction was made in 2 days, avoiding an impact on more than 90% of the customers using this service. Customer Ombudsman – minimising unsatisfactory situations The customer ombudsman evaluates the complaints received from unsatisfied customers, after unsatisfactory solutions have been presented by all the other areas of the company. During 2010, circa 58,000 complaints were evaluated and solved. This value increased mainly due to the natural catastrophes occurred in Madeira during 2010. Origin of situations presented (Nº of situations) Customers 49,004 Consumer Defense Organisations and other external entities 8,863 Total 57,867 94 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Every situation presented and evaluated by the services of the Customer Ombudsman were solved in accordance with the customer’s expectations in a short period of time, which varied from 4 to 24 hours, according to goal set. Performance in customer contact It is essential for PT that customers feel satisfied with their customer contact services. Aware that the number of contacts would necessarily increase due to the growing service sophistication and diversification, the performance monitoring reached shows that the improvement measures It is essential for PT introduced contributed to increase PT’s customer contact capacity. that customers feel Customer Contact satisfied with their 2008 2009 2010 customer contact Total de contactos recebidos/1.000 clientes (média mensal) 321 219 182 services. Contacts made (monthly average) 87.4% 95.3% 91.3% 2008 and 2009 values were changed to include only Customer Care services. Complaints 2008 2009 2010 Total complaints received/1,000 customers (monthly average) 27.2 31.7 26.6 Time spent treating each one – days (monthly average) 4.8 3.9 4.1 Service Installation 2008 2009 2010 Total installation requests (monthly average) 64,171 72,503 67,455 Time spent installing each one – days (monthly average) 13.8 10.3 8.3 Faults 2008 2009 2010 Total faults reported/1,000 customers (monthly average) 24.8 33.4 29.4 Time spent repairing each one – days (monthly average) 1.9 1.6 1.7 This year, the established goal was not reached. Nevertheless, there were some improvements, namely in the average time to install services, with a 19.4% reduction, and also special emphasis on the 16% reduction in the average number of complaints per 1,000 customers. The remaining times are in line with the values of the previous year. 3.2.2. Customer satisfaction level Customer recognition demonstrated through the average score attributed to PT constitutes a strong motivation to keep improving daily the relationship established with the market. Customer satisfaction Index (Scale 1 to10) WIRELINE WIRELESS 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Residential / Personal 6.8 7.5 7.8 7.8 7.3 7.9 8.0 8.0 Business (1) 6.8 7.4 7.4 7.9 7.2 7.4 7.4 7.5 Sources: Residential/Personal: Marktest Business: DataE PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 95 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders The activity of the company in the market is naturally reflected on the average customer satisfaction level. PT surveys regularly the satisfaction of its customers through market surveys and opinion polls. 2010 saw our satisfaction levels improve significantly in the business market namely in wireline, while the remaining market segments in general maintained their satisfaction level, which is quite high, in line with the goals set for this triennium. 3.2.3. Data Protection and Privacy The Information Security Policy in terms of the Information Systems and Technologies was prepared and launched in 2010, having most employees been subject to specific training actions. Confidentiality and security of consumer data, access and traffic protection to the database information, as well as confidentiality of telecommunications content, are areas safeguarded by PT in order to respect the freedom and basic rights of each individual. The Information PT follows the national legislation scrupulously, which is very detailed and specific concerning this Security Policy subject, as well as the European and American legislation. Being listed in European and North-American Stock Exchanges, PT is scrutinised by entities from different sectors, apart from the regular audits to all in terms of the the situations capable of rendering the protection of personal data more vulnerable with the support of Information Systems security and legal experts. and Technologies was In 2010, PT prepared and launched its Information Security Policy in terms of the Information Systems prepared and launched and Technologies. This policy contains a vast number of procedures about which most employees have in 2010, having most already been specifically trained. employees been Knowing that this is a sensitive area in which the evolution is fast, PT has been participating in forums of subject to specific discussion on this matter and implementing measures deemed as best practices to safeguard data training actions. protection and customer privacy. • As a sequence of the 31st International Conference on Data Conference and Privacy held in Madrid, 50 countries came to an agreement on new common measures about data protection and privacy, as some of the measures already developed and applied within the EU are expected to be enforced outside its borders. • The “Madrid Resolution” as the document is known, tries to establish international standards to ensure increased privacy and reservation in the access to personal data and may originate legislation in this domain in countries where it does not exist. • PT is part of a working group in which representatives from circa 50 countries and companies in the domain of the information and communication Technologies are also present. • The approved document may be consulted online and defines the basic principles for the use of personal data: loyalty, legality, proportionality, quality, transparency and responsibility. It also recognizes the need of existence of supervisory authorities. • The principles defined in this resolution are part of the “standard” applied in the European Union and in Portugal, but the authorities have been defending the importance of its generalisation to other countries as transactions and services are each time more global, as data protection of Portuguese citizens may be rendered more vulnerable taking into consideration the absence of rules in other countries.. PT provides data pertaining to its customers exclusively on request by the judicial authorities in the terms of the law. 96 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 3.2.4. Content Security Today’s ease to access and to make available contents is really stimulating, no doubt contributing to bring people closer together, and to make these more knowledgeable in diversified terms. Nevertheless, we know that this reality causes concerns related to undue use of theses potentialities by segments of the population with less critical and/or selection capacity to choose contents suited to their interests. Aware of this fact, PT has launched initiatives whose goal is to make the population aware of the responsible use of contents, makes available guidelines for the use of parental control devices and software, follows the recommendations on international bodies on this matter and signed a protocol in 2009 with a scientific computing entity to monitor contents and for network security. Code of Conduct PT signed in 2008 the Code of Conduct for activities of delivery of content services that aims to protect minors from harmful content when using mobile communication services. Protocol of cooperation for the secure use of IT and of internet PT signed a protocol of cooperation with FCCN (Foundation for National Scientific Computing) in the domains of IT and Internet security. As to IT security, there should be caution in terms of an action or a number of actions carried out against a computer or computer network that results or may result in the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or performance of data communication network or system, namely unauthorised access, information change or removal, interference or service denial in a computing system. As to Internet security, illegal contents should be identified and denounced, aiming essentially to remove and make impossible the access to content pertaining to child pornography or violation of human rights, notably violence and racism.ismo. “Communicating with Security Program” In order to make the school community aware of the good use of content accessible via electronic communication devices, PT prepared, through its volunteer work programs, an initiative that should be brought to a wide number of schools nationwide in a classroom environment whose goals are: • To promote the secure and responsible use of electronic content and equipment; • To make educators aware of the parental control tools currently available. This program was prepared and tested in some schools in 2009, and it is expected to be put into execution over two years. 3.2.5. Responsible Consumption The increased convergence between devices and contents, between the fixed and mobile networks and the new functionalities afforded by the fibre optic network (including FTTH – Fibre to the Home), together with the consolidation of the customer management and interaction, programs for customer service improvement and the aggregation of more sustainable attributes to the commercial offering, were some of the issues on the management agenda of the business units of the group’s companies. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 97 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders In order to ensure the clarity of the tariffs associated with services acquisition, subscription and use, PT had already launched in 2009 a new bill that presents the items on the bill more clearly to its customers and kept the online divulgation of its prices as well as simulators so that each customer may have total control over the amount spent and may select the most convenient solutions for his specific needs and characteristics. COMMUNICATION OF PRICES AND TARIFFS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ACQUISITION, SUBSCRIPTION AND USE OF SERVICES Online Price plans Available and up-to-date 365 days a year Prices of service packages Service/price simulators Customer portal Bill Description of the detail of each billed item Paper and online PT entered a new stage in customer relationship management, with the launch of an improvement to the CRM (Customer Relationship Management) platform, also designated as project ONE. For each customer, we got just one screen, just one history, just one look, just one vision. With the development and implementation of this new CRM solution, for the moment just for the wireline business customers, PT got a single image of the customer in every contact point, facilitating the relationship and a better understanding of the expectations of each one. Project ONE Know customers Identify characteristics Have information to identify the integrated profile of each one Differentiate offer Create solutions suited to each profile Interact Dialogue and identify new opportunities Personalise Respect expectations of each one Initiatives to enrich the offer of products & services and to make consumption more responsible All the products and services commercialised by PT are subject to rigorous tests in order to ensure user health and safety and, for each one, there is a user manual provide and/or labels with the specifications on its adequate use and what to do with it whenever it is replaced or discontinued by its users. On the website of the company, customers will also find user guides that include not only parental control indications as well as indications to protect the identity of each user an access to harmful contents. Soon, we will also make available indications on healthy ways to use telecommunications equipments and services. The commercialisation of services and solutions, based on the new information and communication technologies, will contribute decisively to the energy dependency reduction of our customers and consequent atmospheric carbon emissions minimisation. The healthcare, education, and domotics 98 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 domains have already started to become the basis of this new paradigm and although still little significant, they are already a new window of opportunity in environmental preservation. • 1st SIM Card made of recyclable and biodegradable paper in the world introduced in April 2010 by TMN – avoids the use of plastics derived from crude oil. • TMN was the first operator in the world to launch a SIM card made of recyclable biodegradable paper • Making SIM cards with recyclable biodegradable paper avoids using plastics (PVC, ABS or PET) derived from oil, which take more than 1,000 years to degrade naturally. • Samsung Blue Earth Mobile Phone– it contributes since its fabrication to a reduction in fuel consumption and carbon emissions, being free from harmful substances. TMN launched the Samsung Blue Earth in 2010. Inspired by nature, it has an ecological design with a large solar panel in the back, allowing recharging through solar energy as it was projected to transform solar rays into a power source to feed the battery. Made of recycled plastic (PCM), it contributes since its fabrication to the reduction in fuel consumption and carbon emissions, being free from prejudicial substances. • The Samsung Blue Earth features several ecological applications, namely: • Eco-Walk, which allows counting the steps of a walk and calculate the reduction in CO2 emissions, comparing the option of a walk instead of using a motor vehicle; • Eco-Mode, which allows regulating the brightness of the display, the duration of the backlight of the display and • Bluetooth in order to save energy ; • Eco-Calendar, which allows always having available a calendar of the ecologically significant days. • The package of the Samsung Blue Earth is made of environment-friendly materials, easily recyclable paper and soy paint. The box containing the mobile phone may be reused as a photo frame. In this way, the package of the Samsung Blue Earth offers the user a fully ecological experience. • Electronic or paper bill PT has been replacing the use of recycled paper in its bills with FSC certified paper (paper that promotes sustainable forest management, from where its raw materials are extracted), because it is a cheaper option, being simultaneously environment-friendly. It has simultaneously promoted the adoption of the electronic bill, assigning benefits to adopters, thus contributing to increased dematerialization of day-to-day life of its customers, and of yourself, too. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 99 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders 3.3. Employees 3.3.1. Human resource management model The people who are part of the organisation assume a fundamental importance for management as their capacity of adaptation to market changes and innovation in the use of their work tools contribute decisively to making the difference and consequently to the positioning of each company on the market. Through the profound knowledge about the strong and weak points of each employee and of the organisation itself, it is possible to develop management methodologies to optimize the alignment between personal skills and company goals and in this way contribute to aggregating value to the respective businesses. In fact it is people who with their attitude, skills, and degree of involvement with the organisation that, more and more, constitute the main factor of differentiation and competitiveness of the company in the global market. PT’s human asset management is done taking into consideration the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as part of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact signed by PT, also complying with the Social Responsibility principles of UNI (Union Network International) and the Portuguese labour legislation. PT keeps being recognised as the most family-friendly company, in accordance with the criteria evaluated by AESE and Deloitte and maintains the certification of its management systems in the Occupational Hygiene, Health and Safety area, in compliance with OHSAS 18001 PT’s Human Asset organisation aims essentially to: • Promote a culture of merit and continuous development within the organisation; • Maximise skills and employee skills; • Ensure close and effective accompaniment of organisational structures; • Ensure excellence in execution betting on specialisation; • Promote a constructive labour relationship; • Stimulate a fluid communication throughout the whole organisation. • Include all employees in this model irrespective of work contract. INTEGRATED HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT MODEL Codes of principles and agreements Development instruments Code of Ethics Recruitment model Code of ethics for Financial Officers Welcome programs Company Agreement* Mobility programs United Nations Global Compact principles Training programs Union Network International Code Business Intelligence System ETNO Sustainability Charter Talent retention programs Internal Social Responsability programs Corporate Intranet Management and Evaluation Tools Benefits Organisational Climate Survey** Working time flexibility Performance Analysis System Health plans (goals/management and technical skills)** Cultural, leisure and eating spaces Employee Portal Communication channels Feedback meetings PT Club Personal development plan Discount card for acquisition of services Social Support Association End of carrer support *The company agreement applies by default to all employees and, among others aspects, assures equality of opportunities, equality of remunerations for identical functions between men and women, health and security protection and minimum periods of time for communication of any work-related change. ** Under review 100 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 MEANS OF RELATIONSHIP WITH THE EMPLOYEES Employee portal Feedback meetings for performance evaluation Corporate Intranet “É Consigo” (help line email and contact telephone line) Workers’ Committee, Unions and Paritary Committee Internal magazine and newsletter Organisational climate survey The human resource management model and respective assignment of responsibilities is structured in the following way: RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE HUMAN RESOURCE FUNCTIONS HUMAN ASSET COMMITTEE Leadership and supervision of the implementation of the (Committee chaired by Group CEO) Human Asset Plan EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT HR BUSINESS Development Internal Social Insourcing Labour Internal Support services and Leadership Responsibility Relations Communications Occupational health and safety and legal-labour consultancy Execution of day-to-day HR Functions transversal to the Group functions and support to Departments 3.3.2. Employee profile portugal 2009 10,978 2010 10,985 INTERNAtIONAL 2009 26,043 2010 22,539 (a) (a) Whithout ViVo PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 101 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders GENDER* WOMEN 36% MEN 64% PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES* 1% UNIONISED* 41% ROTATION RATE* 1.4% AVERAGE TERM IN SERVICE* 14.5 AVERAGE AGE* 40.6 ABSENTEEIN* 3.3% MANAGERS* WOMEN 32% MEN 68% TYPE OF CONTRACT* COLLECTIVE FIXED TERM CONTRACT 3% INDIVIDUAL FIXED TERM CONTRACT 24% INDIVIDUAL PERMANENT CONTRACT 9% COLLECTIVE PERMANENT CONTRACT 64% * PT data in Portugal 102 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Proportion of base remunerations – Men versus Women Managers 1.01% Other 1.05% WORK SCHEDULES* FIXED 23% FLEXIBLE 77% ACADEMIC TRAINING* BASIC EDUCATION 15% SECONDARY EDUCATION 35% UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 50% 3.3.3. Talent Attraction and Retention I. Recruitment PT wishes to continue to rejuvenate its managers seeking to identify the necessary skills to achieve its strategic goals and identifying young talent in the main Portuguese Universities. In 2010, 104 new interns initiated PT’s Trainees program. This program lasts has the duration of two years and puts the interns in contact with the different areas of intervention of the company so that they may get in touch with the entire business reality. The groups of Trainees annually admitted by PT deserve being followed up by the Chief Executive Officer. During 2010, in order to optimise the talent retention programs already existing in the group, a pilot project was implemented in the course of which talent was mapped according to two perspectives: • Potential leaders and • Holders of specific technical knowledge. * PT data in Portugal PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 103 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders As this pilot showed good results, PT is at this moment seeks to extend the project to the entire organisation. This action has direct impact on employee retention, enabling to capitalize on the investment made, both in terms of admission and of continued training of these employees. II. Performance management and assessment Individual performance analysis constitutes a key element of the human asset management, which was subject to a revision in line with the current market trends, strategic orientation of the company and best international practices. Performance Assessment Main Goals Motivate Motivate people by establishing objective criteria that allow rewarding their contribution to the performance of the organisation. Develop Follow up employee performance, providing them with a clear direction; establish future commitments Improve results Analyse their goal achievement and skills proficiency levels A process of analysis in terms of behaviour skills and achieved results was defined and implemented, involving all employees, which is based upon a number of transversal skills, organised in a common grid, differentiated by assessment profiles so as to allow an evaluation suited to the functions and skills of each employee. Assessment Areas Knowledge Attitude Initiative Rigour Teamwork Team Management Achievement of results The model comprises a top-down analysis, self-evaluation and feedback meetings between evaluator and evaluated person, whose result is a Personal Development Plan for each employee, in which a joint constructive analysis is drawn up for the development and maximisation of the strong points of the employee as well as the identification of development actions in the areas deserving improvement. The Performance Assessment is supported on an application resident on PT’s internal portal, its main characteristics being the ease of access by all employees and of execution of all associated actions. This management tool enables: • Company management: • To increase their knowledge of employee skills; • To increase their level of alignment with the strategy of the company; • To reinforce the orientation towards the fulfilment of goals; • To promote bottom-up and top-down communication. 104 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • Employees to get: • A better knowledge of what the management values in their work; • Awareness of their strong points and improvement areas; • Creation of opportunities for direct communication with management to find the best solutions to meet the defined goals; • The right vectors for improvement of their performance and development. In order to ensure process transparency, once the conclusion of the assessments is stabilised in the system, the self-assessments are made available o the intranet to the evaluators as well as the evaluation and respective Personal Development Plan to the evaluees. The aim is to get feedback on the level of satisfaction of the employee with the performance analysis process, so that during 2011, employees should confirm their acknowledgement of their evaluation during the feedback meeting, not only to validate that it took place, but also to express their agreement with the Personal Development Plan, ensuring in this way the best articulation between all parties. A company career model review was also initiated. The new model is expected to be concluded next year, in line with employee expectations, the sector and new market trends. The new model is being prepared with the contributions of all interested parties and will seek to combat complexity, inadequate nowadays, and simultaneously promote simplicity and individual merit. 3.3.4. Collective Bargaining Employee policies and management model are the result of the existing dialogue between PT’s top management and the representatives of the employee collective representation structures. In 2010, this dialogue had the frequency shown below with the following issues on the agenda. Employee collective representation structures Unions Employee Committees and Subcommittees Nº of meetings in this year between PT management PT and representatives 102 39 Issues handled: Company Agreement √ Training Plan √ √ New Career Model √ √ Assessment & Incentives √ √ Work Schedules √ √ Recruitment & Internships √ Health Plans √ OH&S Plans √ Pension Plans & Funds √ √ Organisation Climate Survey √ Information Security √ Building Security √ Certification Process SA 8000 √ PT’s Quarterly Results √ VIVO Alienation Process √ √ Universal Service √ Social Responsibility/Policy √ √ PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 105 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Conclusions agreed in these meetings are incorporated in the adopted policies and management models. The issues included in the Company Agreement are the following: Issues included in the Company Agreement 1. Rights, duties and guarantees of the parties 2. Professional framework and development a. Definition, framework and professional activities 3. Recruitment, professional mobility and training a. Recruitment b. Mobility c. Profissional Evolution d. Admissions e. Management positions – Appointments f. Training 4. Performance of work a. Service Travel b. Occasional mobility c. Duration of work d. Work schedules e. Supplementary and nocturnal work 5. Special Work Conditions a. Maternity/Paternity b. Work by persons with disabilities c. Working-students 6. Work remuneration 7. Suspension of work contract a. Weekly rest and holidays b. Annual Holidays c. Absences d. Leave of absence and impeachments 8. Exercise of union activity 9. Health, social security and accidents 10. Occupational Safety, hygiene and health 11. Paritary Committee 3.3.5. Organisational Climate To ask in order to get answers, to hear in order to understand, to analyse in order to improve. These have been the basic foundations of the Employee Satisfaction Survey that PT conducts annually. Carried out in every PT subsidiary, the results of this survey have contributed not only to enabling the employees to express their views in a voluntary, anonymous and confidential way but also to adjusting the human assets management to the strategy of the Group. Trying to meet the needs and requirements of the organisation so as to endow it with relevant knowledge and information, the 2009 Survey was conducted with the aim of knowing, accurately and in detail, the opinion of the employees on an extended range of issues. The accessibility of all employees and the confidentiality of the answers are guaranteed, through the use of an external website. 106 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PARTICIPATION RATE 2009 65% 2010 81% +16% Dimensions analysed Ethics Involvement Work Conditions Discrimination Training Social Responsability Company Assessment Function Team Remuneration Image Strategy Career Leadership EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX 2009 69% It is worth 2010 73% +4% highlighting the aspects pertaining to It is worth highlighting the aspects pertaining to Non-Discrimination and R&D which received the Non-Discrimination highest classification from PT’s employees. and R&D which The areas identified as being less satisfactory are the basis for the preparation of the strategic intervention received the highest of human resource management and leadership and development, namely in the aspects related to classification from career development. PT’s employees. 3.3.6. Training Employee training continues to be a priority for PT. In 2010, investment and training time was adjusted to the current needs of the company, so investment in this area was reduced by circa 2% and training time per trainee was reduced by circa 10%. Training actions* 2009 5,626 2010 6,077 +8% Investiment in training* (EURO million) 2009 3,278 2010 3,210 Participants versus nº. employees* 95% * PT Data in Portugal PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 107 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Average training time per participant* (hours) 2009 46.2 2010 41.0 Training support* B-LEARNING 2% E-LEARNING 13% PRESENTIAL 85% Training Areas* COMMERCIAL AND MARKETING 7% BEHAVIOUR 2% GENERAL 22% MANAGEMENT 4% ACADEMIC 1% INFORMATION SYSTEMS 19% INNOVATION 11% CODE OF ETHICS 1% TECHNOLOGY 14% ENVIRONMENT AND OS&H 19% 3.3.7. Occupational Safety & Health Occupational safety and health are ensured by PT-ACS, a PT subsidiary, which is legally equivalent to a private social solidarity institution. Nevertheless, the employee representatives for Occupational Health and Safety as well as all employees are an active part in the continuous improvement of their work conditions and quality of life. AT PT, all employees are responsible for taking care of health and safety at their working spaces, namely participating at the identification of dangers, evaluation of risks, and the definition and adoption of measures of control suited to each situation. For better anticipation of market trends in this area, PT ACS participates actively in an ETNO workgroup: ‘Good Work Good Health’. In parallel, the information and management of PT’s business units are certified in compliance with OHSAS 18001. * PT data in Portugal 108 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Occupational safety, hygiene and health management model SAFETY AT WORK Prevent work accidents, minimising professional risks. HYGIENE AT WORK Combat professional illnesses, through the identification of the factors that may affect the work environment and the worker. HEALTH AT WORK Monitor the worker’s health, whose technical responsibility belongs to the occupational doctor. Goals of the OS&H model Improve the quality of life of employees Decrease the number and seriousness of work accidents Improve human relations at the work place Contribute to improve levels of productivity of the company Minimise costs Operationalisation of the Occupational safety, hygiene and health model Risks – Identify and evaluate risks Control of occupational risks – Propose measures for mitigation of identified risks Plans for prevention of occupational risks– Develop and follow up implementation Workplaces – Collaborate in the conception of workplaces Occurrence of incidents – Analyse causes of incidents Employee Information campaigns – propose and collaborate in campaigns Training – Participate in the conception of training programs OS&H management system – Promote and follow up system audits Identify dangers; The OS&H programs carried out by PT ACS cover all active employees with the following results in 2010: Nº. of occupational medicine consultations performed* 6,741 Accidents * N.º of occupational accidents 289 N.º of deaths due to occupational accidents 0 Type of Occupational accidents Service 189 Transport 72 Sport 25 Other 3 Assessment of Work Conditions * N.º of risk assessments performed (IPAR)/Establishment 125 N.º of reports/studies issued 30 * PT Data in Portugal PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 109 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Nº. of Risks assessed by Criticality Level * Tolerable 3,088 Low 5,911 Medium 527 High 3 Total 9,529 Safety coordination * Nº. Security Procedure Sheets (FPS) 4,614 Nº. Safety & Health Plans (PSS) 88 Visits to works 542 Total 5,151 Preventive Measures Adopted * Global plan for improvement of Individual Protection Equipments used in PT companies; Training action “STAP – Safety when working high up – Wooden poles” for PT employees and some Service Providers working outside, namely on poles. Nº. births of employee children in 2010 Nº. births of employee children in 2010 393 Screenings Nº. employees Breast cancer 1,088 Cardiovascular Risks 1,134 Training Employee Training 54 OS&H training programs Average nº. of training hours per employee 4.2 hours The intervention of PT ACS goes beyond the OS&H management model. PT ACS is the entity that delivers healthcare services to PT Group employees, namely health promotion and protection, by delivering directly or indirectly healthcare services in terms of preventive, curative and rehabilitation medicine. Healthcare plans managed by PT ACS ensure benefits to active, pre-retired or retired employees and to their relatives. * PT Data in Portugal 110 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 In this way, the intervention of PT ACS covers a universe of 51,064 beneficiaries, distributed as follows: Beneficiary Employees ACTIVE 37% NON ACTIVE 63% (EMPLOYEES IN RETIRED) Relatives of beneficiary employees ASCENDENTS 3% DESCENDENTS 49% SPOUSES 48% 3.3.8. INTERNAL SOCIAL ResponsIBILITY The integrated human asset management model now has an internal social responsibility area based on a uniform company-wide program organised in accordance with 4 pillars. This Internal Social Responsibility program seeks to support employees and their relatives, promote social values, group initiatives related to well-being, culture and health, mark special moments and support the development of employee children in situations of need. Internal Social Responsibility Programs Internal Social Responsibility Programs for employees Description of programs and relatives Grow Up Digital inclusion program, acquisition of school skills and occupation of free time Support Program to support specific needs Action Well-being and anti-stress program Celebrate Program to commemorate special dates PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 111 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Grow up program To award meritocracy, foster school learning, and promote free time occupation during school holidays, are the guidelines of the Grow Up program. Grow Up Initiatives Nº. participants Support for employee children 2,380 Free time occupation (holidays of employee children) 1,301 Focus Group on citizenship issues 116 Total 3,797 Suport program Helping employees in ‘active’ situation/ex-employees and their families in the resolution of family weaknesses concerning health and other social issues, promoting social training and family volunteering outside normal working hours, these are the main goals of this intervention pillar. Support Initiatives Nº. participants Psycho-social health 1,405 Economic support 59 Social and civic training 596 Family Volunteering 592 Total 2,652 Action Program To promote healthful life habits and prevent possible stress situations, are the goals of this program. It includes actions to screen anxiety and stress, cardio-vascular diseases, tobacco addiction, and sports and culture-related initiatives. Action Initiatives Nº. participants Well-being & Sports 5,862 Culture 3,712 Total 9,574 Celebrate Program To include employee families in the day to day of the company is the main goal of this program. The initiatives celebrate essentially festive dates related to the younger children of the employees. Celebrate Iniciatives Nº. participants PT Baby– Offer due to birth of employee child 480 Commemoration of the World Child’s Day 648 Commemoration Mother’s Day / Father’s Day / Day at PT 7,003 Christmas Parties for employee children 12,594 Total 20,725 112 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 3.4. Suppliers 3.4.1. Profile During the year 2010, the supplier base registered at the PT portal showed the following profile: Total nº. registered suppliers 1,246 Supplier characterisation national vs. international INTERNATIONAL 14% NATIONAL 86% The global procurement volume in 2010 decreased slightly compared to the previous year (-19%), with a 20% increase in the domestic market and a decrease (-32%) in procurement for the overseas subsidiaries. Characterisation of procurement volume Euro 3,373 million Characterisation of procurement volume – national vs. international INTERNATIONAL 62% NATIONAL 38% Nº. Suppliers with Adjudications in Corporative Processes 495 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 113 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Type of procurement by service and/or product category TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS 16% TERMINAL EQUIPMENT 24% ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 3% COMPUTING AND INFRASTRUCTURE 13% MARKET PRODUCTS 8% SERVICES AND WORKS 37% 3.4.2. Procurement Model In order to optimise the acquisition of goods and services, contributing decisively to the creation of competitive differentiating advantages, PT defined a Procurement Model that centralizes in a common and integrated way all the acquisitions of goods and services for the PT group companies. The creation of value is obtained through an extended and transversal relationship with each supplier and the incorporation of specific know-how from the procurement areas in the strategic decisions that influence that influence acquisitions. The Procurement Model is composed of three big phases – Planning, Market Consultation, and Management and Monitoring: procurement process PLANNING MARKET CONSULTATION MANAGEMENT & MONOTORING APP CATEGORY PLANNING PROCUREMENT PREPARATION BARGAINING CONTRACT PLACE CONTRACT STRATEGIC MARKET REQUEST AND TENDER ORDER MANAGEMENT PLANNING CONSULTATIONS REQUEST PLANNING ADJUDICATION PERFORMANCE MONOTORING MULTI-DISCIPLINARY PROCUREMENT TABLE TEAMS The Procurement Model is governed by solid principles in order to obtain each time more and better results for all process intervenients. In this way, teamwork, a continuous improvement attitude, the observance of ethical principles and transparency inherent to the Procurement function, and respect for environment and human rights are key prerequisites of the adopted model. 114 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 3.4.3. Transparency and control of undue practices in the procurement process Apart from being governed by PT’s Code of Ethics and Sustainability and Social Responsibility Policy, the application of PT’s Procurement Model to the bargaining relationships with suppliers is translated into the following practices divulged and verified with all interested parties: Transparency All the information should be made formally available to the potential Suppliers during a procurement process, ensuring full transparency in information access. Equality of Opportunities During the bargaining process, the equality of opportunities is guaranteed to all Suppliers that meet comparable requirements, enabling the group’s openness to all suppliers. Access to Information Suppliers will be able to have access to all the information and clarifications they need on any matter of the negotiations in course, in a clear, complete and cordial form. Reciprocity and Rigour All conditions relative to the delivery dates, prices, conditions of payment, conditions of acquisition and attribution of responsibilities should be defined in detailed form, by both parties. Loyalty Employees intervening in the negotiation must take into account the company’s objectives, trying to meet its needs in the most credible and advantageous form. Reciprocal Procurement Reciprocal procurement should not condition or interfere with the result of any bargaining process. Confidentiality Both PT and Suppliers should keep secrecy on all the information exchanged during a procurement process. Likewise, the following behaviours from Suppliers in their relationship with PT are deemed unacceptable: • Use of less competitive prices in direct adjustments or situations of sole Supplier; • Use of low prices during the negotiations, to win the contract, with the intention of increasing them when the contract is won; • Request for price increases throughout the duration of the contract; • Request for information on other competitors; • Use or proposal of ambiguous conditions with the intention of gaining advantage over other competitors; • Lying or induction in error, purposefully, during the bargaining process; • Commitment above its capacities; • Exaggeration in the gravity of a problem to get business bargaining advantages. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 115 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Along with the improvements incorporated into the Sustainable Supplier Selection and Hiring Model, aligned with the evolution of the market needs and requirements, the Ethics Committee of PT Compras was created in 2007. It is composed of company representatives and of the Governance Committee, and its functions are the following: Ethics Comittee Functions • To give to the employees and to the management of the company all the clarifications deemed necessary in the scope of the Code of Ethics • To ensure the counselling of employees who may have doubts of interpretation or application of the Code of Ethics to concrete situations • To ensure the resolution of conflicts between Norms of Conduct of the Code of Ethics and the specific functions of each employee • To analyse eventual deviations to the fulfilment of the Norms of Conduct defined by the Code of Ethics and to propose the measures that it may judge pertinent. Any violation to these procedures may be denounced through the whistleblowing channel available on PT’s corporative website. In 2010, there were not any denunciations of this nature. 3.4.4. Supplier selection and hiring The supplier selection and hiring model is based on rigorous principles of transparency, honesty and equality of opportunities, loyalty and confidentiality. Business success and customer satisfaction are closely related to the capacity of selecting suppliers that fulfil the needs of the company and that are simultaneously aligned with PT’s conduct as well as its ethical, social and environmental principles. For such purpose, a business unit – PT Compras – was created, whose function is to ensure a single procurement model, transversal to all PT subsidiaries, whose aim is to gain bargaining synergies and an integrated and responsible management of the relationship with suppliers. All suppliers are subject to a pre-selection phase. An electronic platform was created for this purpose that specifies the necessary requirements for the potential candidates to register, as there are fields to fill in and to include documents to prove the capacity of response and ethical alignment with the principles defended and required by PT. This platform has been improved consecutively by including new specifications and functionalities, contributing to ensuring more equality of opportunities among potential suppliers, more rigour in the evaluation of the candidates, and consequently more transparency in the selection process. Moreover, it also contributes to reducing process times, increasing confidentiality and information security, and lastly dematerialising day-to-day life and the carbon footprint of this function in the organisation. PT adopted regulations that ensure that along its relationship with suppliers, there are always documents that regulate the minimal requirement in terms of ethical conduct and social responsibility, notably in terms of: Supplier acquisition Our code of ethics signals our a priori position and requirement related to ethics, environmental protection and social responsibility to all suppliers wishing to interact with PT. 116 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Supplier registration In order to collect structured information and raise the awareness of its suppliers for best practices, PT Compras, included a questionnaire in the supplier registration process, containing detailed questions on the policies followed in terms of quality, environment, social responsibility, and occupational health and safety. Consultation In the tender requests we always include the Code of Conduct of Social Responsibility of UNI (Union Network International), signed between PT and UNI. Each supplier contacted must submit, in parallel with its proposal, a document declaring that it respects and complies in the scope of its activity with the fundamental human rights in the community and at the workplace, namely those included in the same Code of Conduct (fundamental rights, regulations and principles applicable in terms of environment, and occupational safety, health and hygiene). Selection All competing suppliers must also present, together with the technical proposal, a document proving the existence and compliance with good environmental practices, as well as the respective capacity for the development of the activity that is the object of the consultation, in the terms of the applicable environmental legislation and specifically, of what is specified in the general regulation of waste management and specific relevant legislation in the scope of the activity, which is the object of the consultation. The level of social responsibility declared and the level of environmental ensured constitute, among others, evaluation criteria for eventual adjudication. Contracting The minutes of the contract negotiated with the suppliers specify their compliance with the environmental legislation applicable to the activity developed in the scope of the contract at stake, as well as the legal and regulatory dispositions related to Occupational Safety, Hygiene and Health. In this way, PT Compras ensures that throughout the supply cycle of any business party there are strong codes of conduct, socially accepted and part of the PT universe that regulate alignment in social, environmental, and ethical-economical terms.. 3.4.5. Strategic Alignment of the Value Chain For PT it is essential to create conditions to promote the alignment between its principles and those of its suppliers, believing that only in this way lasting partnerships can be created with mutual advantages and beneficial results for society and environment. Therefore, apart from the clauses included in the respective contracts, PT Compras launched a 2nd phase of the Sustainability survey in the last quarter of 2010 that aimed to assess the level of alignment between PT’s sustainable procedures and policies and its suppliers and, after evaluating the results, initiate a path of successive approaches. The 2010 survey showed once again a good level of response and consequent alignment between suppliers and PT’s Sustainable Policies and Procedures, being the average score around 70.7 (scale 0 to 100). The evaluated parameters were once again: company profile, labour policy, ethical conduct, occupational health and safety, and environmental management. The monitored results demonstrated globally that the performance shown in the table below indicates a satisfactory level of convergence in most suppliers evaluated, as well as the need to try to make the others more attentive to sustainability-related issues. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 117 02 Creating Value for Business | Involvement and relationship management with stakeholders Suppliers verified 41% LEVEL OF ALIGNMENT BETWEEN SUPPLIERS AND PT Rating Total Entities % Excellent (90-100) 20 5.1% Good (70-90) 203 51.4% Reasonable (50-70) 146 37.0% To be improved (30-50) 25 6.3% Bad <30 1 0.3% Total Entities Verified 395 100% Average Scoring 70.7 ALIGNED SUPPLIERS EXCELLENT 5,1% IMPROVE GOOD 51,4% REASONABLE 37,0% RISK SUPPLIERS TO BE IMPROVED 3,3% ALIGN BAD 0,3% The evaluation per criterion, showed the following maximum and minimum values: Evaluation per criterion Maximum Value per Section Medium Valor per Section Average Scoring Company profile 30 16.7 55.6% Labour and Conduct Policies 25 20.7 82.8% Hygiene & Safety at Work 25 20.1 80.4% Enviromental Management 20 12.8 64.0% Total Verified Entities 395 70.7% 35 30 25 MAX. VALUE PER SECTION 20 15 MEDIUM VALUE PER SECTION 10 5 0 COMPANY LABOUR AND HYGIENE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE CONDUCT POLICIES SAFETY AT WORK MANAGEMENT 118 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Additionally, in the scope of supplier verification, 24 presential audits were conducted by the supplier control team of the PT Group in order to monitor the compliance with the requirements defined in Standard SA 8000, notably in terms of Health and Safety, Labour Policy and Work Conditions, in order to evidence the commitment assumed. 24 presential audits to randomly chosen suppliers Issues : Health & Safety, Labour Policy and Work Conditions Future perspectives In the scope of the development of the supplier selection and hiring model, from a continuous improvement perspective, PT Compras identified the following opportunities to be implemented in the near future: Supplier monitoring Sustainability: Continue supplier interaction in the scope of improvement in terms of sustainability and of supplied services and/or equipment evaluation, aiming not only to reinforce mutual knowledge, but also to contribute to constructive evolution of the partnership relationships with PT. Supplies: PT is developing a platform for supplier evaluation in terms of supplies to be implemented during 2011, to measure the performance of a number of criteria previously defined as critical. This evaluation platform will allow, once again, contributing to process transparency in hiring suppliers and also, through systematic feedback actions, giving another contribution to a positive evolution of suppliers, with direct impact on the development of partnership relationships. Electronic Communication Consolidate the use of the electronic communication module with suppliers that corresponds, in terms of the number of procurement processes both at domestic level and for the companies where PT holds stakes overseas (excluding VIVO), to 79% of the total amount of processes adjudicated (72% in December 2009). Social Responsibility PT Compras commenced in 2010 a process of formal commitment of its suppliers to PT’s policy of sustainability and social responsibility, by signing the respective charter of principles. Circa 91% of corporatively adjudicated suppliers in 2009 subscribed and demonstrated to comply with the principles signed. This action was later extended to corporative suppliers registered in 2010, having obtained a 90% adherence. Although the signature of the charter is not compulsory, PT promotes its signature and supplier adherence to the principles defended therein. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 119 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 03 Creating Value for society Creating Value for society Digital inclusion and literacy of the population The Information Society will continue to be one of PT’s main priorities. The generalization of the use of the information and communication technologies as well as the growing offer of broadband solutions and services, and the programs of support for the community and groups of citizens with special needs, constitute examples of PT’s involvement in the construction of the Knowledge Society. The building of a more digitized society is from our viewpoint the guarantee of a better access to information and consequently to knowledge – indispensable condition to progress and to the promotion of a more responsible citizenship. In 2010, PT’s initiatives to promote the information society amounted to Euro 63, 218 millions, and adding the 2009 amount, a total of Euro 250 million. Areas that received funds for information society promotion HEALTH & SAFETY 14% BROADBAND 34% SPECIAL NEEDS 2% EDUCATION AND KNOWLEDGE 50% 1.1. Ensuring access and services for all Going against the economic conjuncture and some of its consumers with increased budget constraints, PT created a special price plan for customers in a long-term unemployment situation. Universal Service In the scope of the delivery of the universal service, PT continued to ensure the access to telecommunications services to underprivileged communities and/or geographically away from urban centres’, thus ensuring that all citizens may access a basic set of services of general interest irrespective of its location and/or consumption profile. 122 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Public Payphones At national level, PT had the following public payphones offering telephone or Internet service: Public payphones – 31,365 Public payphones with Internet access– 70 (52 dos access points at Public Payphone stores) Public Payphones on the streets accessible by users with special mobility needs – 310 Public Payphones deemed of special interest by the regulator – 2,936 The number of public payphones installed in places with less than 1,000 inhabitants – 11,349 Solutions for low income markets The offering of PT services comprises all profile needs, making available an integrated offer for low-income consumers. These services and respective prices are published at the company website. Wireline – price plans http://casa.telecom.pt/ptresidencial2 Wireless http://www.tmn.pt/portal/site/tmn Broadband http://adsl.sapo.pt/prodtarif.html Contingency plans to ensure the continuity of the service delivery In case of situations of absence of service due to acts of vandalism, natural catastrophes including other situations, PT has a number of contingency plans that can be activated, ensuring service continuity under acceptable conditions in as short a time as possible. Special solutions for citizens with special needs In the case of programs to improve the accessibility to the information and communication technologies by institutions and entities working in the domain of the disabilities, or by citizens with special needs, the PT Foundation continued to develop and make available a number of products and services (wireline and wireless Special Solutions) for people with different types of impairments or disabilities, severe illnesses or elderly people at risk, taking into consideration the specificities of the following disability areas: • Sight; • Speech-Communication; • Cognition; • Neural-motor Dysfunction; • Hearing. The composition of these solutions requires adaptation oriented in accordance with each need identified that can be found at www.fundacao.pt. 1.2. Digital literacy and Knowledge access Portugal is one of the European countries with one of the best infrastructures of access to broadband, to Internet and to IPTV services. PT has strongly contributed to this reality, as it is the leader in the several broadband internet access platforms and it has maintained a high level of investment in upgrading the network and in launching services adapted to several consumer profiles. We are experiencing today a real turning point in a wide group of areas in our life. We are contemporaneous of a world each time more dematerialized where we can multiply time and resources. Transferring information at 100 Mbps is not more than an industry evolution – it is a paradigm change. All these transformations have repercussions in our day-to-day life: at home, at school, in health, lifestyles and PT wishes to play an active role in such change. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 123 03 Creating Value for Society | Inclusion and Digital Literacy of the Population The application of new technologies, namely the new fibre optic network, to the universe of education, healthcare, and security enables the creation and use of solutions that promote social sustainability. These are 3 scopes of activity to which PT is especially committed: • Education, we are involved in a vast number of initiatives in all geographies where we operate and are involved in a vast set of initiatives in all geographies where we operate and that aim to promote access to education, info-inclusion and generation of talent, using communication technologies as a lever of change and progress. • Healthcare, we are pioneers in the inntroduction of pilot-solutions that narrow the relationship between doctor and patient, eliminate the geographical factor as an element of social discrimination in access to healthcare and introduce new possibilities of diagnosis, clinical follow-up and process simplification. • Security, we implemented a number of innovative solutions that promote critical information sharing between authorities and citizens, the correct and safe use of information technologies, new ways of relationship with police forces and geo-referenciation of equipments and people. PT’s approach to education and ICT impact on the country DISTRIBUTION OF 780,000 COMPUTERS WITH INTERNET ACCESS PT EDUCATION INTERNET ACCESS IN ABOUT 6,000 SCHOOLS PROGRAMS IN PORTUGAL AWARENESS ACTIONS FOR USE OF ENTERTAINMENT AND DIDACTIC CONTENTS AWARENESS ACTIONS FOR SAFE INTERNET USE 2007 2010 AT SCHOOLS IN PORTUGAL, EACH STUDENT HAD TO SHARE A COMPUTER WITH EIGHT MORE COLLEAGUES; IN 2009, EACH STUDENT HAS TO SHARE A COMPUTER WITH ONE MORE COLLEAGUE AS CAN BE INFERRED FROM DATA BELOW STUDENTS/COMPUTER WITH Finland INTERNET ACCESS +75% Lithuania 2007 1 COMPUTER WITH INTERNET ACCESS IS EU SHARED BY 8.9 STUDENTS UK Germany Bulgaria Romania BROADBAND Sweden +5.5% Portugal 2009 1 COMPUTER WITH INTERNET ACCESS IS Belgium SHARED BY 2.3 STUDENTS Denmark 0.0% 4.0% 8.0% 12.0% BROADBAND PENETRATION IN THE POPULATION IN 2010 Data in Portugal (Eurostat) 124 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 approach to education The information relative to PT’s activity axes, objectives and initiatives in education are described in the following table: Approach to education Axes of activity Objectives Initiatives Infrastructures Reinforce the set of computing equiments in E-schools program and school of the each classroom; Future; Promote internet access in the classroom; WANs Program Provide internet access in the classroom; LANs Program Contents Increase production and shared use of digital Sapo Portal pedagogical contents in Portuguese Create electronic platform to support school PIBE Program management to improve management efficiency, information access and communication among educational community Training Ensure training actions with technical and A number of initiatives carried ou for pedagogical contents to all elements of school community, senior or underprivieducational system. leged population Results of programs In general, PT contributed to bring Portugal closer to European rates in terms of mobile broadband and digital literacy: PT Solutions – Contribution to Education improvement High Speed internet conection WAN Program: high-speed interconnection of 6,300 schools and 19 delegations of Minitry for Education; LAN Program: local networks in more than 1,000 schools to provide iternet in the entire school space using fixed (Ethernet) and wireless (Wi-Fi) infrastructure. 100 schools already have 100 Mbps connections. Technological park in the classroom e.iniciatives: participation in e.school, e.teacher and e.opportunities programs (provision of portable computers with broadband access under attractive conditions); TMN responsible for 85.5% of adherences to program (from a total of 850,000 people); 780,000 portables with mobile broadband distributed by e.schools program; Portugal in 2nd position in Europe in Mobile Broadband (16.1% vs 5.7% European average); 1st Tele-classroom solution in Portugal: developed to facilitate school integration of students with disabilities or severe illnesses, during hospital stays. It has already benefited more than 400 children and youngsters. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 125 03 Creating Value for Society | Inclusion and Digital Literacy of the Population Production and sharing of pedagogical contents SAPO Kids website, developed by PT for Portugal, Cape Verde, Angola and Mozambique, to promote learning and online information search; Scratch, educational program resulting from a partnership between PT and MIT to allow exercising creativity and scientific, logical and mathematical thinking by providing simplified computer programming tools, on the basis of which projects may be developed. There already more than 14,000 projects on the Portuguese platform. Virtual school (Porto Editora) and Escola da Malta, which allow learning online with free classes for the first school cycle; Tiradúvidas, educational support service for the first school cycle. Training ICT use Knowledge Roadshow: 2 buses equipped with advanced technological and pedagogical solutions that crossed 32 municipalities throughout the country, giving priority to remote areas, underprivileged populations and groups Communicating with Security: practical training by PT volunteers to students and teachers on responsible internet, mobile and TV use. In 2010, this program was done in partnership with a police force – GNR – and counted on more than 67 employees/volunteers from PT who promoted training actions in 40 schools, in a total of more than 6,000 students. Projects for education and knowledge promotion Unique commitment with CMU Program in terms of R&D, in partnership with Carnegie Mellon University and the Ministry for Science, Technology and University Education involving a 5 working year period and the Carnegie Mellon University, availability of human resources and materials, to underpin R&D projects.. Protocol with Gulbenkian Foundation, to support Doctoral program in Mathematical and Computing Biology that enables que operation of the respective laboratory approach in healthcare Our intervention in healthcare, respective solutions and results contribute to improving the quality of life of the users: Solutions and results in the Healthcare areas Mobile healthcare solutions Tele Home Care: ‘Panic button’ solution for emergencies with direct connection to dedicated Call Centre, available 24h a day, 365 days a year; BabyCare: Pioneer system worldwide to allow parents of premature babies in the intensive care room, a constant contact with their children from their home, 24h/day (40 cameras installed; 575 potential beneficiaries/year in intermediate care and 69 in intensive care). 126 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Telemedicine Services Medigraf Tele-consultation: Integrated communication and integrated solution to support remote medical consultations. More than 10 years experience and more than 8,000 tele-consultations in Pediatric and Fetal Cardiology. Includes 50 healthcare units in Portugal + 2 Hospitals in Angola + 1 Hospital in Cape Verde. Efficiente healthcare unit management Healthcare centre of the Future: Integrated solution for information, management and prevention, allowing efficiency and productivity gains. Its main features are: contact management, including notification of users and corporate TV , enabling waiting queues and makes available useful information and entertainment contents. Impact on the use of the services of the Healthcare Unit of S. Julião: 50% reduction in waiting list in terms of patient average waiting time; Online healthcare Services User Portal: Portal developed with several features that facilitate citizen’s life (more than 600 users of USF S. Julião with access to the Portal). Collaborative Portals: Portals that allow sharing of information, knowledge and innovation among healthcare professionals, increasing and improving their knowledge. Electronic Medical and Health Records Electronic Clinical Process: Digitisation of clinical process through solutions that allow efficiency gains and increase in user satisfaction My Sapo Health: First personalised system with health information in Portugal with free access that allows recording, organizing and managing health information. Since lauch at end of May 2010, there were more than 800,000 visits and 2,400,000 pageviews. approach in security Development of solutions that facilitate and promote security in several dimensions: Solutions and results in the Security areas Security portal of Ministry of Internal Administration: Portal : Alows sharing information with citizens a and institutions. The portal includes preventive and reactive information, contact ad participation of occurrences and, just for institutions, sharing and access to restricted information and decision support systems. Since its launch in August 2009, the portal has received more than 90,000 visits, being the most sought issue: Domestic Violence. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 127 03 Creating Value for Society | Inclusion and Digital Literacy of the Population Precinct of 21st Century PT installed an innovative solution in the Estoril precinct allowing a new security model, a new way of relatioship with police forces and increased qualification and skills from security officers. The solution includes videosurveillance outside the precinct, videoconferencing between precincts, and multimedia kiosk with useful information, corporate TV, mail and waiting list management and online training for officers. During the six months of the pilot in 2009, the Portal of the precinct received more than 30,000pageviews and the information kiosk was used 300 times. Geo-referenciation TMN Car Control: Allows, via SMS or Web, locating a vehicle, remote ignition blocking and unblocking, receiving and activating alarm button with direct link to security forces. TMN Localizz: Allows real time locating of a person or equipment through the location of the mobile phone. 128 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Social Responsibility in the Community The essential prerequisite for Portugal Telecom’s social responsibility is respect for the values of the societies where it operates and bases its activity on the commitment to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of all, namely through awareness programs for social, school and professional inclusion and the inherent promotion of knowledge, health, safety of people, goods and environment. This activity targets mainly underprivileged layers of the population and, among these, children, youngsters and senior citizens. A PT is a member of the London Benchmark Group and seeks to assess the impact of its social intervention according to the respective methodology. The response to the social intervention and development support commitment by the Group is materialised externally through its commercial brands and through the PT Foundation that made a total investment in society amounting to 5 million Euros in 2010. 2.1. Social and cultural support by commercial brands PT’s commercial brands, namely MEO, TMN and SAPO, in the scope of their marketing campaigns and/ or whenever their services proved to be useful to social causes or catastrophes, support needy entities. In 2010, this support amounted to approximately Euro 1 million, with the following distribution: CULTURE 16% ENVIRONMENT 1% EDUCATION 1% HEALTHCARE 22% SOCIAL SOLIDARITY 60% These initiatives target essentially support and recovery from international catastrophes, support to social solidarity institutions, temporarily with budget restrictions. One of the examples highlighted is the ‘PT Solidarity Campaign’ after the catastrophe in Haiti at the beginning of January 2010. In this campaign, customers were invited to help Haitian citizens hit by the earthquake through a telephone call. With the value collected by PT and TMN, it was possible to help non-governmental organisations with missions in Haiti, such as AMI, Red Cross and Médicos do Mundo, which distributed food, medication or shelters. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 129 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community 2.2. Portugal Telecom Foundation The initiatives of the PT Foundation amounted to Euro 4 million in 2010, distributed by the following areas: DISTRIBUTION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS MADE DIGITAL INCLUSION 31% OTHER 12% HISTORY AND HERITAGE 32% VOLUNTERING 9% ARTS AND CULTURE 7% EDUCATION 6% HEALTHCARE 3% The PT Foundation is a non-profit private institution deemed of public utility whose strategic orientation targets the following intervention areas: PT FOUNDATION | PRIORITY INTERVENTION AREAS COMBAT AGAINST INFO-EXCLUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS SOLUTIONS FOR FOR CITIZENS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS EDUCATION AND LITERACY VIDEOCONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY AT THE SERVICE OF TEACHING HEALTH AVAILABILITY OF VIDEO-SURVEILLANCE AND TELEMEDICINE SOLUTIONS FOR HEALTHCARE UNITS VOLUNTEER WORK PARTICIPATION OF PT EMPLOYEES IN VOLUNTEER WORK ACTIONS 2.2.1. Info-exclusion combat Info-exclusio combat Euro 1.24 million 130 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PT and TMN special solutions for citizens with special needs Circa 3,809 people with special needs and institutions for social, school or hospital support benefited from solutions (devices and/or services) specifically prepared by PT for each one of them. This number covers the number of beneficiaries that use services permanently and new acquisitions of equipment, software or special services in 2010. In the case of programs to improve the accessibility to the information and communication technologies by institutions and entities working in the domain of the disabilities, or by citizens with special needs, the PT Foundation continued to develop and make available a number of products and services (wireline and wireless Special Solutions) for people with different types of impairments or disabilities, severe illnesses or elderly people at risk, taking into consideration the specificities of the following disability areas: • Sight; • Speech-Communication; • Cognition; • Neural-motor Dysfunction; • Hearing. The composition of these solutions requires adaptation oriented in accordance with each need identified and its purpose and features can be found at: www.fundacao.pt. Social, school and professional inclusion initiatives These initiatives target skills training and acquisition for socially underprivileged people, aiming to surpass communication barriers as the result of their disabilities: Estrela (Star) Project– adapted for cerebral palsy Estrela (Star) Project partnership between the PT Foundation and the Federation of the Portuguese Cerebral Palsy Associations (APPC) involves the installation of PT Foundation centres with educational and training resources at the 19 Cerebral Palsy Associations throughout the country. These spaces have special PT solutions and ADSL Internet access. In 2010, APCC from Porto joined the initiative in the Lousada delegation, having been installed a new centre with augmentative communication and Internet access. Urano (Uranus) Project– adapted for mental disability The Uranus project, signed with Humanitas (Portuguese Federation for Mental Disability) enabled the aims to support for the support of skills of mentally disabled people, covering the total of 34 institutions federated at Humanitas. In 2010, a new centre at APERCIM in Mafra as added, and software In older equipment of the first phase was upgraded. Astro Project– adapted for students with educational needs Continuing the partnership with the Directorate-General for Innovation and Curriculum Development (DGIDC) of the Ministry for Education, 27 centres for evaluation, demonstration, experimentation and training of technologies of support for neural-motor, visual, intellectual disability and users of augmentative communication. Considering the efficiency of the project, created in 2006, the ASTRO centres were complemented with the CRTIC (Centros de recursos TIC para a educação especial) equiping them more technology and ensuring the necessary educational technicians. During the 2009/2010 school year, the 27 existing centres benefited 1,072 students who were evaluated and/or trained in the use of special technologies. TeleClassroom was developed to facilitate the school integration of students with disabilities or severe illnesses during their stay at the hospital or in isolation/convalescence at home. In these locations, the installation of a solution enabling the use of videotelephony, file transfer, document sharing by students and teachers is ensured. This solution based o IP technology has a new version, easier to use, being the software upgraded as disinstallations/new installations occur, being also installed the ADSL or Mobile Broadband version, depending on the type of use of each student. During the 2009/2010, 15 students benefited from Tele-Classroom during their hospital stay, or due to severe disability. Using the same Tele-Classroom system with MBB version, a protocol between the PT Foundation and ACREDITAR was established to allow students with cancer to benefit from this solution. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 131 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community John Paul II Project– adapted for neural-motor disability This project is the result of a protocol signed in 2009 with the John Paul II Centre for People with Profound Disabilities that enabled to equip Moinhos School with 1 centre for digital inclusion of people with special needs and a Home for people with disabilities. In 2010, under Sunflower 3G project, a pertnership of the PT Foundatio with Qualcomm’s Wireles Reach, the Joh Paul II Centre was equipped with with a MyTobii. It is an eye-controlled system, highly sophisticated, that allows the evaluation of cases of neural-motor disability and visual disability associated, experimenting and training, in a configuration as an excellence centre for evaluation of the central zone of the country. Inclusive CNO– Centre for New Opportunities for stuents with disabilities Support technologies were installed at Casa Pia in Lisbon for students with neural-motor disability, for people with sensorial disabilities (blind, amblyopic, deaf and deaf-blind people), and a protocol was celebrated with the Inclusive CNO of Arrábida which will operate at the Lima de Freitas school in Setúbal. St. Nicholas Project – adapted for senior citizens in isolation This project of support for lonely senior citizens was developed in partnership with the St Nicholas Parish Social Centre and the Local Council of St. Nicholas, aims to create a solidary network of support for senior citizens underprivileged of Downtown Lisbon who live in a situation of isolation and solitude. In 2010 this project was extended to the entire city of Lisbon, namely the Campo Grande parish. This project that covers 71 senior citizens enables the beneficiaries to initiate an alarm call to the St. Nicholas Parish Social Centre which is equipped with technicians who will forward the help request to the right contact of the social network of the senior citizen. Escol@ Felis Project – train health and education technicians in terms of Inclusion for people with special needs This project was managed and developed in cooperation with PT Inovação and aims to create a training area on the Formare platform, specifically for the health and education technicians involved in the social intervention projects for the digital inclusion of people with special needs, in the scope of the partnerships of the Foundation. There were training modules made available about GRID2 to 33 institutions that are part of the Uranus Project. The support for the development of new contents for FELIS was upported namely: PT GRID2 Advanced, from ANDITEC; “Care Well, Do Better”, from ADVITA to support people who take care of persons with special needs. PRO LGP, from the Catholic University in Lisbon, with contents for a university degree in Portuguese Gestural Language. Relay Centre for Contact with Deaf People The PT Foundation in collaboration with the Portuguese Federation of Deaf Associations and the National Rehabilitation Institute supported the development and implementation of the Relay Centre installed at the headquarters of this Federation, for contact with desf people through the Portuguese Gestural Language. Through this support, whose aim is to support the infrastructure and communications, the PT Foundation provides for each attendance position, the installation, subscription and communications of a analogue line and an ADSL access. It also provides for each contact centre position, a telephone with headset. 132 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Sunflower Project – donation of special equipment The Sunflower project aims to donate equiment with technology supported on the fied or mobile (3G or BLM) networks for augmentative communication with special software as well as other support equipment to people with profound disabilities withour resources to acquire such devices at the subsidized price. The following technologies stand out: PT TeleClasroom, PT Magic (amblyopic people), PT JAWS (blind people) ad PT Magic Eye (neural-motor disability). In 2010, children and youngsters from several institutions namely CECD (CERCI from Mira-Sintra), UTAAC from the Calouste Gulbenkian Palsy Centre and ‘Inválidos do Comércio’. Two projects relative to school inclusion of university students with special needs were also supported, namely: A Computer Engineering student from the University of Porto with Duchenne muscular dystrophy; A Sociology student at ISCTE benefits from the Tele-Classroom system in the scope of the UR project. The mobile component of Sunflower has been developed in the scope of the PT Foundation partnership with Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach. Snowball Project – digital inclusion of citizens with disabilities The Snowball project is the result of a partnership with the Ministry of Health and comprises the creation of 23 centres for the digital inclusion of handicapped people or with neural-motor, speech or degenerative neural-muscular disabilities where 3G technologies will be installed with software and other support devices. This project aims to facilitate communication with health professionals, stimulate training and scientific activities, facilitate patient communication and insertion in their social and family environment and enable IT access through the Internet, as well as the reception and sending of SMS and MMS messages. In 2010, 19 of the 23 centres in the project were installed according to the priorities defined by the Directorate-General of Health. Sun and Light Projects – creation of 14 centres for people with mental disability or multi-disabilities The Light project is a partnership between the PT Foundation and Fenacerci (National Federation of Social Solidarity Cooperatives) This project will equip institutions with augmentative technologies allowing personal rehabilitation programs that promote social inclusion through literacy development. In 2010, 3 of the 8 centre of the project were installed. The Moon project is a partnership between the PT Foundation and Unicrisano (Union of Children’s Recovery Centre of the Santarém district) that aims to create 6 centres for people with mental disability or multidisabilities. Unicrisano works with different mental disabilities, such as motor, speech, visual or hearing disabilities. This project will allow people supported by Unicrisano to develop an educational or training plan, promoting their autonomy and a better quality of life. Both projects are included in the scope of the partnership between the PT Foundation and Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach, whose aim is to put 3G and BLM technologies to the service of people with special needs. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 133 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community 2.2.2. Education and literacy Education and literacy Euro 0.29 million Programs for training and skills acquisition of underprivileged population A computer, an opportunity – recycling and access to new technologies This is a company social responsibility initiative that ensures the distribution of computers, withdrawn from active service within the PT Group but still in good condition of work, to entities of reference with valid projects in the area of social development and information society. The recipients of this program are entities with defined educational projects and with evident need of this type of equipment. The delivery of this equipment in mainland Portugal was made by DHL in the scope of a specific cooperation protocol included in the respective social responsibility program. In 2010, 306 computers were donated to 40 Portuguese institutions from all over the country, and 1,248 computers went to Portuguese-speaking countries. In these countries, the identification of beneficiaries as well as the delivery is done by local PT subsidiaries, namely 300 to Cape Verde, 300 to Sao Tome ad 20 to Angola. Mozambique received 284 computers to equip Professional schools in that country, in the scope of a project covering the whole territory and involving the cooperation of the Ministries of Education of both countries. Additionally, 40 portable computers were donated to regional and provincial coordinators of the project.. Communicating with Security – sharing knowledge to ensure responsible use of equipment, contents and functionalities As a result of a pilot launched last year, the PT Foundation developed an extensive program during 2010 to raise the awareness of students and teachers for IT literacy issues, particularly the safe use of mobiles and internet. The training actions take place in a classroom environment in order to leverage their results, ensured by PT volunteers under the internal regulations that enable their participation in volunteering actions during normal office hours without penalties in terms of remuneration or absenteeism rate. For such purpose, specific pedagogical contents were prepared for each one of the different school levels, namely basic and secondary level, being assured the uniformity of transmission of contents through previous training actions and using usual means of support. A iniciativa recolheu uma expressiva adesão, e ao longo do ano lectivo as acções do Comunicar em Segurança foram levadas a 40 estabelecimentos de ensino, para um universo de 6.058 alunos de várias localidades de Portugal Continental, e que envolveram 67 voluntários PT. The initiative enjoyed a large participation and throughout 2010, the ‘Communicating with Security’ actions were brought to 39 schools, for a universe of 6,058 students in mainland Portugal, involving 106 PT volunteers. Bora Nessa Project Inspired on a Venezuelan system, the Generation/Bora Nessa project – thet groups orchestras constituted by students from Mário de Sá Carneiro schools in Camarate, and Bartolomeu Dias in Sacavém, and Apelação – covers currently circa 70 youngsters and seeks to assert itself as a social and educational response for young people from underprivileged areas. Apart from the support in terms of funds, the PT Foundation provided a stay for these children, exclusively, in a boarding school regime, at PT’s holiday camp in Verdizela. The Generation/Bora Nessa performed throughout the year in different locations in Lisbon, namely Aula Magna, Sao Luís Municipal Theatre, Camões Theatre and Fórum Picoas. 134 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PT Foundation supports education and research Proceeding with its suport for the Doctoral degree in Computer Biology, the PT Foundation contiues to esure communications, making available a high-speed broadbad link, between the Gulbenkian Science Institute and the scientific national/international network managed by the Foundation for National Scientific Calculus. The quality of the research and educational activities in this matter, and the interest in in establishing contact with the best international centres a scientists were ecisive aspects for this partnership. The scientists within the program lead locally scientific research projects, with preference for issues relevant for the Portuguese scientific community, and participate in the teaching activities developed at the GSI or other university-level institutions, being encouraged to cooperate with researchers in other research institutions in Portugal. The PT Foundation underpinned and supported top institutions and organisations in initiatives and projects oriented towards education and knowledge, among which stand out: . American Club of Lisbon/Fundação PT scholarship. . City of Lisbon Foundation scholarships (2). . Scholarship granted to a young man to pursue his academic training in Oxford. . Support for the Friends without Frontiers ONG with a view to the operation of a residence for students pursuing their university degree in the city of Beira, Mozambique. . The intention is to raise the qualification of local managers through educational facilities in their own country which is in need of critical mass to assert itself. . Support for the University of Lisbon with a view to preparing the celebration of its centenary. . Support for the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. Study Visits Seeking to make young people aware of the business reality and the work universe, the PT Foundation has bee reparing and accompanying visits from groups of school students to PT’s installations, namely the Satellite Operations Centre, PT Inovação, the Network Management Centre and Picoas Data Centre, Monsanto Broadcasting Centre, Call Centre at Moeda Street, PT-SI and Sapo. During 2010, 489 students benefited from such visits. 2.2.3. Health Health Euro 0.12 million Donation of goods, services or financial donations, to several helthcare organisations and institutions “BabyCare” – newborn follow-up The BabyCare solution was initially made available at the D. Alfredo da Costa Maternity, a pioeer experience worldwide. This solution allows the parents of premature babies to follow up on their children through camera images installed at the incubators, anyplace, anytime wherever a fixed or mobile intenet access is available, being enough to enter an identification and a password attributed by the Maternity, in order to guarantee the respective privacy. During the year 2010, a vast maintenance operation on the equipments installed at the maternity was carried out, and throughout 2010 92 families took advantage of this technology. At Júlio Dinis Maternity in Porto, an identical solution was used by 125 families throughout last year. The relevance of BabyCare in terms of healthcare humanization justified the installation of the system at the Bragança maternity, endowed with equipment for 6 incubators since mid-December 2010. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 135 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community Telemedicine – Consultations and consultation scheduling Through the videoconferencing service and the new web functionalities, healthcare units and patientsstrted to benefit from a number of new functionalities facilitating the relationship between doctors and patients. In December 2010, a protocol with Marquês Valle Flor Institute that establishes the support of the PT Foundation through the donation and respective installation of two Medigraf systems (one in Lisbon at the MVFI headquarters and another one in Sao Tome & Principe at the Dr, Ayres de Menezes Central Hospital), thus allowing tele-consultations between both countries. The project aims to improve the delivery of healthcare services to the population of São Tome, namely through remote diagnosis and follow-up, enabling a more effective intervention and contributing to a foreseeable reduction in patient evacuations to Portugal. Additionally, this system will contribute to an improvement in the degree of differentiation of healthcare professionals in Sao Tome, through their contact and collaboration work with specialists in Portugal who will perform the consultations. The necessary communications system in São Tome is expected to be concluded in February 2011, a date from which tele-consultations will be able to commence. My Sapo Health – Personalised health information management In the context of a partnership established between the PT Foundation and the National School for Public Health (ENSP), conditios for the development a research project focused on the development and use of a system providing citizens with personalized access to their health information and respective electronic management under conditions of strict confidentiality and security. This computer-based support – My Sapo Health – was developed by SAPO and counted on the contributions from ENSP to the improvement of the technological platform and the drawing up of specific test-contexts with a view to make them available and disseminate them via this platform. The system enables the use to manage different kinds of health information such as for example personal parameters (weight, blood pressure, heartbeat rate, glycemic index, etc.) and recordimportant information such as allergies, food habits, routines of physical exercise, treatments, medication and scheduling of consultations. The application provides also a number of relevant functionalities such as the access to safe and renowned websites on specific health issues (also a ENSP contribution) or information on healthcare units, doctors and pharmacies in the vicinity of the user through a geo-referenciation system. There are 1,335 users currently registered. 2.2.4. Group History and Heritage Group History and Heritage Euro 1.49 million Publications “History of Telecommunications in Portugal – from the General Directorate of Telegraphs of the Realm to Portugal Telecom” work developed over some years of inventorying and study of the historical, technological and documentary heritage of the PT Group. This work, authored by Professor Fernanda Rollo, was sponsored and the respective book was edited by the PT Foundation. This book condenses the essential in telecommunications evolution in Portugal over one century and a half. The said work was the winner of the Grand Prize APCE 2010 in the Historical Responsibility and Company Memory category. 136 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Museological Nucleus of Vilar In this space lies the historical witness of the reality of what were the telephone central offices of manual switching (assisted by telephone operators) and how they operated, dated from the first half of the 20th century. This space has several models of old telephones on show, enabling visitors to follow the evolution of communications, since its introduction in Portugal until nowadays. It was visited in 2010 by 714 people, mostly students, from various levels of education and by various associations as well. Portugal Telecom Collection of Contemporaneous Art In order to make known Portugal Telecom Collection of Contemporaneous Art, a protocol with the municipality of Alcochete was celebrated to organise another exhibition. Between 16 April and 31 July 2010, at the Alcochete Culture Forum, twenty works from contemporaneous Portuguese artists were exhibited to the public, having been presented works from António Palolo, Alice Geirinhas, Gaëtan, João Tabarra, Joana Rosa, João Vieira, João Pedro Vale, Joaquim Bravo, Joaquim Rodrigo, Lourdes Castro, Manuel João Vieira, Martinha Maia, Miguel Soares, Paula Rego, Pedro Cabral Santo, Pedro Portugal and Pedro Proença. The exhibition was visited by 845 people. Portuguese Communications Foundation In the domain of heritage maintenance and preservation, the support for the Portuguese Communications Foundation (FPC) of which Portugal Telecom is a founder was kept. In 2010, a vast document and technological heritage in the domain of communications was concentrated in a sole location, part of it is already treated in the context of the History and Heritage Project, and another part whose future treatment will allow extending the heritage shown to the public in the museum of the Portuguese Communications Foundation (FPC), dedicated to communications and their evolution. Support for culture and citizenship projects • National Culture Centre – Support for the e-culture channel of this institution; • World Press Cartoon – Support for the organisation of this international cartoon show; • European Strategy Forum – Association for Culture Debate – Support for the activities of this association that include seminars, conferences and workshops on strategic issues relative to the European Union and its member states. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 137 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community 2.2.5. Environment Environment Euro 0.19 million RITF Project Contribution to implement a Funchal municipality recovery plan, due to the Winter catastrophe (floods and devastation caused by the flow of water) occurred in Madeira at the begining of 2010. Funchal Ecological Park Contribution to soil cleaning, removal of burnt trees, eradication of infestating species, regarding the florest regeneration devastated during the summer fire which afected over 90% of the park. Lagoa das Furnas Integrated Park Contribution to water quality recovery, eliminating sources of contamination that lead to lagoon eutrophication, which allows exploring historical, cultural, geological and landscape heritage of the region. International Year of Forests Support, in cooperation with SAPO, for the development of the official website of the International Year of Forests, to promote activities that will take place in 2011. 2.2.6. Support for patronage initiatives and projects Support for patronage initiatives and projects Euro 0.30 million Match-fund raising actions • The “Let’s offer dreams” campaign was promoted by the PT Foundation, in partnership with Sapo, structured on a mach-fund basis to suport “Terra dos Sonhos” Institution. During two days, in several PT buildings in Lisbon, Porto, Coimbra, Faro and Porto Salvo, PT employees were able to buy t-shirts, pencils and “Terra dos Sonhos” coloring books, contributing with donations freely defined by each donor, having the PT Foundation granted donation of the same amount. The combined donations, from employees and the PT Foundation, will enable 19 “dreams” of crianças with cronic diseases or in an advanced state of evolution. • Christmas Solidary initiative – Also in a match-fund raising context launched in December, PT employees where invited to contribute with their donation for a solidarity initiative for three social solidarity institutions. The PT Foundation contributed with a donation worth twice the total amount received from employees, have been benefited, by this initiative, Casa do Gaiato, Life and Peace Community, Mafamude Social Center. 138 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2.3. Volunteering PT has several volunteering projects whose aim is to support projects in needy areas of the community or environment and to motivate employees and respective families to citizenship-related activities. • Company volunteering – makes it possible for every PT employee to donate 6 full days of volunteer work during normal office hours without affecting the respective remuneration or absenteeism rate; In this domain in 2010, more than 250 PT volunteers performed circa 1,550 hours of volunteer work to 59 institutions (schools and institutions supporting socially underprivileged people), to the direct benefit of more than 7,200 people. The organisation of these programs involved an amout of Euro 0.37 million. • Family volunteering – organized outside normal office hours, it involves the participation of employees and their families. In this scope, in 2010, 600 volunteers participated in 7 social and environment initiatives. Areas of intervention of volunteer work SHARING COLLECTION OF CLOTHES AND FOOD DISTRIBUTION TO HOMELESS CULTURE PROVISION OF ENTERTAINING EXPERIENCES TO UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN TRAINING MICRO-COMPUTING TRAINING AND WEBSITE CONSTRUCTION ENVIRONMENT CIVIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES MAY PARTICIPATE UP TO SIX DAYS PER ANNUM WITHOUT AFFECTING ABSENTEEISM RATE The national community relied on the voluntary collaboration of about 850 volunteers from PT and at least 1,550 hours of support actions. COMPANY VOLUNTEERING FAMILY VOLUNTEERING 1,550 592 270 7 VOLUNTEERS VOLUNTEERING HOURS VOLUNTEERS Nº. INITIATIVES PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 139 03 Creating Value for Society | Social Responsibility in the Community 66 institutions benefited from PT Volunteer Work Circa 7,500 citizens benefited from support from PT Volunteer Work COMPANY VOLUNTEERING INItIATIVES Dawn Program The Dawn Program is a bank of hours of company voluntary work of PT employees who are given the opportunity of donating 5 days per annum during normal working time to participate in social development projects,; considering the number of involved hours, this is a unique program in terms of corporate volunteer work. • “Communicating with Security”, • Heart Challenge – promoted by the Portuguese Cardiology Fundation; • Right Arm Program – to give students the opportunity of contacting professional reality in their interest areas. • Pluto Project – Interior architecture and lighting projects were executed, as well as the telecommunications infrastructures project for the “Big House”, a shelter home and training centre for youngsters with Asperger syndrome; • CUTE Project– Recreation of entertaining and leisure spaces to improve quality of life in underprivileged areas; • Rastrillo solidarity Fair – Fund collection for New Future Association. • Let’s reuse school books – this action involved collecting used school books from PT employees. The books were delivered in pre-defined collection points, and later selected by volunteers for reuse. Part of the collected books (circa 100) were distributed to company employees who needed them, havig most (circa 900) been given to the Social Support Fund for Cape-Verdeans in Portugal, which forwarded them to the Santa Cruz municipality, Santiago Island. In the initiatives in the scope of this program, there were 203 volunteers who offered a total amount of 633 working hours, havig been benefited 47 institutions and circa 7,000 direct beneficiaries. Share Project A long-term company voluntary work project, unknown in Portugal, born out of a protocol with Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa (NGO), according to which computing equipment and respective training actions are made available to youngsters and senior citizens supported by that institution. In 2010, 5 PT employees participated in the project amounting to 441 working hours benefiting 13 direct recipients. Hand-in-Hand Project This project targets private social solidarity institutions, as well as hospitals and schools, which operate in the domain of info-excluded citizens. The development of the Hand-in-Hand project will include specific tasks, the signatory companies being committed to make available employees to participate during normal working hours. 140 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Coordenated by Portugal Telecom Fundation, Hand-in-Hand project has the participation, availability and commitment of the following companies:: Allianz, BP Portugal, Sacoor Brothers, Cisco, DHL, INOV, Jason, Mandala, Microsoft, Nova Delta, Opway, SAS, Siemens, Xerox, Prossegur, PT Comunicações, TMN, PT Contact, PT Inovação, PT PRO, and PT SI. The actions developed in the scope of the Hand-in-Hand project were as follows: • “A Week at the Prisons” involving the prisons of Setúbal, Sintra, Vale de Judeus, Especial de Santa Cruz do Bispo and Castelo Branco where the activities developed included the improvement of spaces, Portuguese museum on-line visiting and forums of discussion through www.culturaonline.pt portal. • “Conchinhas do Mar” – summer action at Tamariz beach with children and youngsters from the Alcoitão Rehabilitation Centre, aged between 5 and 16 years. In 2010, this action benefited 20 children with neural-motor or intellectual disability, having consisted of mornings at Tamariz beach, walks and games at Gandarinha Park, horse riding and games at Aldeia Hípica Fonte Caspolina, surfing classes and caricature drawing. • “One day sailing” with the Social Centre of the municipality of Ílhavo, with Florinhas do Vouga and Centro de Acolhimento de Emergência Infantil de Aveiro, a centre for young people with disabilities or impairments, developing the following activities: contact with the boats, sailing on typical boat ‘Inobador’ and painting of a panel. • “Week with Senior Citizens” – action developed in collaboration with St. Nicholas Parish Centre in Lisbon and Yellow Heart associations from Sintra and Cacém, which consisted of small repair works at the homes of some senior citizens, online visits to Portuguese musems, and a bus tour to Fátima. In 2010, 69 PT employees participated in the project, amounting to 483 working hours benefiting 11 institutions and 207 direct recipients. FAMILY VOLUNTEERING INItIATIVES Family volunteer work (post labour time) Solidary Look + Solidary House Giving Hands without Age Clean Portugal Solidary Tour Heart Challenge + Solidary Christmas Food Bank 4-Legged Friend PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 141 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Declaration of the person with greater decision power in the organisation (i.e. General-Director, Chairman of the Board 12-14 or position of equivalent importance) 1.2 Description of main impacts, risks and opportunities, related to the activity of the company 16-25; 36-42 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation. 2 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services. 10-11 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main departments, participated companies in operation and joint 10-11; 50 ventures. 2.4 Location of the headquarters of the company. 2 2.5 Número de países em que a organização opera e nome dos países em que suas principais operações estão localizadas 10-11 ou são especialmente relevantes para as questões de sustentabilidade cobertas pelo relatório. 2.6 Type and legal nature of ownership. 2 2.7 Markets covered (including a detailed geographic analysis, the sectors covered and the types of beneficiaries/ 10-11 customers). 2.8 Dimension of the organisation, including number of employees, net sales (for organisations of the private sector) or 10-11; 20; 100 net revenue (for organisations of the public sector) and the amount of products provided and services rendered. 2.9 Main changes occurred, during the period covered by the report, in terms of dimension, organisational structure or 52 the shareholder structure. 2.10 Prizes received during the period of the report. 26-27 3. Parameters of the Report 3.1 Period covered (i.e. civil/ fiscal year) for the information presented in the report. 5 3.2 Date of the latest published report (if applicable). 5 3.3 Report Publication cycle (annual, biennial, among others). 5 3.4 Person(s) to be contacted for clarifications relative to the report or its content, including electronic address and the 5 Internet site. 3.5 Process for the definition of the report content, including: the process to determine the relevance, the definition of 5; 30-32 priority issues in the scope of the report. 3.6 Boundaries of the report (countries or regions, products or services, departments, installations, joint ventures or 2,5 participated companies, as well as other limitations of specific scope). 3.7 Mention any relative specific limitations to the scope and the boundaries of the report. 5 3.8 Base for report elaboration in what concerns joint ventures, participated, partially controlled companies, leasehold 5 installations, subcontracted operations and other situations that can significantly effect the comparability between distinct periods or with reports from other organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation bases, including underlying hypotheses and techniques to the estimates 5 applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information contained in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reformulations of existing information in previous reports and the reasons for such 5 reformulations (i.e. fusions/acquisitions, change of period or year, nature of the business, methods of measurement). 3.11 Significant changes, in relation the previous reports, in terms of scope, boundary or applied methods of measurement. 5 3.12 Table that identifies the place of the standard-information in the report. 143-151 3.13 Policy and current practice relative to the search of an independent process of reliability assurance for the report. If it 5; 153-154 is not be enclosed in the reliability assurance report that follows the sustainability report, explain the scope and the base of any independent verification that has taken place as well as the nature of the existing relationship between the organisation and the auditor(s) PORTUGAL TELECOM | RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2010 143 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES 4. Governance, Commitments and Involvement 4.1 Structure of governance of the organisation, including committees subordinated to the hierarchically highest governance 50 61 body and with responsibility for specific tasks, such as the definition of the strategy or the supervision of the organisation. 4.2 Indicate if the Chairman of the hierarchically highest governance body is simultaneously an executive director (and in 52 this case which are its functions in the scope of the management of the organisation and the reasons for this composition). 4.3 Indicate, in the case of organisations with a unitary administration structure, the number of members of the 51 hierarchically highest governance body who are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms that allow the shareholders and employees to transmit recommendations or orientations to the 88; 100 hierarchically highest governance body. 4.5 Relationship between the remuneration of the members of the hierarchically highest governance body, top directors 54-60 and executives (including decision making agreements) and the organisation performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes available to the hierarchically highest governance body to prevent the occurrence of interest conflicts. 36-42; 46-50; 60 4.7 Process for the determination of the qualifications and skills demanded to the members of the hierarchically highest 54,60, 61 governance body to relatively define the strategy of the organisation relative to the issues connected to the economic, environmental and social performance. 4.8 The internal development of declaration of principles or mission, codes of conduct and principles considered relevant Principles 1 to 46, 47 for the economic, environmental and social performance, as well as the implementation phase. 10 4.9 Processes of the hierarchically highest governance body, to supervise the form how the organisation carries out the Principles 1to 36-42; 43-45; identification and the management of the economic, environmental and social performance, the identification and 10 47-50 the management of relevant risks and opportunities as well as the adhesion or compliance with the internationally accepted standards, codes of conduct and principles. 4.10 Processes for the evaluation of the performance of the hierarchically highest governance body, especially in relation 54,55, 60, 61 to the economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation on whether the precaution principle is handled by the organisation and how it is done. Principle 7 36-42; 47,48 4.12 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally of economic, environmental and social nature that the Principles 1 47,48 organisation subscribes to or defends. to10 4.13 Significant participation in associations (such as industrial associations) and/or national/international defense 45; 70-72 organisations where the organisation: holds positions in the governance bodies; participates in projects and Complete list committees; contributes with substantial financings, that exceed the normal obligations of the participants; faces the on the participation as strategical. website 4.14 Relation of the groups that constitute the interested parties involved by the organisation. 31, 32 4.15 Base for the identification and selection of the interested parties to be involved. 31, 32 4.16 Methods used to involve the interested parties including the frequency of the involvement, by type and groups, of the 31-33; 88, 92, interested parties. 100, 104 4.17 Main issues and concerns identified through the involvement of the interested parties and the measures adopted by 32-34 the organisation in their treatment, namely through the reports. Aspect – Economic Performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 19-25, 89, 90, and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.(Core) Page 43 of Annual Report EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. (Core) Principle 7 73-77 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. (Core) 21; Page 46 of Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (Core) 21 Aspect Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional) Principle 1 21 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Core) 113-119 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant Principle 6 Not relevant/ locations of operation. (Core) See justification Aspect – Indirect Economic Impactes EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through 119-141 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional) 19-25 144 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect – Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core) Principle 8 80 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. (Core) Principles 8 and 9 76 Aspect – Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core) Principle 8 81 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) Principle 8 81 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. (Additional) Principles 8 and 9 81 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy Principles 8 and 9 76, 81, 84, 85 requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. (Additional) Principles 8 and 9 81 Aspect Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core) Principle 8 81 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. (Additional) Principle 8 Not relevant/ See justification EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional) Principles 8 and 9 Not relevant/ See justification Aspect Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Principle 8 82 value outside protected areas. (Core) EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Principle 8 77 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional) Principle 8 Not relevant/ See justification EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. (Additional) Principle 8 82,83 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Principle 8 Not relevant/ operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional) See justification Aspect Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core) Principle 8 84 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core) Principle 8 84 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. (Additional) Principle 7-9 81, 84, 85 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (Core) Principle 8 Not relevant/ See justification EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. (Core) Principle 8 85 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core) Principle 8 85 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) Principle 8 86 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core) Principle 8 Not relevant/ See justification EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Principle 8 Not relevant/ Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional) See justification EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Principle 8 Not relevant/ the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. (Additional) See justification Aspect Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core) Principle 7-9 76 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. (Core) Principles 8 e 9 See justification Aspecto Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Principle 8 86 environmental laws and regulations. (Core) Aspect Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Principle 8 84 organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional) Aspect Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. (Additional) Principle 7-9 87 145 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES Social Performance: Labour Practices & Decent Work Aspect -Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. (Core) 101-103 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) Principle 6 102 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 100 (Additional) Aspect Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. (Core) Principles 1 102 and 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective Principle 3 100 agreements. (Core) Aspect Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Principle 1 111 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. (Additional) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Principle 1 102, 109 (Core) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their Principle 1 108-111 families, or community members regarding serious diseases. (Core) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional) Principle 1 105,106,108-111 Aspect Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. (Core) 108 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 108 assist them in managing career endings. (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. (Additional) 104 Aspect Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, Principles 1 102-103 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. (Core) and 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. (Core) Principles 1 103 and 6 Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights Aspect Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Principle 1to 6 114; 117-119 undergone human rights screening. (Core) See justification HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions Principle 1 to 6 118, 119 taken. (Core) HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Principle 1 to 6 108 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (Additional) Aspect Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. (Core) Principles 1,2 47-49 and 6 Aspect Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at Principle 1 to 3 See justification significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. (Core) Aspect Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the Principles 1, 2 47-49 elimination of child labor. (Core) and 5 Aspect Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to Principles 1, 2 See justification contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core) and 4 Aspect Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Principles 1 See justification rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional) and 2 146 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights Aspect Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. (Additional) Principles 1 e 2 See justification Avaliation HR10 Percentage and total number of operation subject to reviews related to human rights and impact evaluations Principles 1 to 117-119 6 (missing) Resolution HR11 Number of complains related to human rights approached and solved through formal mechanisms Principles 1 to 47-49 6 Social Performance Indicators: Society Aspect Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 36-42 communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. (Core) Aspect Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. (Core) Principle 10 36-42 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. (Core) Principle 10 108 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core) Principle 10 47-49 Aspect Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. (Core) Principle 1 a 10 46 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Principle 10 46 (Additional) Aspect Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 43, 44 (Additional) Aspect Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and 45 regulations. (Core) Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility Aspect Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Principle 1 96-97 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. (Core) PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety Principle 1 97 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional) Aspect Products and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services Principle 8 97-98 subject to such information requirements. (Core) PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Principle 8 45 information and labeling, by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional) 91-96 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 147 GRI UNGC INDICATOR PAGES Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility Aspect Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including 46, 47 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. (Core) PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 91-95 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional) Aspect Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Principle 1 96 (Additional) Aspect Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 45 products and services. (Core). 148 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 GRI ICT Supplement: List and performance of the Company Internal Operations PAGES Investment IO1 Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down by country/region. 21 IO2 Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when extending service to geographic locations and low-income See justification groups, which are not profitable. Describe relevant legislative and regulatory mechanisms. Health and Safety IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base 108-111 stations, laying cables and other outside plant. Related health and safety issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to hazardous chemicals. IO4 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) standards on exposure to radiofrequency 77, 78 (RF) emissions from handsets IO5 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) guidelines on exposure to radiofrequency 77, 78 (RF) emissions from base stations. IO6 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets. 77, 78 Infrastructure IO7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initiatives to 77, 78 reduce visual impacts. Describe approach to evaluate consultations and quantify where possible. IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing structures. See justification Access Providing Providing Access to Telecommunication Products and Services: Bridging the Digital Divide PA1 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to telecommunications products 122, 123 and services in remote and low population density areas. Include an explanation of business models applied. PA2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and services including: language, 122 culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. Include na explanation of business models applied. PA3 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services and quantify, where possible, 122 for specified time periods and locations of down time. PA4 Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services in areas where the organisation operates. Examples 122 include: customer numbers/market share, addressable market, percentage of population covered, percentage of land covered. PA5 Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the population. 123 Provide definitions selected. Include explanation of approach to pricing, illustrated with examples such as price per minute of dialogue/bit of data transfer in various remote, poor or low population density areas. PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations and for disaster relief. 123 Access to Content PA7 “Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunications products and services. 96, 97 For example: • Participation in industry initiatives or individual initiatives related to Freedom of Expression • Legislation in different markets on registration, censorship, limiting access, • Interaction with governments on security issues for surveillance purposes • Interaction with national and local authorities and own initiatives to restrict criminal or potentially unethical content. • Protecting vulnerable groups such as children. Explain how such policies and practices are adapted and applied in different countries.” Customer Relations PA8 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues. Include information provides at points of sales material. 77, 78 PA9 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in electromagnetic field research. Include description of programmes currently 70, 72 contributed to and funded by the reporting organisation. PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs. 97, 98 PA11 Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost effective, and 97, 98 environmentally preferable use. PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 149 GRI ICT Supplement: List and performance of the Company Internal Operations PAGES Technology Applications TA 1 Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered. 64-72 TA 2 Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects (e.g. a 64-72 telephone book by a database on the web or travel by videoconferencing). TA 3 Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes of customer use of the telecommunication products and services listed See justification above. Provide some indication of scale, market size, or potential savings. TA 4 Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of customer use of the products and services listed above, and See justification lessons learned for future development. This may include social consequences as well as environmental. TA 5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies. 69, 70 JustifiCATION Justification EC7 PT does not have a share policy that assumes as recruitment policy local hiring or the existence of a minimum number of expatriates (with special focus for financial functions). EN9 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that water consumption is an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN10 PT considers that its water consumption is not high enough to justify the investment in water recycling and reuse mechanisms. EN13 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that the impact on biodiversity is an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN15 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that the impact on biodiversity is an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN19 The idicator is only applicable to companies that produce equipment damaging substances for the ozone layer. PT does ot produce any equipment that emits these substances. EN23 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that the impact resulting from spills are an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN24 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that the impact resulting from hazardous waste are an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN25 The management of environmental aspects at PT is done through the existing environmental management systems that allow the identification of the most relevant aspects to take into consideration. The certification of these systems validates the classification of the criticity of the aspects to be considered. It is thus considered that the impact on biodiversity is an aspect with little relevance for PT’s activity. EN27 A few measures for protection of reduction of impact of packages to the market (MEO and TMN products), namely the use of paper with FSC-certified paper and the use of more ecologic paint are being implemented. HR1 This indicator is not relevant for PT’s activity in the Portuguese market that defines the scope of this report, where the national legislation integrates all the main international conventions in the area of the Human Rights HR5 Considering the nature of PT’s activities, there is no obstacles to the exercise of free association and the establishment of company or sector agreements. PT’s activity observes strictly the guidelines of SOX and CMVM and implements the best practices of risk management, as well as strategic guidelines relative to the respect for human rights namely the United Nations Global Compact subscribed by PT. HR7 Considering the nature of PT’s activities, there is no risk of occurrence of forced or compulsory labour. PT’s activity observes strictly the guidelines of SOX and CMVM and implements the best practices of risk management, as well as strategic guidelines relative to the respect for human rights namely the United Nations Global Compact subscribed by PT. HR8 In the scope of the implementation of the social responsibility standard SA 8000 it is required from all suppliers that the application of the principles of Human Rights is assumed as an essential factor to its maintenance as supplier of the PT Group. HR9 Although there is no knowledge of any incident in the scope of this indicator, PT keeps its communication channels open to mark any occurrence that might happen. IO2 Issues pertaining to mandatory universal service are regulated by ANACOM, body with which PT keeps regular contacts in the scope of its activities. PT has been negotiating with this body so as to report the amount of the investment in the scope of the mandatory universal service with suppliers in the near future. IO8 In the scope of the universal service, PT’s public payphones from PT are available for sharing. TMN shares antennas with the other market operators, although this information is not quantified. TA3 PT has no capacity to measure impacts in the scope of this indicator; nevertheless studies made on ICT impacts give indications on potential savings, being an example the Smart 2020 study. TA4 PT has no capacity to measure impacts in the scope of this indicator; nevertheless studies made on ICT impacts give indications on potential savings, being an example the Smart 2020 study. 150 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 SGS – Verification statement TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF PORTUGAL TELECOM, SGPS, SA NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE VERIFICATION By request of Portugal Telecom SGPS, SA, SGS ICS performed an independent verification of the Sustainability Report 2010. The scope of the verification, based on SGS’ methodology for Sustainability Reports Verification, included the text, data, charts and declarations contained herein. Data from legally certified financial reports were not verified at the source, throughout this verification. RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors of the Portugal Telecom Group is responsible for the information disclosed and for setting evaluation criteria. The Board is also responsible for establishing the systems for gathering, classifying, validating and reporting the information. SGS ICS did not participate in the treatment of any information comprised in the Sustainability Report 2010. It is the responsibility of SGS ICS to issue an opinion regarding the suitability of the aforementioned information, based on the independent verification protocol, which was carried out with regards to the scope and the purpose of the verification commitment. INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE STATEMENT SGS Group is a world leader in inspection, assessment and verification services, operating in over 140 countries, with an offer that includes the certification of services, of quality, environmental and social management systems, and auditing procedures concerning ethical issues, as well as the verification of environmental, social and sustainability reports. SGS ICS asserts its independence before favours, outside influence and conflicts of interests related to PT Group, its subsidiaries and interested parties. The members of the verification team were selected according to their knowledge, experience and qualifications regarding the proposed verification. The team included auditors registered with the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA), the International Register of Certified Auditors (IRCA), Social Accountability International (SAI) and also EMAS Verifiers. The participating verifiers have coordinating auditor qualifications for the performance of certification audits to ISO 9001 quality management systems, ISO 14001 environmental management systems, OHSAS 18001 occupational safety and health management systems, and SA8000 social responsibility management systems. VERIFICATION CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGY SGS Group developed a set of protocols for the verification of sustainability reports (Sustainability Report Assurance) based on best practices established by the 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2003) and International Standard on Assurance Engagements3000 (ISAE 3000). These protocols are classified into different verification levels, according to the reporting history and the capacity of the reporting organization. The Sustainability Report 2009 was verified in accordance with the level 2 protocol, consisting of (i) the identification of the existence of management control systems supported by organisational policies and resources, (ii) the assessment of the efficiency of the procedures and systems for gathering, classifying, validating and reporting the information contained herein, including, whenever necessary, corroborative statements and/or evidence from external interested parties, (iii) carrying out a sample of certain procedures for consolidating the information concerning the reported environmental and social performance, (iv) comparing the included financial information with the information contained in the financial reports from where it was retrieved, (v) interviewing the managers responsible for preparing the information (vi) providing evidence that the fundamental principles of the GRI reporting guidelines (2006) have been considered and applied, and (vii) verifying the fulfilment of the terms required for stating that this report was prepared “in accordance with” Level A GRI guidelines (2006). PORTUGAL TELECOM | RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2010 151 External independent verification of report information CONCLUSIONS Based on the methodology identified above and the work carried out, it is the opinion of SGS ICS that the information and data included in the verified report are accurate, comprehensive, reliable and provide an adequate representation of the activities of the Portugal Telecom Group, in Portugal, throughout a period of twelve months ended as at 31 December 2008. On the path of sustainable strategy, a fundamental pillar of its business model, PT was recognised by international entities, so that is now integrated in Dow Jones Sustainability Index and became the only Portuguese company simultaneously included in the two main indices of sustainable development, the DJSI e o FTSE4Good. SGS ICS states that the Sustainability Report 2010, the object of this verification, was prepared in accordance with GRI Guidelines (2006), fulfilling the Level A+ requirements necessary for that purpose. RECOMMENDATIONS Based on the verification carried out, we identified areas of progress as compared to previous reports, and areas for improvement that will allow for the strengthening of the sustainability context of the Portugal Telecom Group. The observations identified were object of the Internal Management Report directed at the Board of Directors of the Portugal Telecom Group. In representation of SGS ICS Isabel Berger Patrícia Pereira Certification Department Lisbon, 6 April 2010 www.pt.sgs.com 152 PORTUGAL TELECOM | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
