E.ON CR Report 2010 May 2011 Preliminary note In May 2011, E.ON AG published its seventh Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. With this report we offer a wide range of information that meets the various requirements of our stakeholders. Beginning 2008, our annual reporting has taken place in the Internet and are located at the first navigation level at www.eon.com/responsibility. The E.ON AG CR Report 2010 consists of the channels “CR Approach” and “CR Performance.” Essential portions of the CR Report 2010 have been independently verified by the auditing firm Pricewaterhouse-Coopers (PwC). This includes all web pages within the channels “CR Approach,” as well as portions of “Performance” and key figures. Verified content is marked with the logo “Reviewed 2010.” All web pages that make up the CR Report 2010 are summarized in this PDF. This offers the reader an overview of our activities for the year 2010. The creation date was May 3, 2011. Information folder compiled from www.eon.com on 05/03/2011 Page Contents (1 of 2) 3 Responsibility / CR Approach / Commitments / Overview 5 Responsibility / CR Approach / Commitments / Code of Conduct 7 Responsibility / CR Approach / Commitments / Membership 9 Responsibility / CR Approach / Commitments / UN Global Compact 15 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Overview 16 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / CR Strategy / Overview 17 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / CR Strategy / Until 2010 19 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / CR Organization 21 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Group-wide Alignment 23 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / CR Program 24 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Materiality Analysis 26 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Policies and Standards 29 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Responsible Lobbying 31 Responsibility / CR Approach / Managing Our Responsibility / Monitoring and Compliance 33 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / Reporting Approach 35 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / Assurance 38 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / GRI Index / Overview 39 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / GRI Index / Profile 49 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / GRI Index / Economic Indicators Page Contents (2 of 2) 52 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / GRI Index / Ecological Indicators 58 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / GRI Index / Social Indicators 68 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / Publications / CR Report 69 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / Publications / CR Magazine 70 Responsibility / CR Approach / CR Reporting / Publications / Other Publications 71 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Customer Orientation 74 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction 79 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Technology Development 84 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Environmental Protection 91 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Responsible Procurement 95 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Community Involvement 98 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Safety 102 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Responsible Reorganization 105 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Terms of Employment 108 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Diversity 112 Responsibility / CR Performance / Performance Report 2010 / Life Balance 115 Responsibility / CR Performance / DVFA/EFFAS KPIs 116 Responsibility / CR Performance / External Recognition 119 Responsibility / CR Performance / Summary Data Table (Overview) Taking responsibility and shaping the future As one of the world's largest investor-owned power and gas companies, we have a special responsibility to society. Johannes Teyssen, CEO of E.ON AG: Our responsibility to society lies in ensuring a safe, sustainable and affordable energy supply. In light of the terrible natural disaster in Japan and the resulting accidents at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, we once again need to engage in a candid and transparent discussion about the safety of our nuclear power plants and the transformation of our energy system. This discussion is more than just technicalit also involves society. At E.ON, safety and security has always been about much more than just secure energy supplyeven before the events in Fukushima. Safe operation of our sites, employee safety, and the safety of our nuclear power plants in particular remain our top priorities. Our business conduct as an international company is based on more than just safety issues: It is governed by our corporate values and our commitment to the principles of the 'United Nations Global Compact'. This includes our commitment to uphold human rights and binding international labor and environmental standards, as well as our commitment to the fight against corruption. As an energy company, we have a special responsibility to help protect the climate. So we have set ourselves particularly ambitious goals in this area. To us, sustainability means working on energy concepts and helping to develop tomorrow's technologies today. Individual projects such as marine energy tests are just as important as new concepts for sustainable electricity generation, increasing the use of efficient technologies in households, and using electric vehicles in cities that will take shape in the decades to come. How are we going to accomplish these tasks? And reach all the goals we've set? As ever, we rely on conversation and partnership with our stakeholders wherever we do business. When it comes to deploying forward-looking solutions for sustainable energy supply, acceptance in communities is just as important to us as political dialog on a national level. In its 2006 Commitment, the E.ON AG Board affirmed the importance of our company's social responsibility: We behave responsibly towards our colleagues, customers, suppliers, the environment, and the communities where we live and work. We seek to improve lives everywhere we operate, aiming for a healthy, safe and sustainable environment. We consider the needs of the present generation and also anticipate the needs of future generations. Corporate http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29239.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 3 of 132 Responsibility (CR) is a fundamental part of the way we do business. More specifically, at E.ON we: Are responsible for providing our markets with a secure, economic and climate-friendly supply of energy. Uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and fighting corruption. Are committed to successful long-term development of the communities where we live and work. Report our achievements openly, reliably and self-critically. This includes making an appropriate and balanced presentation of our economic, environmental and social activities and achievements in line with the Global Reporting Initiative's current recommendations for sustainability reporting. Seek to engage in objective dialog about our activities and about the challenges our industry will face in the future. Board of Management of E.ON AG, Düsseldorf, June 2006 http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29239.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 4 of 132 Committed to Ethical Principles In the course of their activities, all employees at every level of the E.ON Group must comply with the clear rules laid down in our Code of Conduct. Derived from our core values, the Code of Conduct defines key principles and rules for legitimate and responsible conduct, especially when dealing with business partners and public officials. High Standards Underpin our Conduct Every single one of our employees, especially those with managerial responsibility, is called upon to fully comply with our Code of Conduct in all processes, decisions and everyday work activities at all times. This also applies to meeting the extended Compliance requirements and the governing policies and standards. This obligation applies to E.ON AG in Düsseldorf and to all company units on both a global and regional level. Continually Reviewing and Improving our Code of Conduct The implementation of and adherence to the Code is one of the major responsibilities of the Group's Compliance organization. In 2009, the Compliance organization thoroughly revised the Code of Conduct to produce an updated version, which has been in force since January 2010. The Code is supplemented by guidelines containing detailed provisions and instructions on how to deal with specific situations. Our employees can refer to these at any time. Our Code of Conduct covers the following areas: 1. Dealing with Business Partners, Third Parties and Government/Public Bodies 2. Avoiding Conflicts of Interest 3. Handling Information 4. Dealing with the Property and Resources of the Company 5. Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Our Code of Conduct as Part of Education and Training Since 2007, our Code of Conduct has been included in introductory events for new employees and in management training modules conducted by the E.ON Academy. In 2010, we developed a special e-learning program for the revised 2009 Code of Conduct. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29237.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 5 of 132 This will be implemented across the Group starting in 2011 to help raise awareness among our employees. In addition to this e-learning tool, we will also provide printed brochures so that employees without Internet access can conduct training in this area. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29237.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 6 of 132 Coordinated Initiatives for Sustainable Development Sustainable development can only be achieved through the coordinated efforts of multiple actors in business, government and society. As one of the world's leading power and gas companies, E.ON is engaged in numerous initiatives. We are involved in an intensive, cross-sector dialog on corporate responsibility (CR), which also helps us to improve our own sustainability performance. In 2010 the Board of Management underscored our commitment by signing the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business . In this section we outline our involvement in the most important international and German sustainability initiatives. UN Global Compact In 2005 E.ON joined the Global Compact , a voluntary corporate citizenship initiative led by the United Nations (UN). Our membership represents a commitment to the UN to comply with ten defined principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. With the goal of advancing these standards, we participate in a variety of initiatives and working groups such as the German Global Compact Network . World Business Council for Sustainable Development The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a CEO-led international business initiative that focuses on energy and climate protection, ecosystem protection and fostering sustainable development. E.ON joined the WBCSD in 2007 and is involved in working groups such as the Sector Project on Electricity Utilities . In 2010 the WBCSD published a study entitled Vision 2050: The new agenda for business, to which E.ON and 28 other global corporations contributed. Enterprise for Health Enterprise for Health is a network of international companies that are dedicated to developing a corporate culture based on partnership as well as modern corporate health management policies. The group meets twice a year to share best practices and discuss lessons learned. EconsenseForum for Sustainable Development of German Business Econsense Forum for Sustainable Development of German Business is an association of leading, globally active corporations and organizations. This network was founded in 2000 as a think tank and dialog platform for sustainable development. Since that time E.ON has been involved in working groups focusing on topics such as transparency along the supply chain and assessing sustainability performance. Within the working groups, members discuss their experiences and develop joint approaches to achieving sustainability. In addition, our dialog makes an active contribution to shaping political and social decision-making processes. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42832.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 7 of 132 Wirtschaft.Initiative.Engagement. In the Business.Initiative.Engagement. (WIEWirtschaft.Initiative.Engagement. ) action group, companies work with state and civil society actors to develop solutions to the urgent challenges facing society. The initiative, which E.ON joined in 2007, aims to make the corporate citizenship of its members more effective, improve cooperation between the various stakeholders and sharpen its strategic impact. Commitment to the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business In November 2010, E.ON and 20 other major German corporations signed a voluntary pledge to follow responsible business practices. This is an expression of our commitment to sustainable business conduct which has human welfare at its core. The code's declared aim is to rebuild the trust in the social market economy and business leaders that was lost as a result of the financial crisis. E.ON was involved in drafting these principles and is dedicated to applying the values and standards expressed by the code. E.ON is also involved in national and international energy initiatives such as the World Energy Council and is a member of the World Economic Forum. Our global and regional units take an active role in local projects and networks. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42832.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 8 of 132 Full Support for the UN Global Compact In 2005 E.ON made a commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact . This means we fully uphold the observance of human rights, labor and environmental protection standards and are solidly engaged in the fight against corruption. Stronger Global Structures Now into its tenth year, the Global Compact's vision of helping global business to advance in ways that benefit society and the environment has lost none of its relevance. This was reaffirmed by the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in 2010. Far-reaching international and cross-industry cooperation is the only option if current and future crises are to be overcome. With this in mind, we are active in national and international Global Compact networks, for instance in Germany and Sweden, strengthening the structures that will help to master these challenges. Platform for Dialog and Exchanging Ideas The Global Compact was launched in 2000 by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan to promote corporate social involvement and to help ensure that business makes a contribution to solving the growing challenges of globalization, in particular by meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals. The Global Compact is the largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative worldwide, with over 8,000 members, including 5,300 companies from 130 countries. It is also a global network that provides a platform for international dialog and the exchange of ideas. The Basis for Group Policies and Standards We continue to strive to anchor responsible corporate actions permanently in our daily business activities. We are in the process of establishing and regularly updating a series of policies and standards based on the principles of the Global Compact. They include policies for environmental and climate protection, responsible procurement, occupational safety and community involvement, as well as our commitment to observing human rights. Thus in 2010 we signed off a number of new standards to tighten up our Health and Safety Management Policy. These minimum standards govern specific safety risks and include measures designed to prevent falls and dealing with electrical safety. Our policy for the responsible procurement of biomass, introduced in 2009, helps us prevent the negative impact of biomass production on the environment, land use, groundwater and biodiversity, as well as on local communities http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 9 of 132 and the food market. Reporting on the Global Compact Principles When we became a signatory to the Global Compact, we undertook to publish an annual http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 10 of 132 Communication on Progress. Consequently, in our 2010 CR reporting, we also report on our progress in implementing the ten principles of the Global Compact. The table below provides links to our reporting on the respective Global Compact principles. Link: CoR Company Report (page) AR Annual Report 2010 (page) Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of international human rights E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) E.ON E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 36 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Occupational Health Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators CoR (22-24) AR (37 f.,165 f.) Principle 2: Make sure not to be complicit in human rights abuses E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) E.ON E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 36 KB) Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsibility Procurement Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators Principle 3: Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 11 of 132 E.ON E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 36 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Workplace Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) E.ON E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 36 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labor E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) E.ON E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 36 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group (PDF, 76 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index > Social Indicators http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 12 of 132 CoR (22-24) AR (37 f., 165 f.) Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges E.ON E.ON Global Climate Change and Environment Policy (PDF, 67 KB) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Renewable Energy Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Technology Development Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Energy Efficiency for Customers Responsibility > Focus Topics > Carbon Footprint Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > Power Forums at Staudinger Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > IUCN Cooperation CoR (3-4, 10-11) AR (2-4, 43 f., 115-117) Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > IUCN Cooperation Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialog at E.ON > Arbeitsgemeinschaft Naturund Umweltbildung Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Environmental Champions Initiative Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 13 of 132 Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Energy Efficiency for Customers Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy for Children Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Community Involvement Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Technology Development Responsibility > CR in Practice > Technology Development Responsibility > CR in Practice > Technology Development > E-Mobility Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Cutting Carbon Efficiently Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Natural Gas Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Nuclear Power Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Renewable Energy Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Energy Efficiency for Customers Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Rewarded Energy Savings AR (2-8, 14-15, 115-117) CoR (10-17) Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible lobbying Investors > Corporate Governance > 2010 Corporate Governance Report http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29238.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 14 of 132 Our Strategic Approach to Corporate Responsibility At E.ON, Corporate Responsibility (CR) is fundamental to the way we do business. It is one of the pillars of our new cleaner & better energy corporate strategy and is defined by our Board Commitmentour binding undertaking to behave responsibly towards all stakeholders in our business, including future generations. Our goal is to be leading in CR -in the energy sector and beyond. The E.ON CR Strategy is the cornerstone of our commitment to CR. It provides the framework for all CR activities throughout the Group. We implement our CR Strategy across the Group and ensure it is integrated on a global and regional level. In addition to our policies, standards and systems for Monitoring and Compliance, our five-stage CR Work Process also acts as a central tool to manage the different aspects of establishing responsible conduct. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29228.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 15 of 132 Keeping our CR Strategy Up To Date The E.ON Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy forms the basis and framework for responsible corporate action to be coordinated throughout the E.ON Group. It also provides the foundation for our management approach and complements our overall corporate strategy. The introduction of the Strategy has helped to raise awareness of CR and establish it as an important organizational area in all parts of the Group. In fall 2010, we decided to fundamentally rework our existing CR Strategy. The following factors, each of which presents new opportunities and challenges in the area of CR, had an impact on this strategic realignment: Definition of cleaner & better energy as a new strategic focus at E.ON in November 2010. New approach as reflected by the realigned corporate structure of the E.ON Group. More consistent awareness of our various commitments (such as the UN Global Compact and those that form part of Managing our Responsibilities) and developments (such as ISO 26000). Meeting stakeholders' expectations (such as by providing feedback from SRI roadshows or publishing our Materiality Matrix). Development of a clear picture of our future tasks and goals upon conclusion of the CR Work Program 2008-2010. Our aim is to adopt the new CR strategy by mid-2011. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29234.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 16 of 132 The E.ON CR Strategy until 2010 We developed our old CR Strategy valid throughout the 2010 reporting period in 2007, in a structured process and based on the objectives we formulated in 2006. We continued to update the Strategy over time. When developing the Strategy, we took into consideration both CR-relevant topics in our business environment and our annual materiality analysis. This process resulted in our three strategic work areas. Organize: building the framework for an effective CR approach Our CR experts find practical solutions and our employees support them in implementing our CR Strategy. Our CR organization establishes the structures required to make this possible. Manage: managing opportunities, risks and meeting expectations Tasks in this work area include the identification of CR-relevant risks and opportunities at an early stage and the introduction of mitigating or harnessing measures as appropriate. Our commitment to environmental protection, our employees' rights, our Code of Conduct, occupational safety and the struggle against corruption are all key elements in this area. We continue to place particular value on our employees' awareness and observance of our Code of Conduct. Focus: defining E.ON's CR profile more clearly We aim to be an industry leader and benchmark-setter in our key CR areas. This requires focusing on a selected number of topics where we feel we can and need to achieve positive results and benefit all involved parties. Five-stage CR Work Process Furthermore, our five-stage CR Work Process serves as a central tool for implementing the strategy and work program. Assess & Analyze: In the first stage, we identify societal and sector trends, establish benchmarks, and assess risks and opportunities. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42833.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 17 of 132 Plan & Prioritize: We set priorities and develop strategies and work plans. To these, we then assign concrete goals, targets, and key performance indicators (KPIs). Develop & Implement: During this stage, E.ON harmonizes existing policies and standards, and creates new ones. Initiated by the Corporate Center, the rules and guidelines are implemented across our various market and business units. Monitor & Control: On the basis of KPIs, we check the implementation status and quality of our policies and standards. We also conduct regular audits. Review & Report: We continuously report on our activities in CR reporting and on our inclusion in CR indices, both internally and externally. With the help of best-practice examples, we also discuss the current status of our work. Three Core CR Principles Our CR Strategy and CR activities are guided by three core principles: Stakeholder orientation, Integration and Leadership. They are designed to help secure E.ON's long-term business success by balancing our economic interests with societal expectations, environmental constraints and our stakeholder relationships. Stakeholder orientation: the basis for truly effective implementation of our CR Strategy and thus for long-term business prosperity. An open approach towards stakeholder expectations and concerns, twinned with transparency regarding our corporate performance, are essential ingredients of successful stakeholder relations. Integration: establishing responsible behavior as a vital part of all E.ON activities is a prerequisite for our long-term business success. The CR Organization accompanies and supports this integration. This work depends on efforts made by experts and on the commitment of all employees. Leadership: all of our stakeholders rightly expect this from E.ON. It is our ambition to take a leading role in responsible business conduct in the power and gas industry. With this in mind, we focus particularly on CR activities that set an example for our sector and create additional value for our stakeholders. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42833.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 18 of 132 Building a Robust Organization In order to fully meet the complex social challenges that a global corporation such as E.ON faces, we have established clear responsibilities and structures. The aim of our Corporate Responsibility (CR) organization is to embed responsible conduct in the minds of our employees, making it a part of our everyday business and clearly defining responsibilities within the Group. In order to root this in the Group across all levels and units, we continued to develop our CR organization in 2010. The following diagram gives an overview of this development, followed by additional explanations. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29227.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 19 of 132 Integrating the Board of Management and Supervisory Board The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are central decision-making authorities, have overarching responsibility for all CR activities and strategic guidelines, and are kept informed of CR activity at regular intervals. The head of the Corporate Responsibility department and the Board Member responsible for CR activity exchange ideas through regular reports and meetings. At least once a year, all Members of the Board of Management meet to discuss Corporate Responsibility, Climate & Environmental Protection, Health & Safety and Human Resources topics. Figures on safety, environmental protection and diversity are then incorporated into the Quarterly Board Report, which is delivered to the Board of Management. Health, Safety & Environment Governance Council and Human Resources Directors The Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Governance Council and the Human Resources Directors comprise members of upper management from E.ON AG in Düsseldorf and the market units. They are responsible for strategic decisions and general Group-wide guidance. These bodies make recommendations to the Board of Management and monitor the implementation of targets. CR Organization at E.ON AG in Düsseldorf Within the E.ON AG organizational structure, corporate responsibility falls under the portfolio of Technology at the Board level. The Corporate Responsibility and Health, Safety & Environment departments are in charge of managing CR Strategy across the Group and organizing the implementation of the various programs on an operational level. These departments pool their expertise and, in partnership with the CR managers worldwide, drive forward the implementation of CR measures on all levels of the company. The Human Resources area manages our Group-wide HR activities. CR Managers, Coordinators and Teams In order to implement our CR Strategy in the communities where we are based, each of our market units employed at least one CR and one HSE Manager in 2010. In addition to this, CR and HSE Coordinators have been nominated at a regional level in specific business units, especially in E.ON Energie. In 2010, our many expert teams continued their successful work with our Market and business units to further integrate CR within the Group. These teams are chosen and headed by a CR or HSE manager, and comprise employees from a variety of divisions. As of the start of 2011, the E.ON Group units have a new organizational structure. Instead of market and business units, there are now five global units which are responsible for the following five business areas: Conventional Generation, Renewables Generation, New Build & Technology, Global Gas, and Trading. There are also twelve regional units in charge of operational business in Europe. We are working on bringing CR responsibilities into line with this reorganization on a global and regional level. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29227.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 20 of 132 Finding a Way Forward Together To provide an effective CR Strategy for a company of our size, we need to ensure it is comprehensively and uniformly implemented throughout the Group. So our goal is to align the actions of our units with the Group-wide CR Strategy by supporting both new and existing units to act in socially responsible ways. In summary, the process seeks to: demonstrate the importance of responsible business behavior to our long-term business success; highlight to our employees Group-wide the importance of E.ON's CR Strategy and their stake in it. It is therefore crucial that the CR Strategy and its relevance is understood, accepted and supported by decision makers at the management level and by the departments entrusted with implementing it; promote a willingness among all employees to implement the Strategy, to live by its principles and to communicate them both inside and outside the workplace;. provide a framework for measurable progress in CR Strategy implementation and performance monitoring; challenge employees to adapt the framework to regional and local conditions in a manner consistent with the CR Strategy. Integration in Three Steps In recent years, E.ON has acquired new companies in different countries and integrated them into the Group. In cases like this, levels of awareness regarding CR-relevant issues vary greatly depending on both the company and the specific issues at hand. Our CR management team places great value on successively involving these new firms in our CR Strategy and its implementation. To this end, E.ON is focusing on three major action steps to make the alignment and implementation of the CR Strategy across different companies in the Group as effective as possible. Facilitating: In the first step, the CR team of E.ON AG in Düsseldorf, Germany, helps support companies on a global or regional level by facilitating the transfer of CR expertise. This is done in close coordination with local CR managers. The goal is http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29231.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 21 of 132 to give our employees a greater understanding of the importance of CR for E.ON's business by explaining the overall CR Strategy, its core principles, and its strategic work areas. Supporting: Building on the first step, the CR team supports companies on a global and regional level in achieving the best possible practical implementation of the Group-wide CR Strategy in national and local CR initiatives. Monitoring: In the third and final step, the implementation of CR in the respective companies is reviewed. During this process, discussions with local CR and business management take place. Adjustments are made as necessary. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29231.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 22 of 132 Our CR Program: The Framework for Our Actions To successfully integrate corporate responsibility (CR) into our business activities, it is essential for us to have a clear, long-term objective for the whole Group, to address major CR-relevant issues, and to have a CR Strategy that reflects this approach. CR plays a vital role in the long-term implementation of the new E.ON cleaner & better energy strategy. This also includes promoting awareness of CR-relevant issues and their significance in all units of the Group. To us, being socially responsible is a continuous process characterized by transparency and traceability. Since 2005, we have regularly announced binding, Group-wide CR Work Programs. These give a clear overview of our goals and the measures we intend to use to achieve them. Goals achieved in 2010: Strategic profiling and integration into business processes We completed our CR Program 2008-2010 at the end of 2010, having established the processes and structures that it called for. In consolidating the results, we have displayed these separately for each subject area for 2010. For a summary of our achievements, please see the PDF file CR Work Program 2008-2010 , which can be found in the Downloads area in the right-hand margin of this page. New CR Program 2011-2015: Approach based on updated CR Strategy At the start of 2011, we began developing a new CR Work Program for the next five years. There are certain measures from the Program 2008-2010 that we want to continue with. In addition, we will define new goals, issues to focus on, and measures for implementation, and adapt these to the guidelines in the new CR Strategy. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29221.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 23 of 132 2008 – 2010 Measures Review Overall CR Management Continue development of CR The CR and HSE organization is established at Group organization at all levels level and will be adapted to the new E.ON organizational structure from 2011 on. Develop a set of core indicators to A set of indicators for internal control and external track CR performance and support reporting has been developed. business decision-making Develop training and other A set of dedicated CR training activities has been measures to stimulate a culture developed and implemented. Examples include the of responsibility across the Group Safety Academy, the Group-wide E.ON Environmental Champions program and the Code of Conduct e-learning program. Develop a strategic CR profile in The CR profile topics „Next Generation“, „Climate line with the CR Strategy and test Change“ and „Access to Energy“ were developed in with stakeholder groups line with the CR Strategy 2008-2010. Implement appropriate A comprehensive analysis of our business activities Environmental and Social Impact (Sustainable Impact Assessments SIA), including Assessments in relevant parts of social and environmental aspects, is applied in project the business and integrate results management processes for the construction of new in business decisions power plants. Develop and implement an overall There are ongoing dialogs on CR topics lead by the stakeholder management strategy relevant departments. An NGO Engagement Workbook has been developed and contacts with selected NGOs are ongoing, including a cooperation agreement with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) for the protection of marine ecosystems. Annual CR performance reporting E.ON has published CR Reports since 2005. Since 2008, these CR Reports are internet-based and are audited in selected areas. Assess business ethics risks and Corruption and bribery risks have been incorporated prepare an action plan into procurement processes and included in CR audits. The area of ethics has been included in the E.ON Code of Conduct and incorporated into regular corporate audit activities. 2008 – 2010 Measures Review Overall CR Management Implement Responsible A policy for coal, uranium and biomass procurement has Procurement Policy through risk been implemented. The area of ethics has been included assessments and training courses in the E.ON Code of Conduct. Supplier audits and events are carried out in addition to the usual quality standards. There are regular training sessions for purchasers, CR managers, auditors and traders. Assess corporate risks related The E.ON Human Rights Policy Statement has been to human rights and labor rights developed. Human rights issues have been incorporated violations into procurement processes and included in CR audits. Marketplace & Community Develop a responsible products E.ON offers different responsible products and services and services strategy Group-wide. These are developed both centrally at E.ON AG in Düsseldorf and in regional units, with the aim of meeting the needs of the respective customer as best possible. Support for vulnerable customers A Group-wide unilateral commitment to supporting in our retail markets vulnerable customers has been agreed and its demands implemented on a regional level. Embed CR elements in our CR has been integrated into E.ON sponsorship activities. Group-wide sponsorship strategy The new sponsorship handbook covers community involvement on a regional level. Develop and roll out Group A Group-wide regional community involvement strategy community involvement strategy has been developed. There are well-established programs and initiatives in place in this area in all countries where E.ON operates. Develop appropriate community There are visitors centers for all new build projects, as programs to support existing E.ON well as dialogs with the general public and increasingly assets and new-build projects so for the immediate neighborhoods of our sites. Develop programs to address A Group-wide Public Energy Safety Standard has been community energy safety issues agreed as part of our Safety Policy. in various countries 2008 – 2010 Measures Review Marketplace & Community Implement the “Energy for The „Energy for Children“ program has been introduced Children” program Group-wide. Staff from over 1,700 day care centers have been trained as part of this flagship project in Germany. NEW: Coordinate employee A guideline has been developed to promote employee volunteering activities commitment on a regional level. Volunteering programs have been implemented in various countries. Climate Protection & Environment Develop a Group-wide climate A Group-wide policy for climate and environmental protection and environment policy, protection (E.ON Global Climate Change and assess current implementation of Environment Policy Statement) has been developed, management systems and and appropriate management systems implemented in determine Group-wide application all operational units. of a management system Assess the impact of climate Risks resulting from climate change or adaptation to change on E.ON assets climate change have been included in E.ON‘s risk mapping. Develop a Group-wide biodiversity Biodiversity has been integrated into the E.ON Global assessment and policy Climate Change and Environment Policy Statement. Biodiversity is also part of the comprehensive analysis of our business activities (Sustainable Impact Assessment, SIA) undertaken for new infrastructure projects. Identify targets for advanced Targets for advanced emission standards have been emission standards at newbuild developed. All new coal-fired power plants and those coal-fired power plants under construction in 2010 meet these targets. Develop an E.ON guideline A guideline for analyzing the environmental impact of new on Lifecycle Analysis (LCA) processes, products, services and technologies has been for products, services and developed. technologies to analyze environmental impacts Develop Carbon Accounting A new accounting process for Scope 1, 2 and 3 Processes for E.ON greenhouse gases has been implemented. 2008 – 2010 Measures Review Health & Safety Evaluate reports on incidents in The relevant reports have been analyzed, critical points hazardous industries (e. g. Baker identified, and safety trainings revised accordingly. As a report) and draw conclusions for follow-up project, E.ON is developing a guideline to E.ON address process/plant safety issues Group-wide. Conduct safety assessment on As an outcome of the Safe.TEG project, training sessions all Top Executive Group members have been held for executives and senior management. (Safe.TEG project) and facilitate Senior management pays great attention to overarching action plans for individuals and health and safety issues, and also acknowledges this to for market units employees and the public. Observation of healthy and safety issues is promoted by including executive and senior management in executive incentive schemes, among other measures. Develop and implement a Group Group management adheres strictly to the Occupational safety management system Health & Safety Management guidelines. Continuous improvement is the system‘s guiding principle. Almost 80 percent of our sites have already attained OHSAS 18001 certification or are on track to do so. Develop and implement A set of eight corporate H&S Standards has been harmonized, Group-wide developed and approved by the E.ON HSE Governance minimum safety standards Council. Develop a policy regarding A corporate H&S standard on „Contractor and business contractors’ and subcontractors’ partner management“ has been developed and safety performance approved. Implementation and dedicated trainings are ongoing. Develop and implement a central An HSE incident notification and reporting module has incident reporting system (injuries, been developed. Group-wide implementation is ongoing. near misses and hazardous occurrences) Assess the current situation of The assessment has been completed. Its results form the health management in the Group basis for further steps and will also influence the Group-wide health strategy. Develop a Group-wide health Health management is in development, as it will form a strategy and policy major part of our revised Group-wide Health & Safety policy. 2008 – 2010 Measures Review Health & Safety Develop a health management The health management toolkit has been developed. toolkit General health issues will be addressed annually Group-wide. Assess the current situation Promoting and supporting diversity is important to E.ON regarding Group diversity as an international company. In particular, defining management specific targets and establishing support programs has significantly promoted the advancement of women. Develop an aging workforce action The „aging workforce“ issue has been integrated into plan various parts of the HR strategy, such as health management, work-life balance, and employability. The CR Work Program comprises the objectives and measures of the Corporate Responsibility, Climate Protection & Environment and Health & Safety departments at E.ON’s Group Management. Focus on Themes Through Materiality Analysis Our stakeholders have many requirements, which give us important points of reference for our CR practice and reporting. As part of our CR Strategy, we therefore regularly analyze in a systematic process those issues most important to our stakeholders. Since 2006 we have published the results annually in a Materiality Matrix, which we also use to develop our strategic CR approach. Evaluating Internal and External Sources As a first step we collect issues from individual groups through stakeholder dialogs, opinion polls and feedback from our topic requests, as well as researching external sources. Simultaneously, we survey experts in various of our departments as representatives of stakeholder groups about topics of interest to them in 2010. This also allows us to feed our stakeholders' concerns into the Group and integrate them in our management processes. Systematic Weighting We assess the topics during the information-gathering stage according to their urgency for specific stakeholder groups and all stakeholders collectively. In this we take individual evaluations into account, for example exactly when specific issues are highly important to a particular stakeholder group. We subsequently enter each topic into the Materiality Matrix according to our assessment of its relevance; the Matrix shows the relationship between a topic's relevance to stakeholders (on the y-axis) and to E.ON (on the x-axis). Weve also added a selection of links to the Matrix with supplementary information. Additionally, this year we've chosen to present topics in bullet-point form: this presents information more precisely compared to allocating them into the four fields of the Matrix as we previously did. For a larger interactive view please click the link in the right-hand column. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29232.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 24 of 132 For an interactive enlarged view, please click on the link in the right column. Changes in Materiality since 2009 Compared to 2009 there are some changes in the Materiality Matrix which are due to changing stakeholder priorities and a refined analysis methodology. New issues have come to the fore, existing ones have been expanded and sub-topics have been divided or removed from the Matrix. At the same time, we've created a better focus for the topics through the creation of new groupings, reducing their number and giving them a sharper profile. For example, we have combined Effects of Climate Change, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and International Climate Protection into Climate Protection in this year's Matrix, making it one of the three most important topics. You can find further information about the topic groups through the links in the interactive Matrix. Top of the agenda are also Energy Efficiency, Pricing and Balanced Energy Mix. Other highly-rated issues are Renewables, Innovation as well as Corruption & Bribery, whereas Attractive Employer, Supply Reliability and Customer and Product Safety lost relevance compared to the previous year. In our choice of Focus Topics in the current CR Report 2010 we considered the assessments from the Materiality Matrix in an internal workshop. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29232.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 25 of 132 Core Policies and Standards We recognize our global and societal responsibility as one of the core values of E.ON's corporate culture and have established clearly defined policies to embed this. These policies apply Group-wide, to individual companies in which we are majority shareholders as well as to processes and shareholdings for which E.ON bears operative responsibility. Contractors and suppliers are required to meet our minimum standards when working on our behalf. Our policies and standards are an integral part of our overall CR Strategy and define a binding operational framework that supports us in achieving our objectives. As we are faced with ever-changing challenges, our policies continually evolve to meet these challenges consistently across the Group. Our policies and standards govern the following five areas: Environmental Management Human Rights Responsible Procurementand Biomass Purchasing Health and Safety Community More detailed information on the individual policies can be downloaded from the links in the right-hand margin of this page. Environmental Management We recognize that the energy we produce and supply has a significant impact on the environmentglobally from our greenhouse gases, regionally and locally. We work continually to mitigate and reduce this impact. We are also committed to providing our customers with energy efficiency advice in line with our commitment in the E.ON Global Climate Change and Environment Policy Statement, which came into effect in October 2008. As part of this, our Environmental Management Group Policy details the ambitious minimum climate change and environmental protection targets we have set ourselves, which often go beyond legal requirements. In detail, the Group Policy: Describes how our environmental and climate protection activities are organized, Sets out the minimum requirement we apply, and Defines the basic framework for environmental management at E.ON. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29226.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 26 of 132 All of our subsidiaries that have a significant environmental impact are required to have a certified Environmental Management System (EMS) that fulfils the criteria of the EN ISO 14001 (or European EMAS II) standards. E.ON operational units using any other EMS must adapt their processes accordingly. Human Rights It is E.ON's responsibility to raise awareness of human rights issues among our employees and to encourage them to safeguard these rights. This is why we work together with our suppliers, contractors, employees and managers to increase their ability to protect human rights. In brief, as laid down in the Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group which came into force in November 2008, we ensure: diversity and equality in the workplace; the provision of a good and safe working environment; freedom of association and collective bargaining; the exclusion of child and forced labor; the protection of local communities and indigenous peoples. Responsible Procurement Price and performance are important factors when it comes to making procurement decisionsbut E.ON also takes its suppliers' environmental and social standards into careful consideration. We therefore carry out audits at our suppliers' facilities to monitor their CR standards. Not only that, we create risk profiles for our suppliers as part of the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy, valid since March 2007. The Policy provides overarching guidance for procurement and is augmented by specific guidelines such as the new responsible biomass policy. The Responsible Procurement Policy's principal objectives for our contractual partners, as suppliers of goods and services, are to: ensure human rights are respected and ensure appropriate working conditions for employees; minimize the environmental impact of our business; maintain high standards of ethics and business integrity. Biomass Purchasing E.ON increasingly uses biomass for energy generation, thereby offsetting the use of coal or other non-renewable resources. Biomass as a fuel provides business opportunities. However, biomass purchasing and trading also carries societal, environmental and reputational risks. E.ON addresses these risks through the Biomass Purchasing Amendment to the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy. The Amendment has been in force since November 2009 and establishes: what types of biomass may be used for energy and biogas generation, and under which conditions; a ban on the use of human food as biomass for the above purposes; that the use of animal feed and renewable crops grown as energy sources and agricultural residue for fuel is only permitted within the corresponding national or EU legal boundariesand only insofar as it does not distort local or global price stability and security of supply; http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29226.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 27 of 132 that timber and other forestry products may only be used for energy and biogas generation insofar as they are certified to meet corresponding international standards such as FSC and PEFC. Health and Safety Our goal is to make E.ON the safest company in the energy sector wherever we operate. The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance to us. The E.ON Health & Safety Policy Statement, in force since October 2008, establishes a comprehensive process for monitoring safety performance and describes E.ON's organization of occupational health and safety. E.ON's subordinate Safety and Occupational Health Management Group Policy sets out the minimum standards that we require Group-wide and from our contractors. In 2010, E.ON defined mental health as a special Group-wide focus. E.ON examines issues relating to mental health both from a purely psychological perspective and in combination with physical health problems. We aim to reduce illness and absenteeism rates, thereby increasing our productivity. Community The community framework has been in place since 2007. We recognize that our success as a company is directly tied to the well-being of the communities where we operate. Our objective here is to be leaders in Corporate Community Involvementwith a strategic focus on supporting local programs related to our electricity and gas business. Those programs address energy needs, energy education and climate change issues of global concern. Key Community initiatives running globally cover areas such as: Energy for Children, Employee Involvement and Vulnerable Customers. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29226.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 28 of 132 With Arguments for Better Parameters It is part of our responsibility as a company to evaluate the consequences of the economic, energy and environmental policy decisions that affect our corporate strategy and to communicate the results of our analyses to policy makers. One motivating factor for political dialog is achieving more certainty for planning investments. We continuously develop and test new technologies to respond effectively to the challengesof a sustainable, eco-friendly society. To accomplish this efficiently and on a large scale, we need official support. Lobbying is part of the democratic process. It is legitimate and necessary for companies, scientific institutions and other interest groups to seek dialog with policy makers to advocate for their interests. For this reason, most countries and the European Union have laws that clearly define its place in the legislative process. But that is not allpursued responsibly, political dialog can make a contribution to the development of society. Companies often provide government officials and administrators with expertise from their scientists or research divisions that form the basis for important decisions. At the same time, it is essential that lobbying is carried out in a responsible manner. This is why we have developed the following parameters, which we adhere to scrupulously: Transparent Processes Our corporate communication guidelines define standards for information conveyed by E.ON and regulate responsibilities, processes and instruments. This includes management systems for information and political dialog, which guide the company's representatives in structuring their lobbying work in a transparent and aboveboard manner. Truthfulness In addition, our guidelines define how we disseminate information. We neither release nor distribute selective information or misleading publications containing inaccurate or incomplete facts. If this should happen unintentionally, we issue a correction immediately. Laws and Regulations E.ON respects the provisions of European law and national legislation. We follow the applicable regulations when participating in committees and political working groups. Furthermore, E.ON is an active member of numerous associations and initiatives and abides by their rules. We use the European Parliament's accreditation procedure for lobbyists to register our representatives to the EU. At present E.ON and other companies are lending our support to an initiative to introduce a similar accreditation process in Germany. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42160.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 29 of 132 Self-imposed Commitments In all of our activities, E.ON adheres to our principles of ethical behavior. One example of this self-imposed commitment is the E.ON Code of Conduct. The standards for responsible conduct laid out in this code underpin and guide the behavior of every employee. No Unfair Influence Our Guidelines on Benefits state that we will give no gifts or grant other benefits to government officials that could convey even the slightest impression of trying to influence the decision-making process or arrange a quid pro quo. Targeting policy makers with gifts or contributions in anticipation of pending official decisions is categorically forbidden. We respect the dignity of the individual and their right to form an opinion independently. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42160.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 30 of 132 Continuing to Develop Responsible Business Practices All of E.ON's business activities are founded on our solid commitment to business ethics and Corporate Responsibility (CR). These represent an integral part of our corporate culture. A token of this commitment is our decision to uphold the aims of the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2005. By setting standards for responsible business actions, the Global Compact also establishes important criteria with which we can shape the direction of our company's CR activities. This also includes our internal systems for Monitoring and Compliance, which provide us with the necessary orientation to achieve responsible business practices. General Governance Approach E.ON sees corporate governance as the basis for responsible and value-oriented company management. Excellent corporate governance is essential to the sustainability of our operations and our continued business success. This encompasses our business principles, our organizational, management and supervision practices, and our internal and external control mechanisms. Risk Management Monitoring Forward thinking and effective risk management are prerequisites for a company's success. Our risk management system thus aims to identify potential risks early on and systematically guide our decision-making. We have incorporated appropriate measures into E.ON's overall organizational structure, including Group-wide guidelines, a standardized strategy, planning and controlling processes, producing separate risk reports and establishing a Risk Committee. The effectiveness of our Early Risk Warning system is reviewed regularly by our Internal Audit Departmentand, as required by law, also by our statutory auditors. Reporting Compliance Violations Every employee in every part of the Group can report suspected breaches of complianceanonymously, if desiredto the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) of E.ON AG. To facilitate this, we set up a whistleblowing system in 2010, run by a law firm on behalf of E.ON. Employees can report violations by e-mail to a dedicated global address, or by calling the whistleblowers' hotline, available in 16 countries in the national language. External lawyers receive these reports, and can then pass them on anonymously to the CCO http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29225.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 31 of 132 where appropriate. Using an external law firm as a neutral body gives whistleblowers extra security to report suspected violations without fearing negative consequences or reprisals. This also makes it possible for whistleblowers to communicate anonymously with the CCO and respond to further inquiries by using the external lawyers as a third-party conduit. Compliance Organization: Ensuring Rapid Action through Local Compliance Officers Every E.ON business unit, on both a global and regional level, has a Compliance Officer who reports directly to the Chief Compliance Officer at E.ON Group headquarters. The unit in which a Code of Conduct or Compliance rule is breached is immediately responsible for investigation, cessation and sanction of the breach. Compliance Officers at units then immediately file reports about alleged breaches, inform the CCO, and agree on the results of the investigation and necessary follow-up measures together with the CCO. Corporate Audit has an obligatory involvement in all of these investigations. The Areas of Activity of the Chief Compliance Officer The CCO reports to the E.ON Board of Management and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on compliance-related issues. These issues are antitrust law, capital market law and insider rules, fraud, corruption and the Code of Conduct. The CCO is also responsible for updating the Code of Conduct and the compliance regulations on a regular basis. The Compliance Committee advises the CCO in this regard. Decisions regarding amendments to the Code of Conduct and other compliance regulations are made by the Board of Management. The CCO also determines the structure of the compliance organization applied in individual units and prioritizes corresponding compliance goals together with the units. The ongoing implementation of compliance standards is then monitored by Corporate Audit worldwide. E.ON Supports Fair Competition Since the deregulation of energy markets at the end of the 20th century, E.ON has established itself as a successful performer in a competitive market environment. Competition compliance means adhering to national and international competition rules on issues such as collusion with competitors on price, customers or capacity, and the division of regional markets. An Expert Team for Corruption Monitoring and Fraud Detection We strive to operate our business in a way that avoids all forms of corruption. As part of our compliance framework, we have created an expert Fraud Detection and Investigation team within the area of Corporate Audit. This team is a key element in E.ON's efforts to fight corruption and fraud. As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we have pledged to combat all forms of corruption worldwide, and have embedded this in our CR Strategy and our Code of Conduct. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29225.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 32 of 132 Our Reporting Approach Overview Since 2008 E.ON AG's annual Corporate Responsibility (CR) reporting has mainly appeared online. You can access all content on the first navigation level at www.eon.com under Responsibility . Old reports are available in the Archive. We strive to ensure balanced reporting of the environmental, social and commercial aspects of our business activities. As we do so, we feel it is important to present a transparent and comprehensive overview of our strengths and weaknesses. In selecting the topics for our CR reporting we are guided by the key CR topics in our Materiality Matrix. General Structure of our Online Reporting The web pages under the headings of CR Management, including Reporting and CR Performance are the core of E.ON AGs CR Report 2010. Other headings, Dialog, Focus Topics and CR in Practice are intended to provide additional information that complements the CR Report 2010. Several web pages in the Responsibility channel contain links to other Group pages with information on CR topics. The Responsibility channel provides a platform on which we present our commitment in depth. This explains why our online reporting is more detailed than the publications available for download, such as the E.ON CR Reporting 2010 PDF file. In 2011 our print publications also include a CR Magazinewhich will appear in June. It supplements our in-depth reporting online and picks up on the Focus Topics presented there. We also present information on how E.ON meets its social responsibilities in a number of other publications, such as the Annual Report and our Strategy & Key Figures brochure. CR Report 2010: Progress in the Reporting Period Our reporting is aligned with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI), in which we have included the Electric Utilities Sector Supplement. At the same time, our CR reporting is also our progress report with reference to the United Nations Global Compact. In 2010 we added to our CR reporting other key figures in line with the German Association for Financial Analysis and Asset Management (DVFA) and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS) standards. This is intended to increase our reports comparability and to make access to information easier for financial communities interested in CR issues. We are one of the first companies in Germany to offer standardized ESG key figures. CR Report Audit As in previous years, key aspects of the CR Report 2010 were verifiedby auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). This includes most of the web pages under the headings of CR Management as well as parts of the CR Performance section with key indicators. Verified content is marked with Reviewed 2010 ; it is valid until publication of the next CR Report and will not be updated during the course of the year. Continuous Updates for Web-based Reporting http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42834.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 33 of 132 For a more flexible response to developments in the reporting period we use the capabilities of the Internet and update our online content under the headings of Dialog, Focus Topicsand CR in Practice. This supports our aims of establishing the Internet as a central information platform for our stakeholders and offering better dialog opportunities. Reporting Approach The CR Report published by E.ON AG in May 2011 is the Group's seventh successive report. It covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010, and is available in German and English. The copy deadline for the established content for the CR Management and Reporting pages of the report was March 31, 2011. The next CR Report will be published in the second quarter of 2012. Target groups for our CR reporting are our investors, rating and ranking agencies, CR opinion leaders, such as decision makers in the fields of politics, civil society and science, and our employees. Feedback from the different user groups, such as that which we received in response to our 2009 reporting, is continuously evaluated and the findings are fed into the creation process for our various publications. The E.ON CR Report is a Group report. Its object is E.ON AG, including any shareholdings it holds directly. At year-end 2009 the Group structure was renewed. Existing market and business units were transferred to global and regional units, although for the 2010 reporting period and earlier, the previous names are valid. As we sold the U.S. Midwest market unit during the course of 2010, we have adjusted our consolidation basis for Group-wide CR key figures and deducted the unit retroactively to 2008 (as in the Annual Report). Through this, we intend to achieve better comparability of our CR performance on the Group level. As part of our E.ON cleaner & better energy strategy, we have deliberately strengthened the Group level and only take into account CR issues from our regional and global units where they have relevance for Group reporting. Any exceptions to this are marked accordingly. The information in the report invariably relates to all subsidiaries and power plants in which E.ON has a majority holding and which are fully consolidated in the financial statements. To improve legibility, we avoid using double-gender pronouns. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42834.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 34 of 132 Independent Assurance Report1 To E.ON AG, Düsseldorf We have performed a limited assurance engagement on selected areas of the Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2010 of E.ON AG, Düsseldorf. The CR Reporting is released as an online version on www.eon.com/responsibility2 Based on our assignment, our assurance engagement has been applied to the websites under the heading of CR Approach (the CR Approach websites ) as well as selected performance indicators on the Performance Report 2010 sections ( the CR Performance websites ). For better traceability content reviewed by PwC is marked with a Reviewed 2010 sign. Management's Responsibility E.ON AG's Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the preparation of the CR Reporting in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7-17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Completeness, Balance, Clarity, Accuracy, Timeliness, Comparability, and Reliability. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the CR Reporting and the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the CR Reporting. Practitioner's Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we performed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the CR Approach websites and selected pages and performance indicators on the CR Reporting websites have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. We have also been engaged to report on recommendations for the further development of CR Management and CR Reporting on the basis of the results of this engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement such that we are able to express our conclusion with limited assurance. In a limited assurance engagement the procedures for gathering evidence are less http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29265.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 35 of 132 comprehensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend upon the practitioner's judgment. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures: Interviews with representatives of the Corporate Responsibility department in charge of the preparation of the CR Reporting on the process of establishing the group-wide CR Reporting 2010 and internal controls supporting this process. Interviews with management of specialist departments in charge of Corporate Responsibility, Health,Safety, Security & Environment, Community Involvement, Technology and Innovation und Human Resources Controlling. Inspection of documents describing the CR Management approach and the CR Work Program. Review of E.ON's materiality process to determine relevant topics for the CR Reporting 2010. Examination of definitions on selected CR Indicators and review of documentation of requirements on the group-wide processes for collecting, analysing, and aggregating CR Data. Site visits at Group Management in Düsseldorf as well as the Regional Units Germany, Sweden, Russia, Italy and the Global Units Global Gas and Trading as part of our sample assessments of relevant systems and processes. Evaluation of the consistency of the statements provided on the CR Approach websites with the findings obtained during our engagement. Coordination with the statutory auditors at E.ON AG with regard to audit procedures performed as part of the 2010 statutory audit of the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements on indicators adopted for the CR Reporting and use of this relevant work. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CR Approach websites and selected pages and performance indicators on the CR Performance websites , have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. Additional Recommendations Without qualifying our conclusion above, we express the following recommendations for the further development of CR Management and CR Reporting: We recommend to E.ON continuing the development of a Group CR Strategy and a Group CR Program including ambitious qualitative and quantitative medium and long-term targets. The CR and HSE organisation should support and monitor the roll-out to the Global and Regional Units. We recommend establishing a group-wide steering body to amend the CR organisation with regard to the new Group Structure and to support the implementation of CR into day to day business. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29265.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 36 of 132 E.ON should further clarify and document group-wide definitions of key CR performance indicators. We further recommend the optimisation and documentation of data collection processes from data source to group management. Düsseldorf, April 28,2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft 1 Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in German language. 2 Our engagement applies to the German Version of the CR Reporting on www.eon.com/verantwortung. Data referred to and links on the CR Reporting websites were not included in the scope of our assurance engagement. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29265.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 37 of 132 GRI Index We base our CR reporting on the current G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including the final version of the Electric Utility Sector Supplement (EUSS) dated April 2009. According to our self assessment, E.ON's 2010 CR reporting complies with application level B+ of the GRI guidelines. About the Global Reporting Initiative The GRI was established in 1997 with the goal of developing an internationally recognized guideline for voluntary reporting of the economic, ecological and social performance of organizations. The GRI guidelines comprise indicators for all sectors and all types of organization that aim to achieve transparent, comparable and stakeholder-oriented CR reporting. The current G3 standard was introduced in 2006. There are also sector supplements with industry-specific indicators. The EUSS applies to companies in the electric utility sector. Our 2010 CR Reporting We see a clear trend towards a need for more specific information among our stakeholders. In 2009 we revised the indicators on which we report to comply with the requirements of the final version of the EUSS and, along with the general indicators of the GRI guidelines, adapted them to meet the changing information needs of our stakeholders. We do not consider some indicators to be material and/or significant. In these cases, we have added an appropriate comment in the GRI Content Index. GRI Content Index The GRI Content Index shows at a glance how E.ON's reporting meets the requirements of the GRI. The Index lists: Which indicators we report on and to what extent. Where they can be found on our website, in our Company Report, Annual Report, and Strategy & Key Figures publication. Which indicators we are unable to include due to certain circumstances. In addition, the GRI Content Index includes comments and additional information on selected indicators. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29264.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 38 of 132 Profile The table below lists the individual reporting elements. The profile consists of four elements: Strategy and Analysis , Organization Profile , Reporting Parameters as well as Governance, Commitments and Engagement . Reference: CoR Company Report (page) AR Annual Report 2010 (page) Status: 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the Most Senior Decision Maker Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments CoR (3) 1.2 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Program Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible energy consumption Responsibility > Focus Topics > Sustainable Innovation Responsibility > Focus Topics > Carbon Footprint Responsibility > Focus Topics > Nuclear Value Chain Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement AR (40-47, 48-55) CoR (4, 9, 10ff., 27) 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organization E.ON AG http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 39 of 132 2.2 Brands, Products and/or Services Business Areas Business Areas > Sales Customers http://www.eon-energy-sales.com (German) E-ON Sales Germany (German) CoR (9, 44f.) AR (2-4) 2.3 Operational Structure About us > Structure About us > Structure > Group Management About us > Structure > Global Units About us > Structure > Regional Units About us > Structure > Support Units About us > Structure > Company Finder Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach AR (2-8, 48ff.) CoR (9, 44ff.) 2.4 Headquarter Location Düsseldorf (Germany) 2.5 Countries in Operation About us > Structure > Global Units About us > Structure > Regional Units About us > Structure > Company Finder CoR (64ff.) AR (2-8) 2.6 Nature of Ownership CoR (30) AR (2-3, 107) 2.7 Markets Served About us > Structure > Global Units http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 40 of 132 About us > Structure > Regional Units About us > Structure > Company Finder CoR (64ff.) AR (2-4, 48ff.) 2.8 Scale of the Organization About us > Profile CoR (8-9) AR (2-4) 2.9 Significant Changes Regarding Size, Structure, or Ownership About us > Strategy > Strategic Priorities About us > Strategy > Transformation of E.ON About us > Structure Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization CoR (16-17, 38ff., 44-64) AR (2-4, 18, 48ff., 80) 2.10 Awards Received Responsibility > CR Performance > External Recognition Careers > Work Environment > Awards Investors > Dialog > Investor Relations > Social Responsible Investment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Community Involvement CoR (70f.) EU1 Installed Capacity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs CoR (9,16,50-53) AR (13) EU2 Net Energy Output Broken Down by Primary Energy Source and by Region http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 41 of 132 Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs CoR (54ff.) AR (14) EU3 Number of Residential, Industrial and Commercial Customer Accounts CoR (64-71) AR (16-17) EU4 Length of Transmission and Distribution Lines by Region CoR (65, 67) We regularly report our online activities. The latest data is available in our Strategy & Key Figurespublication, which is updated annually. The 2011 edition with key figures from 2010 will be published in the second quarter of 2011. EU5 Allocation of CO2 Emissions Permits Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction AR (36) 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period The 2010 CR Report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010. 3.2 Date of Most Recent Previous Report The most recent CR Report was published in May 2010. 3.3 Reporting Cycle E.ON reports on its CR activities annually. The next report is due to appear in the second quarter of 2012. 3.4 Contact Point for Questions Responsibility > Dialog > Contact us > CR Team http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 42 of 132 3.5 Process for Defining Report Content Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON E.ON defines the content of the report on the basis of its objectives and experience as well as the expectations and interests of stakeholders. For example, relevant topics are identified by the E.ON materiality process. 3.6 Boundary of the Report Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach 3.7 Limitations on the Scope or Boundary of the Report Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach 3.8 Joint Ventures, Subsidiaries, and Outsourced Operations AR (2-4, 48-51) 3.9 Data Collection Methods and Basis of Calculation Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach The regulations of our financial market oriented reporting are applied. Where specific measurement methods were used or special explanations of indicator calculations are required, they are noted in the respective diagrams and graphics. E.ON bases its reporting on the GRI indicator protocols, but also reserves the right to deviate from these protocols. Data and content is double-checked for correctness, as is customary in management accounting. Following the completion of negotiations for the sale of our U.S. Midwest unit, it has been carried as a discontinued operation since the second quarter of 2010. The figures for 2010 and retroactively for 2008 and 2009 have therefore been adjusted to exclude U.S. Midwest. E.ON AG was restructured during the year under review. Market and business units were dissolved in favor of Global and Regional Units. 3.10 Effects of Re-Statement of Information Provided in Earlier Reports Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach Following the completion of negotiations for the sale of our U.S. Midwest market unit, it has been carried as a discontinued operation since the second quarter of 2010. The figures for 2010 and retroactively for 2008 and 2009 have therefore been adjusted to exclude U.S. Midwest. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 43 of 132 3.11 Significant Changes in the Scope, Boundary, or Measurement Methods Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach No significant changes. 3.12 GRI Content Index Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > GRI Index 3.13 External Assurance Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Assurance 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance Structure About us > Management CoR (20-22) AR (162ff.) E.ON's governance is based on a dual system comprising the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management at the executive level. E.ON complies with the German Corporate Governance Code. This safeguards the corporation's and shareholders' interests, the transparency of decisions by the Board of Management and the independence of the Supervisory Board. 4.2 Indication Whether Chairperson is also Executive Officer Investors > Corporate Governance > Board of Management The Chairman of the Board of Management of E.ON AG is also the company's chief executive officer. 4.3 Independent Members at the Board According to the G3 definition, this element is only applicable to organizations without a Supervisory Board. As E.ON has a Supervisory Board, this indicator is not applicable. 4.4 Mechanisms for Shareholders and Employees to Provide Recommendations to the Board AR (162ff.) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 44 of 132 Shareholders and employees have the following opportunities to make recommendations or provide information to the Supervisory Board and Board of Management: Shareholders: According to the Aktiengesetz (German Joint Stock Corporation Act), shareholders Employees: Fifty percent of E.ON Supervisory Board members are employee representatives. These representatives can submit recommendations to the Board of Management. Recommendations to the Board of Management/Supervisory Board may also be made through the Works Council. In addition, employees may also submit proposals for decisions to the Board of Management. 4.5 Linkage Between Executive Compensation and Organization's Performance Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Investors > Corporate Governance > 2010 Corporate Governance Report > Compensation Report Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs AR (39, 168ff.) The variable annual salary (short-term incentive) of E.ON managers is dependent on the performance of the individual and the company as a whole. The assessment of personal performance of the responsible E.ON managers also includes criteria such as environmental protection and health and safety. In 2010, we adopted our Code of Responsible Conduct for Business. In this mission statement, we speak in favor of a clear relationship between services rendered and services received; financial losses must be reflected in executives earnings. 4.6 Processes to Avoid Conflicts of Interest at the Board Investors > Corporate Governance > 2010 Corporate Governance Report > Integrity Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership AR (162ff.) The requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code are met. Our Code of Responsible Conduct for Business, which we adopted in 2010, demonstrates our clear commitment to the social market economy and to fair trading in global competition. 4.7 Process for Determining the Qualifications of the Members of the Highest Governance Body in Sustainability Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Organization Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy AR (163-165) The performance of the highest governance body is assessed by the Supervisory Board, http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 45 of 132 which includes environmental, occupational health and safety and social criteria in its assessments (see answer to 4.5). The highest governance body is the Board of Management. 4.8 Statements of Mission, Codes of Conduct, and Principles About us > Corporate Culture Investors > Corporate Governance Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Program Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance 4.9 Procedures of the Highest Governance Body for Overseeing Sustainability Performance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Organization Investors > Corporate Governance Important events relating to the environment and occupational safety are always promptly reported to the Board of Management. Key figures are also regularly reported to the Board of Management. 4.10 Processes for Evaluating the Highest Governance Body's Sustainability Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Organization 4.11 Precautionary Approach Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON AR (40ff.) As a general principle, all E.ON operations are governed by a long-term perspective. This applies to all units of the Group and all areas of activity. The precautionary principle is applied in the field of environmental protection in everyday business, investment projects and impact assessments. The E.ON risk management system already takes ecological and social risks into account, in some cases beyond legal requirements. In future, these aspects will be integrated even more effectively into the operations of all http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 46 of 132 market units. We carry out holistic analyses of our business operations (Sustainability Impact Assessments). In doing so, as well as assessing the environmental impact, we also examine the project as a whole with regard to sustainability. 4.12 External Charters, Principles, or Other Initiatives Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement At the level of the Group and individual Market and Business Units, E.ON is active in a variety of initiative. At the Group level, these include: Global Compact WBCSD Econsense 4.13 Memberships in Associations and Advocacy Organizations Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON 4.14 Stakeholder Groups Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Reporting > Reporting Approach Investors > Dialog Media > Dialog Customers As an international company, E.ON engages in constant dialog with a large number of stakeholders. 4.15 Stakeholder Identification and Selection Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis AR (36,47) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 47 of 132 As an international company, E.ON engages in constant dialog with a large number of stakeholders. The stakeholders addressed in each case depend on the specific topic. 4.16 Approaches to Stakeholder Engagement Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > Dialog > Contact us Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > Power Forums at Staudinger Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > Arbeitsgemeinschaft Naturund Umweltbildung Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > IUCN Cooperation Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Investors > Dialog Media > Dialog Careers > Work Environment > Employee Participation Customers CoR (11, 34f.) AR (47) 4.17 Key Topics and Concerns Raised by Stakeholders Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > Dialog > Contact us Responsibility > Dialog > Contact us > CR Team Investors > Dialog Investors > Bonds > FAQ Retail Investors Media > Dialog http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29263.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 48 of 132 Economic Indicators Economic indicators are divided into the three categories Economic performance , Market presence and Indirect economic impacts . The indicators provide information on the economic success of E.ON as well as the impact that this has on various stakeholder groups. Further information can also be found in the Annual Report and Company Report. Reference: CoR Company Report (page) AR Annual Report 2010 (page) Status: Disclosure on Management Approach (including EU6, 7, 8 and 9) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Nuclear Power Responsibility > Focus Topics > Nuclear Value Chain Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Technology Development Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction About us > Strategy > Strategic Priorities About us > Innovation Investors > Corporate Governance CoR (10-12, 40, 47, 49, 51, 57, 67f.) AR (36, 39, 68, 73, 101, 115-117, 162ff.) EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) CoR (9) AR (188) EC2 Financial Implications Due to Climate Change Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29262.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 49 of 132 AR (5ff., 11, 43ff.) E.ON regularly investigates what impacts climate changee.g. gradual temperature increase or extreme weatherhas on the business. In this context we evaluate potential physical risks for our employees as well as material risks to our buildings and network systems. In addition we analyze financial risks like accidents. The probability of occurrence and potential impact of these risks are determined every year. These risk analyses are intended to identify focus areas for precautionary measures. EC3 Coverage of the Organizations Defined Benefit Plan Careers > Work Environment > Terms of Employment > Performance-related Compensation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) AR (38, 59, 73, 90, 109, 113f., 174) We offer our employees at many locations comprehensive possibilities of providing for their retirement, in addition to the statutory requirements. In Germany, company pension plan benefits are a component firmly integrated in the overall remuneration system. In addition to an attractive pension scheme financed by the Group, E.ON offers its German employees the possibility of earning additional benefits by paying contributions. Depending on their individual needs and possibilities, employees can choose between a number of different models (such as direct life assurance schemes, supplementary pensions in accordance with the statutory provisions and/or the conversion of remuneration) and also combine these possibilities. EC4 Financial Government Assistance AR (69) EC5 Entry Level Wage Compared to Local Minimum Wage (Add) EC6 Locally-based Suppliers Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement When selecting suppliers, we attempt to ensure appropriate economic relationships between the shares of individual suppliers to our market units. Services are often sourced in the immediate vicinity of our locations. In this way, we demonstrate our responsibility for the regions where we are active. EC7 Local Hiring Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity We select employees on the basis of our human resources strategy. The main criteria http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29262.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 50 of 132 are qualifications and motivation. Preferential treatment for certain groups of people would run counter to the principle of non-discrimination. EC8 Infrastructure Investment and Services for Public Benefit Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Community Involvement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity CoR (14f., 56f., 64ff.) AR (30) EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts (Add) We do not collect detailed data on this area at present. EU10 Planned Capacity Against Projected Electricity Demand Over the Long Term Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction AR (8ff., 50ff.) EU11 Average Generation Efficiency of Thermal Plants by Energy Source and Region Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Business Areas > Power Generation > Owned Generation CoR (7, 48f., 72) EU12 Transmission and Distribution Losses as a Percentage of Total Energy AR (14) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29262.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 51 of 132 Ecological Indicators The information requirements of ecological indicators range from consumption of materials to greenhouse gas emissions. Reference: CoR Company Report (page) AR Annual Report 2010 (page) Status: Disclosure on Management Approach (including EU6, 7, 8 and 9) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Materiality Analysis Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Organization Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Program Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Policies and Standards CoR (12) EN1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs The main materials used by E.ON are fuels. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 52 of 132 EN2 Percentage of Materials used that are Recycled Input Materials Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs EN3 Direct Primary Energy Consumption Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs AR (14-15) The use of primary energy sources for electric power generation accounts for the greater part of direct primary energy consumption. EN4 Indirect Primary Energy Consumption AR (14-15) It is not possible to break down quantities of consumed electricity according to which primary energy source they came from. EN5 Energy Conservation (Add) Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Natural Gas Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Nuclear Power Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Group-wide data is not available, individual examples are provided. EN6 Initiatives for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (Add) Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Technology Development Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Natural Gas Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Renewable Energy http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 53 of 132 CoR (12ff., 46ff., 51ff., 55ff., 65ff.) AR (36f.) EN7 Initiatives for Reducing Indirect Energy Consumption (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection EN8 Total Water Withdrawal by Source Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs E.ON uses water mainly as cooling and process water. This is taken from all available sources. We use water from the sea, from rivers and lakes, and from the public water supply. The balancing of cooling water withdrawal and return does not give any indication of the environmental impact of withdrawal and return. We therefore do not consider this indicator to be meaningful. We withdraw and return cooling water in accordance with the applicable legislation and environmental requirements. The detailed data presented includes process water. EN9 Water Sources Significantly Affected by Withdrawal of Water (Add) E.ON uses water mainly as cooling and process water. This is taken from all available sources. We use water from the sea, from rivers and lakes, and from the public water supply. The balancing of cooling water withdrawal and return does not give any indication of the environmental impact of withdrawal and return. We therefore do not consider this indicator to be meaningful. We withdraw and return cooling water in accordance with the applicable legislation and environmental requirements. The detailed data presented includes process water. EN10 Water Recycled and Reused (Add) Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) We withdraw and return cooling water in accordance with the applicable legislation and environmental requirements. Apart from cooling, we use water for steam raising. Between 95 and 99 percent of the water used for steam raising is condensed and reused. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 54 of 132 EN11 Location and Size of Land Assets in or Adjacent to Protected Areas In our opinion, this is not a material indicator with regard to statements on biodiversity. E.ON owns a large number of land assets in many countries, which means that a list would not be meaningful for the reader. Information on biodiversity can be found under biodiversity. EN12 Impacts of Activities on Biodiversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > IUCN Cooperation EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to biodiversity of the affected areas In our opinion, this is not a meaningful indicator on issues of biodiversity management or the impact of corporate activities on biodiversity. Detailed information on this topic is given under biodiversity. EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection EN14 Strategies for Biodiversity (Add) Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection > Biodiversity Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON > IUCN Cooperation Responsibility > CR Approach > CR Program Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement EN15 Endangered Species (Add) In our opinion, this is not a meaningful indicator on issues of biodiversity management or the impact of corporate activities on biodiversity. Detailed information on this topic is given under biodiversity. EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 55 of 132 Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > Focus Topics > Carbon Footprint Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs CoR (10ff.) AR (36) We report on CO2 as the most important greenhouse gas for energy utilities. SF6 and CH 4 are lower priorities. EN17 Other Greenhouse Gas Emissions For E.ON, other indirect greenhouse gas emissions are not relevant compared with direct emissions. EN18 Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > Focus Topics > Carbon Footprint CoR (10ff.) AR (36) EN19 Emissions of Ozone-depleting Substances No significant emissions due to business activities. EN20 NOx, SOx, and Other Air Emissions Responsibility > CR in Practice > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs The most important other air emissions are NOx, SO2, CO and particulate matter. EN21 Water Discharge We do not collect detailed data on this area at present. EN22 Waste by Type and Disposal Method Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 56 of 132 Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs EN23 Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection EN24 Waste Deemed Hazardous Under the Terms of the Basel Convention (Add) EN25 Impacts of Discharges and Runoff on Biodiversity (Add) We do not collect detailed data on this area at present. EN26 Initiatives to Mitigate Environmental Impacts Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Technology Development Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible energy consumption Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Energy Efficiency for Customers Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Rewarded Energy Savings EN27 Percentage of Products Sold and their Packaging Materials that are Reclaimed EN28 Sanctions for Non-Compliance with Environmental Regulations This data is regularly requested from units but is not reported Group-wide in consolidated form. EN29 Environmental Impacts of Transport (Add) We do not collect detailed data on this area at present. EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditures (Add) AR (115 117) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29261.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 57 of 132 Social Indicators The social indicators provided by the Global Reporting Initiative measure labor practices, social performance, adherence to human rights as well as product responsibility. Reference: CoR Company Report (page) AR Annual Report 2010 (page) Status: Disclosure on Management Approach (including DMA EU14, 15 and 16) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Workplace Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Safety Rules Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Occupational Safety Training for Senior Manager Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Safety Culture in Eastern Europe Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Safety Day at E.ON Espana Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Life Balance Careers > Work Environment CoR (23-25) AR (38) LA1 Total Workforce by Employment Type, Employment Contract, and Region Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Life Balance Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) CoR (25, 29) AR (37, 39, 51) LA2 Employee Turnover http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 58 of 132 Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs EU17 Days Worked by Contractor and Subcontractor Employees E.ON has services performed by a large number of contractors and subcontractors. In our opinion, central recording and reporting of days worked would not be material with respect to statements concerning working practices. EU18 Percentage of Contractor and Subcontractor Employees that Have Undergone Relevant Health and Safety Training Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Safety training is a binding requirement for all our contractors and subcontractors. E.ON also offers contractors additional safety training and intends to extent its certification scheme for contractors, which requires such training, to the entire Group. LA3 Benefits to Full-Time Employees (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Occupational Health Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Life Balance Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment AR (38,73) see also EC3 LA4 Employees with Collective Bargaining Agreements 83 percent of our employees are employed under collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum Notice Period(s) Regarding Operational Changes Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization The principle of co-determination applies in Germany. Locations in other countries are included via the European Works Council. The minimum notice periods fulfill or exceed the legal requirements. LA6 Workforce Represented in Joint Health and Safety Committees (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 59 of 132 In Germany, all employees are represented in occupational safety committees by the industrial council. Under the German Occupational Safety Act (Arbeitssicherheitsgesetz, ASiG), companies with 20 or more employees are legally required to have an occupational safety committee. Similar legal requirements apply in almost all countries in which we operate. LA7 Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Number of Fatalities Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) LA8 Training on Serious Diseases Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety > Occupational Health LA9 Trade Union Agreements on Health and Safety (Add) In countries in which unions represent employees directly, occupational safety issues are included in agreements. LA10 Training per Employee Careers > Work Environment > Learning and Development > Further Education Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Safety Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs CoR (24) AR (38, 43f.) The average expenses on training per employee amount to EUR860 per year. LA11 Programs for Lifelong Learning (Add) Careers > Work Environment > Learning and Development > Further Education Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment CoR (24f.) AR (38) LA12 Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews (Add) Careers > Work Environment > Terms of Employment > Performance-related Compensation http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 60 of 132 Careers > Work Environment > Learning and Development > Further Education Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Terms of Employment LA13 Composition of Governance Bodies Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > CR Performance > Summary data table (overview) CoR (22,24) AR (37f., 165) LA14 Gender Pay Disparity In accordance with our anti-discrimination guidelines, we do not differentiate by gender. Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Health and Safety Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement HR1 Significant investment Agreements that Include Human Rights Clauses Human rights compliance is a key concern for E.ON. In 2008, we issued a Human Rights Policywhich applies throughout the Group. Human rights aspects are considered as part of risk management. HR2 Supplier Screening on Human Rights Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement E.ON's Responsible Procurement Policy places suppliers and contractors under an obligation to observe human rights. E.ON carries out regular checks to verify compliance with the policy. In our opinion, the indication of the percentage of major suppliers and contractors subject to human rights screening would not be material with respect to http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 61 of 132 human rights issues. We believe that integrating these aspects into day-to-day business is the best way of ensuring that human rights are observed. HR3 Training on Human Rights (Add) Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement HR4 Incidents of Discrimination and Actions Taken Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Diversity Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement E.ON complies with all statutory non-discrimination requirements and has also introduced systems to uphold this behavior. All incidents are handled using a Group-wide reporting system. An immediate response is required for any incident that is reported. HR5 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards See management approach. No business activities were identified in which infringements of freedom of association and collective bargaining rights were registered. This is backed up by the Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group. In purchasing, freedom of association and collective bargaining rights are covered by the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy. HR6 Child Labor Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement See management approach. No business activities were identified in which the ban on child labor was infringed. This is backed up by the Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group. In purchasing, compliance with the ban on child labor is covered by the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy. HR7 Forced Labor Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > UN Global Compact Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 62 of 132 Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement See management approach. No business activities were identified in which the ban on forced labor was infringed. In purchasing, the ban on forced labor is covered by the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy. In purchasing, compliance with the ban on forced labor is covered by the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy. HR8 Training for Security Personnel (Add) HR9 Violations of Rights of Indigenous People (Add) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR in Practice > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible Fuel Procurement As part of our materiality process, we have classified the topic as non-priority. E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates. This is backed up by the Human Rights Policy Statement of the E.ON Group. No business activities were identified that violated the rights of indigenous populations. Society Disclosure on Management Approach (including DMA EU19, 20 and 21) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Policies and Standards Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > Dialog > Stakeholder Dialogs at E.ON Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy for Children Responsibility > CR in Practice > Social Engagement Responsibility > CR in Practice > Social Engagement > Emergency Response Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Reorganization Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs CoR (26) AR (4ff., 41ff., 162ff.) SO1 Impacts on Communities http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 63 of 132 Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy for Children Responsibility > CR in Practice > Social Engagement Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Community Involvement Social and ecological issues are investigated by the Sustainability Impact Assessment (SIA) for major projects. Ecological and social risks resulting from company activities are already analyzed and managed by the risk management system. In addition to mandatory involvement of stakeholders in areas such as environmental compatibility tests, we also engage our stakeholders in wide-ranging dialog. EU22 Number of People Displaced (by New or Expansion Projects) No displacements were identified. SO2 Corruption Risks Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > CR Strategy Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct AR (40ff.) We are aware that we do business in countries where corruption presents a real threat. According to Transparency Internationals Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), E.ON does business in 16 countries which score below the threshold value of five points. We have established a company-wide whistleblowing system accessible to all employees. See SO 3. SO3 Anti-corruption Training Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct AR (40ff.) In the past, we held regular training sessions on our Code of Conduct. Starting in 2011, we will launch compulsory Group-wide training for all employees. This will cover all salient points of our Code of Conduct: behavior in the spirit of the law, how to work with business partners, third parties and government offices; avoiding conflicts of interest; how to manage information; how to manage company property and resources. See SO 2. SO4 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents of Corruption http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 64 of 132 Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Code of Conduct Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing our Responsibility > Monitoring and Compliance SO5 Public Policy Positions and Participation in Public Policy Development and Lobbying Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > International Climate Protection and Emissions Trading Responsibility > CR in Practice > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction > Nuclear Power Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Energy Mix and CO2 Reduction Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying Responsibility > CR Approach > Commitments > Membership AR (5-9) SO6 Donations to Political Parties and Politicians (Add) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying SO7 Legal Actions for Anticompetitive Behavior (Add) Responsibility > CR Approach > Managing Our Responsibility > Responsible Lobbying AR (41, 44, 124-125) SO8 Sanctions for Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations AR (44-46, 124-125) Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach (including EU23 and 24) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Pricing Debate Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Customers in Need Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Energy Efficiency for Customers http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 65 of 132 Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Rewarded Energy Savings Responsibility > CR Performance > DVFA/EFFAS KPIs PR1 Health and Safety Impacts along Product Life Cycle Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Environmental Protection Responsibility > Reporting > Performance Report 2010 > Responsible Procurement Responsibility > Focus Topics > Nuclear Value Chain Safe use of gas and electricity is part of E.ON's activities in energy, safety and environmental education as well as our information campaigns. PR2 Non-Compliance with Health and Safety Standards (Add) E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates. EU25 Number of Injuries and Fatalities to the Public Involving the Company's Operations E.ON distributes products which pose a risk that is not immediately identifiable. These products are distributed across an incredibly large and publicly accessible infrastructure (high-voltage lines, substations and pipelines). In 2010, we began Group-wide internal reporting and launched a reporting tool that records information on injuries and deaths among the general public that are related to our facilities and infrastructure. Regardless of who is at fault, our goal is to learn from these incidents and, where possible, to better inform and educate the public with regard to dangers. Starting in the 2011 reporting year, we can provide a reliable overview of these kinds of incidents. PR3 Products and Service Labeling Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation Responsibility > Focus Topics > Responsible energy consumption PR4 Non-Compliance with Product Information Standards (Add) PR5 Customer Satisfaction (Add) Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation Responsibility > CR Performance > Performance Report 2010 > Customer Orientation PR6 Marketing Communication Standards http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 66 of 132 E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates. PR7 Non-Compliance with Marketing Communication Standards (Add) See also PR6 PR8 Complaints Regarding Customer Privacy (Add) E.ON complies with all legal and regulatory requirements in the markets in which it operates. PR9 Sanctions for Non-Compliance with Product and Service Related Regulations No sanctions were reported to the Group Management as part of the existing Group-wide risk management system. EU 26 Percentage of Population Unserved in Licensed Distribution Areas Wherever E.ON operates as a licensed energy company, the portion of the population served in the distribution areas is generally 100 percent. EU27 Number of Residential Disconnections for Non-Payment Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Customers in Need E.ON takes its responsibility towards customers very seriously. E.ON has adopted a voluntary commitment as regards needy customers. Nevertheless, E.ON also disconnects electricity customers in some cases. EU28 Power Outage Frequency EU29 Average Power Outage Duration EU30 Average Plant Availability Factor Responsibility > CR in Practice > Customer Orientation > Pricing Debate www.eon-schafft-transparenz.de http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29260.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 67 of 132 CR Report 2010 E.ON reports on its corporate responsibility in a range of different publications. As in previous years, we use primarily the Internet for Group-wide CR reporting on events in 2010. Our CR Report 2010 plays a central role here, in which we present the results of our activities towards our corporate responsibility for the reporting period. The core components of the CR Report are the chapters on CR Management and CR Performance, the contents of which we offer for download here. Other Internet pages on Dialog, Focus Topics and CR in Practice should be regarded as supplementary information to the CR Report 2010 and can also be saved as PDF (see PDF link at the end of each page). CR Report 2009 (PDF, 1.6 MB) CR Report 2008 (PDF, 1.4 MB) CR Report 2007 (PDF, 1.7 MB) CR Report 2006 (PDF, 1.1 MB) CR Report 2005 (PDF, 1020 KB) CR Report 2004 (PDF, 7.9 MB) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29247.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 68 of 132 CR Magazine In addition to our online CR reporting we publish our CR Magazine annually and provide this on our website. In this Magazine we highlight the most important E.ON-related issues from different points of view. The next edition will be available from June 2011, and can be downloaded here. CR Magazine 2009 (PDF, 4.5 MB) CR Magazine 2008 (PDF, 1.2 MB) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29246.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 69 of 132 Other Publications Apart from our CR reporting we publish all relevant key figures and information on the E.ON Groups environment and direction in our Annual Report 2010. In addition, our Strategy & Key Figures publication offers essential information for evaluating the Group. Further, our E.ON representation to the German Parliament in Berlin publishes the e-magazinePolicy Brief several times a year to answer the many questions that this office regularly receives. For current publications, please see the links in the right-hand margin. Additional and Complementary Documents Regarding our Corporate Responsibility E.ON Code of Conduct (PDF, 116 KB) Code of Conduct Annex 1: Compliance Checklist (PDF, 12 KB) Code of Conduct Annex 2: Anti-Trust Law Guidelines (PDF, 24 KB) Code of Conduct Annex 3: Guidelines on Benefits (PDF, 31 KB) E.ON Global Climate Change and Environment Policy (PDF, 67 KB) E.ON Health & Safety Policy Statement (PDF, 43 KB) E.ON Guideline on Equality and Promoting Diversity within the E.ON Group (PDF, 29 KB) E.ON Responsible Procurement Principles (PDF, 36 KB) E.ON Biomass Purchasing Amendment to the E.ON Responsible Procurement Policy (PDF, 51 KB) E.ON Human Rights Policy (PDF, 76 KB) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29245.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 70 of 132 Steps towards more Customer Orientation We have developed a strategic approach for improving our customer orientation and being more responsive to our customers' needs, which applies to all markets. You can find further information under CR in Practice. In 2010 we achieved important progress in this area: We expanded successful customer relations management based on Net Promoter Score® (NPS) to more regional units. We introduced individual product solutions, from energy-saving, through fixed-price to green offers in several markets. We gave customers the possibility to manage their own energy use with smart meters and online portals, such as E.ON EnergieNavi. We introduced various educational initiatives on saving energy, e.g. in kindergartens and schools. NPS: Improving Customer Loyalty Since 2009 we have used NPS as the key indicator to measure our progress in improving customer satisfaction: We introduced NPS, which had previously only been measured in the UK, to Germany, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic during 2010. In 2011 we also intend to implement the program in Spain. To test implementation all business units received a set of ambitious targets. All regional units exceeded their targets. We also assessed the engagement of our employees here, and used the results to set new targets. More than half of the frontline employees in the units involved were included in the NPS process during 2010. In total they gathered individual feedback from more than 100,000 customers. Each regional unit was asked to explain how it had evaluated the feedback and how this had been used to improve its customer interaction. To measure our NPS we ask our customers to state on a scale of 0-10 how likely they would be to recommend us to a friend or colleague. We also ask them for reasons for this rating, and then we use this customer feedback to introduce improvement measures. Examples: Some customers of E.ON UK said, for example, that they didn't like the process for entering meter readings online. We therefore simplified the system and the process, made it quicker and more user-friendly. The changes led to more customers using the system and improvements in NPS results. Customers of E.ON Vertrieb Deutschland (E.ON Sales Germany) told us that some of our letters were unclear and hard to understand, while other letters had been received several times. We subsequently identified possibilities for improvement in the presentation of content and preparation of letters. This, too, led to less criticism from our customers and an improved NPS score. Some of our regional units received awards for their successes: E.ON Italia was http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29277.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 71 of 132 recognized for customer satisfaction in gas distribution (Premio Speciale CAI Energia 2009) and E.ON Nordic achieved the highest customer satisfaction ratings among Swedish energy suppliers in the 2010 Svensk Kvalitetsindex survey. Tailored Products Around 27 million customers received services and product solutions from E.ON in 2010. As a key aspect of our customer orientation we continuously widen our product range and adjust it to the needs of our customers. Although product development is managed regionally to suit the specific market and customer preferences, during 2010 some of the following examples prevailed in several markets: Our energy-saving products give customers, for instance in Germany, the Czech Republic and Italy, incentives to lower their energy consumption. They receive bonus points for every kWh saved compared to the previous year, which they can spend on particular services. Thanks to special products with fixed prices or price ceilings, customers in Germany, Sweden and the Czech Republic amongst others have more security in times of fluctuating energy prices. Customers in Germany and the UK preferring green electricity have an option consisting entirely of renewable energy. In Sweden, we even offer green electricity for all products. Increasing Energy Efficiency We support our customers through a wide range of efficiency solutions and encourage them to save energy. In 2010 they were able to use the following opportunities, amongst others: Our online portals, such as E.ON EnergieNavi in Germany or EnergiDirigent® in Sweden, enable our customers to use interactive tools to regulate their consumption. Smart meters enable customers to check their energy consumption around the clock: this helps to control their own consumption and identify tangible savings. Across the Group we have already supplied more than a million households with smart meters, mostly in Sweden and Spain. Customers in Germany and Italy who saved more than ten per cent of energy compared to the previous year received a credit note of EUR 50. Those who switch to combined gas and solar heating, gas-driven heat pumps or micro-cogeneration systems, or buy a new natural gas car, receive energy credits for this in Germany. We also offer our business customers, including those in the housing industry, energy audits and tailored energy-management concepts. From April 2009 to the end of 2010 we visited 150 German cities and communities with our EnergieSpar-Mobil trucks to promote energy efficiency. In 2011 another 200 such events are set to follow. Through Smart Homes in Sweden, the UK and Germany we're participating in an international project on the research, communication and eventual market launch of new energy-efficiency technologies. We approach schools and kindergartens in various countries to raise even very young children's awareness of energy saving. In 2009 E.ON and the http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29277.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 72 of 132 Naturund Umweltbildung Bundesverband e.V. (ANU) environmental working group initiated the Leuchtpol project. By 2012 we will have delivered learning modules with energy-experience days and educators at 4,000 nursery schools across the country. We have continued our efforts towards the marketability of decentralized generation and heating solutions with gas-driven heat pumps, micro-cogeneration systems and fuel cells. In Germany we support the Callux Project, a practical trial of fuel-cell heating appliances for one-family homes. We also created the Micro-CHP User Group in Germany to expand the field testing of CHP technologies. Commitment to Vulnerable Customers We want to help ensure in all our markets that vulnerable customers retain access to the energy supply. Our range of products includes different social tariffs, depending on the country: in Germany we waived the standing charge for some 21,000 vulnerable customers during 2010, while in the same year at E.ON UK almost 25,000 customers received one of our WarmAssist social products. In Spain, as one of the suppliers of last resort E.ON España supplies low-income households with electricity they can afford. In Romania too, low-income households received credits for their energy supply. E.ON UK made EUR 430,000 available for the Caring Energy fund between April 2009 and March 2010, helping customers to replace old heating systems and appliances. During this time we supported 373 customers through the fund. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29277.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 73 of 132 Secure, Affordable and with Decreasing CO2 Emissions We continue to develop all power generation types in our portfolio to ensure a reliable and affordable supply, and at the same time systematically reduce our CO2 emissions further. You can find more information about our strategic approach under CR in Practice. In 2010, as part of our new E.ON cleaner & better energy strategy we pledged to reduce the specific CO2 emissions from our power plants in Europe by 50 percent by 2020 (compared with a 1990 baseline) ten years earlier than originally planned. We intend to achieve this goal both by using more efficient fossil fuel generation technologies and by continuing to expand our use of renewable energy sources. Nuclear power also plays an important role here. The life-time extension of nuclear power plants, as agreed by the German government in 2010, is an essential condition to achieve our goal. Outside Europe, we strive to be one of the best power companies in each of the regions in which we operate. In 2010, we made good progress, as we: increased installed renewable energy capacity by 600 MW to 3.6 GW; put into operation the first offshore wind park in deep water, alpha ventus; built a new combined-cycle plant in Shatura, which is the first in Russia to be recognized as a UN Climate Protection Project (Joint Implementation), and which saves over a million tons of CO2 compared to conventional power plants; were included in the Carbon Disclosure Performance Index, the world's most important index of companies with the best climate protection reporting. CO2 Intensity in the E.ON Group Compared to the previous year, in 2010 we improved the CO2 intensity of our energy production only marginally, by 0.5 percent. Rounded to two decimal places, the values of 0.42 t of CO2 per MWh for the entire Group, and 0.39 t per MWh for Europe (excluding Russia) are equivalent to the previous year. The increased use of renewables was offset by the higher use of coal in the UK. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35071.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 74 of 132 CO2 Emissions from Electricity Generation In 2010, the amount of CO2 emitted in our electricity generation, including CO 2 emissions attributable to CHP plants in the UK, increased by 1.7 million to a total of 116.7 million tons. This is mainly due to slight increases in production compared to the previous year, related to the economic recovery. The CO 2 emissions at Pan European Gas came to 512,000 tons. Energy Mix of Electricity Generated In 2010, the amount of electricity generated in E.ON's own power plants was 275.5 billion kWh, two percent above the previous years' level of 270 billion kWh. We obtained ten percent of our generated electricity from renewables. Fossil fuels such as coal, gas and oil continue to play a large role in our energy generation. As in 2009, their share was again 63 percent in 2010. Another important element in our energy mix is nuclear power, with a 26 percent share of our generated electricity. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35071.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 75 of 132 Progress in Expansion of Renewables Wind power: By the end of 2010 we had generation capacity of 3.6 GW (about ten times the amount we had three years ago). The major share comes from onshore wind power. In 2010 we commissioned over 350 MW of onshore wind power, including the wind parks Papalotte Creek 2 in the USA with 200 MW, Wielkopolska in Poland with 52.5 MW and Barao Sao Joao in Portugal with 50 MW. In the area of offshore wind power, we have a capacity of 467 MW. In 2010, E.ON installed around 40 percent of all offshore wind power generating capacity installed in Europe. We completed wind farms at Robin Rigg (180 MW) off the UK's northwest coast, Rödsand II (207 MW) in the Baltic sea off Denmark and alpha ventus (60 MW) in the German North Sea. Further wind farms with a total capacity of 3 GW are under development or construction; these include London Array, a cooperation project with Dong Energy and Masdar. The first construction phase with a capacity of 630 MW will be connected to the grid in 2012. After completion of the second phase, London Array will have a capacity of 1 GW. Hydroelectricity: We have over 4.8 GW of hydroelectric capacity from river and pumped-storage power plants. In 2010, E.ON worked mainly on the construction and expansion of pumped-storage plants, for instance in Waldeck and in south-east Bavaria, which help amongst other things to balance out fluctuating generation from renewables. Biomass: Since 2008, we have run a 44 MW wood-fired power station at the Steven's Croft site in Lockerbie, Scotland. The plant is one of the largest pure-biomass power stations in the UK and represents a saving of 140,000 tons of CO2 every year compared to conventional generation. Other biomass projects with a total capacity of 400 MW are in various stages of development. Progress in our Conventional Generation Portfolio Natural gas: Power plants with combined cycle gas turbine technology (CCGT) achieve high thermal efficiencies and therefore only emit comparatively small amounts of CO2. Through combining heat and power generation (CHP) even higher efficiency levels can be achieved. In 2010, we brought one of the most efficient and powerful CCGT plants in the world onstream in Irsching, upper Bavaria, with an http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35071.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 76 of 132 efficiency factor of nearly 60 percent. With the highly efficicent gas-fired generating unit Irsching 4 planned for 2011, we will have achieved a total efficiency factor of over 60 percent for the first time ever. Further CCGT power plants have been brought onstream in Émile Huchet, France; Scandale, Italy; Malenice, Slovak Republic and Shatura near Moscow. The plant in Malenice with an efficiency factor of 58 percent is the most environmentally friendly power station in Slovakia. Shatura was recently recognized by the UN as E.ON's first Russian Joint Implementation Project as part of the Kyoto mechanism (see below). Nuclear Power: Nuclear Power plays an important role to achieve our CO2 target. Besides our role as operators of such plants we are also cooperating with construction companies such as Siemens and Areva (since 2008). We're also Member of the European Sustainable Nuclear Energy Technology Platform (SNETP). Coal: Our latest coal-fired power plants currently under construction achieve thermal efficiencies of more than 45 percent and by replacing older plants they save large amounts of CO2. For example, the power plant unit under construction at Datteln 4 (1,100 MW), Germany, achieves over 45 percent efficiency. It will supply district heat to about 100,000 households in the central Ruhr region. The combined coal power plant Maasvlakte 3 in the Netherlands cogenerates heat that is piped to local industrial enterprises and residential areas; it will also be fitted to co-fire biomass. What's more, both power plants are designed for retrofitting with a large-scale carbon capture and storage (CCS) unit. In Maasvlakte we are also building the first large CCS demonstration plant with EU support. CO2 Allowances from Emissions Trading In 2010 we were awarded emission allowances for 75.1 million tons of CO2 as part of the national allocation plans through the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). The CO2 emissions of our power plants included in emissions trading from electricity and heat generation as well as those emitted by E.ON Ruhrgas amounted to 90.4 million tons of CO2, 15.3 more than the allocated emission allowances. International Climate Protection Projects http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35071.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 77 of 132 E.ON is involved in climate protection projects in South-East Asia, North Africa and Russia under the CO2 compensation methods defined in the Kyoto Protocol: The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) regulates the allocation of emissions credits for climate-protection projects in developing countries. We have been working on such projects with Bionersis in South-East Asia since 2009. There, we capture climate-damaging methane gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. Over the project duration of 20 years this will avoid 4.5 million tons of CO2 emissions. As part of Joint Implementation (JI) we receive certificates for emission reductions in industrialized countries. In 2010, our CCGT Shatur power plant near Moscow was recognized by the UN as E.ON's first Russian JI Project. CO2 Accounting E.ON was included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the first time in 2008. The CDLI is published by a group of 551 institutional investors, representing a joint investment volume of around EUR 51 trillion (USD 71 trillion). In 2010, we also extended the calculation basis for our carbon footprint and we were included in the newly compiled Carbon Disclosure Performance Index (CPLI). This index assesses the reports of 500 of the largest companies in the world in their efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. 48 of these companies were included in the Index. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35071.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 78 of 132 Developing Tomorrow's Technologies Today Developing new energy technologies plays a key role in delivering energy for the future. Our activities in Research and Development (R&D) must be measured against this requirement. In 2010 E.ON created a Board of Management function for technologies. This underscores the importance we place on innovative energy technologies. See CR in Practice to find out more about our aims and organizational structure. In 2010 our R&D expenditure amounted to EUR 93 million and we further strengthened our Group-wide R&D activities: With the completion of alpha ventus, Rödsand and Robin Rigg in 2010, E.ON continues to maintain a leading position in the development, construction and operation of offshore wind farms. We invested more in energy efficiency applications, new energy efficiency projects for our customers, in micro CHP, Smart Homes and E-Mobility. We started several projects to test smart grid applications in our distribution network areas. In addition to the development of products for electrical car owners we worked with auto manufacturers to develop charging and billing for electric cars and their integration into the energy system. We increased our activities in research and testing of energy from the sea, such as the use of wave energy. We awarded some EUR 5 million in prize money to research teams for their innovative research proposals on heat storage and concentrating solar power (CSP). Development of E.ON's R&D Expenditure In 2010 E.ON invested a total of EUR 93 million in research, development and demonstration projects; expenditure was EUR 12 million lower than the year before. The main reason for this reduction is that we completed the alpha ventus offshore wind farm. We invested EUR 61 million in our Group-wide R&D activities and a further EUR 32 million in university funding and demonstration projects. Here, the further development of promising key technologies to achieve market readiness is particularly important to us. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35072.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 79 of 132 We'll be investing a total of EUR 40 million over the period 2006 to 2015 to fund the E.ON Energy Research Center at RWTH Aachen. This renowned university's existing activities will be complemented with new research activities which we supported with EUR 5.5 million of funding in 2010. These are in the areas of electricity generation and storage systems, applied geophysics and geothermal energy, as well as the automation of power supply networks. We're also providing EUR 60 million in funding over several years for the E.ON Research Initiative, which we award for research projects on a range of topics. Here too, the focus lies on researching new technologies that are not yet market-ready. In 2010 we awarded some EUR 5 million for research projects to five research teams from Europe and the US for their innovative research proposals on Heat Storage and Concentrating Solar Power (CSP) . R&D Budget by Project Type When we break down our R&D expenditure by project type, it's clear that we cover a broad spectrum from generation, through transport and distribution to sales. Our focus is primarily on renewable energies, but also on developing fossil fuel technologies further. Renewables: At EUR 13.8 million we reduced our expenditure by EUR 20 million in 2010; the main reason for this reduction is that we completed the alpha ventus offshore wind farm. Alongside established onshore and offshore wind power we aim to develop other technologies such as solar and marine power on a large industrial scale. Fossil Energy: We invested a total of EUR 41.9 million in this area, an increase of almost EUR 8 million compared to last year. The increase in expenditure is due to trial and development work on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technologies, which requires extensive testing. We also http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35072.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 80 of 132 focused on raising the efficiency of CCGT power plants as well as coal-fired power plants. Nuclear: Nuclear power will continue to play a role in our energy mix. We're involved in developing new, safer materials and improved safety systems. Our investment in nuclear innovations slightly decreased by EUR 1 million to EUR 12.3 million. Transport and Distribution: We slightly decreased our investment in this area in 2010 by EUR 1 million to EUR 7.9 million. Our focus was on energy-storage systems and smart grids. On the road to an energy future with a growing number of renewable energies, we need smart grids and smart meters. These technologies save energy, help with load management and therefore optimize the use of power plants; they also organize the use of small, point-of-use power generation units and energy storage systems. Energy Applications: Here we invested EUR 11.2 million in 2010, representing an increase of almost EUR 1 million compared to the year before. Energy applications, new projects in energy end-use, micro CHP, smart home systems and e-mobility technologies all gained in importance. Example Projects in 2010 Renewables: The majority of our renewables investment goes into wind energy where we're working on new, efficient technologies. One example is a vertical-axis wind turbine we're currently demonstrating in the Swedish city of Falkenberg. It works without a mechanism to align the rotor blades with the wind and operates in conjunction with a generator at ground level, making it very maintenance-friendly. A considerable share went into offshore wind power research work. By the close of 2010, turbines with a capacity of 467 MW came onstream in the UK, Denmark and Germany with further wind farms with a combined power output of 3 GW currently under construction or in the planning phase. We're also working together with industry-leading companies such as Masdar, a major investment company based in Abu Dhabi, on large projects including the world's largest offshore wind farm in the outer Thames Estuary: the London Array. Alongside wind power, as a second mainstay we're currently developing concentrating solar power (CSP) technology, which uses large concave mirrors to bundle the energy used to run steam turbines. In 2010 we made very positive progress in establishing two 50 MW concentrated solar thermal power plants, which we're currently constructing in a joint venture with Abengoa, the Spanish market leader in solar power plants. One of the plants is due to go onstream as soon as 2011. Furthermore, we're also involved in the Desertec Industrial Initiative a project with the goal of generating electricity using solar and wind farms in the deserts of North Africa and transporting it to Europe. In addition we're helping to develop new solutions to utilize biomass and marine power. Here we're involved in the Pelamis project to generate renewable electricity from ocean waves. For this purpose, a floating steel sea snake comprising moving, tubular sections was developed. A 180 meter prototype capable of generating a maximum of 750 kW is due to be launched off the coast of Scotland's Orkney Islands in 2011. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35072.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 81 of 132 Fossil Energy: The increase of expenditure on fossil energy is due to the testing and development of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology for flue gas from fossil-fueled power plants. We plan to be able to build all new coal-fired power plants with CCS technology by 2020. We're currently conducting some 100 research projects looking at the commercial application of this technology and in total we're spending EUR 15 to 20 million per year on CCS. We plan to construct an initial large-scale demonstration plant (250 MW) at Maasvlakte near Rotterdam in the Netherlands. With efficiencies of almost 60 percent, the latest natural gas-fired power plants with combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) technology already achieve the highest thermal efficiency levels in E.ON's generation fleet. In May 2010, we put into operation one of the world's most efficient and powerful CCGT power plants in Irsching, Germany, following a construction period of roughly two years. With an efficiency of 59.7 percent the plant sets new benchmarks in terms of energy efficiency and minimized environmental impact. Our latest generation of coal-fired power plants currently under construction achieve thermal efficiency levels of over 46 percent. Additionally in 2010 we tested new materials for highly energy-efficient, ultra-high temperature operations up to 700°C. Nuclear: Besides our role as operators of such plants we are also cooperate with construction companies such as Siemens and Areva (since 2008). Energy Applications: We installed about a million smart meters in Sweden by the close of 2010, as required by national law. In Spain we will have installed approx. 750,000 smart meters by 2014. By the end of 2010 we fitted 10,000 appliances for end users during field trials in Germany. By 2022, 80 percent of German households are to be supplied with a smart meter. In Sweden, the UK and Germany we launched our international Smart Homes project to bring households up to tomorrow's efficiency level. To support the development of small, in-home micro CHP units we are a partner in the German government-backed Callux project, a large field test of gas-fired fuel cell CHP units in single-family homes. We also founded an industry user group in Germany. In the UK too, we tested fuel cells and Stirling engines. The main research topics are the connection of decentralized units to large data and power networks, and the integration of domestic electronic appliances. On the latter we have been cooperating with BSH Bosch and Siemens Appliances since the end of 2010. Electric cars, as appliances that both consume and store energy, are an important part of tomorrow's intelligent energy world. We concluded our first large-scale e-mobility pilot projects in 2010, including a fleet test with VW and the MINI E project. Additional projects were initiated, such as a study with the German TÜV Süd (technical inspection institute) and a research partnership with the Spanish city of Santander. See E-Mobility or the links in the right-hand margin for further information. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35072.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 82 of 132 http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/35072.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 83 of 132 Progress Towards Responsible Procurement Our business activities do not begin with the generation and distribution of energy; the true starting points are the planning and construction of power plants and the procurement of products, services and fuels for our operations. While procurement is an essential part of our business, it can be associated with effects on people and the environment. Our aim is to minimize the negative impacts. You can find further information about our strategic approach under CR in Practice. In the course of integrating sustainable procurement criteria and processes, we were able to make progress in 2010 e.g.: Two audits conducted in coal mines. Cooperation with other power utilities as part of the Better Coal Initiative. Its goal is the continuing improvement of the coal supply chain, focusing on coal mines in particular. A Group-wide IT solution was launched to improve transparency and the flow of information in the non-fuels sector. Supplier Qualification and Audits Our supplier qualification program is an important instrument for initiating improvements in the social and ecological standards along our supply chain not only of those of our suppliers, but of the mines and processing sites as well. Since 2009 CR compliance has been included alongside economic criteria as a mandatory component of our supplier audits. To this end, we work with an international auditing firm to train our auditors: In the non-fuels sector, our sustainable procurement processes are supported by a standardized, Group-wide IT solution. Known as the Master Data Hub, this system allows us to create greater transparency and helps to increase supplier awareness of the importance of our responsible procurement principles. In addition, in 2010 E.ON employees conducted a total of 46 CR audits among our non-fuel suppliers, in some cases with the involvement of external auditing firms. In the field of coal procurement, we audited a Columbian and a South African coal mine in 2010. Independent external auditors conducted the local CR audits. After the audits, we worked with the mining companies to develop action plans that outlined corrective measures and areas for improvement. Two further audits of coal mines are planned for 2011. In 2010 we worked with an external auditing firm to conduct a CR audit of a uranium processing and enrichment plant in Russia. The on-site inspections examined aspects such as human rights, occupational safety, environmental protection, integrity of business practices and radiation protection. The audit included the examination of documentation before and during the on-site inspections, interviews with relevant department managers and meetings with representatives of the union and neighboring municipalities, as well as visits to different facilities. As part of the audit process, we work with our suppliers to identify concrete areas of improvement and establish timeframes for implementing measures with our support. Should a supplier in some way demonstrate their unwillingness to cooperate or show no potential for improvement, we decide whether to terminate the business relationship on a case-by-case basis. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29272.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 91 of 132 Gas Supply by Source Country Due to our long-term contracts, there were only minor changes in our natural gas sources from 2009 to 2010. The total volume of gas purchased by E.ON Ruhrgas in 2010 was approximately 684.5 billion kWh. This year-on-year increase of almost 10 percent can be attributed in part to the economic recovery and in part to below-average low temperatures in some regions. The most important source countries for natural gas were Russia at 27 percent and Norway at 25 percent, followed by Germany (23 percent) and the Netherlands (17 percent). We also intend to cover up to 20 percent of gas supplies from our own sources in the long term. Here we are focusing on the North Sea off Great Britain and Norway, as well as North Africa and Russia. Since August 2010 we have been operating an initial gas production platform located off the coast of Great Britain. It is set to produce more than 5 billion cubic meters of natural gas in the next 20 years. Our activities in the dynamic market for liquefied natural gas (LNG) form the third pillar of our natural gas procurement strategy. LNG has developed into an important international commodity; transported to the consumers of Europe from numerous source countries by ship, in the future LNG will represent a favorably priced alternative to pipeline gas. Hard Coal Procured for E.ON Power Stations by Source Country In 2010 E.ON purchased a total of 21,800 kilotons of coal for coal-based power generation, approximately 50 percent less than in the previous year. This can be traced back to our sale of E.ON US on the one hand, and on the other to the divestment of power plants in Germany that was carried out as part of the compromise with the antitrust authorities. These effects were partially offset by increased output at the power plants in Germany and the first-time inclusion of the power plant in Belgium. All other units also processed larger amounts of coal than in 2009. In the U.K., the decrease in the amount of coal purchased is due to the large stocks at hand at the beginning of 2010, which http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29272.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 92 of 132 were drawn on over the course of the year. Representing 50 percent of all coal purchased, Russia and Columbia are by far our most important source countries for hard coal. It is our firm belief that we must work with other stakeholders to identify shared approaches to sustainable procurement. This is why we have sought to cooperate with competitors and NGOs in improving social and ecological standards along the supply chain. We have joined forces with seven leading European energy suppliers who also want to see improvements in the coal supply chain, to develop the Better Coal Initiative. This initiative aims to ensure the continuous improvement of sustainability aspects along the coal supply chain, especially at the mining stage. The plan is to define social, ecological and ethical standards, integrate them into business practices, and involve other stakeholders more deeply in this process. Uranium Supply for E.ON Power Plants by Source Country The world's largest deposits of uranium are found in stable export countries such as Canada and Australia. Furthermore, natural uranium is suitable for storage in large quantities. In 2010, E.ON met the majority of its uranium requirements with natural uranium from Canada, Kazakhstan and Russia, which was then enriched in Europe. In addition, we have our own stocks of natural uranium that originated in Canada, Namibia, Australia and Russia. On average we need approximately 1,600 tons of natural uranium each year to fuel our nuclear power plants in Germany and Sweden. Biomass Purchasing Biomass is gaining in importance within our growing renewable energy portfolio. In 2009, our Executive Board drafted and approved a biomass procurement policy to ensure that the effects of our biomass activities are managed responsibly and in accordance with a set of clear and comprehensive principles. These address impacts on the environment, biodiversity and water supplies as well as consequences for global food markets and the regions in which we work. The policy is included in the http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29272.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 93 of 132 terms of the purchasing agreements signed by our suppliers and covers all of E.ON's activities from the production of our fuels to the generation of heat and electricity for our customers. In 2010 we undertook a full supply chain carbon balance audit of our largest biomass plant, the 44 MW Steven's Croft facility in Scotland. During 2011 we will undertake similar audits for fours plants currently at the development stage. This will allow us to optimize sustainability along the supply chain from the outset. We are also planning to extend the scope of our sustainability audits to include the activities of a number of biomass suppliers. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29272.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 94 of 132 Community Involvement as Part of Corporate Responsibility Since 2007 our Community Involvement (CI) has taken a clear strategic direction. You will find more details under CR in Practice. Our aim is to share our expertise as one of the world's leading energy companies with the society in which we live and work, making an active contribution to solving the challenges it faces. In 2010 we made important progress in these areas: Expansion and consolidation of our Energy for Children projects Outstanding community involvement by our units' employees Expansion of strategic community activities After rolling out our Community Involvement (CI) strategy across the Group, we continue to focus on dialog between units. At the same time, we plan to further expand our CI initiatives in keeping with each unit's needs and opportunities and to move ahead with our Energy for Children program. We are aware that we can achieve more by working in cross-sector partnerships, and intend to make greater use of these in the future. In 2011 we also plan to identify appropriate measurement tools and performance indicators to better monitor our progress in meeting our goals. Energy and Environmental Education: Tremendous Reach and Powerful Effects By 2010 our flagship project Leuchtpol , which is part of our CI program Energy for Children, had reached teachers in more than 1,700 preschools. In 2010 the fourth external interim report reconfirmed the especially high multiplier effect of the project in the field of sustainability education. The Environmental Champions in Schools initiative was rolled out in Spain, Italy and Hungary. Fifty of our employees in these countries volunteered to bring the project to 27 schools. They were supported by Global Action Plan, an international NGO. Energy for Children's first Energy Day was held in January 2010 at E.ON AG. 190 children of employees enjoyed hands-on activities designed to teach them about renewable energy. After garnering success for several years in England and Hungary, The Energy Experience e-learning project was also rolled out in elementary and secondary schools in Slovakia. Award-winning Community Projects 2010 again saw a number of our established CI programs gain external recognition: Leuchtpol , the German lighthouse project that is part of E.ON's Energy for Children program, was one of the first recipients of the Werkstatt N quality seal awarded by the German Council for Sustainable Development . In 2009 it was already included in UNESCO's National Action Plan for Germany. In 2010 the ZSE Group received the European Employee Volunteering Award in Slovakia. The award-winning project, Best Idea , offers students in technical schools the opportunity to develop their own business ideas in the field of renewable energy or energy efficiency as part of their preparation http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29372.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 95 of 132 for their future careers. The students are supported by business experts as well as employees of the ZSE Group. The community involvement of E.ON Hungária was honored with the National Prize for Corporate Volunteering , the only prize awarded in this field in Hungary. Social Investment in 2010 In 2010 we spent a total of EUR 40.8 million Group-wide on initiatives that addressed a range of societal issues. Compared to the previous year, this represents a slight increase in our financial commitment to our communities despite the continuing subdued business environment and our PerformtoWin efficiency program. Social Investment by Strategic Focus and Purpose Our social investment can be broken down into three focus areas: Strategic community involvement; Sponsorships that benefit the community, e.g. sponsoring sports and the arts; Financial corporate giving, including disaster relief. In 2010 almost 60 percent of E.ON's social investment was dedicated to strategic community involvement. This represents progress towards our objective of moving from donations and sponsorships to providing more targeted support to strategic community initiatives. Broken down by purpose, our community expenditure targeted several different areas, with the most support going to science and education. Seventeen percent went into local projects, such as teaching about the safe http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29372.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 96 of 132 use of energy and providing assistance to vulnerable customers. Approximately 15 percent was invested in cultural and art projects. The total sum reported for social investment does not include regulatory compliance activities. It also excludes investments in R&D and all customer marketing expenditures. Including these elements would increase the investment figure reported here many times over. Employee Volunteer Work We are proud of our employees' volunteer work. In 2010 around 4,400 employees volunteered over 21,800 hours of their time as part of our Corporate Volunteering program. In monetary terms, this would be the equivalent of over EUR 500,000. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29372.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 97 of 132 Occupational Safety Our Top Priority The workplace safety of our employees and contractors has top priority for E.ON. You will find more information on our strategic approach and our targets under CR in Practice. In comparison with other companies in the industry, E.ON is currently among the top performers based on our Group-wide accident rate. In the period under review, we also made progress in the following areas: We extended our Health&Safety (H&S) training program. We established a new performance assessment system that includes targets with H&S prevention components and finalized Group-wide standards. The accident rate among our contractors was significantly lower than the target set by the Group. Eighty percent of our units have certified or certification-ready occupational safety systems that meet international standards such as OHSAS 18001. As a whole, the Group-wide occupational safety culture made further advances in this reporting period. However, we are aware that it will take time to make it an integral part of our daily work. The continued harmonization of our international units' H&S activities is also an ongoing process that is far from complete, although the combined TRIF and our newly introduced H&S standards are important building blocks. The recording of less serious accidents improves our understanding of sources of danger, which will in turn help to further reduce our accident figures. H&S Training Program: Successful throughout the Group We offered workshops to around 650 managers both on-site and at the E.ON Academy as part of the Group-wide H&S training initiative. It is the most comprehensive program in the Group and received above-average ratings from participants. In 2011 we plan to carry out coaching at the tier-one management level and launch a new workshop on risk analysis. Widespread Awareness of Occupational Safety Standards Our employees are aware that occupational safety is a top priority for E.ON. In the Employee Opinion Survey 2009, 94 percent of employees surveyed were certain that everything possible was being done to prevent accidents in their workplace. Establishing a Culture of Occupational Safety by Setting Targets and Standards In our new performance assessment system for upper-tier management, more preventive components have been included in the H&S objectives. In addition to quantitative targets, in 2010 we weighted the implementation of the Safety Improvement Plan (SIP) at 50 percent for the first time. In 2011 the ratio of preventative components will be further increased. In December 2010 we also finalized standards to underpin the Group's occupational health and safety guidelines. These minimum requirements apply to our global and regional units and partners and cover issues such as risk management, recording near-misses and measures to prevent falls. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30422.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 98 of 132 More Precise Analysis Using the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Index To better understand potential safety risks in the workplace, we have been compiling the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Index (TRIF) since 2008. The TRIF not only records the number of injuries that lead to lost working hours, but also accidents that result in a limited ability to work, or where employees have needed medical attention, but no working hours were lost. In 2010 the Group average was 4.4. Compared to 2009 (4.1) and 2008 (4.6), this shows that our performance has remained constant, despite the small increase from 2009 to 2010. Our goal is to reach a TRIF score of 3.0 for E.ON employees and our partners' employees by 2015. Lost Time Injury Frequency Index http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30422.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 99 of 132 In 2010 E.ON's annual accident rate, calculated using the Lost Time Injury Frequency Index (LTIF), remained unchanged from 2009 at 2.3. LTIF reflects the frequency of work-related accidents per million hours worked. We failed to meet the Group-wide LTIF target of 2.0. However, the LTIF rates of the majority of our units are significantly lower than those of our regional competitors. We intend to lower our LTIF in the coming years by expanding safety training and continuing to implement our culture of safety, as well as other measures. Lost Time Injury Frequency Index at Affiliated Companies E.ON's high safety standards apply equally to our suppliers and contractors. The LTIF figures for our affiliated companies show that our commitment has borne fruit: Since the initial collection of LTIF data in 2006, this figure has improved across all units, in some cases substantially. In 2010 it sank to 2.2, an almost 35-percent improvement compared to the previous year. It was also significantly better than 3.0, the figure we set as our first-time LTIF target for affiliated companies. In 2010, for the first time some E.ON units required external firms to have a http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30422.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 100 of 132 certified management system in place or a similar qualification such as the international Safety Certificate Contractors standard before awarding them contracts. We also included our contractors in occupational safety education and training programs and safety briefings. Fatal Accidents Despite our high occupational safety standards, there were five fatal accidents across the Group in 2010: one at E.ON and four at our contractors. We deeply regret each of these fatalities every single death is one too many. We plan to move ahead with an even stronger culture of occupational safety, for example by involving the top management more closely as safety role models. In 2009 we launched a Group-wide H&S training program and introduced additional financial incentives. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30422.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 101 of 132 Successful Change E.ON is a dynamic corporation. We have transformed ourselves from a German conglomerate to an international investor-owned power and gas company. Following on from our expansion, particularly within Europe, and the integration of our new units, we have turned our attention to a new goal for the coming years: to become a global provider of specialized energy solutions. With this objective in mind, we have set new strategic priorities and created global functional units in addition to regional ones. We made significant progress in 2010, especially in the following areas: Our PerformtoWin efficiency program, which was launched in 2008, has been almost completely implemented. Our commitment to the EU Commission has been fulfilled. You will find more information by selecting Work Environment from the Careers menu. Performance as Part of our Corporate Culture Improving our performance is one of E.ON's priorities the stronger our performance, the more competitive we are in the marketplace. Against this backdrop, in 2010 we continued to implement our PerformtoWin efficiency program through which we aim to realize EUR 1.5 billion in annual cost savings by the end of 2011. The program delivered more than EUR 1.1 billion in permanent savings by the end of 2010. In the future, E.ON will no longer make improving efficiency the focus of special programs or projects, but instead seek to firmly embed it in the company's performance culture. Generation Capacity Divested With the sale of the E.ON ultra-high voltage transmission system in the spring of 2010, we met the last of our obligations concerning reorganization under our commitment to the EU. Two years earlier, in the context of measures designed to promote competition, we had given an undertaking to the European Commission to sell off our ultra-high voltage transmission system as well about 5,000 MW of generation capacity. Participation at all Levels As we implemented the PerformtoWin program, the relevant trade-union and works-council bodies were intensively involved in a structured communication and advisory process. In 2010 numerous agreements were again reached with employee representatives in Germany and other countries to ensure socially responsible solutions for the workforce. The sale of the E.ON ultra-high voltage transmission system and the associated transfer of the transpower employees to their new employer, TenneT, also took place with the intensive involvement of the relevant employee representatives. Working with Employee Representatives in other Countries http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30844.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 102 of 132 In E.ON units outside of Germany, employee representatives are also included in the reorganization processes. For example, Group Management reports regularly to the European Works Council on transnational measures carried out as part of the PerformtoWin program. Local employee representatives are also involved in accordance with the laws of the respective country and in keeping with customary practice. The Group-wide Workforce At present, the E.ON Group has over 85,000 employees worldwide. This figure does not include our 2,501 vocational trainees and 301 board members and directors. Following the completion of negotiations for the sale of our U.S. Midwest unit, it has been carried as a discontinued operation since the second quarter of 2010. The figures for 2010 and retroactively for 2008 and 2009 have therefore been adjusted to exclude U.S. Midwest. In the Central Europe unit, countervailing trends resulted in a slight overall gain in employees. On the one hand, the inclusion of a series of new subsidiaries led to a significant increase in the headcount of the Central Europe East reporting unit. On the other, the workforce in Germany shrank due to the sale of the ultra-high voltage transmission system and the transfer of staff to our new unit, E.ON IT. E.ON UK's headcount declined by eight percent as a result of efficiency measures in the end-customer business and the transfer of employees to E.ON IT. Decreases in E.ON Nordic's workforce can also be traced to restructuring measures and the relocation of IT activities to E.ON IT. In the New Markets segment, the number of employees grew by almost seven percent. The increase is mainly attributable to the integration of a new gas company in the Spain unit and the creation of a centralized maintenance entity in the Russia unit. The new functional organization of IT activities under E.ON IT led to a more than 20 http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30844.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 103 of 132 percent increase in Group Management's headcount. The creation of a central management team for fleet management also resulted in employee transfers to Group Management. The number of employees working outside Germany remained nearly unchanged from the end of 2009. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2010 almost 50,000 employees, or around 60 percent of our workforce, were employed outside Germany. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30844.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 104 of 132 Creating the Ideal Working Environment The dedication and performance of our employees are vital to E.ON's success as a company. We want to provide our over 85,000 employees with a working environment in which they can make the most of their personal talents, develop to their full potential, feel motivated and enjoy their work. Fair and performance-related compensation and comprehensive training opportunities are core topics for us in this respect. The overarching goal is to ensure we retain our employees in the long term by providing good working conditions and attractive development prospects within the Group. How we also meet the challenges of demographic change is explained on the Careers page of this site in the Work Environment section. In 2010 we were able to make great progress here. In the 2010 and 2011 rankings of the Great Place to Work® Institute, in recognition of its attractive working conditions E.ON was again ranked among the top 5 employers. The Learning@E.ON (LEON) process brings together Group-wide continuing professional development opportunities within an SAP-based system. More than 50 percent of the workforce constantly participates in our employee stock programs. Long Service and Low Turnover Rate The high satisfaction level among our workforce is reflected in long periods of service with the Group and a low turnover rate. Across the Group, the average period of employment with E.ON is 15 years and the employee turnover rate fell year-on-year to 4.5 percent. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/17328.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 105 of 132 Fostering Performance and Lifelong Learning As we strive to provide our employees with a safe working environment that also meets their needs, we assign high priority to the topics of occupational health, occupational safety and life balance. Professional development opportunities at the E.ON Academy and in our units as well as self-tuition options enable lifelong learning. Group-wide HR development costs amounted to around EUR 73 million in 2010. Along with the programs offered by the E.ON Academy, every E.ON employee can also utilize the shared E.ON-wide learning platform Academy Online comprising the entire vocational training and professional development offering of more than 70 internal E.ON training suppliers. With the Learning@E.ON (LEON) process, Academy Online can be seamlessly integrated into the Group-wide intranet and progressively rolled out. In the course of 2011, every employee worldwide will be able to access this offering. Keeping the process centrally organized makes cross-Group cooperation easier for HR departments and will trigger improvements by promoting the exchange of best practices. Employee Opinion Survey Part of Corporate Culture Regular employee opinion surveys such as E.ON has been conducting since 2004 form an important part of our corporate culture. As an effective management tool, these surveys enjoy high acceptance and recognition among management and employees alike, and achieve participation rates of between 75 and 80 percent. The most recent random sample survey was conducted in the fall of 2009. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/17328.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 106 of 132 Targeted Implementation of Improvements The findings of the 2009 employee survey show a continuing high level of dedication on the part of our employees a result which also compares well with other companies. A clear majority of respondents say they put our core values and behaviors into practice in the workplace and are happy with their personal work environment and the cooperation within their team. 77 percent are proud to work for E.ON and 80 percent would recommend E.ON as a good employer. There was criticism for the way we deal with change and our internal communication of the company's objectives. We take this feedback seriously, analyze its causes intensively not least in conjunction with members of the Board of Management and implement targeted improvement measures at all levels and in all units. The next employee survey is planned for mid 2011. Direct Participation in the Company's Success Fair and performance-related compensation forms part of any good working environment. Along with various retirement plans and other benefits, a large proportion of the workforce participates directly in the company's success through employee stock programs and variable compensation systems. In 2010 a total of 20,470 employees in Germany acquired 980,897 E.ON shares. This represents a participation rate, which is constantly above 50 percent. In some cases, the variable compensation of tier-one and tier-two management also takes account of environmental protection and occupational safety targets with reference to indicators such as the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Index (TRIF). http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/17328.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 107 of 132 Diversity Embedded in Corporate Culture E.ON employs people from over 100 nations. Group-wide, our workforce includes around 400 expatriates. We are committed to providing a positive working environment to all our employees in all locations. You will find more detailed information under Work Environment on the Careers menu. We actively cultivate the diversity of our workforce as a source of creativity and innovation and thus of our success as a company. The more our people reflect the diversity of society as a whole, the better we can understand the needs of our customers. In 2010 we succeeded in further advancing diversity across the Group: E.ON is a founding member of the Charta der Vielfalt (Charter of Diversity) Association. Total E-Quality Germany recognized E.ON's equal opportunity excellence. E.ON became one of the first DAX-listed corporations to set a clear goal for increasing the percentage of women in management positions. In the future E.ON will continue to promote the spread of diversity internally and externally, focusing on three priority areas: gender, internationalism and employability. Guidelines for Equal Opportunity and Promoting Diversity Our binding guidelines for equal opportunity and the promotion of diversity clearly define our goals and norms in this area: A zero-tolerance approach to discrimination, prejudice and harassment Active promotion and targeted expansion of diversity within the workforce Equality, not homogeneity; respecting individuality Fostering an intensive internal dialog to boost mutual understanding Networks for Equal Opportunity In 2010 E.ON joined with twelve other companies to found the Charter of Diversity Association, which provides funding for the Charter of Diversity, a joint initiative of the German federal government and the private sector. It is also committed to shaping the content of Charter activities and embedding its principles more strongly in the business world. E.ON signed the Charter in 2008, committing itself to respecting the principles of promoting diversity as formulated therein. As a partner in the Synergie durch Vielfalt (Synergy through Diversity) corporate network, in 2010 E.ON organized a synergy workshop on the promotion of women. The network's purpose is to supplement the Charter of Diversity and serve as a platform for dialog and benchmarking for its members. External Recognition for Diversity http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30841.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 108 of 132 In 2010 E.ON received the TOTAL E-QUALITY Award for equal opportunity in HR policies. The jury gave special praise to our measures for promoting women and achieving a better balance between families and careers. In the 2010 Best Workplace in Germany competition held by the Great Place to Work® Institute, E.ON received particularly high marks in the field of diversity. 98 percent of our employees stated that they are treated fairly regardless of their nationality and ethnic background; 93 percent said the same regarding gender. E.ON Empowers Women Offering women better opportunities for professional growth within the Group has high priority at E.ON. In 2010, as in previous years, women made up around 27 percent of our overall workforce. A total of twelve percent of all managers in the E.ON Group were women. Our goal is to more than double the proportion of women in management positions Group-wide through tailored development and mentoring programs for female managers and management trainees. Today, 28 percent of all junior managers in the Group are women. Creating a Support System for Women in Senior Management Positions In 2010 we launched a Group-wide gender-diversity project that sets challenging yet realistic goals for increasing the percentage of women in management positions and defines underpinning measures. It was supported by the E.ON AG Executive Board, and top managers from the Group were involved in its drafting. This allowed us to develop a realistic concept that we will begin to execute in 2011. Through the setting of specific goals, our units were given a clear stake in this http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30841.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 109 of 132 process. They share responsibility for reaching our overall target. In addition, we intend to adjust our Group-wide Placement Policy accordingly, giving greater weight to promoting equal opportunity for women in our placement processes in the future. We will also continue with related measures such as mentoring programs, and top managers will provide career development advice to women with high potential. After more than 50 mentor-mentee teams participated in the successful pilot phase of our mentoring program for women managers in 2009 and 2010, we launched a full-scale mentoring program for women junior managers at the end of 2010. Participants in the 18-month program will also take part in our Ready to Move professional development program, which will further assist their career advancement. We help our employees to achieve a better life balance by offering flexible working hours and support for families with children. This also contributes to better career opportunities for women. Zero Tolerance for Workplace Discrimination Our zero-tolerance approach means that we do not accept any discrimination or harassment whatsoever in the workplace. We explain the applicable standards to our employees and provide various instruments for reporting inappropriate behavior, such as whistle-blowing systems. Should these standards be violated, we take appropriate measures to rectify the situation. Since 2008, all employees have been offered online training on the German Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz (General Anti-Discrimination Act). Intercultural Training Since mid-2008 E.ON has made e-learning tools on diversity available. In 2010 more than 300 online training sessions were recorded on the IT system. In addition, the E.ON Academy offers training in intercultural management. Several hundred employees participated in this course in 2010 alone. Disability Need not be a Handicap: Higher Percentage of Disabled Workers in our Workforce We at E.ON believe that disability must not be allowed to handicap a career. In 2010, the Group's units in Germany employed approximately 2,100 severely disabled people or people with a similar impairment. This represents around six percent of the total workforce, meaning that we were able to increase the ratio by another 0.4 percentage points year-on-year (2009: 5.6 percent). Every year we offer vocational training for severely disabled young people as part of our Equal Opportunity for All initiative. We currently employ 37 apprentices with disabilities. All apprentices who completed their training programs in 2010 did so successfully and were offered fixed-term or permanent contracts. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30841.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 110 of 132 The interests of disabled employees in our units are advocated by our representatives for disabled persons, who perform this role on a voluntary basis. In Germany, the Group's Representative Body for Disabled Persons works closely with the company to create appropriate conditions for the employment of severely disabled persons or employees with a similar impairment. The members of the Representative Body also advise our colleagues on specific issues. A Second Chance for Young People to Receive Vocational Training Throughout Germany, E.ON's Learning with Energy initiative assists young people who have not been able to enroll in vocational training because their qualifications are insufficient. The project was again highly successful in 2010, with a placement rate of approximately 78 percent. Each year 550 young people participate in the initiative in 30 locations. After a three-month orientation phase to prepare them for working life, the participants receive seven months of vocational training in local companies. E.ON covers the cost of instruction as well as stipends and ongoing social support for the trainees. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30841.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 111 of 132 Harmonizing Work and Private Life Our employees are among our most important stakeholders. Together we are working to establish a sustainable performance culture throughout the Group, continuously improving our efficiency. We aim to empower our employees to develop to their full potential and strike a balance between their careers and private lives. You can learn more about the programs that make us an even more attractive employer on our Careers pages under Work Environment. In 2010 we took further organizational steps to support our employees in achieving a positive life balance: E.ON supports the Familienbewusste Arbeitszeiten (Family-friendly Working Hours) initiative of the German Federal Ministry for Families. We have expanded our spectrum of flexible time models as well as other measures to support families with children. Most of our units in Germany have signed cooperation agreements with external family services consultants and started setting up employee assistance program (EAP) hotlines. The majority of our units offer their employees individual solutions for achieving a better life balance. It is our goal to continue expanding and harmonizing these initiatives in the future. This works to the advantage of both E.ON and our employees, improving and maintaining motivation and performance in the long term. Certified Commitment to Families Our commitment has demonstrated measurable success. Nine of our Group companies, including Group Management, have been certified in the berufundfamilie (work and family) audit conducted by the Hertie Foundation. The audit examines the development of management instruments for sustaining a family-friendly HR policy. We also underscored our dedication to these principles by joining the Erfolgsfaktor Familie (Success Factor Family) corporate network in 2008. The mission statement of this organization was hailed as ground-breaking by Ursula von der Leyen, then German Minister for Family Affairs. Different Models Help Employees Achieve a Positive Life Balance The aim of the Family-friendly Working Hours initiative is to give businesses and their employees suggestions for flexible time models that are more compatible with family life. This initiative was launched by the German Minister for Family Affairs in 2010 as part of the Success Factor Family corporate network. E.ON supports the initiative and offers numerous time and organizational models that allow our employees to achieve a better life balance. The most common are arrangements such as part-time jobs. In 2010, more than 7,900 employees throughout the Group had part-time contracts, of which 55 percent were women. These numbers have remained largely unchanged since 2009. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30423.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 112 of 132 Each unit offers different flexible time models in accordance with its needs and capacity: Part-time: E.ON Bayern allows job-sharing and gives part-time employees full access to all training and HR development programs. Flextime: At E.ON Sverige and E.ON IT, for example, employees can use flexible working-time accounts. Group Management employs a model of trust-based working hours. Home office: Numerous units make it possible for their employees to work a certain number of hours from home. Sabbaticals: In almost all of our units, in line with specific rules employees can also take a longer break in the form of a sabbatical. As part of the 2010 German Corporate Health Awards , E.ON Energie received a special award as a Family-friendly Corporation in recognition of its effective use of these flexible models. In addition, E.ON Energie's new Group works agreement on family and career has harmonized existing regulations and established uniform standards for its family-friendly corporate culture. Organizing Career and Family Life In addition to part-time models, E.ON offers numerous other programs that provide direct support to families with children and employees who act as caregivers for relatives. Each individual unit is responsible for introducing these programs and entering into support contracts where applicable. In the context of the work and family audit, we committed to a comprehensive expansion of our support for families by 2011. The amount of subsidized daycare available has been increased to a total of 550 hours per week in the Group Management headquarters alone. We also cooperate with external family services providers which offer country-wide assistance and help quickly organize care for children or other family members. A structured return-to-work program makes it easier for employees to reintegrate after parental leave. In dialog with HR managers, individual http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30423.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 113 of 132 expectations and requirements are clarified in as much detail as possible. As part of a special partner program, colleagues maintain contact to employees on parental leave and keep them up to date on events within the company as well as developments in their field. The E.ON Academy also offers seminars on topics such as time management, a further example of E.ON supporting its employees in better organizing their daily lives. We continue to set up EAP hotlines free, anonymous, external hotlines staffed by experts to assist employees and their family members in difficult situations. Employees with relatives who require special care can take advantage of internal and external advice and counseling. In addition, we organize information evenings on the topic of home-based and eldercare. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/30423.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 114 of 132 Indicator Guideline for the Financial Market The German Association for Financial Analysis and Asset Management (DVFA) and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies (EFFAS) have developed a guideline for business to measure and compare environmental, social and governance indicators (ESG) more effectively. E.ON reports their ESG indicators according to the DVFA/EFFAS guideline category Conventional Electricity . We are increasingly aware of the importance of ESG criteria for the financial market. Therefore we actively disclose the respective data to improve transparency and increase our report's comparability for our stakeholders. The relevant link is provided on this site below. Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS (PDF, 149 KB) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42844.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 115 of 132 Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Energy efficiency Total energy no information E01-01 (Scope I) consumption: primary and secondary sources (in MWh) ESG: GHG emissions Total GHG 126 160 155 E02-01 (Scope I und II) emissions (in million tonnen CO2), Scope 1 ESG: Staff turnover Staff Turnover (in %) 4.5 5.1 5.3 S01-01 (Scope I) ESG: Training and Average expenses on 860 916 940 S02-02 (Scope I) qualification training per FTE p.a. (in €) ESG: Maturity of workforce Age structucture: FTEs <30: 28% <30:21% <30: 20,3% S03-01 (Scope I) per age group in 30-40:29% 30-40:30% 30-40:24,3% 10-year steps 40-50%:28% 40-50:30% 40-50:31,8% >50:16% >50:19% >50:23,5% ESG: Remuneration Total amount of no information S08-01 (Scope I) bonuses, incentives and stock options paid out (in m €) Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Remuneration Total number of FTEs no information S08-02 (Scope I) who receive 90 % of total amount of bonuses, incentives and stock options ESG: Remuneration Key Perfomance The variable annual salary (short-term incentive) of E.ON managers S08-03 (Scope I) Narrative / depends on their performance as an individual and the company’s Consideration of the performance as a whole. The personal performance assessment for ESG performance in E.ON managers also includes criteria such as environmental protection the target agreements and health and safety. Depending on their portfolio, the target agreements of individual board members and managers contain specific goals relating to areas such as occupational safety, and bonuses are tied to these goals. In 2010, we adopted our Code of Responsible Conduct for Business. In this mission statement, we speak in favor of a clear relationship between services rendered and services received; financial losses must be reflected in executives‘ earnings. ESG: Litigation risks Expenses and fines on no information V01-01 (Scope I) fillings, law suits related to anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices ESG: Corruption Percentage of revenues no information V02-01 (Scope I) in regions with Transparency International corruption index below 6,0 Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Revenues from new Percentage of new not material V03-02 (Scope I) products products or modified products introduced less than 12 months ago ESG: Innovation Total R&D expenses Total: Total: Total: V04-01 (Scope I) (in m€) 93 105 106 Transport & Transport & Transport & Distributions:7.9 Distributions:9.0 Distributions:9.0 Energy Energy Energy Applications:11.2 Applications:9.3 Applications:10 Fossil Energy:41.9 Fossil Energy:33.4 Fossil Energy:21 Nuclear Energy:12.3 Nuclear Energy:13.3 Nuclear Energy:14 Cross technology Cross technology Cross technology area topics:5.9 area topics:7.2 area topics:11 Renewable Renewable Renewable Energies:13.8 Energies:33.0 Energies: 41 ESG: Innovation Total R&D expenses 32 46 53 V04-03 (Scope I) or funding of research to external partners, suppliers or academic research in monetary terms i.e. currency Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Innovation Total investment in 100 100 100 V04-12 (Scope I) research on ESG relevant aspects of business as defined by company [Comment E.ON:The total amount of R&D expenses are ESG relevant] Percentage of products 12 9 9 of services for: increasing ecoefficiency of client applications or operations Percentage of products 28 44 52 or services for: developing and using clean technologies Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Innovation Percentage of products no information V04-13 (Scope I) or services for: offsetting climate change, carbon emissions, resource depletion Percentage of 45 32 2 products or services for: increasing fuelefficiency Percentage of products no information or services for making ESG-relevant products operable Percentage of products no information or services for financing of ESG-relevant products or services Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Emissions to Air Total CO2 emissions in 116.7 115 113.4 E03-01 (Scope II) million tonnes Total NOx emissions in 133.2 167 174.3 million tonnes Total SOx emissions in 79.7 191.7 215.3 million tonnes Total VOC emissions in not material million tonnes ESG: Emissions to Air Total CO2 emissions in no information E03-02 (Scope II) million tonnes by generation portfolio Total NOx emissions in no information million tonnes by generation portfolio Total SOx emissions in no information million tonnes by generation portfolio Total VOC emissions in not material million tonnes by generation portfolio Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Waste Scope I Total waste in kilo tons 1,055 1,119 1,843 E04-01 (Scope II) ESG: Waste Scope II Percentage of total 68 64 57 E05-01 (Scope II) waste which is recycled ESG: Radioactive Waste Low Level Waste 241 2,058 3,041 E08-01(Scope II) produced in tonnes ESG: Radioactive Waste Intermediate Level 2,206 1,604 3,041 E08-02 (Scope II) Waste produced in tonnes p.a. ESG: Radioactive Waste High Level Waste 289 278 257 E08-03 (Scope II) produced in kg p.a. ESG: Radioactive Waste Transuranic Waste no information E08-04(Scope II) ESG: Radioactive Waste Radioactive waste no information E08-05 (Scope II) subjected to reprocessing by Waste Level (LLW,ILW,HLW,TRUW) in tonnes Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Radioactive Waste Radioactive waste no information E08-06 (Scope II) stored at company property by Waste Level (LLW,ILW,HLW,TRUW) in tonnes ESG: Emission Rights Total number of EUA 75.2 77.6 78.5 E11-01 (Scope II) (European Union Allowance Unit) on hand at end of reported period ESG: Remediation Expenditure for no information E12-01 (Scope II) remediation, reclamation and decommissioning total in monetary terms in € ESG: Remediation Environmental spending no information E12-03 (Scope II) for R&D, site rehabilitation and environmental monitoring total in € Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Generation Portfolio Percentage of total Coal:28 Coal:29 Coal:32 E26-01 (Scope II) energy produced Nuclear:26 Nuclear:27 Nuclear:27 Gas/Oil:35 Gas/Oil:34 Gas/Oil:30 Hydro:6 Hydro:6 Hydro:8 Wind:3 Wind:2 Wind:1 Waste:1 Waste:1 Waste:1 Others:1 Others:1 Others:1 ESG: Water consumption Total water (in m3) 68 75 33 E28-01 (Scope II) [Comment E.ON: total amount of process water] ESG: Contributions to Contributions to no information G01-01 (Scope II) political parties political parties as a percentage of total revenues (in €) ESG: Dimensions of pending Amount in monetary no information G02-01 (Scope II) legal proceedings terms i.e. currency in controversy, dispute from legal proceedings Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Customer Satisfaction Percentage of total no information V06-01 (Scope II) customers surveyed comprising satisfied customers ESG: Impact of Subsidies Percentage of total no information V10-01 (Scope II) revenue generated in subsidised markets ESG: Impact of Subsidies Energy production cost no information V10-02 (Scope II) per kWh as a percentage of average wholesale price per kWh ESG: Impact of Subsidies Percentage of business in no information V10-03 (Scope II) markets with feed-in tariffs or regulated pricing structure ESG: Smart Metering Percentage of customer Over a million customers have been fitted with V11-02 (Scope II) equipped with smart smart metering devices. metering applications Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Environmental CapEx CapEx allocation to no information V12-02 (Scope II) investments on ESG relevant aspects of business as defined by the company ESG: Utilization Capacity utilization as no information V13-01 (Scope II) a percentage of total available facilities (in %) ESG: Critical Incidents Total costs due to critical no information V27-02 (Scope II) incidents as a percentage of revenue ESG: Supple chain Total number of suppliers no information V28-01 (Scope II) ESG: Supply chain Percentage of sourcing no information V28-02 (Scope II) from 3 biggest external suppliers ESG: Supply chain Turnover of suppliers in no information V28-03 (Scope II) percent Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Emissions to Air Total CO2 emissions in 420 420 420 E03-03 (Scope III) kilogram per megawatt hour produced Total NOx emissions 0.48 0.52 in kilogramm per megawatt hour produced Total SOx emissions in 0.29 0.4 kilogramm per megawatt hour produced Total VOC emissions / not material total kWh produced ESG: Emissions to Air TOP 2 components no information E03-04 (Scope III) of emissions to air by environmental importance Rank 1 ESG: Emissions to Air TOP 2 components of no information E03-05 (Scope III) emissions to air by environmental importance Rank 2 Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Waste Hazardous waste total 92 67 135 E06-01 (Scope III) (in kilotons) ESG: Waste TOP 2 components of no information E07-01 (Scope III) waste incl. emissions to soil by environmental importance Rank 1 ESG: Remediation Total amount of 873 591 602 E12-05 (Scope III) reserves for future environmental remediation, emissions, accident costs in monetary terms i.e. currency ESG: Water consumption Ground water no information E28-03 (Scope III) consumption (in m3) ESG: Water consumption Waste effluent water in no information E28-04 (Scope III) cubic meters Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Environmental Number of sites with All of our sites with an environmental impact have an environmental E33-01 (Scope III) compatibility ISO 14001 certification/ management system with EN ISO 14001 or EMAS certification. We number of total sites aim to certify all of our sites, and we have almost achieved this. ESG: Average age of Material Average age of power no information V05-03 (Scope III) stations, production or distribution sites including pipelines in years by type ESG: Operational Availability Operational availability no information V26-01 (Scope III) of Services of services to clients contractually warranted in percent ESG: Critical Incidents Total number of critical no information V27-01 (Scope III) incidents in relation to the total number of clients ESG: Critical Incidents Lost kWh due to no information V27-03 (Scope III) system faults in relation to total amount of kWh produced Indicators ESG DVFA/EFFAS Indicator Name Description 2010 2009 2008 ESG: Supply chain Key Performance We subject all of our core suppliers and those above a certain V28-04 (Scope III) Narrative order volume to a prequalification process in order to determine their suitability as a supplier and limit any risks. This includes specific sustainability criteria relating to occupational safety, health and environment, as well as legal criteria. All non-fuel suppliers are regularly audited with regard to sustainability criteria. External auditors carry out regular audits in the area of fuel procurement. Audits of coal mines include sustainability criteria which go beyond the criteria used for regular audits of other suppliers. These criteria cover situations such as the relocation of people in coal mining areas. Special criteria also apply to the procurement of other fuels such as biomass. ESG: Supply chain Key Performance no information V28-05 (Scope III) Narrative Awards, Ratings and Rankings E.ON is engaged in the ongoing development of its commitment to corporate responsibility (CR). Over the past several years E.ON has scored well in numerous CR ratings and rankings. We also regularly receive external recognition for our CR activities. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and SAM Sustainability Yearbook The investment boutique SAM conducts an annual assessment of the economic, environmental and social performance of more than 2,000 publicly traded companies. The globally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the SAM Sustainability Yearbook are both based on the findings of this evaluation. In 2010 E.ON qualified for a listing in the DJSI for the fourth year in succession; in 2011 we were ranked in the Silver Class of the SAM Sustainability Yearbook. Carbon Disclosure Project and Carbon Performance Leadership Index The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) calls upon the world's 500 largest companies to measure and disclose their CO2 emissions each year. E.ON has participated in the CDP since 2004. Our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint have been recognized: In 2010 E.ON was one of 48 companies listed in the Carbon Disclosure Performance Index (CPLI). Tomorrow's Value Rating The Tomorrow's Value Rating , published by sustainability consultants Two Tomorrows , evaluates the sustainability commitment of the world's ten largest power and gas companies. When this assessment was performed for the first time in 2009, E.ON was ranked third. The rating measures how well the company aligns its economic, environmental and social responsibilities. ASPI Eurozone® E.ON has been listed in the Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices (ASPI Eurozone ®) since September 2007. The share index features the 120 eurozone companies with the best CR ratings as assessed by the French rating agency Vigeo Group. Storebrand http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29248.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 116 of 132 The Norwegian financial services provider Storebrand awarded E.ON a best-in-class rating for its sustainability performance. E.ON has met this quality standard every year since 2007. IÖW/future Ranking for Quality of Sustainability Reporting Starting in 2005, the IÖW/future Ranking has assessed the content and quality of the CR information published by the 150 largest German companies. In addition to economic and social aspects, it focuses on the companies' documentation of their efforts to combat climate change. E.ON was not listed in 2005 for reasons related to the assessment methodology. In 2009 E.ON was ranked fourteenth. Online CR Reporting Commended In 2010 E.ON again received high marks in a comparison of online CR reporting by all DAX 30 companies, conducted by the Lundquist communications agency in Milan. In the Top Ten Germany 2010 category we improved our ranking from fifth to fourth, while in the international Global Leaders 2010 category we moved up from 13th to 12th place. Another annual review of the scope and quality of companies' web-based CR reporting is performed by KWD Webranking , formerly Hallvarsson & Halvarsson . As in the previous year, in 2010 E.ON was rated as one of the best companies in Europe, ranking fourth in Germany and 31st in Europe. Fortune Ranking E.ON Is the Worlds Most Admired Energy Company In a marked improvement in performance, E.ON was awarded top marks in the list of the world's most admired companies published by Fortune, the US business magazine. In 2010 E.ON was ranked number one in both the worldwide energy category as well as among all listed German companies. This compares with fifth and twelfth place respectively in 2009. Best Workplace E.ON Ranked in the Top 5 E.ON is regularly recognized as an attractive employer. In the prestigious Best Workplace in Germany competition held by the Great Place to Work® Institute, E.ON has been among the top-ranked companies for several years, placing fourth in 2010 and fifth in 2011. In a national competition, E.ON España was also named one of the country's top 34 employers in 2010. TOTAL E-QUALITY Award for Equal Opportunity http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29248.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 117 of 132 In 2010 E.ON received its first ever TOTAL E-QUALITY Award . Awarded for a three-year period by TOTAL E-QUALITY Deutschland e. V. , this prize recognizes equal opportunity excellence in HR policies and is sponsored by the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. German Corporate Health Award for E.ON Energie As part of the German Corporate Health Awards , presented for the fourth time in 2010, E.ON Energie received a special award as a Family-friendly Corporation. In the previous year the company had received a special award in the Mental Health category for its campaign Energize Your Life: Coping with Stress and Mental Strain . RoSPA Recommends E.ON UK Health Management Program In 2010 the E.ON UK occupational health program was once again included in the recommendation list of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), which issues two annual recommendations and one prize. E.ON UK received the RoSPA's Astor Trophy in 2009. The national Occupational Health Award also recognized E.ON UK in the Mental Health and Stress Management category in 2010. Successful Health and Safety Work at E.ON Bulgaria Safety without compromise is the name of the project that brought E.ON Bulgaria an award from the 2009 Bulgarian Business Leader Forum . E.ON Bulgaria was ranked third in the Investment in Human Capital and Working Conditions category. Satisfied Customers at E.ON Italia Customers are highly satisfied with the products and services, value for money and customer service provided by E.ON Italia. Proof was provided by the national customer satisfaction survey for the power and gas industry, which awarded E.ON Italia the Premio Speziale CAI Energia 2009 at the beginning of 2010. Effective Use of Social Media in CR Communication at E.ON UK The British magazine Communicate presented E.ON UK with a Gold Digital Impact Award in the Social Media category for best use of existing social media tools in CR communications. The award recognized the use of social media for issue tracking on the E.ON UK online CR platform, Talking Energy . The issue tracker shows users which energy topics are the focus of discussion on the web. The platform itself received the 2010 IVCA Clarion Award for its effective CR communication work. Energy for Children Lighthouse Project The success of the Group-wide Energy for Children program has been reaffirmed by a number of awards since 2009. Our German lighthouse project Leuchtpol was selected as an example of best practice for the National Action Plan of the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development in Germany. In 2010 Leuchtpol became one of the first ever projects to be awarded the new Werkstatt N Projekt (Workshop N Project) seal of quality by the German Council for Sustainable Development (RNE). And in 2011 Leuchtpol and the E.ON Ruhrgas Climate Camp project were recognized in the 365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas competition sponsored by the German government and business sector. http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/29248.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 118 of 132 All CR Key Figures at a Glance In order to evaluate how successful we have been in implementing our projects, processes and strategies, we need measurable indicators that are economically and socially relevant. These figures help us discover where we can do better and allow a comparison with other companies. There follows we present an overview of all CR key figures for the economic, social and ecological sphere. Selected figures from our CR Reporting 2010 were verified by external auditors in the course of our assurance engagement. Further details can be found in the Independent Assurance Report. All key figures refer to the period until year-end 2010 and therefore don't represent the new company structure as of January 1, 2011. Further information about the basis for indicators can be found in our GRI Content Index. E.ON Group Financial Highlights Net Value Added Energy Mix of Electricity Generated http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 119 of 132 Gas Supply by Country Hard Coal Procured for E.ON Power Stations by Source Country R&D Budget by Project Type http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 120 of 132 Development of E.ON's R&D Expenditure CO2 Emissions from Electricity Generation http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 121 of 132 CO2 Intensity E.ON Group CO2 Allowances from Emissions Trading SO2 Emissions http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 122 of 132 NOX Emissions Dust Emissions http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 123 of 132 Process Water Consumption Non-hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Nuclear Waste http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 124 of 132 Ash and Slag Gypsum Community Investments of E.ON Market Units and the Corporate Center by Subject Area http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 125 of 132 E.ON Market Units' not-for-profit Investments in Communities by Strategic Focus Number of Employees by E.ON Market Units http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 126 of 132 Employees by Region Average Length of Service Turnover Rate http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 127 of 132 Lost Time Injury Frequency Index (LTIF) Total Recordable Injury Frequency Index (TRIF) http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 128 of 132 Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTIF) by Contractors Working for E.ON http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 129 of 132 Ages Profile http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 130 of 132 Number of Women among Total Workforce and Management Number of Employees with a Severe Disability at Group Companies located in Germany http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 131 of 132 Proportion of E.ON Employees with full-time or Permanent Employment Contracts Number of Apprentices in Germany http://www.eon.com/en/responsibility/42845.jsp created on: 05/03/2011 132 of 132
