Environmental and Social Report 2011 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 001 C O N T E N T S 002 Compiling This Report Management Sharp and Society Top Message 016 Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management 076 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR 017 Corporate Governance / Internal Control 003 Moving Toward an Era of 019 ■ For Customers System to Promote CSR / Risk Management Renewable Energy 023 Compliance 079 Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace 005 Business Philosophy and Business Creed of Mind and Satisfaction 006 Corporate Vision Sharp and the Environment ■ For Business Partners 007 Approach to CSR Activities 028 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 086 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers Special Feature 029 Environmental Objectives and Achievements ■ For Shareholders and Investors 031 Mass Balance 090 Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure 008 Sharp Makes Solar Power Available to 032 Environmental Accounting ■ For Employees Anyone in the World ■ Technologies 092 Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace 033 Developing Unique Environmental Technologies ■ For Local Communities ■ Products 101 Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen 040 Developing Products and Devices with High Environmental Performance 107 Honors from Third Parties 049 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Special Focus 109 Outline of the Sharp Group ■ Operations 012 Contribute to the World Through Environment111 English Translation of the Independent Assurance Report 051 Promoting Environmental Sustainability Management and Health-Conscious Business, Focusing on Energy-Saving and Energy-Creating Products 054 Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories About the Cover 058 Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices Artist’s rendering of a mega solar power generation 060 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions plant in Thailand that Sharp is building jointly with 062 Minimizing and Recycling Waste local construction companies. The plant on 190 hectares of land will have a capacity of 73 MW, one 064 Effectively Using Water Resources of the largest in the world. See page 11 for details. 065 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories 067 Reducing Environmental Impacts in Distribution and Packaging 014 Contribute to a Ubiquitous Society with ■ Relationships One-of-a-Kind LCDs 070 Promoting Environmental Communication ■ Biodiversity Protection 071 Protecting Biodiversity 073 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Compiling This Report Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 002 Annual Environmental Sharp Environmental and ■ Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011, and Social Report, Social Report 2011 and System for Information Disclosure Highlights Version Highlights PDF Information on Sharp’s efforts toward corporate social responsibility (CSR), particularly the environmental and social dimensions of CSR is made available in the following three formats to meet the needs of various stakeholders. Annual Environmental and Social Report, Highlights Version Annual Environmental Sharp Environmental and and Social Report PDF e Book This report outlines the highlights of Sharp’s CSR efforts during fiscal 2010 in a highly readable, Social Report 2011 easy-to-understand way, and is available on the Sharp website as a downloadable PDF file. This report Annual Environmental and Social Report This re por t This report on Sharp’s fiscal 2010 CSR efforts presents special information in sections called Special Feature and Special Focus; detailed information in three sections called Management, Sharp and the Environment, and Sharp and Society; and a variety of related data. It is available as a PDF file and e-book Sharp Social & on the Sharp website. Environmental Website Activities website Web Relevant information posted to the Sharp website is indicated by this icon. Website The Sharp website will be redesigned to make browsing smoother and provide better access to this report document, supplementary data, and the latest information. Sharp Social & Environmental Activities website ■ Referenced Guidelines http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version), Ministry of the Environment, Japan • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (2011, Japanese), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ■ Period and Items Covered • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan Period covered: Environmental Reporting Guidelines content index, GRI content index Fiscal 2010 (April 2010 to March 2011) However, some actual facts prior to and after this period, as well as subsequent policies, objectives, and plans are also included. ■ Scheduled Publication Date for Next Report Coverage: September 2012 (published annually since 1999) Sharp Corporation, along with its domestic and overseas subsidiaries and affiliates. ■ Inquiries See page 73 for the boundary of environmental performance data and pages 74 and 75 for the calculation standards for environmental performance indices. Sharp Corporation The names of overseas subsidiaries and affiliates are denoted with acronyms, such as SEC. For a list of the 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan full name of subsidiaries and affiliates see page 73. E-mail: eco-info@sharp.co.jp Environmental Planning Department, Environmental Protection Group Tel: +81-6-6625-0438 Fax: +81-6-6625-0153 Planning Department, CSR Promotion Division, CSR Promotion Group Tel: +81-6-6625-1167 Fax: +81-6-6625-1274 Top Message Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 003 Moving Toward an Era of Renewable Energy, Sharp Is Working Globally to Strengthen Its Position as a Total Solar Energy Solutions Company and Manufacturer of Energy-Efficient Products Katsuhiko Machida Chairman One of the world’s largest mega solar power generation plants under construction in Thailand (artist’s rendering) Mikio Katayama President (right) First of all, we would like to express our deepest sympathy to those who have suffered from the rise up in the face of adversity by challenging himself with a new goal, became a key to Sharp’s devastating impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011. Sharp is committed to corporate culture and has been passed along ever since. At Sharp, we consider environmental doing as much as it can to help bring about the earliest possible recovery of the disaster-hit areas. change to be a new opportunity for innovation and we are pioneering efforts for the next era—starting with transforming ourselves. Sharp Corporation Today, Built on the Experience Last year, Sharp adopted the concept of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company” as its new of the Great Kanto Earthquake corporate vision. An “Eco-Positive Company” is a company that works with all stakeholders in creating solutions that have significantly more positive impact on the environment than the The catalyst for Sharp Corporation to move forward in its electronics business was the Great negative impact caused by company operations. Kanto Earthquake of 1923. Sharp Corporation founder Tokuji Hayakawa, who had started his own business in Tokyo in 1912 at the age of 19, invented the Ever-Ready Sharp Pencil (called Sharp also developed two business visions to help support its new corporate vision. The first is the “Sharp pencil” in Japan today) in 1915 based on his knowledge of metalworking. His to “Contribute to the world through environmentand health-conscious businesses, focusing on business was going well, with volume orders coming in from overseas. Then, on September 1, energy-saving and energy-creating products”. The second is to “Contribute to a ubiquitous 1923, the Great Kanto Earthquake hit Tokyo. He lost the pencil factory to fire. Much worse, he society with one-of-a-kind LCDs.” also lost his beloved wife and their two sons. In response to problems arising from this year’s earthquake and subsequent accident at a Determined to rise again, Hayakawa moved to Osaka, about 400 kilometers west of Tokyo, and nuclear power plant, the expectations for solar power generation and renewable energies have used his experience in working with metal to develop a crystal radio set. The product increased, and the need for energy saving in our daily lives as well as in business has become succeeded in its first commercial introduction in Japan. His company then developed other more important than ever. products, such as Japan’s first television set and the world’s first all-transistor-diode electronic Sharp believes making further efforts to realize these visions will help lead the way to an early calculator. Sharp grew to become a manufacturer of a full range of electronic products. recovery of the disaster-hit areas, stimulate growth in Japan, and contribute to the world. Approaching Its 100-Year Anniversary, Moving Forward Globally as a Total Solar Energy Solutions Company Sharp Is Working Hard to Realize Its Visions In response to increasing worldwide demand, Sharp has been developing its total solutions Sharp will celebrate its 100-year anniversary next year. The spirit of its founder, who was able to business related to solar energy in various parts of the world. Top Message Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 004 Sharp received an order from one of Thailand’s independent power producers, NED (Natural As a result of Sharp’s global operations for promoting energy-creating and energy-saving Energy Development Co., Ltd.), to build one of the world’s largest mega solar power generation products, Sharp forecasts that in fiscal 2011 it will achieve its fiscal 2012 goal for reducing plants with a capacity of 73 megawatts. Sharp is working on the project in cooperation with ITD greenhouse gas emissions. Sharp will reach this goal—the most important goal for realizing the (Italian-Thai Development Public Co., Ltd.) and ITE (ITALTHAI Engineering Co., Ltd.), Thailand’s corporate vision—a year early. Reaching this goal means that the reduction in emissions largest construction companies, with the goal of starting operations by the end of this year. resulting from customers using Sharp’s energy-creating and energy-saving products will be more than double the total greenhouse gas emissions from Sharp’s business activities. With an eye to starting an independent power producer business in Europe using solar power, Sharp established the joint venture company ESSE (Enel Green Power & Sharp Solar Energy Sharp’s efforts, based on its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company”, have S.r.l.) in July 2010 with Enel Green Power, a group company of Enel Corporation, the largest spread throughout the entire Sharp Group and have led to reductions and prevention of electric power company in Italy. ESSE’s first solar power generation plant was completed in greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and other environmental burdens. Environmental awareness March 2011 in southern Italy, and the power generation business has begun. Sharp is also among employees has risen as well as a result of progress made, in every area of the world that planning to build multiple solar power generation plants, with a total capacity of more than 500 Sharp operates, in activities designed to contribute to the environment and society. megawatts, by the end of 2016 and to develop power generation businesses in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, focusing on the Mediterranean region. Sharp Is Contributing to the Sustainable Development of Society The solar cells to be used in these power plants will be supplied by a thin-film solar cell plant in by Creating New Value and Utilizing Management Resources, Based on Italy. Production at the plant will be carried out by a joint venture that was established in July Its Business Philosophy and Business Creed of “Sincerity and Creativity” 2010 between Sharp, Enel Green Power, and STMicroelectronics. The thin-film solar cell plant is planning to start mass production later this year. As the international community and the world economy continue to change and shift away from traditional frameworks, Sharp is operating more globally than ever. Sharp is aware that there are In the North American market, last year Sharp acquired Recurrent Energy, LLC, an American growing expectations for its corporate activities to contribute to solutions for issues that are developer and operator of solar power generation plants. Sharp is planning to advance the important to the international community, such as protecting the global environment, respecting business by developing mega solar power generation plants. human rights and equality, and providing opportunities for primary education. The key factor to growth in solar power generation is to achieve grid parity (where solar power Based on its business philosophy and its business creed of “Sincerity and Creativity,” Sharp will generation costs are equal to conventional power generation). For Japan, it is predicted that continue striving to create new value by developing proprietary technologies and one-of-a-kind technological innovations will make it possible within several years to replace conventional power products and devices. And Sharp will further contribute to the sustainable development of generation for general households with solar power generation, without raising electricity costs. society by working to help resolve the previously mentioned societal issues through utilizing Sharp will increase its solutions capability by expanding business throughout the value chain to management resources that include an employee-diversity strategy and activities to support include the development and production of materials, cells, and modules for solar panels, education. system design, construction of mega solar power generation plants as well as an independent As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2009, Sharp continues to support power producer business. Further, Sharp is aiming to help usher in the era of renewable energy the Compact’s 10 principles regarding human rights, labour, the environment, and by contributing to the achievement of grid parity worldwide. anti-corruption. Sharp will fulfill its social responsibility by continuing to make further efforts in each area, so that it can gain trust from all of its stakeholders, including consumers, Sharp Expects to Achieve Its Fiscal 2012 Corporate Vision Goal shareholders, investors, business partners, suppliers, employees, and local communities. One Year Ahead of Schedule Sharp will continue to make efforts for transparency, disclosing information about its business In addition to energy-creating efforts through its solar power business, Sharp is developing and operations and sharing stakeholders’ valuable opinions with management. We look forward to promoting energy-saving products, such as LCD TVs, LED lighting, air conditioners, hearing your candid opinions. refrigerators, and digital MFPs. July 2011 Considering the limits of fossil fuels, renewable energy like solar power and energy-saving products are essential for future growth, especially for newly emerging economies and developing countries where energy resources are insufficient. To this end, Sharp is advancing a Chairman President locally self-sufficient production system of “local production for local consumption” for both Katsuhiko Machida Mikio Katayama solar power generation and energy-saving products. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 005 Sharp Contributes to Society Through Its Manufacturing-, Technology-, and Value-Oriented Business “Make products that others want to imitate.” These words, spoken by Sharp founder Tokuji Hayakawa, embody Sharp’s Business Philosophy management concept. As a manufacturer, Sharp contributes to society by being the first to make products that meet the needs of We do not seek merely to expand our business a new era. Successive generations of Sharp leaders have, in their own way, pursued this concept by making products that volume. Rather, we are dedicated to the use of contribute to society and in the process created a corporation that is known and trusted by society. our unique, innovative technology to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people In 1973, Sharp clarified the unchanging spirit of its founder in the company’s business philosophy and business creed. The throughout the world. business philosophy states that Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with society and stakeholders—the foundation of CSR* It is the intention of our corporation to grow today—by “contributing to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world.” The business creed calls for hand-in-hand with our employees, encouraging “Sincerity and Creativity” and all employees must hold to it and follow it in order to realize the business philosophy. and aiding them to reach their full potential The goal that Sharp aims at through its CSR efforts is nothing less than realizing the business philosophy through its business and improve their standard of living. activities, as well as through social contribution activities with a primary focus on these business activities. As it strives to create Our future prosperity is directly linked to the new value by proposing one-of-a-kind products and new lifestyles—calling upon the “gene of creativity” endowed from its prosperity of our customers, dealers and shareholders …indeed, the entire Sharp family. founder—and as it fulfills its social responsibility, notably in the environmental and social areas, Sharp will act with sincerity so that it can continue to be a corporation that is trusted by all. * Corporate social responsibility Business Creed Sharp Corporation is dedicated to two principal ideals: ■ Achieve the Tenets of the Business Philosophy by Promoting “Sincerity and Creativity” in All Business Practices “Sincerity and Creativity” By committing ourselves to these ideals, we can derive genuine satisfaction from our work, while making a meaningful contribution to society. Sales Realization of Business Philosophy Sincerity is a virtue fundamental to Service Production Perspective of social contribution through business activities humanity ... always be sincere. Business Creed “Contribute to the culture, Harmony brings strength ... trust each Dedicated to benefits and welfare of people throughout the world” two principal ideals other and work together. Sincerity and Perspective concerning employees Politeness is a merit ... always be Planning Creativity Procurement courteous and respectful. “It is the intention of our corporation to grow hand-in-hand with our employees” Creativity promotes progress ... remain Business Activities constantly aware of the need to R&D Design Perspective concerning stakeholders innovate and improve. “Prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity Courage is the basis of a rewarding Social Contribution of the entire Sharp family” life ... accept every challenge with a Activities positive attitude. • The business creed is the central axis of all business activities. • “Sincerity” means a working attitude mindful of what will offer genuinely useful solutions and happiness to everyone. • “Creativity” means a working attitude not content with the way things are. An attitude which always seeks to add value, and to make efforts to innovate and improve. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 006 Corporate Vision: Eco-Positive Company Looking ahead to the year 2012, the 100th anniversary of its founding, Sharp has set two business visions. One is “Contribute to the world through environmentand health-conscious business, focusing on energy-saving and energy-creating products.” The other is “Contribute to a ubiquitous society* with one-of-a-kind LCDs.” The aim of both of these visions is to contribute to the next generation by using the proprietary technologies that Sharp has built up over many years of development. Through actions geared towards achieving these visions—indeed through everything that Sharp does—Sharp is striving to become an Eco-Positive Company, its corporate vision. * A “ubiquitous society” refers to how the whole of society will be connected through the rapid development of IT infrastructure and how networks will always be accessible to users. ■ Corporate Vision: Eco-Positive Company What’s an Eco-Positive Company? By “Eco-Positive Company,” Sharp means a company that works with all stakeholders in creating solutions that have significantly more positive impact on the environment than Environmental contribution the negative impact caused by company operations. Environmental burden such as greenhouse gas such as greenhouse A particular focus is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. By fiscal 2012, Sharp’s gas emissions from ＜ emission reductions through products and services goal is to have emission reductions that result from customer use of Sharp company operations energy-creating and energy-saving products be more than double the total greenhouse Positive Impact gas emissions from business activities. To this end, Sharp is developing and promoting Negative Impact the use of solar cells and energy-saving products as well as reducing its emissions. Fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emissions: Fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emission reductions: In fiscal 2010, Sharp emitted 1.634 million t-CO2, but use of Sharp energy-creating and Kenji Ohta energy-saving products contributed to emission reductions of 3.263 million t-CO2, Representative Director 1.634 million t-CO2 3.263 million t-CO2 approximately 1.9 times the amount of Sharp’s emissions. We expect to achieve our Executive Vice President Sharp Corporation (See page 60.) goal of having emission reductions be more than double our greenhouse gas emissions Method used for calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions in fiscal 2011, one year earlier than initially planned. ■ The Four Aspects of the Eco-Positive Strategy Eco-Positive Strategy Sharp is striving to realize its corporate vision by carrying out its Eco-Positive Strategy worldwide. Under this strategy, Sharp is pursuing environmental efforts from four aspects EP Technologies ■ Eco-Positive Technologies (see diagram to the left). We are placing particular emphasis in the areas of products and Generate new business through factories, since these have a direct effect on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Both one-of-a-kind environmental technologies products and factories are certified if they pass assessments based on Sharp in-house ■ Eco-Positive Products standards. These assessments have been carried out ever since the Kameyama Plant Expand contributions to protecting the started operations in fiscal 2003, and their stimulation of competition among Sharp EP Eco-Positive EP environment through products and services Products Company Operations divisions has resulted in great success. ■ Eco-Positive Operations Reduce environmental impacts in product The benefits of our Eco-Positive Strategy go beyond Sharp’s environmental divisions. All engineering and manufacturing Hiroshi Morimoto divisions in and outside Japan—including product development and manufacturing Executive Officer EP ■ Eco-Positive Relationships divisions, as well as indirectly related divisions covering sales, personnel, accounting, Group General Manager Enhance corporate value through Environmental Protection Group Relationships involvement with the community and more—are setting goals that will make environmental contributions, and this Sharp Corporation group-wide effort has boosted not just the reduction of greenhouse gases but also EP = Eco-Positive Sharp’s total positive environmental impact. Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 007 Approach to CSR Activities CSR efforts range widely in the relationship between all business processes of Sharp and its stakeholders. Having sorted its activities into four large categories, Sharp pursues them by overseeing and ensuring well-balanced progression among the activities and the categories, while also communicating with and engaging with society and stakeholders. Sharp also advances the activities in each category from the standpoint of putting into practice its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” Sharp Will Actively Promote CSR Activities Amid a Changing Environment Becoming an With growing environmental problems, economic globalization, “Eco-Positive Company” and disasters like the recent unprecedented earthquake, the situation surrounding businesses nowadays is becoming increasingly diverse and complex. 1 Creation of new value through Global Against this background, I believe that the key to achieving Consumers business activities environment Business sustainable development in unison with society is for a partners company always to be thinking about—and steadily taking One-of-kind product and device strategy, universal design, customer satisfaction activities, social business, etc. action on—CSR in the conduct of its business activities. Suppliers The introduction and revision of guidelines pertaining to CSR 2 Harmony with society and collaboration and the establishment of laws affecting the promotion of CSR with partners have been expanding on a global basis. In November 2010, Environmental conservation, respect for human rights, Local ISO 26000*¹ went into effect; in May 2011, an update to the communities social contribution activities, supply chain CSR, etc. Communicating with OECD*² Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises was adopted; and engaging with and this year the conflict minerals provision of the Dodd-Frank society and Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the United 3 Creation and innovation of corporate stakeholders NGOs, States is scheduled to go into effect. culture NPOs HR strategy, work-life balance, occupational health CSR efforts encompass a diverse and safety, R-CATS (small-group activities), etc. range of activities. Taking into account Shareholders, the aforementioned global situation investors 4 Basic social responsibility and the opinions of the general public Corporate governance, internal control, Financial and stakeholders, Sharp will continue risk management, compliance, Government, Employees, institutions to actively carry out its CSR efforts by dividend payment, tax payment, etc. administrative job organs applicants having all relevant divisions work closely together and act based on our business philosophy, business creed, Kazutoshi Goto Executive Officer and our corporate vision of becoming Group General Manager an “Eco-Positive Company.” CSR Promotion Group Sharp Corporation *1 ISO 26000: An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility *2 OECD: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; currently 30 member countries Special Feature Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 008 As With Electronic Calculators and LCDs Sharp Makes Solar Power Available to Anyone in the World In 1964, Sharp commercialized one of the world’s first all-transistor-diode electronic calculators, and in 1973, embedded for the first time in the world an LCD in a pocket calculator. For both the calculator and the LCD, technological innovations led to improved performance and lower costs, and their use spread around the globe. Now, looking ahead to the coming era of renewable energy, Sharp is putting its full efforts behind initiatives to enable anyone around the world to use and enjoy the benefits of solar-generated electric power. The state-of-the-art thin-film solar cell plant, operated by 3Sun S.r.l. Inauguration Ceremony Held at Italy’s Inauguration ceremony held Largest Solar Cell Plant On July 8, 2011, the inauguration ceremony was held in Catania, Italy, for a state-of-the-art thin-film solar cell plant to be operated by 3Sun S.r.l., (hereinafter: 3Sun) a joint venture of Sharp Corporation, Enel Green Power* (hereinafter: EGP), and STMicroelectronics (hereinafter: ST). Italy The inauguration ceremony was attended by Raffaele Lombardo, President of Sicily Region, Giuseppe Castiglione, President of the Province of Catania, and Raffaele Stancanelli, Mayor of the City of Catania, as well as executives of Sharp Corporation, Enel, EGP, ST, and 3Sun. Catania Production capacity in the first phase of operation of this plant is set at 160 MW annually, and plans call for it to expand to 480 MW within the next few years. This thin-film solar cell plant is the largest in Italy and one of the largest in Europe. Plant location in Catania on the island of Sicily Sharp’s concept is to contribute to the full-fledged adoption of solar power by moving into the Ribbon-cutting at the inauguration ceremony total solutions business for solar-generated electric power—from development and production of solar cells to the design of solar power systems, construction and maintenance of solar power generation plants, and even becoming an independent power producer. This plant plays an important role as one part of this concept. Over the years, Sharp has taken the lead in developing and broadening the use of products that will be in demand in the coming era. Before introducing Sharp’s solar power initiatives, the following pages will provide a brief introduction to the electronic calculator and LCD as examples of successful Sharp business enterprises. * Enel Green Power, S.p.A. is a member of the Enel Group of companies, Italy’s largest power utility, and develops renewable energy power generation projects in Italy and worldwide. Greetings from Sharp Chairman Press conference for media in attendance Katsuhiko Machida Special Feature Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 *1 The IEEE (“I-triple-E”) is the world’s largest academic society of electrical and electronics engineers, with headquarters in 009 the US. Through its more than 395,000 members worldwide, the IEEE plays a leading role in technical areas ranging from computing, electronics, and telecommunications to electric power, aerospace engineering, and biomedical technology. *2 IEEE Milestone: The IEEE established the IEEE Milestone program in 1983 to honor historic achievements—among significant innovations made in the fields of electrical, electronics, information, and telecommunications engineering—that have been recognized as having contributed to the betterment of society and the advancement of industry. Currently there are approximately 110 Milestones around the world, including Volta’s Electrical Battery Invention and the Fleming Valve. In Japan, there are 14 Milestones including Sharp’s Electronic Calculator (2005), Sharp’s Solar Cell (2010), the Directive Short Wave (“Yagi”) Antenna (1995), the Tokaido Shinkansen (“Bullet Train”) (2000), the Electronic Quartz Wristwatch (2004), and the Kurobe River No. 4 Hydropower Plant (2010). ■ Comparison of Sharp’s First Electronic Calculator (1964) and LCD Calculator (1973) Model CS-10A, Sharp’s first EL-805 LCD electronic calculator calculator One of the world’s first Outstanding feature all-transistor-diode World’s first LCD Ratio electronic calculators pocket calculator Year of introduction 1964 1973 Size (W x D x H) 420 x 440 x 250 mm 78 x 118 x 20 mm Thickness: 13:1 Weight 25 kg 195 g 125:1 EL-805 LCD Pocket Calculator (1973) Number of basic Transistors: 530 LSI: 1 Commemorative plaque from the IEEE (in background) and Sharp electronic calculators recognized as an Up to 100 hours of use on a single AA battery. components Diodes: 2,300 ICs: 2 IEEE Milestone for innovations in size and power-consumption reduction Integrating an LCD, LSI/IC chips, and circuit Power consumption 90 W 0.02 W 4,500:1 (From left) CS-10A all-transistor-diode calculator, CS-16A IC calculator, QT-8D LSI calculator, and EL-805 wiring onto a single glass substrate shrunk the Price 535,000 yen 26,800 yen 20:1 LCD pocket calculator size considerably. Developing a Calculator That Anyone Could Use, Anytime, Anywhere, Plus Realizing the Dream of a Wall-Mountable TV In 1960, over half a century ago, Sharp seized on a voluntary proposal from some of its young ■ Comparison of CRT TV (2000) and LCD TV (2001, 2011) engineers as an opportunity to launch the development of a calculator that could be used by anyone, anytime, anywhere. After a great deal of trial and error, Sharp commercialized one of the world’s first all-transistor-diode electronic desktop calculators in 1964, followed by the commercial introduction of the world’s first IC/LSI-based calculator (1967/1969) and the LCD pocket calculator (1973). These innovative initiatives to shrink the size of the calculator and to reduce its power consumption made it possible for the use of calculators to spread around the world, and the technologies 32C-HE1 CRT TV (2000) LC-30BV3 LCD TV (2001) LC-32V5 LCD TV (2011) established over the course of their development contributed greatly to the subsequent development of the global electronics industry. In December 2005, Sharp’s pioneering development of the calculator was recognized by a prestigious IEEE*1 Milestone*2 from the IEEE, the world’s largest (Comparison of models for the Japanese market) academic society for electrical, electronics, information, and telecommunications engineering. Model 32C-HE1 CRT TV LC-30BV3 LCD TV LC-32V5 LCD TV The adoption of an LCD as the screen display accelerated the evolution of the pocket calculator Screen size 32-inch 30-inch 32-inch away from desktop models. In addition, the subsequent development of LCD technologies and applications led to these displays being used even more widely in products such as information Date of introduction September 2000 November 2001 March 2011 devices, audio/video equipment and communication appliances. Size (W x D x H) 99.9 x 55.3 x 54.9 cm 100.2 x 9.6 x 49.7 cm 77.4 x 6.0 x 49.2 cm Even as they moved ahead with these developments, Sharp engineers remained committed to achieving the dream of developing a wall-mount LCD TV, and thanks to a persistent focus on Weight (approx.) 63 kg 18 kg 9 kg technological innovation, that dream has become a reality. As developers and manufacturers, including Sharp, compete in technological innovations, LCD TVs, like the calculator, are becoming Power consumption 224 W 154 W 74 W increasingly affordable as well as featuring remarkable improvements in picture quality, lighter weight, thinner profiles, and greater energy efficiency. Today, they have become products used by people the Note: LC-30BV3 LCD TV dimensions and weight refer to the display area with detachable speakers in place. world over. LC-32V5 LCD TV dimensions and weight refer to the display area and built-in speakers. Special Feature Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 010 ■ Sharp’s Cumulative Solar Cell ■ Forecast for World Electricity Demand Production Volume Total approx. 4.3 GW (TWh) 40,000 Lighthouse on Ogami Island, Ume application satellite 2010 Starts operation of solar cell plant 36,346 TWh Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan (launched in 1976) at GREEN FRONT SAKAI 35,000 (Photo: Japan Coast Guard) (Photo: JAXA [Japan Aerospace Others Exploration Agency]) 30,000 82 % 2005 Starts mass production of thin-film solar cells Solar thermal 25,000 9,113 TWh Geothermal 25.1 % 1994 Releases residential solar power systems Renewable energy All energy 20,000 2,570 TWh 55 % Photovoltaics 15,000 8.3 % Wind 276 TWh 1976 Sharp solar cells installed on space satellite 10,000 1.1 % Biomass 34 % 1967 Starts development of solar cells 22 % 5,000 Small hydro for outer space 19 % 1963 Starts mass production Large hydro of solar cells 0 1959 Starts R&D in solar cells 2001 2010 2020 2030 2040 (Year) Source: Created by Sharp based on Renewable Energy Scenario to 2040, published by the EREC (European Renewable Energy Council) and reports of the WBGU (German Commemorative plaque from the IEEE (behind) and (from left) two monocrystalline solar modules for Advisory Council on Global Change) 1959 1963 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2010 (Year) lighthouses (installed on the Ogami Island Lighthouse in 1966 and 1978), a monocrystalline solar cell for % is the percentage of all energy. outer space (installed on the Ume application satellite in 1976), and a residential-use polycrystalline solar cell 1 GW = 1,000 MW = 1,000,000 kW 1 TWh = 1,000 GWh = 1,000,000 MWh = 1,000,000,000 kWh IEEE Milestone recognition (solar cells) Generating Electricity from the Unlimited Light of the Sun Toward Achieving Grid Parity Sharp’s research on solar cells started 52 years ago in 1959. From the very beginning, Tokuji As a result of these efforts spanning more than half a century, Sharp’s cumulative production of Hayakawa, Sharp’s founder, stepped into the laboratory and expressed strong interest in the solar cells reached 4.3 GW (gigawatts) by the end of 2010. This would be enough to power more research. His ideas were presented in his writings. “If we could find a way of generating than one million homes if each house were equipped with a 4-kW residential solar power system. electricity from limitless solar heat and light, that would benefit humankind to an extent we can For mediumto long-term demand for solar power, according to a forecast for global electricity scarcely imagine…” (from his autobiography, 1970). When speaking about technologies of the demand (see graph above) by the EREC (European Renewable Energy Council), it is assumed future, Hayakawa always touched on solar cells first. that photovoltaic power generation will continue to expand globally and account for 25.1% of Under Hayakawa’s vision, R&D into solar cells made steady progress, and in 1963, Sharp the total demand for electricity worldwide in the year 2040. succeeded in mass producing monocrystalline solar cells. However, they were expensive at the However, reaching grid parity—the point at which the cost of photovoltaic electricity is equal to time, and their main application was as a stand-alone source of power in places where the or less expensive than existing grid power—will be absolutely essential to bring about the electric power grid did not reach, for example, remote lighthouses. In 1966, Sharp delivered to widespread use of solar power. the Maritime Safety Agency of Japan (now the Japan Coast Guard) what was then the world’s largest solar power system for lighthouses, which was installed at a lighthouse on Ogami Island In R&D of solar cells spanning more than 50 years, Sharp has consistently taken up the in Nagasaki Prefecture. Then, in 1976, Sharp solar cells were installed on Ume, Japan’s first challenge to reduce costs. Sharp has increased the conversion efficiency of crystalline solar application satellite. To the present, Sharp solar cells have been in use on more than 160 space cells, reduced the thickness of the silicon used, and tackled innovations in production satellites and at lighthouses in more than 2,500 locations. technology. Sharp has also been conducting R&D on thin-film solar cells which use less silicon and require fewer steps in the production process, and which offer ample room for reducing Sharp solar cells have proven their reliability in harsh environments such as on lighthouses costs. exposed to intense wind and rain, and in outer space with its extreme temperature variations. Since then, this technology has found widespread application, such as in the development of The high conversion efficiency of crystalline solar cells makes them ideal for residential residential solar power systems, and is now playing an active role throughout the world. applications where installation space is limited. At the same time, thin-film solar cells suffer less of a decline in conversion efficiency at high temperatures, and are ideally suited for large-scale Following previous recognition of its pioneering development of the electronic calculator, power generation systems in climates with high ambient temperatures. By taking full advantage Sharp’s achievements in the commercialization and industrialization of solar cells were of the respective properties of these two types of solar cells, Sharp is aiming to reach grid parity recognized as an IEEE Milestone from the IEEE in April 2010. at the earliest possible date. Special Feature Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 011 Solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI Bringing Solar Power to People Around the World Sharp’s newly constructed solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI has been producing thin-film solar cells since last year, and in March of this year, started production of new high-efficiency monocrystalline solar cells. In the future, Sharp’s idea is to develop production facilities in regional markets around the world according to local demand, with this plant serving as the core “mother plant.” In addition, Sharp is promoting its total solutions business around the world along the entire value chain—from the materials for solar cells, to the development and production of solar modules, to system design, to the construction of mega solar power plants, and even to being an independent power producer. In July 2010 in Europe, Sharp established a joint venture with EGP to develop a solar independent power producer project. Power generating operations already began in March of this year. By the end of 2016, Sharp will be constructing several more solar power plants with a total generating capacity of more than 500 MW, and has plans to expand its power generation business in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, particularly in the Mediterranean region. Sharp will produce the solar cells to be installed at these solar power plants at its thin-film solar cell plant in Italy mentioned on page 8. In addition to the challenges of innovation, Sharp will be expanding its solar power business based on the policy of “local production for local consumption,” working in collaboration with leading companies in regions around the world. By increasing our knowledge through our Artist’s Rendering of a 73 MW Mega Solar Power Plant in Thailand—One of the Largest in the World experience as a total solutions company, Sharp will contribute to achieving grid parity worldwide. Sharp received an order from NED, one of Thailand’s independent power producers to build one of the world’s largest solar power generation plants with a capacity of 73 MW. Sharp is collaborating on the design and construction with ITD and ITE, the largest construction companies in Thailand, and is supplying thin-film solar cell modules and surrounding systems for the plant. Construction is Sharp will be making every effort to ensure that Tetsuo Onishi Executive Managing Officer moving ahead with the goal of starting activity within this year. solar power is widely available so that anyone General Manager around the world can take advantage of its use Solar Business Group General Manager • Company name: NED (Natural Energy Development Co., Ltd.) • Area: 190 ha (1.9 km2) • Power generation capacity: 73 MW and enjoy its benefits. Solar Systems Group • Details of the system: Thin-film solar cells, inverter, mounting, etc. • Start of operation: By the end of 2011 Sharp Corporation • Location: Lop Buri Province, Thailand Special Focus With an Eye to Achieving Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 012 Sharp’s Business Visions Contribute to the World Through Environmentand Health-Conscious Business, Focusing on Energy-Saving and Energy-Creating Products One of Sharp’s business visions is “Contribute to the world through environmentand healthconscious business, focusing on energy-saving and energy-creating products.” Under this vision, Sharp aims to contribute to the welfare of people throughout the world by protecting the Earth’s environment and offering people a healthy lifestyle. Creating New Healthand Environment-Friendly Lighting Efforts to curb global warming and protect the environment are being conducted worldwide. A key to these efforts is the adoption of environmentally friendly LED lighting to take the place of conventional incandescent and fluorescent lighting. Along with energy-creating solar cells, LED is a focus of attention for its energy efficiency, long life, mercury-free construction, and almost LED ceiling light LED lamps complete absence of ultraviolet ray emissions. Sharp has been developing LED for 43 years. Using one-of-a-kind technologies like planar lighting and dimming algorithms, Sharp began its entry into commercial LED lighting in 2007 with the introduction of a solar-powered LED light. In 2009, it created the stimulus for expansion of LED lighting in the Japanese market with the release of home LED lamps. With further releases, like LED ceiling lights in 2010, Sharp began to expand its lineup of commercial and residential products and became one of the pioneers of the LED lighting industry—all while LED canopy light LED lighting device LED security light aiming to contribute to society by offering consumers new value unique to LED lighting. The solar-powered LED light can keep on shining in the event of a power failure brought on by an earthquake or typhoon, so it helps prevent crime and ensure safety on a local level. Sharp’s LED ceiling lights incorporate the Eco Light Rhythm*1 function for automatically adjusting the color and brightness of the light. This technology was jointly developed with Nara Women’s University. Oblong-type commercial LED light LED down light Solar-powered LED lighting ■ Basic Features of LED Lighting Refreshing light Relaxing light Energy Immediate Doesn’t easily Mercury free efficiency brightness attract insects Energy consumption is Because LED is a Because LED lighting generates Because LED emits minimal Morning dramatically less than semiconductor, it’s bright light in a completely different way ultraviolet light, it doesn’t easily to Evening Cool white light noon Warm white light incandescent or fluorescent the instant you turn it on. than fluorescent lights, it uses no attract insects. This means lighting. mercury, an environmentally easier cleaning of light fixtures hazardous substance. and enduring cleanliness. The Eco Light Rhythm function is a lighting program that makes automatic color and brightness adjustments throughout the day to provide lighting similar to natural sunlight. It enhances the Low ultraviolet Withstands Low CO2 user’s lifestyle rhythms while reducing excess brightness and enables the user to save energy Long life and infrared repeated on/off emissions ray emissions switching without being aware of it. It reduces energy consumption from lighting by up to 65%,*2 Because they’re designed Because LED emits almost no Even frequent switching of LED consumes minimal compared to when lights are fully on at all times, thus contributing to reducing overall energy to last 40,000 hours*3, LED light outside the visible spectrum, the light on and off will not electricity and so results in consumption in the home. lights require minimal there is minimal color fading from shorten the life of the LED. lower CO2 emissions. maintenance. ultraviolet light and heat Sharp will continue seeking new possibilities for LED in order to meet people’s needs to save generated from infrared light. energy and contribute to the creation of a society where people can live in a healthy environment. *3 Design life of 60,000 hours for LED security lights, LED canopy lights, and LED yard lights, and 25,000 hours for DL-J40AN/J40AL LED lamps. This is the amount of time until total luminous flux drops to 80% (oblong and square *1 Incorporated in Sharp’s color and brightness adjustable models DL-C601V/C501V/C301V/C302V (as of June 2011). types) or 70% (down lights, outdoor lighting, LED lamps) of the initial level. Note that these design life estimates are not *2 When the three eco-functions (Eco Light Rhythm, Eco Dimmer, and Eco Sensor) are turned on versus turned off. a guarantee of product service life. Special Focus With an Eye to Achieving Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 013 Sharp’s Business Visions Where There’s Air, There’ll Be Plasmacluster With today’s ever-greater need for safe food and clean air, society has high expectations for the creation of safe and sanitary environments. Based on its business vision, Sharp aims to offer people a healthy and comfortable life by aggressively spreading the use of its health-conscious products. Sharp first incorporated its proprietary air purifying technology, Plasmacluster, into air purifiers in 2000 and later put it to use in air conditioners, refrigerators, and other Sharp products. The IG-840 Plasmacluster Ion Generator (for rooms up to approx. 50 m2) effects and safety of Plasmacluster have been verified by academic and research institutes around the world and recognized by other companies in other industries, with 27 of those Plasmacluster in a vegetable factory (Ryobi Holdings Co., Ltd.) companies adopting Plasmacluster technology in their products. Plasmacluster products are for sale worldwide in approximately 100 countries. In ASEAN and other newly emerging country regions, Sharp offers Plasmacluster products geared to each country’s lifestyles. As of the end of December 2010, cumulative sales of Plasmacluster products had reached 30 million units worldwide*. Plasmacluster products are at work bringing sanitary air and peace of mind to a wide range of settings: homes, public Plasmacluster was a winner spaces like hotels and theaters, offices, stores, pharmaceutical IG-DX100 Plasmacluster Ion Generator in the Best Home Appliance category of (portable type for vertical/horizontal placement) the 2011 Mother’s Selection Awards factories, and vegetable factories, to name a few. sponsored by the Japan Mothers Society By bringing people around the world LED lighting, Plasmacluster, and other environmentand health-conscious products that meet consumers’ needs, Sharp is realizing its business vision and contributing to society. Words from the Group General Manager * Total number of Plasmacluster products and Plasmacluster ion generating devices shipped in Japan and other countries between October 2000 and the end of December 2010. Sharp aggressively develops and releases proprietary environmentand health-conscious products that make people’s daily lives healthier and more 30 million comfortable. Besides LED lighting and Plasmacluster products, these include ■ Cumulative Total of Plasmacluster Products Sold Worldwide (end of 2010) the Healsio superheated steam oven for maintaining a healthy diet. (Thousand units) 20 million (end of 2008) As a manufacturer, we recognize our responsibility to build a sustainable 30,000 society by harmoniously coexisting with the Earth’s natural environment while 10 million at the same time bringing the world’s people a healthy and plentiful lifestyle. 20,000 (November 2005) Amidst today’s heightened social concern about energy efficiency, 10,000 energy-use reduction, safety, and peace of mind, Sharp will strive to achieve Noboru Fujimoto Executive Officer its business vision by utilizing its management resources to make products 0 Group General Manager driven by its proprietary environment and health technologies. Health and Environment 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Systems Group Sharp Corporation Special Focus With an Eye to Achieving Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 014 Sharp’s Business Visions Contribute to a Ubiquitous Society* with One-of-a-Kind LCDs Another Sharp business vision is “Contribute to a ubiquitous society with one-of-a-kind LCDs.” Sharp will raise the standards of culture and living for people around the world through its business. One World: Raising People’s Standards of Culture and Living The dizzying pace of advancement in telecommunications infrastructure and networks is giving people access to information from around the world through television and the Internet and creating a borderless information society. It is said that of our five senses, sight is the one that gives us more than 85% of our information. In an advanced information society, displays are at the core of almost everywhere we look. They contribute to an improved standard of culture and living as windows to information. Today, displays are indispensable to making our lives fulfilling. Information display (professional LCD monitor) Multi-screen display system In 1931, eighty years ago, a time when radios were beginning to spread, Sharp embarked on at Huis Ten Bosch theme park, Nagasaki (artist’s conception) research into the new medium of television. In 1951 Sharp created a successful prototype of Japan’s first TV. In January 1953, just ahead of the start of television broadcasts in Japan, Sharp began mass producing TVs to open the curtain on the new era of television. Towards In 1973, Sharp introduced a pocket calculator, the first-ever product to incorporate an LCD screen, after which Sharp devoted itself to progress in advancing this new display medium. In Smartphone, media tablet a new stage in 1998, when CRTs were the dominant screen type, Sharp declared that by 2005, it would phase LCD applications out CRTs and sell only LCD TVs in Japan. 85-inch direct-view LCD compatible In 2001, the AQUOS LCD TV was born as the world entered the 21st with Super Hi-Vision (ultra high definition) (prototype) century. In the 10 years since, through AQUOS, as well as through innovations such as increasing screen resolution and screen size, Sharp has brought customers new image experiences and 3D touchscreen LCD lifestyles. (2010) LCD Museum wall-mount TV (1991) Four-color 3D LCD (2010) Free-Style AQUOS Electronic whiteboard system Mobile Advanced Super V LCD module (2003) The word AQUOS is a combination of “aqua” and “quality.” Sharp’s aim from the very start was to make AQUOS a fusion of performance, quality, and environmental consideration—characteristics 108-inch professional-use LCD (2008) ideal for the 21st century on Earth, the water planet—and allow as many people as possible to enjoy TV while lessening their impact on the environment at home. But Sharp’s role has not been only to make LCDs. Together with suppliers and other business Pocket calculator with LCD (1973) partners, and with all its stakeholders, Sharp has made LCDs an engine of growth in the world of electronics, in the process making these displays into a major segment that contributes to industry as a whole. Japan’s first TV (1953) Crystaltron color LCD TV AQUOS, the TV that opened the curtain (1987) on the age of LCD TVs (2001) * The term “ubiquitous society” refers to how the whole of society will be connected through the rapid development of IT infrastructure and how networks will always be accessible to users. Special Focus With an Eye to Achieving Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 015 Sharp’s Business Visions Home control services Healthcare services Contributing to the Realization of a Ubiquitous Society A ‘ubiquitous society’ is one in which the lives of people around the world are made more fulfilling, since anyone can connect to a network for access to a range of services anytime and anywhere. Community services One of Sharp’s business visions is to use the one-of-a-kind LCDs it has built up to realize a Education services ubiquitous society in which displays make society better in numerous ways. E-commerce services Advertising services In Japan, for example, displays could offer effective teaching methods to solve the problem of the falling levels of education among children today. Or they could help improve the field of medicine by providing remote medical care to solve the problem of shortages of doctors in this Cloud Computing age of falling birthrates and aging populations. Sharp is also aiming to contribute widely to society by developing lifestyle support services that can be used by anyone, anywhere, anytime. One such example is a home control system; with today’s increasing awareness of the environment and energy conservation, people at home need to know how much electricity they are consuming and how much energy they are generating through their solar power generation systems. Sharp’s mission is to continue to achieve breakthroughs in LCD image and energy-saving technologies that lead to new products that go beyond TVs—products like digital signage, Smalland medium-size displays Large displays Ultra-large displays mobile devices and tablets, and electronic whiteboard systems—and that offer never-before-seen value and raise the level of culture and lifestyles for the world’s people. Case Study Sharp Participates in e-Education Proof-of-Concept Trial in India Words from the General Manager India has enjoyed extremely rapid economic growth in recent years, and this has led to a rapidly increasing demand for higher education. A shortage of schools and teachers accompanying this It was 38 years ago that Sharp introduced a pocket calculator that was the demand has become a serious problem. To resolve these challenges, the development and adoption first calculator in the world to incorporate an LCD screen. Since then, Sharp of electronic systems for education, as well as implementing remote e-education based on them, is has overcome numerous obstacles to create new possibilities for LCDs, with urgently needed in India. products boasting color display, a wide viewing angle, high-speed refresh Sharp participated in a proof-of-concept trial for electronic education (e-education) in March 2011 at rate, and large screens. the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad to be conducted under the Project for International Today, Sharp is on the verge of taking LCDs to whole new fields by building Expansion of Advanced ICT Business (Ubiquitous Alliance Project) launched by the Ministry of Internal on its innovations over the years. Affairs and Communications of Japan. From ultra-large displays that cover entire walls, to smalland medium-size In the proof-of-concept trial, the content of textbooks used in courses, as well as curriculum Yoshisuke Hasegawa displays for smartphones and tablets, Sharp is widening the range of information, was downloaded to the e-textbook Executive Managing Officer applications for LCDs, and we are helping realize information and services via terminals via a wireless (Wi-Fi) connection to a General Manager Display Device Business cloud computing, in the process making people’s lives better than ever. dedicated remote e-education server. In addition, Sharp Corporation the content shown on electronic whiteboards used Sharp will continue to pursue its business vision of contributing to society by during class was displayed on the e-textbook offering new value that is unique to Sharp. terminals. This enabled interactive classes to be conducted, using a microphone and speakers in classrooms where no teacher was present. This system aims to enable students who are not able to take courses because of a lack of teachers to attend advanced classes. Students take a remote class; e-textbook (inset) Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 016 Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management To contribute to society through manufacturing and technology-oriented business and to continue to be a company that has the trust of society, Sharp is establishing priority action themes in the area of management—the foundation of its business activities. The company will be working for continuous improvement while verifying and assessing the results of these activities Overview of Efforts and Achievements in Fiscal 2010 In ﬁscal 2010, in response to an ever-growing number of demands from stakeholders, particularly shareholders Sharp also pushed forward with ongoing efforts to improve specific management-related areas, such as and investors, to strengthen corporate governance and internal control, Sharp continued to work to strengthen ensuring information security and protecting intellectual property rights. the governance system, and took steps to ensure the stable operation of the company’s internal control system. Sharp’s BCPs (business continuity plans) were activated immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, In addition, Sharp thoroughly conveyed to all directors and employees the content of the Sharp Group Charter which caused greater-than-expected damage. The emergency actions taken proved effective. However, Sharp of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct, which were revised in April 2010, and conducted an will strive to further develop and expand BCPs in preparation for the occurrence of future large-scale disasters. ongoing series of training and educational activities in Japan and overseas to promote policies for compliance and protecting personal information, which form the very basis of CSR in advancing business activities. Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Self See Important Themes Actions in Fiscal 2010 EvalObjectives for Fiscal 2011 page(s) uation Objectives (Corporate governance) Clearer separation between functions to provide supervision and make important decisions from functions to execute business • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness Reinforce corporate in management ○ • Appoint two outside members to Board of Directors (June) 17, 18 governance Achievements • More clearly separated supervisory and decision-making functions from business execution functions by abolishing position of CEO/COO, and revamped governance system to emphasize each respective role Develop, maintain, Objectives Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Conduct evaluation of validity and effectiveness of internal control and disclose 18, operate, and assess ○ information regarding development and operational status of internal control website • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system (implemented internal control policies as a corporate group, internal control including for new subsidiaries) system, with reference to revisions to Internal Control Reporting System under Achievements system • Submitted internal control reports, disclosing information about development and operational status of internal control system (June) Financial Instruments and Exchange Act Objectives Content of Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Sharp Code of Conduct revised in April 2010 thoroughly conveyed to all directors and employees • Formulate policies and plan and promote measures based on new trends in CSR (publishing of ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, revised OECD 19, 21, Review systems for ○ Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, etc.) 22, promoting CSR Achievements • Boards of Directors of Sharp Group companies around the world adopted resolutions to apply revised Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code website of Conduct; also, implemented measures to thoroughly communicate their content through internal notices, pamphlets, and training Objectives Ongoing improvement of BCM system • Ongoing improvement of BCM system • Conduct BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic sales groups and Strengthen business non-production bases, assuming occurrence of earthquake risk management • Conducted BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic production bases, assuming occurrence of earthquake ○ • Conduct BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic subsidiaries, assuming 20–22 Achievements • Reviewed and developed BCPs for domestic subsidiaries occurrence of earthquake • Developed BCPs for major overseas production bases • Review and improve existing BCPs on an ongoing basis Objectives Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures • Ongoing compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all • Held compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all employees in Japan employees in Japan Practice compliance • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases 23–25 in business ○ • Disseminate anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving Achievements • Ongoing internal audits and guidance on complying with antitrust laws foreign public ofﬁcials to overseas bases • Created anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign public ofﬁcials and disseminated it to bases throughout Japan • Created guidebook to comply with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies • Disseminate guidebook to comply with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies Objectives Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining conﬁdentiality and information security, and implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas • Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining conﬁdentiality and information Strengthen measures security, and implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas for maintaining ○ • Revamped contents of self-checks for maintaining conﬁdentiality and information security, and implemented them on a continuing basis in 26 conﬁdentiality and Achievements Japan and overseas information security • Implemented compliance training through e-learning for all Sharp Group employees Strengthen Objectives Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal personal ○ information 26 information • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to Achievements protection system • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal information for employees and others protecting personal information for employees and others Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 017 Corporate Governance / Internal Control Sharp is working to improve the quality of management while strengthening its Director/Corporate Auditor System, for example, by appointing outside directors, speeding up managerial decisions by separating supervisory and decision-making functions from business execution functions based on an executive officer system, and expanding the Internal Audit Division as an organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors to provide oversight and maintain a rein on management. In addition, by continuously developing and maintaining the internal control system, Sharp is working to enhance this system to ensure the propriety of operational activities of the entire Sharp Group. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • (Corporate governance) Clearer separation between • More clearly separated supervisory and decision-making functions from business execution • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness functions to provide supervision and make important functions by abolishing position of CEO/COO, and revamped governance system to emphasize in management decisions from functions to execute business each respective role • Appoint two outside members to Board of Directors (June) • Continuously put into practice various policies related to • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system (implemented • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system internal control system internal control policies as a corporate group, including for new subsidiaries) • Conduct evaluation of validity and effectiveness of internal control and disclose • Submitted internal control reports, disclosing information about development and operational information regarding development and operational status of internal control status of internal control system (June) system, with reference to revisions to Internal Control Reporting System under Financial Instruments and Exchange Act Concept of Corporate Governance continuously improving the quality of its management while strengthening the Director/Corporate Auditor system. In June 2008, Sharp introduced the executive officer system to focus on both management decision-making and Sharp is engaged in integrated production—from development to the manufacture and sale of products in a wide execution of business processes, as well as work toward effective and speedy corporate management. In addition, range of fields. Each of these areas works in harmony to boost managerial efficiency. Consequently, a Sharp dissolved the Advisory Board established in 2006 to make the best use of opinions from knowledgeable management system is required in which directors who have a strong grasp of each area work closely with the outside experts in various ﬁelds, and in its stead appointed an outside member to the Board of Directors in June R&D and manufacturing divisions in order to facilitate speedy decision-making and business execution. Under such 2009. In addition, to further improve the transparency, objectivity, and soundness of management, in June 2011, a concept, Sharp is working with the aim of rapid management decision-making by separating supervisory and Sharp appointed one additional new member to its Board of Directors, for a total of two outside members. decision-making functions from business execution functions. At the same time, Sharp is taking steps to strengthen business execution functions by establishing committees that work in close cooperation with the Board To ensure the smooth functioning of the executive ofﬁcer system, in April 2010, Sharp revamped its governance of Directors to supplement its execution functions. In addition, as a company with statutory auditors, Sharp is system and abolished the position of CEO/COO to more clearly separate supervisory and important decision-making functions from business execution functions, thereby enabling more rapid management by ■ Corporate Governance System emphasizing each respective role. Sharp has also designated three of four current corporate auditors as outside auditors, and has strengthened Shareholders’ Meeting their capability to monitor and hold management in check by establishing the Internal Audit Division as an Audit functions Supervision/ Election/dismissal Supervision/decision-making Election/ dismissal Election/ dismissal organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors. Supplement supervisory functions Report Board of Directors Meeting In the future, Sharp will further strengthen its Director/Auditor/Executive Officer system, while working to enhance Report Report Report Accounting Internal Control Committee Directors auditors Appointment/ Audit Board of Corporate and improve corporate governance. decision-making functions Special Committee removal Report Auditors Monitoring (Election/ Corporate auditors Compensation Committee dismissal) Coordination Nominating Committee Supervision Resolution/ report Audit Coordination Internal Audit Status of Corporate Governance System Coordination Division Representative directors/managing directors The Board of Directors Meetings of Sharp Corporation are held on a monthly basis to make decisions on matters Business execution functions (executive officers) stipulated by law and management-related matters of importance, and to supervise the state of business execution. Supplement business execution functions Deliberations on key policies To improve management agility and flexibility, and to clarify the responsibilities of the company management Executive Management during each accounting period, the term of ofﬁce for members of the Board of Directors is set at one year. Technology Strategy Committee Committee Corporate Executive officers, etc. Auditors Office In addition to the Board of Directors, the company has the Executive Management Committee, where matters of Strategic and consultative One-of-a-Kind Product trategy Committee Deliberation/report Business execution Sharing information on business progress importance related to corporate management and business operation are discussed and reported twice a month. Core Business Strategy Committee and checks Report Operational audit Operational Accounting audit audit In addition, the Business Promotion Committee generally meets once a month to share information and Business Promotion Committee thoroughly review corporate and management policies with managers in each business area. committees Investment Committee Executive officers Group general managers CSR/BRM Committee Heads of sales companies, etc. The Board of Corporate Auditors formulates audit policies, listens to reports from accounting auditors, and Compliance Committee Ensure apt policy execution/ receives reports on the execution of duties, in particular from the Board of Directors. Corporate auditors also information sharing exchange information and opinions on such matters as the progress of deliberations of important meetings and Business execution (Business groups, functional groups, sales and marketing groups, subsidiaries and affiliates) auditing (on-site auditing) results, which increases the validity of audits. Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 018 Selection, Compensation, and Evaluation of Corporate Directors Message from an Outside Director Sharp has established an Internal Control Committee as well as a Special Committee, a Nominating Committee, and a Compensation Committee, which complement the supervisory functions of the Board of The fundamental principle of corporate management is to maximize corporate value. This is because Directors. One purpose of establishing these committees has been to improve the fairness and maximization of corporate value is the starting point for creating a virtuous circle in the relationship transparency of the selection and compensation of corporate directors who have been entrusted by with stakeholders. Maximizing corporate value is a difficult thing to accomplish and brings numerous shareholders to manage the company. strategic options and challenges. Today management has become far more complex and The Nominating Committee, in which outside directors also participate, recommends and determines sophisticated than in the past, involving manifold variables. Naturally, one important aspect is the candidates for directors. In addition, monthly compensation and bonuses for all directors are at the executive capability needed to view each variable in light of the business environment and implement maximum limit of total compensation as set forth in a resolution adopted at a shareholders’ meeting, and the best course of action. At the same time, an aspect that has become even more important is the will be fairly determined by setting evaluation criteria—such as financial results, level of contribution to the management capability needed to carry out optimal overall management taking the balance of all of company, and so on—in the Compensation Committee, which includes the outside directors. these variables. The future of management will increasingly see the competitiveness of companies depend upon their ability to realize both partial enhancements in each business and overall optimization at the same eS-SEM Strategic Management System time. In fiscal 2004, Sharp introduced its own strategic management system (eS-SEM) using the balanced For Sharp, I believe a robust strategy for achieving this synchronization is to win the support and scorecard method. The goal of eS-SEM is to improve the performance of the organization and individuals understanding of the broad range of stakeholders, and improve the image of the Sharp brand still by balancing the strategy of an organization from both financial and non-financial perspectives and breaking further, while taking full measures to raise brand value. down company-wide organizational goals to the level of the individual, thereby improving the effectiveness I believe that the recent Great East Japan Earthquake will bring a new dimension to the relationship of objectives. The system is revised every fiscal year based on the business environment to ensure that the between companies and stakeholders. In the future, I think it is important that business and results obtained are in line with company-wide strategies. stakeholders work together to create mediumto long-term sustainable value. As an outside director, I hope I can make even a small contribution to helping Sharp achieve this kind Basic Policy for Internal Control and Maintaining the Internal Control System of management. Sharp is developing and maintaining its internal control system to ensure that the entire Sharp Group engages in fair and appropriate business practices based on provisions of Japan’s Companies Act and the Kunio Ito Outside Director Internal Control Reporting System under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Career Overview In response to the enactment of the Companies Act in May 2006, the Board of Directors passed a April 1992 Professor, Faculty of Commerce resolution to adopt a basic policy related to the development and maintenance of systems necessary to and Management, Hitotsubashi ensure the properness of business practices (Basic Policy for Internal Control). University August 2002 Dean, Graduate School of In conjunction with this, as part of building and strengthening the internal control system for the entire Sharp Commerce and Management, Group, Sharp has implemented various measures such as requesting that the Boards of Directors of its Hitotsubashi University major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan pass resolutions to adopt basic policies December 2004 Vice President and Executive Staff for developing internal control systems, and promoting the development of all necessary rules and of Hitotsubashi University regulations to build internal control systems at consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Sharp December 2006 Professor, Graduate School of has also taken similar initiatives for major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies established Commerce and Management, Hitotsubashi University since the Companies Act became law. (current position) In accordance with this policy, Sharp also established the Internal Control Committee to serve as an advisory June 2009 Director, Sharp Corporation (current position) panel to complement the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. The Internal Control Committee discusses various policy measures related to the internal control system and affirms their operational status. In addition, the entire Sharp Group has been making preparations since before the Internal Control Reporting System mandated by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (business year 2006) became applicable, and has been evaluating the effectiveness of the internal control system in relation to financial reporting. Sharp has also taken steps to reduce various business risks Internal control system through the sound operation of the internal control system. Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 019 System to Promote CSR / Risk Management Sharp has set up internal systems to promote CSR including a CSR/BRM Committee. Additional efforts toward CSR include revising the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct, and participating in the United Nations Global Compact. Sharp is also continuously improving business risk management through actions such as developing and improving BCPs (business continuity plans) to be followed in the event of a major earthquake or other disaster. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Content of Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and • Boards of Directors of Sharp Group companies around the world adopted resolutions to • Formulate policies and plan and promote measures based on new trends in CSR Sharp Code of Conduct revised in April 2010 thoroughly apply revised Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct; also, implemented (publishing of ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, revised OECD Guidelines conveyed to all directors and employees measures to thoroughly communicate their content through internal notices, pamphlets, for Multinational Enterprises, etc.) and training • Ongoing improvement of BCM system • Conducted BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic production bases, assuming • Ongoing improvement of BCM system occurrence of earthquake • Conduct BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic sales groups and • Reviewed and developed BCPs for domestic subsidiaries non-production bases, assuming occurrence of earthquake • Developed BCPs for major overseas production bases • Conduct BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic subsidiaries, assuming occurrence of earthquake • Review and improve existing BCPs on an ongoing basis Structure to Promote CSR Policies and Activities United Nations Global Compact Sharp holds semi-annual meetings of the CSR/BRM* Committee to discuss and check policies, measures, Sharp became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact in June 2009. Since and progress for the entire company. These meetings are attended by an Executive Vice President (Chief then, Sharp has set concrete targets for its efforts in support of the 10 principles of the Officer, General Administration) and all group general managers of both the business groups and the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and functional groups. This committee serves to complement the business execution functions of Sharp. anti-corruption, and is working to further promote these efforts throughout the Sharp Group. In addition, Sharp has established the CSR Promotion Group for planning and promoting CSR policies and measures for the entire Sharp Group. The CSR Promotion Group collects and analyzes information related to domestic and overseas trends, formulates policies on issues deemed important from the perspective of CSR, and plans and promotes measures to implement policies, working in collaboration with relevant functional and business groups. The Global Compact’s Ten Principles See page(s) * BRM: Business risk management Related information Page 17: Corporate governance system Human Rights 4・77・87・ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 88・92・ human rights; and Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 98–100 To put into practice its Business Philosophy and Business Creed—the foundation of Sharp’s CSR—and to fulfill its social responsibilities, Sharp has established the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, the Labour principles of corporate behavior of all Sharp Group companies; and the Sharp Code of Conduct, the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4・77・87・ standards of conduct for all directors and employees. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 88・92–98 In April 2010, the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct were revised for the first time since Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and May 2005 to accommodate changes in the business environment, including changes in the nature of what Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. society and stakeholders expect of companies. The revisions also reﬂect changes to existing laws and the enactment of new ones. The Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct represent a common set Environment of behavioral norms and standards of conduct for the Sharp Group. The Boards of Directors of Sharp Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 4・8–16・ Group companies around the world passed resolutions to adopt them, and Sharp is working to thoroughly Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 28–75 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. communicate their content through internal notices, pamphlets, and training. Anti-Corruption 4・16・24・25 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 020 Creating Integrated CSR and BRM Activities 3) Promoting BCM and BCP Sharp considers BCM (business continuity management) to be a priority issue for management. This effort Sharp believes BRM (business risk management) is indispensable in fulfilling corporate social responsibility is intended to ensure the safety of employees and their families and expedite an early recovery of important and makes it a top priority to conduct integrated CSR and BRM activities. business operations when a major disaster occurs. Sharp is also committed to continuously reviewing and The semi-annual meetings of the CSR/BRM Committee (see page 19) regularly review major risks, improving BCPs (business continuity plans) to cope with natural disasters, such as an earthquake or an deliberate on company-wide BRM measures for dealing with them, and communicate those measures outbreak of a new strain of influenza. throughout the company. As well, Sharp’s functional groups and business groups identify major risks In fiscal 2010, Sharp upgraded BCPs at subsidiaries in Japan and key production sites overseas to pertinent to their business and mission, and plan and promote measures to either prevent them or minimize respond to a possible occurrence of an earthquake (at some locations, a hurricane or flood, etc.) or an their impact. outbreak of a new strain of influenza. In addition, at production sites in Japan, Sharp conducted disaster simulation exercises based on BCPs already created, and then re-evaluated the effectiveness of existing Promoting BRM BCPs and made improvements where necessary. In fiscal 2011, Sharp will conduct BCP simulation exercises for subsidiaries and all sales groups in Japan to 1) Rules of Business Risk Management review and improve existing BCPs. Sharp developed the Rules of Business Risk Management as a basic policy for the company-wide promotion of BRM, and controls business risks based on these rules. In the Rules, Sharp has identified risk items that could have a major impact on management. The company has designated those items, which number more than 100, as “specific risks” and has created a risk control manual. For each specific risk, TOPICS Sharp has designated a functional group to be responsible for risk management across the entire company, and is continuously moving forward with initiatives to minimize and optimize risks, rectify those that need Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake attention, and prevent risks from becoming a reality. The Great East Japan Earthquake, which struck on March 11, 2011, was a disaster on a scale far greater In addition, Sharp established the Rules of Emergency Response, detailing responses if a potential risk than ever expected. Based on the experience of the response made to the disaster, Sharp has been promoting efforts that give top priority to human life, along with initiatives that reaffirm the importance of does come to pass. Taking prompt and appropriate action when an emergency situation occurs works to BCM in routine activities. minimize loss and prevent the damage from spreading not only across the company, but also to society at large. These Rules also specify action items to be implemented to ensure prompt and appropriate Sharp responded to this emergency by activating its BCP immediately after the earthquake occurred and information disclosure to stakeholders. set up an Emergency Operations Center at the Sharp Head Office with the President in command. Its first action following the quake was to give the highest priority to confirming the safety of employees and their Sharp periodically reviews and revises these Rules and the manual to reflect changes in the business families (including temporary employees and employees of subcontractors on Sharp premises), followed by environment; for example, adding new specific risks. assessing the damage at each sales office and the level of damage sustained by business partners in the Tohoku area. 2) Management Methods for Important Risks Because none of Sharp’s production sites or sales offices sustained significant damage as a direct result of From among specific risks, those that have a greater potential impact and a higher probability of occurrence ground motion or the subsequent tsunami, and hence, little time would be required for operations at are selected as “priority management risks” and become the subject of intense focus in the risk production facilities to resume, Sharp was able to focus its energies on making initial damage assessments and getting a system up and running to quickly implement needed support measures under the BCPs. management activities of each group. Each group then formulates and moves forward with schedules and However, Sharp is continuing to review issues that still remain, such as assessing damage to the supply plans, which appoint a person in charge to deal with these priority management risks, and reviews them on chain. a regular basis from the perspective of policy measures to (1) reduce the likelihood of a risk occurring and (2) reduce the impact on business activities in the unlikely event that a risk incident actually does occur. In In addition, this summer, regulatory restrictions on electricity use have been imposed within the service territories of Tokyo Electric Power Co. and Tohoku Electric Power Co., and users served by Kansai Electric addition, the CSR/BRM Committee mentioned above presents case studies and reviews risk incidents that Power Co. have been asked to conserve power. In response, Sharp made this a priority management issue have occurred within the company, and works proactively to prevent similar incidents by sharing information and set up a special task team led by an Executive Vice President (Chief Officer, General Administration) to and ensuring that countermeasures are deployed across the company. develop measures to cope with the situation. Sharp has declared conserving power to be a company-wide policy, and is making its best endeavors—as in the measures listed below—to reduce electricity usage in ways that will not impact the production and supply of products and components. • Implement measures to save electricity in facilities and offices, such as setting the air conditioning cooling temperature at 28°C, taking a certain percentage of lights out of service, sharing the use of photocopiers, and removing some elevators from service. • Introduce daylight saving time within the company, and relax the summer dress code. Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 021 Case Study Japan CSR Efforts in Sales and Marketing Areas in Japan 2) Introduction of an Online Self-Auditing System Each quarter, sales and service managers assess how well they are complying with laws and in-house rules The Domestic Sales and Marketing Group‚ which is in charge of sales and marketing activities in Japan‚ related to operational activities, as well as the status of management activities with respect to business conducts business with a focus on CSR, based on the basic principles of “customer first” and “compliance risks. These results are analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively, and are reflected in new policies and first.” mechanisms to mitigate risks and prevent crises. To ensure that Sharp employees at sales and service bases all over Japan fulfill their social responsibility in local communities and to create bases even more firmly anchored in local communities‚ Sharp is working to 3) Promoting Community-Based Social Contribution Activities (see page 102) strengthen its efforts to make contributions to local communities. This is achieved through sales and service A major CSR activity undertaken by Sharp sales and service bases is to jointly plan and participate in social activities and by further raising the level of awareness of CSR among all employees through activities contribution activities with local communities. These constructive action programs are intended to anchor described below, such as morning meetings. Sharp sales and service bases more firmly in the community. In fiscal 2010, based on Sharp’s corporate In addition, Sharp is working to deepen the understanding of its CSR efforts among its business partners vision of becoming an Eco-Positive Company, employees participated in activities sponsored by local and to build partnerships to promote CSR activities together. governments, in particular, community cleanup activities focused on preserving biodiversity (such as protecting the ocean, rivers, lakes, and forests). Such community service activities were held approximately 700 times at sales and service bases throughout Japan, with a total of about 17,700 participants. Promoting CSR Through the PDCA Cycle and a Dedicated Organization 4) Serving as Environmental Education Teachers in Elementary Schools (see page 103) The CSR Promotion Department, established within the Domestic Sales and Marketing Group, works on the planning and promotion of a broad range of policies and activities on a more pragmatic level, particularly A total of approximately 430 employees of sales and service bases in Japan have served as teachers for in terms of compliance at sales and service sites. environmental education classes conducted in elementary schools nationwide as part of Sharp’s community service activities. Sharp works with the Weathercaster Network, a nonprofit organization of Looking to further boost CSR awareness and improve and maintain action programs put in place at sales weather forecasters in the Japanese media, to make presentations in 500 schools each year on topics such and service bases, Sharp is promoting efforts through a PDCA management cycle (“plan‚ do‚ check‚ and as recycling and new energy sources (such as solar power). act”) for CSR. Efforts include regularly holding domestic sales and marketing CSR/BRM promotion meetings in which relevant Head Office divisions and all sales and service companies in Japan participate; continuously providing training and education; supporting on-site problem solving activities; and monitoring the results. Words from a CSR Representative Further Raising Awareness of CSR Among Sales and Service Employees At bases in all parts of the country, all sales and service companies that come under the “Sharp Is One” umbrella are working in close coordination and 1) Holding Morning Meetings to Coordinate CSR Activities collaborating on community-based activities. At business locations shared by affiliated sales and service companies, morning meetings are held at the The CSR Promotion Department to which I belong serves as the overall beginning of each week to exchange sales and service information and conduct joint planning and review of coordinator. The first thing we do is provide employee education through CSR efforts that each base is expected to implement as a member of the local community. In addition, e-learning and training to enable sales and service employees to put since fiscal 2008, Sharp has been compiling information on CSR and compliance in an easy-to-understand compliance into practice in their routine activities. format in the CSR/BRM Newsletter, which is dispatched to Sharp business offices in Japan from the Domestic Sales and Marketing Group. Leaders of the morning meetings use this information to maintain In addition, to promote knowledge acquisition related to environmental issues and improve employee knowledge about CSR. based on the growing interest in the environment in recent years, currently Hiroyuki Ishitobi more than 70% of sales and service employees in Japan have acquired the CSR Promotion Department Eco Test certification. Based on trends outside the company, we will continue Domestic Sales and Marketing Group to plan and promote CSR initiatives in domestic sales. Sharp Corporation Management New York Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 022 SEC Head Office Mahwah, New Jersey U n i t e d St a t e s Case Study Overseas CSR Efforts at SEC in the United States Social Contribution Activities SEC*¹ (headquarters in Mahwah, New Jersey) has In the spirit of building closer ties with the communities in which they work and live, SEC and its employees established a Compliance and Ethics Committee and play an active role in a large number of local environmental and charitable activities, carried out per Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee, on which the executives of the company serve. SEC discussions with the CSR Committee. In keeping with Sharp’s business creed, which calls for “Sincerity and promotes its CSR activities in accordance with the SEC Code of Conduct and the Sharp Group Charter of Creativity,” SEC strives to grow hand-in-hand with employees, facilitating their professional potential and Corporate Behavior. encouraging them to make a meaningful contribution to society. Food drives, environmental cleanups, holiday toy and clothing drives, and Sharp Solar Academy, whereby SEC volunteers visit local elementary schools and provide environmental education classes to students, are some of the examples of this Compliance and Ethics Program commitment by SEC employees. SEC has nominated a Compliance and Ethics Officer to manage the North America compliance and ethics In April 2011, SEC named Vera Amaral, an SEMCA*² employee who has devoted years to helping the responsibilities. The Compliance and Ethics Officer works closely with the SEC Compliance and Ethics needy around the world, as the winner of the SEC Community Service Award. Most recently, Ms. Amaral Committee in a monthly meeting, with the goal of building trust and integrity throughout the organization used her vacation time to visit countries like Haiti, working in orphanages and participating in other relief and amongst stakeholders. Communications and online training programs are mandatory for all SEC activities. employees. In 2010, 2,000 employees in the US, Canada, and Mexico completed vital training programs, including those covering code of conduct, antitrust compliance, conflict of interest compliance, and the US *1 Sharp Electronics Corporation, established in 1962 as a manufacturing and sales company for consumer electronics, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. office equipment, and electronic components. *2 Sharp Electronics Marketing Company of America, a consumer electronics sales division of SEC. Code of Conduct The SEC Code of Conduct handbook has been distributed to all SEC employees and, along with the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, is posted on the SEC intranet for easy access by all employees. Compliance and Ethics, the Right Way to Go Because SEC is committed to ensuring the highest standards of social responsibility both internally and from its vendors and suppliers, the SEC Supplier Code of Conduct was instituted in January 2011. SEC This is the motto of the Compliance and Ethics Program at SEC. The has been successful in obtaining a signed acceptance by major domestic and foreign suppliers and OEM success of our program depends on the commitment of senior management partners. This Supplier Code of Conduct is an important responsibility under the US Foreign Corrupt to comply with and enforce the Code of Conduct and the Sharp Group Practices Act, and reinforces SEC’s high standards of ethics and social responsibility. Charter of Corporate Behavior in all SEC business practices. Compliance and ethics programs are more important than ever. SEC is proud of its Earth Week and Biodiversity at SEC program, from a CSR standpoint, of encouraging the best possible behavior, prohibiting discrimination of any kind, and providing a safe and After study and confirmation by the CSR Committee, SEC celebrated Earth Week in April of 2011 and harassment-free work environment. As Compliance and Ethics Officer for sponsored health and environment-themed lectures, discussions, and educational films. Highlighting SEC, I am proud to represent a world-class company, and I encourage all inspiring stories from companies on the forefront of eco-friendly business practices, SEC was proud to employees of SEC to follow our Code of Conduct in their daily job communicate the benefits of corporate social responsibility and biodiversity. Highlights of the weeklong Tom Cunningham responsibilities. Compliance and program included a lecture on sustainable gardening from a local college professor, a waste-free lunch Ethics Officer program, and employee discounts on earth-friendly products. SEC Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 023 Compliance In strengthening its global business expansion, Sharp has been using the PDCA cycle to develop and improve its compliance system for Sharp Corporation as well as affiliated companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, and has been working to foster awareness of compliance on a global basis and promote the spread of this awareness throughout the Sharp Group. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion • Held compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all employees in Japan • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures measures • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases • Ongoing compliance training (job-level-speciﬁc training, e-learning, etc.) for all • Ongoing internal audits and guidance on complying with antitrust laws employees in Japan • Created anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign public ofﬁcials • Ongoing compliance training at all overseas bases and disseminated it to bases throughout Japan • Disseminate anti-bribery guidebook to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign • Created guidebook to comply with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies public ofﬁcials to overseas bases • Disseminate guidebook to comply with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies • Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining • Revamped contents of self-checks for maintaining conﬁdentiality and information security, and • Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining conﬁdentiality and information conﬁdentiality and information security, and implement implemented them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas security, and implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas • Implemented compliance training through e-learning for all Sharp Group employees • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information information for employees and others • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal information for employees and others Basic Policy Regarding Compliance Ofﬁcers (CO), and appointed a legal affairs staff member from Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Ofﬁce to each region. To strengthen the compliance and legal functions in the region, each legal affairs staff member, Sharp deﬁnes compliance as “observing company regulations and social codes of conduct, including laws as staff of each regional CO, works in cooperation with the legal affairs department of each base in the and corporate ethics,” and regards it as the foundation of fulﬁlling its CSR (corporate social responsibility). region, and also holds regular meetings with Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Ofﬁce. Accordingly, Sharp is pursuing on a global basis and through the PDCA cycle the ongoing development and The Compliance Committee conﬁrms the status of these efforts to promote compliance in all overseas strengthening of systems and policy measures to promote management practices where compliance is regions, and works to ensure steady progress. given ﬁrst priority. In ﬁscal 2010 in Japan, Sharp implemented compliance training through e-learning for all employees and disseminated a guidebook on preventing bribery of foreign public ofﬁcials. Overseas, Sharp implemented Strengthening the System to Promote Global Compliance training on complying with antitrust laws at each base and strengthened its efforts to prevent antitrust practices (for example, the formation of cartels) by introducing a checklist of speciﬁc items to be followed to Sharp is continuously strengthening its compliance and legal systems in Japan, and is also reinforcing the comply with antitrust laws into the internal control self-check system. system to ensure that compliance is integrated into management practices on a global level, as well as strengthening cooperation with the Legal Division at the Head Ofﬁce. Further, in conjunction with even wider business expansion globally, Sharp will further expand and improve its initiatives to comply with various laws and regulations so that its business activities are carried out To strengthen compliance and legal systems in Japan, the Legal Division at the Head Ofﬁce holds regular appropriately, in line with regulations applicable globally or unique to speciﬁc regions. meetings with legal affairs chiefs and staff members for each Sharp Corporation business group and afﬁliated company in Japan. In these meetings, they discuss problems and case studies related to legal In ﬁscal 2011, Sharp plans to make the contents of the guidebook for compliance with antitrust laws in affairs as part of an ongoing effort to establish a shared awareness of compliance issues. business tie-ups (including production joint ventures and OEM partners) created in ﬁscal 2010 as widely known as possible in Japan. It will also make necessary changes to the guidebook on preventing bribery of In addition, the Compliance Committee serves to complement the work of the CSR/BRM Committee and foreign public ofﬁcials to reﬂect the laws and regulations in each country and region, and will distribute it to holds meetings on a regular basis. These meetings, which are chaired by an Executive Vice President (Chief employees at overseas bases. Ofﬁcer, General Administration) and include group general managers of the functional groups, are held to plan compliance measures, check the progress of implementation, and institute any necessary corrective In the future, as mentioned above, Sharp will continuously promote efforts to put compliance management action for the entire Sharp Group. into practice on a global basis. In 2009, to strengthen its compliance and legal systems overseas, Sharp appointed those responsible for Sharp business in the four major regions around the world (US, Europe, China, Asia/Africa) as Compliance Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 024 ■ Compliance System Raising Legal and Ethical Awareness to Ensure Compliance Board of Directors In a social environment in which social responsibility is being subjected to ever more severe scrutiny, Management Strategy Meeting Sharp regards the role of the corporation as not merely to pursue profits, but rather to sustain and continue business activities in a way that places the highest priority on compliance. In this light, Sharp CSR/BRM Committee produced the Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook to ensure that each individual employee understands well the meaning of compliance and how to put compliance into practice in their routine work activities. Executive Vice President Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan use training sessions as an opportunity to (Chief Officer, General Administration) disseminate the contents of this guidebook, and are working to foster awareness of compliance and ensure that this awareness permeates the entire Sharp Group. These sessions include job-level-specific Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) cum Compliance Committee chairperson training for directors, senior executives, managers, mid-career employees and new employees, training for employees transferred overseas, and specialized training in specific fields. Group General Manager of CSR Promotion Group In fiscal 2010, Sharp implemented compliance e-learning for all employees in Japan. In addition, Compliance Committee vice chairperson Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Office conducted compliance audits at Sharp Corporation business (assists CCO) groups and affiliated companies in Japan. At overseas bases, Sharp has used teaching materials customized to the laws and regulations in each region to conduct training in antitrust laws, compliance, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, and has expanded efforts to foster awareness and acceptance of compliance on a global basis. Cooperation Group General Managers Group General Manager of Global Business Planning Group Group General Managers of global business affairs Consultation Hotline for Compliance Issues Compliance Officer (CO) Compliance Officer (CO) Compliance Officer (CO) Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan have set up a hotline for providing counseling Presidents of services related to general compliance issues, and an antitrust law hotline as a contact point specifically affiliated companies for issues related to antitrust laws. These hotlines are accessible inside the company and externally (via an outside law firm providing legal counsel) to enable employees and temporary staff, as well as employees of business partners*, to ask questions or request a consultation in line with the spirit of Chief of legal affairs meetings Cooperation Cooperation General managers of business (CSR) Legal Division Legal departments/ Japan’s Whistleblower Protection Act. strategy planning departments, staff general managers These services enable Sharp to work with employees to quickly catch violations of the law or acts likely of administrative divisions Human Resources Group to be violations, and take early action to resolve the problem. Each year, the compliance hotline Chief of legal affairs receives about 50 reports and requests for consultation. In fiscal 2010, there were approximately 40 Global Brand Strategy Group Legal staff (legal affairs group) such contacts; however, there were no material compliance violations. For the antitrust law hotline, Cooperation there were no reports or consultation requests in fiscal 2010, reflecting the results of Sharp’s CS Promotion Group Staff at functional departments commitment to in-depth internal training that encourages employees to consult the Legal Division at an Specialized meetings Staff at functional Cooperation early stage with regard to various questions related to antitrust laws. departments Environmental Protection Group The Sharp Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the privacy of individuals who report compliance Presidents of subsidiaries Division general managers, Intellectual Property Group violations or seek consultation will be strictly protected and that those persons will suffer no unfavorable department general managers Each subsidiary president is treatment or penalties. Each affiliated company president, responsible for compliance at his/her division general manager, and Corporate Procurement Center own company. Similar reporting and consultation services have been set up at Sharp bases in the US and China. department general manager is responsible for compliance at his/her own company, division, and * Only the compliance hotline is available for use by employees of business partners. department. Compliance Committee Japan Secretariat: Legal Division, Overseas CSR Promotion Group Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 025 Preventing Corruption in All Forms and Dealing Properly with Donations In fiscal 2010, bearing in mind socioeconomic conditions in which problems with insider trading increased, Sharp continued to maintain strict controls on material facts. The company made a concentrated effort to The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct contain provisions that further strengthen initiatives aimed at preventing insider trading—for example, through lectures on insider strictly prohibit any form of corrupt behavior such as bribery or extortion of money or gifts, and require that trading regulations at new employee orientations and during on-the-job training for new managers, and donations be handled in a proper manner. through seminars held at key business sites. In Japan, Sharp prevents illegal payoffs and improper expenditures through a system of compulsory reviews by the Monetary Contribution Examination Committee on CSR in place since December 2008 to assess the Export Control propriety of monetary disbursements such as donations and contributions made by Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies. To comply with laws and regulations related to export control such as the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in Japan, Sharp has established policies in the Sharp Code of Conduct and imposed rigorous First half of fiscal 2009 Second half of fiscal 2009 First half of fiscal 2010 Second half of fiscal 2010 controls on exports. Regarding specific export control activities, Sharp has established a company-wide compliance program for Number of reviews 69 108 116 105 export control, under which a determination is made whether a product or component, or a technology (including software) falls under “list control,” which is part of the legal framework of Japan’s export control In fiscal 2010, Sharp prepared a guidebook for preventing bribery of foreign public officials, and worked to law. Sharp’s technology departments, which are thoroughly familiar with the law, make this determination make the contents as widely known as possible through meetings held with the legal affairs chiefs and staff and the Export Control Division at each business group re-checks the decision. members in Japan, and by audits of departments that are involved in international transactions. In fiscal If a product or technology falls under the regulations, Sharp follows the requisite internal procedures to 2011, Sharp plans to disseminate this guidebook globally, using training materials customized to reflect the submit an application for an export license if authorization is needed from the Minister of Economy, Trade laws and regulations of each region where Sharp has overseas bases. and Industry. In addition, to check whether a product or technology could be used for the development of weapons of mass destruction or conventional weapons, Sharp carefully screens customers and conducts a Compliance with Antitrust Laws rigorous review of all transactions, and only proceeds with a transaction after receiving approval from the Department of Export Control. In addition, Sharp is providing training to departments within the company Sharp has made antitrust laws a priority area and is working constantly to ensure compliance with them. In involved in this process to strengthen awareness and make the importance of export controls as widely fiscal 2010, Sharp implemented an online training program in antitrust laws for all employees in Japan, known as possible. conducted training at overseas bases, and reviewed the answers submitted by Sharp employees for the checklist in its internal control self-check system to comply with antitrust laws in Japan (which prevent the formation of cartels). Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Office also began audits of the actions of all Sharp Corporation business groups and affiliated companies in Japan. In addition, Sharp prepared a guidebook for compliance with antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies and made it available to all ■ Export Control Organizational System employees on the company’s intranet. Representative Director (chief executive) In fiscal 2011, Sharp will work to strengthen compliance with antitrust laws by holding training sessions for Chief of Export Control Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan to make the contents of the guidebook on antitrust Department of laws as widely known as possible. Export Control (Business groups, sales and marketing groups, etc.) (Domestic/overseas subsidiaries, etc.) Preventing Insider Trading Group General Manager Representative Export Control Division Export Control Division Sharp has established regulations restricting insider trading, and has established controls on material facts (“insider tips”) and instituted restrictions on the buying and selling of stocks and other securities. Sharp has Technology Sales Administrative Individual departments department department department, etc. also implemented in-house training related to insider trading such as an educational campaign targeting Sharp Group employees in Japan on the corporate intranet and other methods, with the aim of preventing The Department of Export Control supports the Export Control Divisions, insider trading by Sharp Group directors or employees. and the Export Control Divisions support individual departments. In addition, given the importance of disclosure, when “material facts specified in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act” and/or “important company information that should be disclosed in a timely manner as stipulated by securities exchanges” is generated, Sharp will do its utmost to disclose and publicize them promptly. Further, regarding interviews by outside media, Sharp will deal with them in a positive manner, while fully honoring the spirit of disclosure and remaining attentive so as not to violate insider-trading regulations. Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 026 Basic Policy on Information Security Protecting Personal Information Sharp Corporation has established a basic policy on information security, as outlined below, and is taking Sharp Corporation and its domestic affiliates have established a basic policy for protection of personal initiatives to ensure information security by promoting the safe and secure use of information under its information, and are promoting measures related to the protection of personal information by constructing control as well as its information systems. an in-house management system. 1. Sharp will construct mechanisms to ensure that problems such as unauthorized disclosure (“leaks”), Sharp is taking proactive steps to improve this system and to raise employees’ awareness of the malicious alteration, or loss of information under its control does not occur, and will manage its importance of protecting personal information. Specifically, each year, Sharp implements measures such as information assets in accordance with the importance of the information. Specially, Sharp will exercise correcting problems uncovered during internal audits and conducting e-learning training for all employees strict control over the personal information of customers and over important information disclosed by (implemented in such a way that the course is successfully completed only when all questions in the business partners and others. training test have been answered correctly). 2. In order for Sharp, together with its directors and employees, to ensure the security of information, Sharp As a result of efforts to promote these measures, Sharp Corporation and the affiliated companies in Japan will conduct education and training regarding information security for all directors and employees on a listed below have acquired Privacy Mark certification, and are successively renewing certification. regular basis. As befits a company that has acquired certification, Sharp will constantly strive to improve and strengthen 3. Sharp will comply with all laws and contractual obligations relating to information security. its system for protection of personal information in the future. 4. Sharp will promote the construction of mechanisms to ensure the safe and proper use, and the continual management of information assets under its control. In addition, Sharp will aim to become a leading company in information security by reviewing these mechanisms on a regular basis and working ■ Privacy Mark-Certified Companies constantly to improve them. Sharp Corporation Raising the Level of Information Security Sharp Document Systems Corporation Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. In line with the aforementioned Basic Policy on Information Security, Sharp is carrying out various measures Sharp Finance Corporation company-wide to protect trade secrets and personal information. Sharp Engineering Corporation In Japan, Sharp holds semi-annual meetings of the IT Infrastructure/Information Security Committee, which Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation brings together IT/security managers from all departments of the Sharp Group. The committee ensures the Sharp Corporation’s Privacy Mark Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation thoroughness of basic policies and security measures, and works to improve the level of information security governance throughout the entire Sharp Group by implementing annual company-wide self-checks of progress in promoting countermeasures at each level of the organization. ■ E-Learning Screens In addition, once a year, Sharp conducts e-learning training for all employees of the Sharp Group to alert them of security incidents in Japan and overseas, and to make trends in attacks, exploits, and vulnerabilities, as well as how to combat them, as widely known as possible. Overseas, Sharp has established Regional Information Security Committees in regions around the world (North America, Europe, China, and Asia), and has initiated activities to improve the level of information security through self-checks at each base. Management Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 027 Intellectual Property Strategy and Management System Incentives for Employee Inventions Sharp regards its strategy on intellectual property as one of its most important management measures, and To comply with the intent of Article 35 of Japan’s Patent Law, Sharp Corporation consulted with employees is promoting it together with its business strategy and R&D strategy. Sharp is aggressively pursuing the before stipulating its in-house rules, called the “Regulations for Employee Inventions.” The regulations acquisition of patents to ensure the superiority of its one-of-a-kind products and devices, thereby working include detailed standards on rewarding an employee who comes up with an invention during work for the to strengthen the foundation of its business. company, when and after the employee reports the invention and hands over the rights to the invention to the company. In developing a unified intellectual property strategy, Sharp’s Intellectual Property Group based at the Head Office is responsible for overall strategic management, and is involved in a variety of activities related to Sharp also reviewed and revised compensation systems in subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan intellectual property, working in mutual cooperation with patent-related departments located within the R&D according to the intent of the Patent Law, and has come up with programs that improve incentives for groups and each production business group and base. employees who devise inventions. Thus, Sharp has built and is promoting systems that compensate employees fairly and appropriately, depending on the contribution their invention makes to the company, as Regarding patent acquisition, Sharp is clarifying the business areas that form the core of each of its well as the contribution that each employee involved made to the invention. businesses, and is staffing these core business fields with engineers well versed in patent-related matters. Sharp is thus able to file strategic patent applications tightly focused on the actual situation. In addition, Sharp is also acquiring useful patents invented in cooperation with other companies or derived from the Combating Counterfeit Goods activities of alliances, such as industry-university cooperation. Sharp has implemented the following two main initiatives to combat counterfeit goods: As of the end of March 2011, Sharp’s patent holdings consisted of 19,932 Japanese patents and 24,170 foreign patents. Sharp is using this patent portfolio to strengthen its strategic businesses, and is 1) When counterfeit goods are traded within the national borders of a country, Sharp will petition local law aggressively analyzing the products of competitors with the aim of finding further applications. In addition, enforcement agencies to intervene and will hold training workshops for officials, as well as cooperate with Sharp is filing applications and registering rights for designs and trademarks globally under its brand other companies in the same business area to expose the goods. strategy. 2) When counterfeit goods are moved from one country to another country, Sharp will petition local customs authorities to intervene, and will hold training workshops for officials. Date End of March 2009 End of March 2010 End of March 2011 Sharp will continue its efforts against counterfeit goods through these actions. Japanese patents 18,449 17,501 19,932 Foreign patents 22,052 22,568 24,170 TOPICS Sharp Wins Intellectual Property Achievement Award Protecting Intellectual Property Sharp makes active use of the system Sharp’s business and R&D strategies are interlinked with its intellectual property assets, which are used to of trademark rights on a routine basis the fullest possible advantage. At the same time, Sharp is firmly committed to protecting its own intellectual across the entire company. In addition, property rights, while respecting the intellectual property rights of others. Even though Sharp regards Sharp formulates and manages discussion as the basis for resolving cases of infringement, it is the company’s policy to seek judgment from licensing standards for trademark use and establishes usage guidelines, while a third party such as the courts when its intellectual property rights are not respected. at the same time, aggressively acting By strengthening in-house rules, Sharp is also working to bolster protection for trade secrets and to prevent to combat counterfeiting. unauthorized disclosure of production technologies and manufacturing know-how, particularly those that In recognition of these efforts, Sharp are unique or critically important to Sharp. received the Intellectual Property Achievement Award 2010 (Award from Further, counterfeit Sharp-brand products have had a growing impact in overseas markets in recent years, the Minister of Economy, Trade and and Sharp is taking measures to counter these imitations through cooperation with industry groups and Industry) for being an “enterprise with regulatory authorities taking enforcement actions. excelling in trademark utilization” (sponsored by the Japan Patent With regard to respect for the intellectual property rights of others, Sharp is responding by holding Office). company-wide conferences for persons involved with patents and by training of engineers. Toshio Adachi, Sharp Corporation Representative Director and Executive Vice President (right), accepts the certificate of merit on behalf of Sharp Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 028 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Aiming to Contribute to the Environment In accordance with environmental conservation guidelines established in line with Sharp’s Basic Environmental Philosophy, the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp is pursuing environmental consciousness across all of its business activities. Since fiscal 2010, Sharp has been further strengthening its efforts to contribute to the environment based on its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” Basic Environmental Philosophy Corporate Vision Creating an Environmentally Conscious Company with Sincerity and Creativity Eco-Positive Company The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment Strengthening Environmental Sustainability Management to Achieve The Sharp Group will make efforts to further contribute to global environmental conservation the Corporate Vision by strengthening our development of proprietary technologies for protecting the global environment, and by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. Sharp set up the Environmental Protection Group to plan and promote overall company strategy for protecting the global environment. This Group forms the core of Sharp’s system to promote environmental conservation, and facilitates the deployment of environmental sustainability management on a global basis. The Sharp Code of Conduct The Environmental Protection Group consults with the Executive Management Committee regarding critical Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment policies, strategies, and measures relating to environmental sustainability management, and with the approval of corporate executives, ensures that they are implemented across the entire Sharp Group. 1. To Conserve the Environment 2. To Develop Environmentally Conscious Products and Services, and Conduct Specifically, the Group General Manager of the Environmental Protection Group serves as the chair of the Our Business Operations in an Environmentally Conscious Manner semiannual General Global Environmental Conferences, where general managers responsible for environmental affairs from each division and overseas base become thoroughly familiar with Sharp Group environmental policies and discuss environmental policies, objectives, and measures for each division. The Environmental Protection Group also hosts Company-Wide GP (Green Product) and GF (Green Factory) ■ Sharp Group’s Environmental Sustainability Management Conferences in Japan and holds regional environmental conferences overseas to ensure that Sharp Group environmental policies are thoroughly disseminated and to discuss environmental policies and measures for Executive Management Committee each department and site. Sharp also works closely with members of environmental departments at each site in Japan and overseas through various committees, project activities, and Eco Best Practice Forums • Company-Wide General Global Environmental Conference Special Safety (see page 55), while promoting various environmental initiatives across the Sharp Group. Chaired by the Environmental Protection Management Committee (Gas/chemical/radiation/ Group General Manager electricity special-interest groups) In fiscal 2010, with the aim of further strengthening environmental sustainability management, Sharp established the Eco-Positive Strategic Measures as priority objectives under the group performance Company-Wide GP/GF Conference Pan-American Pan-European Asia China evaluation system, based on Sharp’s original strategic management system (eS-SEM*). All divisions at Chaired by the Environmental Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Sharp Corporation and all Sharp Group companies are introducing these measures and working proactively Protection Group General Manager to help protect the environment by striving to make Sharp’s corporate vision of being an Eco-Positive • Company-Wide Product VOC • Site VOC Measures Company a reality. Measures Workgroup Workgroup • REACH Measures Project Team * eS-SEM (e-Sharp Strategic Enterprise Management): Sharp’s original strategic management system based on the balanced scorecard concept. Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental conferences/ conferences conferences conferences conferences committees at all sites (companies) at each at each at each at each in Japan subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 029 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp aims to achieve its corporate vision of becoming an Eco-Positive Company, and not only takes the environment into account in all its business activities, but also pursues what will create positive outcomes for the environment. All divisions set environment-related objectives, but this section reports on the objectives overseen by the Environmental Protection Group, which is responsible for company-wide environmental strategy, and on their results. Fiscal 2010 Achievement Summary Fiscal 2010 marked the second year of Sharp’s Eco-Positive environmental strategy. Eco-positive efforts As a result, despite the fact that production output increased reflecting the start of full-scale operations at have spread throughout the Sharp Group, and each site has developed its own diverse range of activities. the LCD panel plant and the start of operations at the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI, emissions for both CO2 and waste for the Sharp Group were both less than the emission levels of fiscal 2007. In the At the 10 factories of Sharp Corporation that had advanced to satisfy the requirements for SGF II, the future, the technologies and know-how for reducing environmental impacts developed at the 10 plants of second level of Super Green Factory status, efforts to reduce environmental impacts focusing primarily on Sharp Corporation will be deployed across the entire Sharp Group. CO2 and waste have surely and steadily yielded results. With regard to Sharp’s goal of keeping emissions below the levels reached in fiscal 2007, the highest ever, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2010 were reduced by For a look at the main objectives and achievements, please refer to the table below and to the pages 31.3%, and waste by 52.4%, well below their respective fiscal 2007 levels. In addition, every fiscal year, indicated on the right side of that table. Sharp sets new goals for reductions in emissions compared to BAU (business as usual) levels (estimated emissions if no mitigation measures were implemented). In fiscal 2010, Sharp was able to reach these goals, namely, reductions of 3% for CO2 emissions and 6% for waste. Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Self See Stages Themes Major Objectives Fiscal 2010 Objectives Fiscal 2010 Achievements Evaluation Fiscal 2011 Objectives Fiscal 2012 Objectives page(s) Expand closed-loop Use 1,300 tons of recycled plastic material recycling plastic in new products Used 1,300 tons ○ Use 1,400 tons Use 1,500 tons 34 Develop 3R Developed recycling technologies to Technologies technologies Develop recycling technology for use scrap glass in road paving Develop LCD panel scrap glass discarded during LCD Implement proof-of-concept trials Develop recycling technology for recycling technology materials and glass plates ○ for LCD panel recycling LCD panels recovered from used 35 panel production process Introduced proof-of-concept plant for LCD TVs recycling LCD panels Increase Super Green Products’ share of net sales in Japan 60% or more 56％ △ 50% or more 50% or more Improve Increase Advanced Green Products’ share of net sales in Japan 90% or more 86％ △ 80% or more 80% or more environmental 40 performance of I products and Increase Super Green Devices’ 47 Products devices share of net sales 20% or more 37％ ◎ 30% or more 30% or more Increase Green Devices’ share of net sales 90% or more 95％ ◎ 92% or more 95% or more Increase recycling efficiency to Constructed safety-conscious, Construct operational system to Implement high-value-added 49 Recycle used Enhance and improve process growing number of CRT highly efficient operational system ○ accommodate decreasing number recycling of recovered components ・ products recycling system 50 TVs collected of CRT TVs collected and materials Sharp and the Environment Environmental Objectives and Achievements Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 030 Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Self See Stages Themes Major Objectives Fiscal 2010 Objectives Fiscal 2010 Achievements Evaluation Fiscal 2011 Objectives Fiscal 2012 Objectives page(s) Completed re-evaluation of S-EMS provisions Restructure framework to promote Re-evaluate S-EMS and Ensure that new promotion system is Restructure S-EMS at plants compile proposed revisions Acquired ISO 14001 certification as one ○ environmental sustainability firmly established of 11 participating companies at management system at plants Enhance and GREEN FRONT SAKAI improve 51 environmental Ensure that system to promote I Transition to promotion on individual management Restructure framework to promote Completed re-evaluation of current environmental management on individual 53 Set up supervisory sites corporate body basis system environmental sustainability in each region framework to promote environmental ○ corporate body basis is firmly established management system at offices in Japan sustainability management Implement EMS training for auditors Expand and improve EMS training to under new framework accommodate new system Implemented e-learning in refresher Promote environmental e-learning Hold step 2 (advanced course) training for internal auditors ○ ー ー 10 Sharp Corporation plants: 10 plants SGF II Grade A or higher based on new evaluation criteria All plants SGF II Grade A or higher 2 plants SGF II Grade A or higher (4 plants SGF II Grade S, 1 plant SGF ◎ (8 plants SGF II Grade S) All plants SGF II Grade S based on new evaluation criteria [Sakai solar cell plant]) Certify more plants as 8 Japanese plants 54 Green Factories (GF) and Implemented SGF II at 3 SGF, Implement SGF II at 4 SGF, 8 SGF Super Green Factories (SGF) (subsidiaries/affiliates): Implement SGF 4 SGF in total ○ in total All plants SGF II Grade B or higher I II at 3 SGF, 5 SGF in total 57 21 overseas plants Implemented SGF II at 11 SGF, Implement SGF II at 18 SGF, 21 SGF Improve (subsidiaries/affiliates): Implement 18 SGF in total ○ in total All plants SGF II Grade B or higher environmental SGF II at 11 SGF, 16 SGF in total performance of plants and offices Held forums at least once a year in Hold forums at least once a year in Hold forums at least once a year in North America, Europe, Asia, and Hold forums at least twice a year Hold Eco Best Practice Forums each region (North America, Europe, China (at least once a year in each ◯ each region (North America, Europe, in each region 55 Operations Asia, and China) Asia, and China) region for a total of 13 times) Revise certification criteria in Japan and Revised certification criteria in Japan overseas and overseas Japan: Introduce new organizational Japan: Establish new organizational Strengthen certification criteria in Japan Number of Green Office certified sites structure centered on main offices structure 58 and overseas Japan: Certify all 54 offices Japan: 46 out of the total 46 offices ◎ Overseas: Introduce organizational Overseas: Establish organizational ・ Certify more offices as Green Offices Overseas: Certify 8 (two each in Overseas: 19 out of the total 20 offices structures on a regional basis in North structures on a regional basis 59 North America, Europe, Asia, and America, Europe, Asia, and China China) out of the total 20 offices 10 Sharp Corporation plants: Reduced by 31.3% from fiscal 2007 Every fiscal year: Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels, levels, reduced by 3.2% compared ◎ Every fiscal year: Reduce by 3% compared to BAU reduce by 3% compared to BAU to BAU 60 Curb greenhouse Reduce CO2 emissions All 11 Sharp Corporation plants: Reduced by 46.3% from fiscal 1990 ・ gas emissions (per adjusted production unit) Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels levels ◎ Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels (average for fiscal 2008 to 2012) 61 Reduce CO2 emissions Overseas plants: Reduce by 2% from Reduced by 15.5% from previous (per production unit) previous fiscal year fiscal year ◎ Every fiscal year: Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year 10 Sharp Corporation plants: Reduced by 52.4% from fiscal 2007 Every fiscal year: Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels Reduce amount of waste discharged Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels, levels, reduced by 12.0% compared ◎ Every fiscal year: Reduce by 6% compared to BAU Reduce and reduce by 6% compared to BAU to BAU 62 recycle waste ・ Reduce amount of waste, etc. Overseas plants: Reduce by 2% Reduced by 7.5% from previous 63 discharged (per production unit) from previous fiscal year fiscal year ◎ Every fiscal year: Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year Sharp Group in Japan: Between fiscal Reduce 67 Reduce CO2 emissions 2007 and fiscal 2010, reduce by Reduced by 4% from previous distribution-related per shipping volume average 1% each year against fiscal fiscal year ◎ Every fiscal year: Reduce by 1% from previous fiscal year ・ CO2 emissions 68 2006 Introduce Sharp Biodiversity Introduced Sharp Biodiversity Initiative Contribute to 71 Biodiversity at all Sharp Group bases in Japan Every fiscal year: Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity Initiative biodiversity Develop Sharp Biodiversity Initiative Initiative at Sharp Group bases and overseas and assessed progress ◯ by three points from previous fiscal year ・ Protection protection in Japan and overseas 72 in efforts to protect biodiversity Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 031 Mass Balance Mass Balance Sharp uses numerical values to accurately assess the relationship between its business activities and the environment, and uses them to promote environmental sustainability management. By making use of these current values at all stages of business activities to create proposals for policy measures and to analyze and evaluate the results, Sharp is aiming to effectively reduce the impact it has on the environment. INPUT Flow of Sharp Group business OUTPUT Energy consumption 30,206 TJ* activities Global Japan Overseas 1 CO2 emissions 1.319 million t-CO2 0.998 million t-CO2 0.32 million t-CO2 • Electricity Global 2,703 million kWh Japan 2,325 million kWh Overseas 378 million kWh Technological (Electricity purchased) 2,689 million kWh 2,320 million kWh 369 million kWh development, PFC emissions Japan 0.315 million GWPt-CO2 planning, design (Alternative energy*2) 14 million kWh 5 million kWh 9 million kWh SOx emissions Japan 3.0 tons • City gas Global 67.53 million m3 Japan 64.646 million m3 Overseas 2.884 million m3 • LPG Global 11,331 tons Japan 9,721 tons Overseas 1,610 tons NOx emissions Japan 60.8 tons • Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline Drainage Global Japan 8.186 million m3 Overseas 2.061 million m3 Global 2,901 kl Japan 2,461 kl Overseas 440 kl (plants only) 10.248 million m3 PFCs purchased Japan 9.593 million GWPt-CO2*3 COD (chemical oxygen demand) Japan 12.3 tons Manufacture Chemical substances Japan 10,503 tons Nitrogen emissions Japan 63.0 tons (PRTR) handled Water consumed Global 14.143 million m3 Japan 11.562 million m3 Overseas 2.581 million m3 Phosphorous emissions Japan 1.1 tons Packaging materials used Japan 45 thousand tons Final landfill disposal Japan 15.8 tons Chemical substances (PRTR) Japan (Released) 3.1 tons Resources consumed Global 0.808 million tons*4 released and transferred (Transferred) 1,596.2 tons Recycled into new products, reused as new parts, Logistics CO2 emissions Japan 50 thousand t-CO2 Energy consumption (vehicle fuel) Japan 722 TJ Volume of transport Japan 235.385 million ton-km Product use Product shipments Global 0.58 million tons Energy consumption (electricity) Global 40,937 TJ*5 (4,106 million kWh) CO2 emissions Global 1.441 million t-CO2*5 closed-loop material recycling, etc. CO2 reductions Global 0.544 million t-CO2*6 (1.169 billion kWh) RECYCLE Material recycling Weight of that which was not recycled Recycling into new products or materials, or reused • Amount of used home appliances (4 kinds) Air CRT TVs 52,794 tons Flat-panel TVs 2,492 tons recycled into new home appliances (4 kinds) conditioners Japan 13,820 tons Japan 96,328 tons 10,217 tons Refrigerators freezers / 20,024 tons Washing 10,801 tons machines (four home appliances, PCs, copiers) Other • Amount of recycled copiers Japan 2,717tons • Amount of recycled PCs Japan 25 tons uses • Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastic Japan 1,300 tons*7 *1 TJ (terajoule) = 1012 Joules *4 Total weight of products in the 15 major categories sold in fiscal 2010 (estimate), plus waste, etc. discharged from production sites. *7 For details, see page 34. *2 Amount of solar power generated; amount of green power purchased. *5 Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2010. *3 GWP (global warming potential) is a measure of how much a given amount of greenhouse gas will contribute to global warming, Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate. expressed relative to an equivalent mass of CO2. *6 Amount of electricity generated (kWh) annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2010, plus CO2 emissions reduction (t-CO2). Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 032 Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Sharp introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999 to provide a quantitative assessment of the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation activities, and has applied the results to environmental sustainability management. Beginning in fiscal 2010, Sharp also presented results based on the Connected Reporting Framework (CRF). Environmental Conservation Costs Classification of Environmental Economic Reporting under CRF See page(s) Environmental Conservation Activities Conservation Costs Benefits Environmental Conservation Effects ( ): Category based on Environmental Accounting (Unit: ¥ million) (Unit: ¥ million) Sharp’s environmental conservation investment was Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment Description of Actual Estimated Estimated As shown at the left, Sharp is continuing to base its Investment Expenses Benefit Benefit Tangible Effects Benefit approximately 4.3 billion yen, an increase of 0.8% over Major Activities environmental accounting on guidelines published by the previous ﬁscal year, reﬂecting the start of operations Environmental • Operation of environmental Promote environmental sustainability management the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, and has long Sustainability management system of the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai Management • Promote environmental 216 1,674 – – Number of employees Master 149 – been working to collect and report environmental （59） （1,641） 52 City, Osaka Prefecture). Environmental conservation (management sustainability management with environmental Expert 621 – accounting information in a way that shows the links activities) • Environmental education education expenditures were approximately 30 billion yen, an General 1,291 – between costs and beneﬁts wherever possible. increase of 26% compared to the previous ﬁscal year. Supply environmentally conscious products (Unit: ¥ million) • R&D on solar power The Connected Reporting Framework (CRF) advocated generation systems Green Seal products’ share of net sales 86.1% – • Promote closed-loop 7 by the Accounting for Sustainability project, a British Economic Benefits Planning recycling of Super Green products’ share of net sales 56.1% – – 11 NGO, is an integrated reporting scheme that presents plastic materials 921 6,790 168,894 Total amount of electricity generated by and Design [3,485] [15,005] – solar power generation systems 3,604 GWh 75,684 • both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial results as an integrated • R&D on basic Actual beneﬁt was approximately 7.1 billion yen, (R&D) environmental CO2 emissions reduced by solar power 34 representation of a company’s performance. These generation systems 1.584 million t-CO2 2,330 resulting from expanded use of recycled water and technologies Electric power saved from energy-saving – results can be calculated and reported using the same • R&D on biomass （709）（4,722） （123,846） 4,210 GWh 88,410 48 expanded recycling of waste into valuable resources. products classiﬁcations and items that Sharp has thus far been materials CO2 emissions reduced by energy-saving Estimated beneﬁt was approximately 172.2 billion 1.679 million t-CO2 2,470 products using in its environmental accounting. yen, due to an increase in the number of Reduce • Introduce PFC*2 abatement systems Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by controlling electricity and fuel consumption (Unit: ¥ million) greenhouse • Install solar power energy-creating and energy-saving products. gas emissions 682 2,234 2,084*3 3,350 Calculated totals under the CRF for Sharp’s efforts in (global generation systems （2,481） （2,800） （2,049） （4,304） CO 2 emissions reduced 51 thousand t-CO 2 75 environmental • Introduce energy-saving ﬁscal 2010 to reduce CO2 emissions and the amount of PFC emissions reduced 2.227 million 3,276 Explanation of Terminology conservation) equipment GWPt-CO2* 4 waste generated are presented below. Although Sharp Environmental Conservation Costs Minimize and • Reduce waste discharge Waste recycled or sent for appropriate disposal took aggressive action to reduce the level of both these Manufacturing Overhead costs, personnel expenses, and investment associated with recycle waste and recycle waste into 52 13,656 2,121*3 environmental conservation activities, in addition to attendant depreciation. (recycle valuable resources – Waste recycled 148 thousand tons – 54 emissions, increased production output resulted in an Economic Benefits （8）（10,341） （1,831） increase of CO2 emissions of 79,000 t-CO2 and an – Contributions to society and to the company, which result from environmental resources) • Recycle water Recycled and reused water 18.701 million m3 – conservation activities, expressed in monetary units. 66 Actual beneﬁt: Economic effects that can be assessed directly in increase in the amount of waste generated of 27,000 Observe environmental laws and regulations monetary terms, such as cost savings from energy-saving Prevent Prevent air/water pollution and noise/vibration tons, both compared to the previous ﬁscal year. efforts and use of recycled water, as well as proﬁts from • Install scrubbers 2,436 6,325 the sale of valuable resources. pollution – – • Introduce exhaust gas （697）（5,144） Promote risk management Estimated beneﬁt: Sharp Corporation uses the following terms to convert the (prevent Financial items Non-ﬁnancial items treatment systems Chemical substances properly managed and their discharge reduced economic effects of reduced greenhouse gas emissions pollution) 2009 2010 2009 2010 and electricity savings from the use of solar power Reduce risk of soil contamination CO2 emissions (1,000 t-CO2) generation and energy-saving products into equivalent Energy-saving Energy cost 1200 monetary amounts. Collection, recycling, and proper disposal of used products savings (1) Reduced greenhouse gas emissions converted into investments 887 966 – [millions of yen] [millions of yen] 800 CO2 equivalent monetary amounts: 1,471 yen/t-CO2. Used PCs recycled 25 tons (2) Electricity savings converted into equivalent monetary 49 amounts: Unit cost of electricity: 21 yen/kWh. Recycling/ • Promote collection, Used copiers recycled 2,717 tons – • 400 Sites Covered Logistics recycling, and proper 0 23 2,930 – 50 Used home appliances (4 categories) recycled 96,328 tons – • 972 224 165 218 0 Sharp Corporation sites (Tochigi, Yao, Hiroshima, Nara, Katsuragi, Fukuyama, (upstream/ disposal of （0） （24）（2,488） Mie, Tenri, Mihara, Kameyama, Toyama, Tanabe, the Head Ofﬁce, Kashiwa, downstream) used products 67 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) and Sakai), Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation, Sharp Niigata Environmental burden during distribution reduced • Electronics Corporation, Sharp Yonago Corporation, Sharp Display Products – 68 Corporation, and Sharp Mie Corporation Railway/ship cargo transport (container transport) 31,749 containers Financial items Non-ﬁnancial items Number of low-pollution vehicles introduced 99.1% – 2009 2010 2009 2010 Period Covered Referenced Guidelines Volume of waste (1,000 tons)（％） Environmental social contributions Waste disposal Proceeds from 200 0.020 April 1, 2010 to Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 • Expand social 101 sale of valuable March 31, 2011 published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan Social 0 147 Number of employees who attended expenses contribution – – SGC activities Total 31,206 – – resources Responsibility （0） （132） [millions of yen] [millions of yen] 150 144 0.015 activities Number of schools where environmental/ 106 *1 Figures inside square brackets [ ] include technology development centers craftsmanship education was provided Total 656 – 117 Waste at all sites beginning this ﬁscal year for the purposes of conducting detailed 100 0.010 management. 4,307 30,849 7,135 172,244 *2 A general term for perﬂuorocarbon gases, which are greenhouse gases. Total*1 [6,841] [39,064] 50 0.0079 0.005 （128,150） （6,368） *3 Total beneﬁt related to measures implemented using the equipment during （4,273）（24,485） 0.0075 2,636 3,364 742 863 depreciation. Note: Figures in parentheses below entries represent actual values 0 0 *4 GWP (global warming potential) is a measure of how much a given amount from the previous ﬁscal year. of greenhouse gas will contribute to global warming, expressed relative to 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) an equivalent mass of CO2. Percent sent for ﬁnal disposal Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 033 Technologies Developing Unique Environmental Technologies Sharp is working to develop unique environmental technologies to raise the environmental performance of its products and devices, and to lower the environmental impacts of its production facilities. Sharp is advancing research and development of people-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies covering four areas—energy saving and energy creation, effective use of resources, safety and peace of mind, and health and comfort. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Expand closed-loop plastic material recycling • Use 1,300 tons of recycled plastic in new products • Used 1,300 tons • Use 1,400 tons • Use 1,500 tons • Develop LCD panel recycling technology • Implement proof-of-concept trials for LCD panel recycling • Develop waste LCD panel recycling technology • Develop recycling technology for scrap glass discarded • Developed recycling technologies to use scrap glass in • Develop recycling technology for LCD panels recovered during LCD panel production process road paving materials and glass plates from used LCD TVs • Introduced proof-of-concept plant for recycling LCD panels R&D on Unique Environmental Technologies In fiscal 2010, the volume of plastic derived from closed-loop plastic material recycling technology*1 that ■ One-of-a-Kind Technological Development Fields was recycled and reused in new products increased to 1,300 tons. This technology represents an example of a unique environmental technology that helps reduce the consumption of fossil-based resources and contributes to the effective use of resources. Sharp also continued to work on the development of recycling Friendly to the Earth technologies for LCD TVs and technologies for using biomass materials. Sharp also developed four-color technology*2 that combines rich color rendering and energy efficiency in LCDs, as well as a proprietary airflow control technology that increases the efficiency of air conditioners and Energy saving/ Effective energy creation use of resources new high-efficiency monocrystalline solar cells. Also, total sales of products equipped with Plasmacluster Ion technology, Sharp’s unique air purification technology, reached 30 million units worldwide, and Sharp One-of-a-kind continued to pursue new instances where the effectiveness of this technology has been proven. environmental In addition, as initiatives looking to the future, Sharp is conducting joint research with Osaka Prefecture technologies University on plant cultivation and recovering resources from waste at GREEN FRONT SAKAI, Sharp’s base in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. Safety and peace Health and of mind comfort Sharp will continue to work to improve the environmental performance of its products and devices, as well as develop and put into practical use unique environmental technologies to reduce the level of environmental impact at its production facilities. Friendly to People *1 Recycling technology for repeatedly recovering plastic from used consumer electronics and reusing it in parts of new consumer electronics. *2 Sharp’s four-color concept was designed for use with LCDs; it differs from the conventional three-primary-color concept of light and color. Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 034 ■ Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Flow Case Study 1 Product use Disassembly Developing and Using Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Technology (customer) for Repeatedly Reusing Plastic New consumer electronics Used consumer electronics 1. Material evaluation, evaluation of remaining lifetime, In fiscal 2001, in conjunction with the enactment of the Home Appliance Recycling Law, Sharp and Kansai Product Molding and assembly Plastic parts moldability evaluation, physical properties evaluation, review and Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.*1 jointly developed and put into practical use closed-loop plastic material design of plastic parts determination of formula for improving properties recovery recycling technology that repeatedly recovers plastic from used consumer electronics and reuses it in parts of new consumer electronics for the Japanese market. During the 10 years since, Sharp developed a high-efficiency metal removal line*2 and high-purity PP separation and recovery technology*3, which led to the recovery of larger amounts of recyclable plastic. In addition, Sharp and Ube Industries, Ltd., a comprehensive chemical manufacturer in Japan, worked together to develop plastic pigmentation technology*4 and flame retardant technology to add value to the Pelletization Melting/extrusion Mixing with additives Cleaning Placing into crusher recycled plastic, thereby expanding the applications of the recycled plastic to components such as the 4. Plastic pigmentation 3. High-purity PP 2. High-efficiency exterior panels of home appliances. As a result of these technology developments, the volume of plastic technology/flame retardant separation and metal removal line recycled and reused has expanded each year from the 40 tons in fiscal 2001 to approximately 1,300 tons in technology recovery technology fiscal 2010. Washing machines equipped with tubs made from plastic recycled using this technology are now reaching ① Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Technology the end of their service life, and have begun to be collected and sent to recycling plants. Thus, the plastic is Technology to repeatedly recycle and reuse plastic an arbitrary number of times based on improving the entering its second cycle of recovery and reuse. properties of the plastic to meet the specifications required for the target material, efficient removal of In the future, Sharp will work to advance the effective use of limited resources by actively developing new contaminants (to extract foreign matter as well as improve yields), and applying quality control adapted for technologies centered on closed-loop plastic material recycling technology. recycled materials. *1 A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established with joint investment from Sharp, Mitsubishi Materials ② High-Efficiency Metal Removal Line Corporation, and five other companies. *2 *3 *4 See graphics to the right. System to detect and remove metal parts with a high degree of precision, such as screws attached to recovered plastic components. ■ Use of Recycled Plastic ■ Examples of Closed-Loop Recycled Plastic Use （Tons） 6,350 (Total) Refrigerator/freezer Fully automatic ③ High-Purity PP Separation and Recovery Technology 6,000 Handgrips washing machine Technology to recover high-purity polypropylene (PP) from waste High-efficiency metal removal line Divider for 5,000 5,050 (Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.) icemaker and Divider for plastic containing different types of plastic intermixed with metal. multi-use multi-use 4,000 compartment 3,850 compartment and icemaker 3,000 2,800 Divider for Divider for freezer and multi-use Pneumatic Water sink-float 2,000 1,950 multi-use compartment and (blown air) separation (specific gravity) separation compartment freezer 1,330 1,000 810 1,300 390 (Each year) Bottom cover Divider for freezer Removes foreign Removes metal and 0 40 120 and vegetable Washing tub matter such as grit plastics other than PP compartment Base frame Plastic containing Separated and recovered 2001 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 2010 (Fiscal year) intermixed foreign matter high-purity polypropylene ■ Awards Year Award Name Sponsor ④ Plastic Pigmentation Technology 2004 Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Minister’s Prize; Japan Industrial Journal Technology to add pigments to 13th Global Environment Awards visually obscure foreign matter 2005 15th Best Technology Award Japan Society of Polymer Processing intermixed with the recycled material. Director-General’s Prize, Industrial Science and Technology Policy and Environment Bureau, 2008 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; 2008 Resource Recycling Technologies and Clean Japan Center Enlarged photo Enlarged photo Systems Commendation Before processing After processing Research Association for Feedstock 2010 Technological Achievement Award Recycling of Plastics, Japan Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 035 Case Study 2 Developing and Using Technology to Recycle LCD TVs Developing Technologies to Recycle Waste LCD Panel Glass Sharp began recycling of flat-screen TVs in April 2009 following revisions to the Home Appliance Recycling Law. In fiscal 2009, Sharp developed a highly functional paint offering high strength, and excellent abrasion and corrosion resistance, that uses scrap glass*4 discarded during the LCD panel production process. As a leading manufacturer of LCD TVs, Sharp was among the first to establish a research group on LCD TV recycling in fiscal 2002, and the following year in fiscal 2003, began R&D on recycling technologies. One of The glass used for LCD panels features outstanding physical properties such as high strength, low thermal the results was a plastic material for use in the rear cabinets of AQUOS LCD TVs that can be recycled in the expansion, and high heat resistance, but because its softening temperature is high, re-melting this glass for closed-loop material recycling*1 process. This plastic has been in practical use in the Japanese market reuse as a new raw material is difficult using existing equipment. Accordingly, Sharp succeeded in since fiscal 2006*2. Sharp is also working to develop recycling technologies for conventional rear cabinets, developing a highly functional paint that takes advantage of the characteristics of LCD panel glass without and is continuing development of other recycling technologies, including recovery of indium from scrapped melting the waste glass by finely crushing it and mixing the resulting powder with paint base or pigment. LCD panels, and finding uses for glass recycled from waste LCD panels. This paint can dramatically improve the long-term durability of products installed outdoors and exposed to Looking ahead, Sharp will be actively working to develop and sunlight, wind and rain, and sand and dust. Sharp is currently working to use this paint on the exterior parts commercialize new technologies with the goal of high-efficiency of LED security lights. recycling and effective use of resources recovered from LCD TVs, which will be collected in increasing numbers in the future. *4 Scrap glass is generated when the large glass substrate sheets are cut down to screen size. *1 See page 34. ■ How Highly Functional Paint Is Made *2 Fiscal 2010 models: LC-52AE7/46AE7, LC-52DX3/46DX3, LC-60LV3/52LV3, LC-60LX3/52LX3, LC-52DZ3/46DZ3, LC-52LB3 Rear cabinet that can be recycled in the closed-loop material recycling process (LC-46AE7) Developing Technology to Recover Indium from Waste LCD Panels Glass waste Coarse crushing Fine crushing (approx. 10 µm) In fiscal 2009, Sharp, working in cooperation with Osaka Prefecture University, developed recycling technology for waste LCD panels that uses sub-critical water*3. Taking advantage of sub-critical water’s effectiveness at dissolving organic substances, this technology strips away the organic layer from the glass substrate of the LCD panel, and separates and recovers the indium, a rare metal, from the glass. In fiscal 2010, Sharp completed the design and installation of a proof-of-concept plant, and began research on commercialization of this technology. Highly functional paint Paint base *3 Up to a temperature of 374°C and a pressure of 218 atmospheres, water is a liquid but has not entered the gaseous state. This temperature and pressure is called the critical point, and water in a temperature range slightly below the Pigment critical point is called sub-critical water. LED security light (slated for practical use) ■ Indium Recovery Flow (summary) In addition to highly functional paint, Sharp is continuing to develop Glass applications for recycled waste glass that take advantage of the outstanding properties of the glass used in LCD panels, and has thus far found practical uses in road paving materials and for glass plates. Indium-containing In the future, Sharp will promote its use in home appliances and will components develop new applications, including new market areas such as Waste LCD panel Crushing Sub-critical water treatment architectural materials and roadway ancillary fixtures and hardware. Glass plate made from recycled waste LCD panel glass (Photo courtesy of Minocraft Corporation) Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 036 Case Study 3 3 Case Study4 4 Developing and Using Technology for Utilizing Biomass Materials Developing Mycrostoner EP Based on Biomass Materials In an effort to reduce the consumption of limited fossil resources, Sharp is developing technologies to use Sharp has developed Mycrostoner EP, which is largely made up of a resin component that contains a biomass materials based on the concept of “resource recycling.” biomass raw material. Incinerating spent toner releases CO2 from the combustion of the biomass-derived resin. But this CO2 was originally absorbed by the plants that make up the resin feedstock during their In fiscal 2006, Sharp developed technology that blends starch-based bioplastic (PLA) and general plastic, growth process, and hence, the disposal process can be considered carbon-neutral (i.e. has no net effect such as polypropylene and polystyrene. And by increasing the durability of the blended bioplastic, it can on the total amount of CO2 in the atmosphere). withstand the closed-loop plastic material recycling*1 process. Sharp has since improved some of the properties of this plastic, such as moldability and coloration. Since 2007, this plastic has been used for This toner is also the first to receive the BP Mark, a certification by the Japan BioPlastics Association (JBPA) desktop mobile phone holders released in the Japanese market. as a biomass plastic product that contains at least a certain level of organic resources. It is already being put to practical use in the Japanese market.*2 Sharp will continue to develop biomass materials with even greater durability and recyclability with the goal of using them in products such as home appliances, audio/video equipment, and photocopiers. *2 Used in models MX-M753/MX-M623. *1 See page 34. ■ Carbon Neutral Closed Carbon Cycle Biomass raw materials ■ Utilization Process for Biomass Materials Oxygen CO2 Incineration CO2 emission Collection Sharp’s bioplastic CO2 Recycling plant Resource recycling Products targeted for Petroleum Photosynthesis absorption recycling (four categories resources of home appliances) Deinked toner BiomassConventional derived resin Molded into parts resins Starch Polylactic acid (PLA) Pellets (a blend of PLA and general plastic) Recycled paper Conventional bioplastic Miscellaneous goods and CO2 products not targeted for recycling Absorption Incineration Disposal Biomass toner Copy Recycling plant ■ Mycrostoner EP Is the First Toner to Receive BP Mark Certification in Japan ■ Examples of Bioplastic Use 登録NO.120 Desktop holder for Desktop holder for 004SH mobile phone SH-01C/SH-09C mobile phone (SoftBank Mobile Corp.) (NTT DOCOMO, Inc.) Biomass material Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 037 ■ LED Backlight Case Study 5 5 Sharp has adopted LEDs as the light source to enable precise control of brightness plus fast response. LED light diffusion technology provides energy-efficient and uniform illumination across the entire screen, and in Developing Technology to Achieve Both High Image Quality and combination with LCD panels equipped with UV 2A technology, achieves a TV contrast of 5,000,000:1*3. Sharp is working to further improve performance and image quality. High Energy Efficiency in LCD TVs Sharp has developed four-color technology*1 that makes it possible to render rich, vivid colors. In combination with Sharp’s UV 2A technology*2 and LED backlight technology, it achieves both high image quality and high energy efficiency in LCD TVs. Green color gamut Adding yellow sub-pixel Four-Color Technology Dramatically Improves is expanded for enhances rendering of the Ability to Faithfully Render Colors a wider range of cyan colors containing yellow components Sharp developed four-color technology that newly adds Y (yellow) to the three RGB (red, green, blue) primary colors. Its advanced color rendering makes it possible to vividly reproduce colors such as brilliant yellow, brassy gold, and emerald green that are difficult to reproduce using the three conventional primary colors, and enables Enhanced ■ Four-Color Technology both 2D and 3D images to be reproduced with outstanding clarity rendering Sharp’s AQUOS Quattron*4 LCD TVs feature four-color technology which adds a yellow sub-pixel. Yellow of cyan and image quality. naturally appears bright to the human eye, and yellow pixels have the property of enabling more efficient Conventional use of the yellow wavelength components in the light produced by the LED backlight, the light source for color gamut the LCD panel. Effectively taking advantage of the characteristics of this yellow color yields higher brightness. As a result, compared to the conventional three-primary-color displays, images can be rendered even more brightly with lower power, resulting in significantly improved energy efficiency. Sharp’s conventional Sharp’s four-color LCD panel Compared to conventional technology, UV 2A Technology + Quattron Optical sheet three-primary-color LCD panel (RGB+Y sub-pixel structure) color gamut is expanded for enhanced (RGB sub-pixel structure) rendering of yellows and cyan Outstanding Energy Efficiency ■ UV 2A Technology In previous technologies, structural elements in the LCD cell caused light leakage and interference, resulting in lower light transmissivity (lower aperture ratio). Sharp succeeded in eliminating this structure in its UV 2A technology. Reducing light leakage yields higher contrast, and at the same time, raises the aperture ratio and cuts the power required by the backlight, leading to lower power consumption. LED backlight Bright Whites Deep, Dark Blacks (Illustration shows AQUOS LB3/LV3/LX3 series models) Sharp’s conventional LCD panel UV 2A LCD panel Sharp’s conventional LCD panel UV 2A LCD panel *1 Sharp’s four-color concept was designed for use with LCDs; it differs from the conventional three-primary-color concept of light and color. *2 UV 2A stands for “Ultraviolet-induced Multi-domain Vertical Alignment,” a photo-alignment technology for precisely controlling the alignment of liquid crystal molecules in a simple LCD panel structure. *3 Applies to the LB3/LV3/Z5/LX3/XF3 series. When viewed from the front. TV contrast is the maximum contrast level a TV set is capable of achieving (the ratio of maximum screen brightness for an all-white signal to the minimum screen Protrusions and slits No protrusions or slits, Light leakage Almost no light leakage, brightness with an all-black signal). TV contrast of 5,000,000:1 is when AV position is set to “Dynamic”. so whites are brighter so blacks are blacker *4 Quattron is a combination of the word “quattro” meaning “four in Italian, and the word “electron” in English. Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 038 2 Increasing Airflow Volume While 6 Case Study 6 Previous New outdoor unit fan design Trimming Fan Weight Approx. Modeled on the airfoil geometry of bird wings, the 18% Applying Biomimetics to Fan Design to Raise Energy Efficiency in Air Conditioners aerodynamic fan blade slices cleanly through the air, lighter reducing drag and increasing the volume of air weight Sharp applied the science of biomimetics to design the fans for split-type air conditioners. The fan for the indoor moved. Its lightweight design also uses less Weight: 602 grams Weight: 496 grams unit is modeled on the shape of a dragonfly wing, and for the outdoor unit, the shape of a bird wing. These designs resulted in an approximately 30% improvement in airflow efficiency for the indoor unit and material, conserving resources. approximately 20% for the outdoor unit compared to conventional designs. ■ Power versus Airflow Volume 3 Less Electricity Used 90 Airflow During Operation Previous fan design efficiency Electric power (W) improved by Improved fan efficiency reduced electricity 60 approx. consumption by about 20% while moving the same Indoor Unit Technologies 30% volume of air. 30 Wing-shaped fan 1 Cross-Flow Fan Modeled ■ Fan cross-section on the Shape of Dragonfly Wings Previous New “dragonfly wing” fan 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 Airflow volume (m³/minute) A redesigned fan blade modeled on the shape of a dragonfly wing plus a larger blade diameter resulted in improved airflow efficiency. ■ Fan blade diameter 2 Hybrid Heat Exchanger with Improved Efficiency 98 mm 108 mm Case Study 7 Adopting finer diameter tubing (5 mm dia.) increased density, Previous Hybrid Developing High-Efficiency Monocrystalline Solar Modules resulting in improved heat exchanger efficiency. 7 mm dia. 5 mm dia. Using Back Contact Structure 3 New Eco-Friendly Design Boosts Airflow Efficiency Sharp has developed monocrystalline solar modules that achieve high conversion efficiency. These solar cells use a Back Contact structure (electrodes are connected on Efficiently draws in air through large inlet louvers and gently directs the back-side) that eliminates electrodes on the front surface, thereby increasing the air from ultra-wide airflow vents to reach even the far corners of light receiving area. In addition, the use of anti-reflective glass reduces reflected light the room. from the glass surface, increasing the amount of light captured. As a result, output is approximately 20% higher than with predecessor models. Back Contact Structure Use of Anti-Reflective Glass Airflow efficiency Eliminating electrodes on the front surface of the cell Reducing reflected light increases the amount of improved by increases the light receiving area light captured approx. Outdoor Unit Technologies ■ Monocrystalline cell ■ High-efficiency cell ■ More light is captured with the anti-reflective glass 20% 1 Outdoor Unit Fan Takes Nature as Its Model Modeled on the wing shape Sharp adapted the wing shapes of the albatross and the golden of the albatross Antieagle to cleverly take advantage of the natural flow of air to achieve Glass reflective Modeled on glass efficient operation. the wing shape Surface electrodes Eliminating surface of the golden block sunlight from electrodes enables Solar cell Solar cell eagle reaching the cell more sunlight to be utilized Sharp and the Environment Technologies Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 039 Energy-creating/ power distribution ■ Sharp Eco House Systems (conceptual rendering) equipment Case Study 9 8 Photovoltaic power generation system AC/DC distribution board Intelligent power conditioner Eco House Demonstration Project— Energy-saving appliances Photovoltaic Aiming to Minimize Energy Consumption in the Home power generation Air conditioner system Energy consumption in the residential sector in Japan has increased by approximately 40% compared to Refrigerator fiscal 1990, and of the total amount of electrical energy consumed in Japan, home use accounts for about Induction heating cooktop AC/DC distribution board 30%. Reducing power consumption in the home is regarded as a critical factor in energy conservation and AC100V TV the prevention of global warming. LED lighting Against this background, Sharp has for some time been actively engaged in research on an energy-efficient, Plasmacluster Ion Intelligent power generator conditioner environmentally friendly house, and recently completed construction of the Sharp Eco House at GREEN Other FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) designed to be the ultimate in an energy-saving home. Sharp Storage is now conducting tests of experimental technologies intended to minimize power consumption while batteries Media tablet contributing to a comfortable living environment. DC power (HEMS controller) Next-generation AC power automobiles DC = direct current Electric vehicles AC = alternating current Plug-in hybrid vehicles In addition, Sharp is validating the concept of DC power distribution and DC home appliances* that enable direct-current electricity from solar panels and storage batteries to be used in the home without the need for conversion to AC power. It is also exploring the use of the battery pack of an electric vehicle as a power storage device for the home. Sharp is working to move these various technologies from the experimental level to practical reality, and will be proposing lifestyles that are both comfortable and energy-efficient. Sharp Eco House constructed at GREEN FRONT SAKAI Works in conjunction with electric vehicles Sharp has developed a home energy management system (HEMS) for the Sharp Eco House that provides three levels of control: Visualization, Automation, and Prediction. Level 1: Visualization This level uses intelligent power-measuring plugs equipped with wireless networking capabilities to measure the power consumption of home appliances and consumer electronics. Residents can use displays such as an AQUOS LCD TV or media tablet to show the amount of power used by each appliance. Level 2: Automation At this level, HEMS acts automatically on behalf of the home occupant to control energy use and minimize power consumption based on sensor information. Intelligent power-measuring plugs (left) Power consumption of all home appliances can be and media tablet checked at a glance Level 3: Prediction HEMS predicts human behavior while providing even more sophisticated and detailed automatic control. * Home appliances that run on direct-current (DC) power Sharp and the Environment Products Developing Products and Devices Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 040 with High Environmental Performance Along with having guidelines for environmentally conscious design, Sharp sets objectives for the development of environmentally conscious products and devices as well as assessment standards for certification as such. Every year, the company revises these guidelines and standards, thus constantly improving the environmental performance of its products and devices. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Super Green Products account for 60% or more of net sales in • Super Green Products accounted for 56% of net sales • Super Green Products account for 50% or more of net • Super Green Products account for 50% or more of net Japan in Japan sales in Japan sales in Japan • Advanced Green Products account for 90% or more of net sales in • Advanced Green Products accounted for 86% of net • Advanced Green Products account for 80% or more of • Advanced Green Products account for 80% or more of Japan sales in Japan net sales in Japan net sales in Japan • Super Green Devices account for 20% or more of net sales • Super Green Devices accounted for 37% of net sales • Super Green Devices account for 30% or more of net • Super Green Devices account for 30% or more of net sales sales • Green Devices account for 90% or more of net sales • Green Devices accounted for 95% of net sales • Green Devices account for 92% or more of net sales • Green Devices account for 95% or more of net sales Making All Products Green Products Developing Super Green Products on a Global Basis Sharp calls its environmentally conscious products Green Products (GP). The GP Guidelines, which define Among Green Products, Sharp has been certifying those that offer a particularly high level of environmental development and design guidelines in line with seven concepts, have been in use at all product design performance as Advanced Green Products (AGP), and further, among these AGP, certifying those with the departments in Japan and overseas since fiscal 1998. highest possible levels of environmental performance as Super Green Products (SGP). (In Japan, products that meet the criteria for AGP certification bear Sharp’s proprietary Green Seal label.) In developing products, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GP Standard Sheet, which is formulated based on the GP Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture and mass production stages, it SGP and AGP certifications apply to products worldwide, but Sharp incorporates certification criteria set by determines how well the actual product has met these objectives, with those achieving the standards being region based on the needs of customers and on official systems introduced in each region to not only named GP. Each year, Sharp reviews the objectives contained in the GP Standard Sheet, and although they deliver high environmental performance, but also to create SGPs and AGPs tailored to specific regions. have been made progressively more challenging, all new products since fiscal 1998 have met the In Japan, where interest in energy-efficient products is especially high, Sharp has revised the evaluation assessment criteria necessary to be designated as GP. Sharp will continue working to develop products criteria for energy efficiency to be even more stringent. with even higher environmental performance. ■ Green Product Concepts Products with superb energy-saving / energy-creating performance Energy Saving / Energy Creating Improve the energy efficiency and reduce the energy consumption of products; other measures ■ Sharp GP System Products designed to conserve resources Resource Conservation Reduce the amount of materials used; design products that conserve resources during use; extend the life span of products; other measures Super Green Products designed for recycling Improved Products SGP Recyclability Design products that are easy to disassemble; use easy-to-recycle materials; Advanced Green Products other measures that are extremely Products that can be used and disposed of safely environmentally conscious Safe Use and Disposal Do not use substances that negatively affect people’s health or the environment; other measures Advanced Green Products Products that use green materials and devices Green Products that offer particularly AGP Use of Green Materials and Devices Improved Use recycled materials / plant-based plastics; other measures high levels of environmental performance Products that use batteries, manuals, and packaging with Environmental Consciousness enhanced environmental consciousness Green Products Pertaining to Batteries, etc. Reduce product packaging; design products that allow easy removal of batteries; other measures Environmentally conscious products based on seven concepts GP Products that show their environmental performance and information (judged by how well they meet the objectives Showing Eco Information of Products of the GP Standard Sheet) Acquire environmental labels (eco labels); implement LCA; other measures Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 041 ■ Ratio of SGP and AGP to Net Sales in Japan (％) 100 AGP 93 95 91 90 90 87 80 74 90 90 86 85 68 87 80 60 63 60 60 54 65 49 40 35 55 60 56 50 50 20 SGP 10 30 Actual results 0 5 20 Target 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) ■ Assessment and Certification Standards for SGP and AGP (Fiscal 2010) Products are assessed in terms of a score based on an overall environmental performance evaluation (Environmental Performance Criteria), as well as having environmental functions and performance that can be claimed to be superior to those of other companies (External Environmental Claim Standards). Japan Environmental Performance Criteria (total 78 items including required items) External Environmental Claim Standards Point Satisfies items (1) to (10) to the Global warming prevention allocation 15 points Is significantly more environmentally conscious than the products of other companies SGP right and scores at least 90 points (has low power consumption, high energy efficiency, etc.) (1) Equal to or better than previous models (2) Has over 100% achievement rate of the energy-saving standard Satisfies at least one of the following items: (3) TV, air conditioner, or refrigerator is industry-leading model in multi-level labeling system Power consumption・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category Point Standby power consumption・ ・・ ・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category Efficient use of resources allocation 25 points • Consumes 0.1W or less (is designed for recyclability, resource saving, etc.) (for remote controlled products/products with timer function) (4) Is easy to separate and disassemble, or is upgradeable • Consumes 1.0W or less (phones, faxes) Point Energy creating・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Has industry-leading conversion efficiency ・ Substitution of toxic chemical substances allocation 30 points Satisfies items (1) to (9) to the (meets the RoHS directive, etc.) Resource savings during use・ ・・ ・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category AGP right and scores at least 70 points (except electricity) (saves water and detergent, etc.) (5) Meets the EU RoHS directive (6) Completely conforms to RoHS and RoHS-related regulations of destination market Compact/lightweight・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category (7) Uses no substances prohibited under Sharp standards • Is at least 30% lighter or more compact than previous models (8) Uses no cadmium batteries Recycled materials・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses materials that were recycled using the closed-loop material recycling process ・ Point Green materials・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses no halogenated ﬂame retardants, uses polyvinyl chloride substitutes ・ Others allocation 30 points • Uses refrigerant with low global warming potential (has environmental label status, uses less packaging materials, etc.) (9) Has undergone LCA Acquisition of Eco Mark・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・• Has acquired the Eco Mark, authorized by the Japan Environment Association (10) Has environmental label status Original technology・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses industry-ﬁrst or original Sharp technology ・ Overseas Environmental Performance Criteria (total 78 items including required items) External Environmental Claim Standards Point Global warming prevention allocation 15 points Energy saving/energy creating・ ・・ ・・ ・• Has overwhelmingly superior energy-saving/energy-creating performance (has low power consumption, high energy efficiency, etc.) compared to products of other companies (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for Point evaluation) Satisfies items (1) to (6) to the Efficient use of resources allocation 25 points SGP right and scores at least 90 points (is designed for recyclability, resource saving, etc.) Environmental labeling・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・• Third-party environmental labeling is being acquired, or application has been made, or is expected to be made (1) Is easy to separate and disassemble, or is upgradeable • For countries/regions that have a multi-level labeling system, even if there is no Point Substitution of toxic chemical substances allocation 30 points third-party environmental label certification system, be the best in the industry (meets the RoHS directive, etc.) under the multi-level labeling system (2) Meets the EU RoHS directive Energy saving/energy creating・ ・・ ・・ ・• Has excellent energy-saving/energy-creating performance (3) Completely conforms to RoHS and RoHS-related regulations of destination market (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for (4) Uses no substances prohibited under Sharp standards evaluation) Satisfies items (1) to (6) to the (5) Uses no cadmium batteries Environmental labeling・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・• Third-party environmental labeling is being acquired, or application has been made, AGP right and scores at least 70 points or is expected to be made Point Others allocation 30 points • For countries/regions that have a multi-level labeling system, even if there is no (has environmental label status, uses less packaging materials, etc.) third-party environmental label certification system, be the best in the industry (6) Has undergone LCA under the multi-level labeling system Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 042 Identifying and Reducing Environmental Impacts ■ LCA Data for LED Lamps Reference ■ Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions During Use (LED lamp vs. incandescent lamp) Throughout the Life of Products (kg) DL-L601N 60 56.6 Sharp performs a life cycle assessment (LCA) on its products to identify their impact on the environment 50 throughout their service life. Converting this impact into CO2 emissions provides a quantitative measure that 40 Sharp uses in its efforts to reduce environmental impacts by enabling it to focus on the areas where the impact is 30 especially large. For example, TVs and other consumer electronics have a large impact during use. Consequently, 20 the result of lowering the power consumption of the product can be effective in reducing the overall impact. 10 11.8 0 In the future, Sharp will continue to work to enable the creation of products with smaller environmental impacts. DL-L601N Incandescent lamp (40W equivalent) Power Annual CO 2 Product consumption (W) emissions (kg) ■ LCA Data for LCD TVs* ■ LCA Data for Refrigerators ■ LCA Data for Air Conditioners Materials Manufacture DL-L601N 7.5 11.8 (kg-CO2) (kg-CO2) (kg-CO2) Distribution Use Incandescent lamp 1,800 2,500 9,000 (40W equivalent) 36.0 56.6 Disposal, recycling 8,260 1,600 8,000 7,840 1,530 7,480 2,000 e-SPIRITS—New Product Environmental Assessment System 1,400 1,780 7,000 In January 2011, Sharp introduced e-SPIRITS, a system for the integrated management of data used 1,200 1,170 6,000 for conducting environmental assessments of products. 1,040 1,500 1,350 Sharp’s first major step towards being environmentally compliant and ensuring that it constantly 1,000 1,220 5,000 designs more environmentally conscious products was in fiscal 2006 when Sharp began introducing the I-EARS product environmental assessment system to its domestic and worldwide design and development bases. 800 4,000 1,000 Taking the place of I-EARS, e-SPIRITS is a database of green product and device development know-how and design data that is used to raise design standards and introduce consistent LCA. As 600 3,000 well, e-SPIRITS aids in the creation of environmentally conscious products compliant with Sharp’s SGP and AGP systems, which were introduced in fiscal 2009 for Sharp overseas products. 400 2,000 500 200 1,000 ■ e-SPRIRITS Flow 0 0 0 Design, engineering Confirmation, Confirmation, Product planning sample Assessment approval utilization Sales departments, Product planning Engineering Quality control Environmental product groups, -200 department department department Protection Group -200 LCLCLCSJSJSJ-1,000 AYAYAYsales companies, others 52GX5 52LX1 52LX3 FS45R FXF44S XF44T W50SX Y50SX Z50SX 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal Data content year) year) year) Data Data Data Data Data Data confirmation/ Materials Manufacture Distribution Use Disposal, recycling input referral input referral confirmation (input) referral assessment Note: CO2 emissions during use are calculated using a CO2 emission coefficient of 0.43 kg-CO2/kWh (based on the environmental household account book of “The Environmental Minister in My Home” program implemented by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan). e-SPIRITS * CO2 emissions during use are calculated from annual power consumption based on fiscal 2010 measurement methods under targets set for Top Runner criteria based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (Energy Conservation Law). Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 043 Developing Green Devices and Super Green Devices ■ Ratio of SGD and GD to Net Sales (%) Sharp calls its environmentally conscious devices Green Devices (GD). To define guidelines for development 100 95 and design based on seven concepts, Sharp established the GD Guidelines, which it began applying at all 90 84 85 device design departments in fiscal 2004. 80 GD 90 73 85 80 In developing devices, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GD Standard Sheet, which is 60 75 formulated based on the GD Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture and mass production stages, it 51 65 determines how well the actual device has met these objectives, with those achieving the standards being 40 SGD 37 named GD. 24 40 21 24 24 20 Sharp began certifying devices from among GD with the highest possible levels of environmental 7 12 5 20 20 20 Actual results performance as Super Green Devices (SGD) from fiscal 2005. 0 5 10 15 Target In fiscal 2010, both GD and SGD exceeded their sales ratio targets. In the coming years, Sharp plans to 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) raise these figures even higher. ■ Green Device Concepts Energy Efficiency Devices with superior energy efficiency and that consume less energy Reduce power consumption during operation and in standby mode; other measures ■ SGD and GD Certification Standards (Fiscal 2010) Resource Devices designed to conserve resources Environmental Performance Criteria Conservation Reduce device weight or volume; other measures Percentage of External 34 evaluation Environmental Required items items satisfied, Claim Standards Devices designed for recycling including Recyclability Use standard plastic; design devices that are easy to disassemble; other measures required items Safe Use and Devices that can be used and disposed of safely 1) Uses no lead, cadmium, or dioctyl phthalate (DOP) in Manage usage of chemical substances contained in parts and materials; other measures polyvinyl chloride coatings Disposal 2) Is below EU RoHS threshold levels for specific chemical Devices that make products last longer substances Long Life Extend the life of the product with exchangeable parts and consumables Satisfies 3) Complies with China RoHS Has (target: LCD devices); other measures items (1) 4) Uses no formaldehyde in parts that come in contact with the environmental SGD to (13) 95% or more performance at Devices that use packaging with enhanced environmental consciousness human body Packaging to the right the top of Reduce packaging; other measures 5) Has been managed for chemical substances contained in the industry parts and materials Devices that give environmental information 6) Contains no substances prohibited under Sharp standards Information Disclosure Provide information on chemical substances in devices; other measures 7) Has had chemicals in products for export registered, and has been managed for chemical substances 8) Total heavy metal content in printing inks on packaging is less than 100 ppm 9) Certificate can be issued showing that no substances prohibited under Sharp standards are contained 10) Amount of Sharp-managed substances contained in device Satisfies has been disclosed items (1) 11) Consumes less power in operation and standby modes GD to (10) than previous models 90% or more to the right 12) Uses no arsenic in the glass substrates of LCD panel 13) Has undergone LCA Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 044 Examples of Fiscal 2010 Certified SGP and AGP (Overseas) SGP AQUOS LCD TV Europe / North America / Australia Europe North America Australia Acquired the EU Qualiﬁed for the Achieved a 7-star Ecolabel and an ENERGY STAR® rating under Australia’s EU energy program MEPS (Minimum efﬁciency Energy Performance classiﬁcation of Standards) program LC-52LE820E A+ LC-60LE925UN LC-52LE820X ■ Energy Efficient • Achieves both high image quality and high energy efﬁciency by combining an LCD panel that uses four-color technology*1 and UV2A technology*2 with an LED backlight that offers precise, efﬁcient control of light *1 *2 See page 37. TOPICS AGP Digital B/W MFP Europe / North America AGP Thin-Film Solar Module Europe SEC (United States) Wins 2011 ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence ■ Energy Efficient SEC, Sharp’s sales subsidiary based in New Jersey, has received an • Various energy-saving ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence sponsored by the US functions including short Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Energy warm-up time, standby power (DOE). The ENERGY STAR Awards 2011 were given to companies and consumption of less than 1W organizations out of the more than 20,000 in night standby mode, and that participate in the ENERGY STAR power save key ■ High Energy-Conversion program*3. Efficiency • Qualiﬁed for the ENERGY SEC received high ratings for promoting STAR® program • Highly efﬁcient energy environmentally friendly activities, such as creation using unlimited achieving ENERGY STAR qualiﬁcation for all • Certiﬁed with the Nordic sunlight its professional LCD monitors, introducing Ecolabel and the Blue Angel MX-M753U • Module conversion AQUOS Quattron LCD TVs, which feature efﬁciency 9.5% (previous 65% higher energy efﬁciency compared to model NA-F128G5: 9.0%) NA-F135G5 LCD TVs that use conventional ﬂuorescent tube backlights, and introducing solar • Because thin-ﬁlm silicon solar cells can be fabricated using power generation systems to plants in Plaque for the ENERGY STAR low-temperature processes at less than 200°C and because Japan and the US. Award for Excellence 2011 there are fewer steps in the production process, they can be manufactured using less energy than conventional crystalline *3 An environmental labeling program to promote savings through the use of silicon solar cells energy-efﬁcient electrical appliances. Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 045 Plasmacluster Ion Technology A proprietary Sharp air puriﬁcation method, this technology generates—through plasma Examples of Fiscal 2010 Certified SGP (Japan) discharge—and releases into the air positive and negative ions like those found in nature. These ions inhibit the action of airborne viruses and break down and eliminate airborne mold. SGP Plasmacluster Refrigerator Japan SGP Plasmacluster Air Conditioner Japan ■ Energy Efficient • A high-performance compressor and wide linear inverter controller reduce power consumption • Eco-friendly design features high-efﬁciency freezing cycle and high-efﬁciency cooling fan to limit heat loss ■ Energy Efficient AY-A50SX • Power-saving functions such as Eco Mode reduce power consumption by • Improved airflow efﬁciency by applying the science of biomimetics to design fans modeled on “nature’s wings”: approximately 10% compared to normal operation, and Eco Alert informs users the shape of bird wings for the outdoor unit and the shape of a dragonﬂy wing for the indoor unit*3 of wasteful electricity usage • Proprietary eco-friendly louver design draws in air more efﬁciently. Sharp’s airflow control technology provides • Annual power consumption: 220 kWh/year (JIS C9801-2006) Wrap-Around Airﬂow by changing the way the long diffuser panel opens depending on whether the unit is set for heating (18.5% reduction compared to previous model introduced in November 2009) or for cooling. These technologies enable healthy heating and cooling without using excessive amounts of energy. ■ Green Materials • Recommended Eco Mode gives comfort and energy efﬁciency with the push of a button on the remote control • Uses recycled plastic made using closed-loop material recycling technology* 1 • Automatic ﬁlter cleaning function extends the beneﬁts of energy efﬁciency • Non-CFC refrigerant (R600a) • Seasonal power consumption: 1,727 kWh (JIS C9612-2005) Acquired the Evidence-Based Relaxation & Comfort Recommendation Mark (one mark for “cooling,” a second mark for “heating,” and a third mark for “cooling at bedtime”) Sponsor: Osaka Healthcare Service Industry Collaboration SJ-XW47T *3 See page 38. Platform (OHS: Open innovation of Healthcare Service) SGP Plasmacluster Washing Machine Japan SGP LED Ceiling Light Japan ■ Water Saving ■ Long Life • A hole-less tub, which prevents water from going between the water tub and • Design life of 40,000 hours*4. Provides at least 10 years of service when lit 10 hours per day. wash/spin tub, saves water and detergent ■ Energy Efficient • Water used: 89 liters for an 8 kg wash load (2004 Sharp models used an average 114 liters for a 4.5 kg wash load)*2 • Three eco functions—Eco Light Rhythm, Eco Dimmer, and Eco Sensor—deliver energy savings of up to 65% compared to keeping the unit continually lit*5 ■ Energy Efficient ■ Green Materials • Hole-less tub dries clothes efﬁciently by keeping heat in and enabling the DL-C501V temperature inside the tub to rise quickly • Mercury-free • Power consumption: 1,750 Wh (for 4.5 kg wash and dry load)*2 ■ Adjustable Color and Brightness ■ Green Materials • Color and brightness of the white light can be adjusted to a total of 110 different levels—from cool daylight to warm evening light (10 color levels × 10 brightness levels, plus 10 brightness levels for night-light function) • Uses recycled plastic made using closed-loop material recycling technology* 1 ES-TX800 *4 Design life is regarded as the time until total luminous ﬂux declines to 70% of the initial level. However, product *1 See page 34. service life cannot be guaranteed. *2 Measurements based on washing machine performance evaluation criteria set by the Japan Electrical *5 Sharp measurements. When three eco-functions (Eco Light Rhythm, Eco Dimmer, Eco Sensor) are turned on versus Manufacturers’ Association. turned off. Will be darker than full brightness depending on time of day and installation conditions. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 046 Products Examples of Fiscal 2010 Certified SGP (Japan) and SGD SGP Solar-Powered Mobile Phone Japan SGP TOUCH WOOD Mobile Phone Japan SGP Smartphone Japan ■ Energy Creating ■ Energy Efficient ■ Energy Efficient • Features a solar panel. A 10-minute solar charge • Auto Eco Mode automatically • Sharp’s proprietary power-saving control provides approximately two minutes of talk time, or adjusts the brightness of the LCD technology makes it possible to watch approximately three hours of standby time*1. screen and other items according approximately six hours of One-Seg mobile TV to remaining battery charge broadcasts*3 on this multifunction smartphone ■ Waterproof ■ Contributions to Forest ■ Compact and Multifunctional • Waterproof (to standards equivalent to IPX5/IPX7) Conservation Activities • Compact size (about 55 × 112 × 14.1 mm) with • The mobile handset body uses SH-08C TOUCH WOOD rounded body fits comfortably in the hand. sustainably harvested wood from for NTT DOCOMO, Inc. Includes popular and convenient features such as SOLAR HYBRID™ SoftBank 842SH the forests of the “more trees”*2 organization. The wood is produced as a One-Seg receiving functions and infrared for SoftBank Mobile Corp. communications. result of periodic thinning necessary for healthy forest growth. ISO5 *1 Typical value measured by Sharp test methods under the following conditions: • Sharp, together with NTT DOCOMO, Inc. and Olympus Corporation, for KDDI Corporation unit used in Japan; when calling, solar charging initiated immediately after donate 1,000 yen per handset to “more trees”. The instruction manual is power runs out; ambient temperature of 25°C; charged in direct daytime also printed on paper made from sustainably harvested wood. sunlight with the sun not obscured by clouds; charged with the solar panel oriented perpendicular to the sun (with the solar panel not in shadow); backlight *2 A general incorporated association promoting forest conservation activities. brightness set to “2”; good mobile reception; and call initiated by dialing “117” Established by five founders, including musician Ryuichi Sakamoto, along (automated time announcement) immediately after turning unit on. with more than 100 supporters from various fields. *3 Sound settings set to OFF and using earphones. SGP Polycrystalline Solar Module for Residential Applications Japan SGD High-Output, High-Color-Rendering LED Lighting Device ■ High Energy-Conversion Efficiency ■ High Color Rendering • Highly efficient energy creation using unlimited sunlight • High color rendering depicts • Module conversion efficiency: 13.9% (ND-160BW) illuminated objects with colors close to those perceived under natural light ■ Greater Installation Capacity • Color rendering index (Ra)*4: 83 • “Roofit” design makes efficient use of available roof-top installation space by combining solar modules of different sizes. Installation capacity is increased *4 A numerical value expressing the level by up to 14.3% compared to existing products. of color distortion compared to a reference light source. The closer the 3.20 kW system 3.66 kW system value to 100, the lower the color Installation ND-160BW ND-114CW distortion. capacity GM5DMC30M04 14.3% higher ■ Industry’s Highest Luminous Efficiency • Excellent energy efficiency. LED chip and phosphors featuring outstanding high-temperature characteristics deliver high brightness with luminous flux of 2,370 lumens and luminous efficiency of 91 lm/W, ND-160AV ND-160BW Number of installed modules: 20 Number of installed modules: 20 ND-114CW Number of installed modules: 4 the industry’s highest in a 25W-class device. Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 047 ■ SGP and AGP-Certified Models for Fiscal 2010 Product Model LCD monitor PN-L601B / PN-T321 / PN-T321B / PN-V601 (information display) LC-16K5 / LC-19K3 / LC-20DZ3 / LC-20V5 / LC-22K3 LC-22K5 / LC-24K5 / LC-26DV7 / LC-26DZ3 / LC-26V5 ND-160BW / ND-061LW1 / ND-061RW1 / ND-114CW1 LC-32DZ3 / LC-40DX3 / LC-40DZ3 / LC-40LV3 / LC-40LX3 Solar module ND-160BW1 / ND-061RW / ND-114CW / ND-163AW LCD TV LC-40Z5 / LC-46DX3 / LC-46DZ3 / LC-46LB3 / LC-46LV3 ND-163AW1 / ND-163AY / ND-163AY1 LC-46LX3 / LC-46V5 / LC-46XF3 / LC-46Z5 / LC-52DX3 SGP Japan LC-52DZ3 / LC-52LB3 / LC-52LV3 / LC-52LX3 / LC-52V5 Humidifier HV-302 / HV-Z50CX / HV-50E7 / HV-Z70CX / HV-70E7 LC-52XF3 / LC-52Z5 / LC-60LV3 / LC-60LX3 Vacuum cleaner EC-AX110 / EC-AX120 / EC-A1E7 / EC-PX120 / EC-VX210 / EC-VX220 SJ-23T / SJ-PW38S / SJ-PW38T / SJ-XF44T / SJ-XF47T Refrigerator SJ-XF52T / SJ-XF56S / SJ-XF56T / SJ-XF60S / SJ-XF60T Residential JH-G0C4 / JH-M0C3 SJ-XW44T / SJ-XW47T power conditioner AY-A50SX / AY-A50XE8 / AY-A63SX / AY-A63XE8 / AY-A71SX Product Model Air conditioner AY-A71XE8 LC-52LE820E / LC-52LE822E / LC-46LE810E ES-TX900 / ES-GE55K / ES-55E6 / ES-G55KC / ES-GE60K Washing machine Europe LCD TV LC-46LX810E / LC-46LE812E / LC-46LX812E ES-TX800 / ES-T80E7 / ES-V520 LC-46LE820E / LC-46LE822E FU-Z51CX / KC-Z40 / KC-Z45 / KC-450Y3 / KC-Z65 SGP Air purifier North America LCD TV LC-52LE925UN / LC-60LE925UN SGP Japan KC-650Y3 / KC-65E7 / KC-Z80 Plasmacluster Australia LCD TV LC-52LE820X IG-C20 / IG-CC15 / IG-CM1 Ion generator LC-40LE810E / LC-40LX810E / LC-40LE812E 001SH / 002SH / 004SH / DM008SH / 840SH / 840SH PREMIUM LCD TV LC-40LX812E / LC-40LE820E / LC-40LU820E 841SH / 842SH / 843SH / 944SH / 945SH / IS03 / IS05 / SH007 LC-LE822E / LC-40LU822E Mobile phone SH008 / SH009 / SH010 / SH011 / SH-05C / SH-06C / SH-01C Europe SH-08C / SH-07B / SH-08B / SH-09B Digital MFP MX-M753U / MX-M623U / MX-2310U UX-D33CL / UX-D33CW / UX-D83CL / UX-E790CL / UX-D83CW Thin-film Facsimile NA-F135G5 UX-E790CW solar module AGP PW-AC10 / PW-AC20 / PW-AC920 / PW-A7000 / PW-A9000 LCD TV LC-60LE810UN / LC-60LE820UN Electronic dictionary PW-G4000 / PW-G5000 / PW-HC1 North America Digital MFP MX-M753U / MX-M753N / MX-M623U / MX-M623N DL-C201D / DL-C301D / DL-C301V / DL-C302V / DL-C501D LED lighting DL-C501V China LCD TV LCD-52FF1A / LCD-46FF1A MX-M753 / MX-M623 / MX-2310F / MX-3610FN Digital MFP Malaysia LCD TV LC-52LE820M MX-2610FN / MX-3110FN ■ Number of Environmental Label Products in Fiscal 2010 LCD TV Blu-ray Disc recorder Audio MFP MFP Printer Hong Kong MFP Air conditioner Canada EcoLogo Program International 62 6 5 98 17 1 Energy-Saving Label 8 8 ENERGY STAR® Printer LCD monitor (information display) Facsimile Air conditioner MFP Air conditioner China MFP Program*1 Thai Green Label Environmental Labeling 2 23 14 10 10 10 14 MFP Calculator Printer MFP Taiwan Air conditioner Eco Mark*2 Taiwan Green Mark 15 20 1 17 Energy-Saving Label 4 PC LCD TV LCD TV Projector MFP PC Green Label*2 EU Eco Label*3 1 36 4 3 12 Energy Conservation MFP MFP Certification*6 LCD monitor (information display) Air conditioner Microwave oven Nordic Swan*4 Blue Angel*5 9 13 2 14 2 Target countries : *1 Japan, United States, EU nations, etc. *2 Japan *3 EU nations *4 Norway, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden *5 Germany *6 China Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 048 Green Procurement Managing Chemical Substances in Products In fiscal 2000, Sharp established the Green Procurement Guidelines to procure goods with low Appliances such as refrigerators and TVs are composed of hundreds or thousands of parts, each of which environmental impact with the cooperation of suppliers, and has been working to increase environmental contains a variety of chemicals. In fiscal 1994, Sharp introduced the Chemical-Product Assessment (C-PA) consciousness at the level of parts and materials. system to evaluate the safety of the chemical substances contained in parts and materials at the development and design stages. In this way, Sharp has been working to ensure the safety of products Beginning in fiscal 2006, with the aim of greater efficiency, Sharp introduced online surveys of suppliers in during use and to reduce the environmental impact at the time of disposal. Japan and overseas. In fiscal 2009, Sharp revised its Green Procurement Guidelines to strengthen management of chemical substances in procurement, and has been working with suppliers to promote the Beginning in 2003, Sharp investigated chemical substance content, as stipulated by the Japan Green manufacture of environmentally conscious products while advancing environmentally focused business Procurement Survey Standardization Initiative (JGPSSI)*2, and took measures toward eliminating activities. RoHS*3-designated substances. Sharp was in complete compliance with the RoHS Directive for all products for the European market by the end of fiscal 2005. In addition, in the midst of increasing calls for greater disclosure of information throughout the supply chain, Sharp constructed the Global Green Supply Chain (GGSC), a new scheme that packages IT tools to enable In addition, Sharp constructed a system to meet the REACH*4 regulation registration criteria in fiscal 2008 the construction of a framework to efficiently collect needed information, along with an audit system to and completed pre-registration*5 by the end of ensure the proper operation of the system. November 2008. In fiscal 2009, to pursue an investigation of Substances of Very High As a first step, in fiscal 2010, Sharp introduced a partnership program*1 in the China region for the Concern (SVHCs) on a global basis, Sharp held management of chemical substances contained in Sharp products, and is working to strengthen support meetings for suppliers to explain its action plan assistance, including consulting, and improve the level of management. to comply with REACH regulations in Japan, In fiscal 2011, Sharp plans to ensure that this program is firmly established and push ahead with its Europe, Asia, and China. In addition, in fiscal deployment to other areas such as Southeast Asia. 2010, Sharp constructed a system to comply with notification obligations under the REACH *1 This program incorporates a framework to collect information on chemical substances contained in materials and products as a part of required environmental information. It makes primary suppliers aware of the data items required by regulations and conducted surveys on chemical Sharp, and requires that information on chemical substances be disclosed and conveyed to secondary suppliers and substances contained in procured parts and downstream links in the supply chain. materials, completely fulfilling its notification Meeting aimed at suppliers to explain Sharp’s action plan obligations by June 1, 2011. to comply with the REACH regulation ■ Global Green Supply Chain (GGSC) Overview *2 A council that aims to standardize research on chemical substances in parts and materials, comprising 2 organizations and 57 companies, mainly electronics manufacturers including Sharp Corporation. *3 An EU directive on the “Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances,” RoHS restricts the use of lead, Stakeholders mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) in (governments, European Chemicals Agency, electrical and electronic equipment entering the EU market after July 1, 2006. consumers, NGOs, etc.) *4 REACH is a new regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals produced in and imported into the EU. Requests for disclosure Disclosure of environmental *5 Pre-registration: A transition regulation for the application of REACH to existing chemical substances. Companies were of information by all suppliers information from all suppliers given a grace period until official registration if they had pre-registered between June 1 and December 1, 2008. Reducing VOCs in Products Sharp Sharp is working to make products that are safer and that offer greater peace of mind by reducing their • Make suppliers aware of information that is required VOC*6 emissions. Provide environmental information • Provide IT tools to construct a (managed chemical substances, In fiscal 2010, Sharp conducted measurements of VOCs in 43 models of 14 product categories for the framework for information gathering green procurement, • Conduct audits to ensure that the CSR information, others) Japanese market, focusing on consumer electronics that see frequent use in living rooms, and on mobile system is operating properly products. Sharp also provided low-VOC product development training using VOC measurement and analysis equipment, targeting engineers who are responsible for the development of those products (50 Suppliers people per session; a total of 140 people participated). Sharp plans to continuously push forward with developing low-VOC products, with the aim of making its products even more user friendly. Supply chain *6 VOC (volatile organic compounds) are assumed to be one of the causes of multiple chemical sensitivity and/or sick building syndrome. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 049 Products Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Sharp recycles products that have reached the end of their service life based on three policies: 1) improve the recycling rate and aim for zero landfill disposal, 2) improve the efficiency of the recycling system to reduce recycling costs, and 3) incorporate recycling technologies into the development and design of products. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Enhance and improve recycling system • Increase recycling efficiency to process growing • Constructed safety-conscious, highly efficient operational • Construct operational system to accommodate decreasing • Implement high-value-added recycling of recovered number of CRT TVs collected system number of CRT TVs collected components and materials Recycling Four Kinds of Home Appliances in Japan ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processed and Recycled Units for the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Air Conditioners, TVs, Refrigerators, and Washing Machines) (Thousands of units) 3,500 3,431 As a member of the B Group*1 for home appliance recycling, Sharp has constructed and is operating a 352 highly efficient recycling system based on 18 recycling plants in Japan. 3,000 424 In fiscal 2010, Sharp collected about 3.68 million units of the four types of appliances covered by the Home 2,500 248 Appliance Recycling Law. This figure represents a significant increase over the previous year (up 61%), and reflects the impacts of a record heat wave, the Eco-Point system*2, and the end of analog TV broadcasting 2,098 in July 2011. 2,000 345 The breakdown is approximately 270,000 air conditioners (up 46%), approximately 2.34 million CRT TVs 1,500 1,469 367 (up 82%), approximately 280,000 flat-panel TVs (up 211%), about 420,000 refrigerators (up 14%), and 1,313 1,370 351 74 2,134 about 350,000 washing machines (no change), all compared to the previous fiscal year. 367 Washing machines/dryers 1,000 382 The B Group as a whole responded swiftly, and these used products were properly recycled. Sharp 327 Refrigerators/freezers 300 318 1,127 processed and recycled about 3.43 million units (up 63% over the previous fiscal year) of the four types of 500 Flat-panel TVs home appliances designated under the Home Appliance Recycling Law. The recycling rates exceeded the 444 499 605 CRT TVs legal standard for all four kinds of appliances. 0 187 186 186 185 273 Air conditioners 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) *1 The B Group consists of Sharp Corporation, Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sony Corporation, Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Fujitsu General Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and other companies. *2 Designed to stimulate consumption and promote the use of environmentally friendly products, this program allows buyers of certain types of energy-efficient air conditioners, refrigerators, and TVs to earn “eco points” that can be ■ Sharp Corporation’s Recycling Component Ratio of Materials for the Four Home Appliances exchanged at a later time for other goods. 12.4％ 26.1％ 4.3％ ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processing and Recycling Status of the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Fiscal 2010) 15.2％ 0.0％ 24.4％ 47.6％ 0.2％ Air Refrigerators/ Washing Air Unit CRT TVs Flat-panel TVs Total Flat-panel conditioners freezers machines/dryers CRT TVs 44.0％ conditioners TVs 6.8％ Units collected from designated Thousand collection sites units 277 2,348 286 425 351 3,687 36.8％ 16.9％ 57.0％ Thousand 1.7％ 1.6％ Processed and recycled units units 273 2,134 248 424 352 3,431 27.0％ 34.4％ 4.9％ Washing Refrigerators/ Processed and recycled weight Tons 11,269 57,804 3,007 25,998 12,030 110,108 51.5％ machines/ 47.8％ freezers dryers 18.1％ 14.4％ Recycled weight Tons 10,217 52,794 2,492 20,024 10,801 96,328 1.4％ 1.3％ 2.0％ 2.1％ Recycling rate ％ 90 91 82 77 89 ー Iron Copper Aluminum Ferrous/nonferrous compounds Legally required recycling rate ％ 70 55 50 60 65 ー CRT glass Other valuable resources (plastic, etc.) Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 050 TOPICS Continuing Design-for-Recycling Training Enactment of the Home Appliance Recycling Law—10 Years Later Since fiscal 2001, to promote easy-to-recycle product design, Sharp has been conducting This year marks the tenth year since the Home Appliance Recycling Law (official name: Law for Recycling design-for-recycling training, mainly aimed at personnel responsible for product planning and design. In of Specified Kinds of Home Appliances) was enacted in April 2001. With the goal of promoting the efficient fiscal 2010, 18 people took part. use of resources, this law designates four types of major home appliances—air conditioners, TVs, refrigerators/freezers, and washers/dryers—and mandates their recycling to reduce waste and recover This training program, held with the cooperation of useful materials. recycling plants, combines actual hands-on experience in These four designated appliance categories account for approximately two-thirds of the total weight of dismantling used home appliances, with seminars and discarded electrical and electronic equipment. A combined total of approximately 130 million units were visits to a recycling line to observe dismantling operations. processed and recycled by A Group and B Group manufacturers over the past 10 years (of which Sharp’s It aims to encourage participants to reflect their experience share was approximately 15 million units), and calculations show that every person in Japan recycled at of design-related problems in their work to plan and least one appliance. More than 80% of the material in these products, or approximately 3.8 million tons by design new products. weight, has been recovered and recycled as resources available for reuse. Sharp will offer this training program on an ongoing basis, Sharp and Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.*1 have been working together to develop advanced and will work to ensure that the concept of recycling technologies, including closed-loop plastic material recycling technology*2 and building a design-for-recycling pervades the entire design process. Hands-on training in dismantling used home appliances dedicated high-efficiency recycling line for flat-panel TVs. These efforts have received high marks from outside the company, and Sharp will continue to take cutting-edge initiatives toward building a sustainable recycling-based society. Recycling TVs and Other Consumer Electronics in the United States (SEC, US) *1 A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established with investment from Sharp Corporation, ■ SEC’s Recycling Amount Mitsubishi Materials Corporation, and five other companies (Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sony Corporation, Hitachi SEC, Sharp’s sales subsidiary located in New Jersey, US, (Tons) Appliances, Inc., Fujitsu General Ltd., and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation). established the Electronic Manufacturers Recycling 3,500 *2 See page 34. Management Company, LLC (MRM) in cooperation with Panasonic Corporation of North America and Toshiba 3,000 3,049 America Consumer Products, LLC in September 2007 for 2,500 ■ Post-Enactment Initiatives the recycling of audio-visual products, mainly TVs. The 1,171 2,000 2,055 MRM recycling network expanded nationwide in Initiative Timeframe November 2008, providing recycling opportunities at 1,500 939 Reduce recycling fees for TVs and refrigerators/freezers November 2008 approximately 600 collection points. MRM holds special events and carries out voluntary activities to promote the 1,000 596 1,878 Add LCD and plasma TVs, and laundry dryers as appliances accepted for recycling April 2009 recycling of used consumer electronics and complies fully 500 1,117 344 with the laws and regulations of each state. In fiscal 2010, 24 0 Share designated collection sites October 2009 approximately 3,000 tons of used consumer electronics 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal were recycled. year) Reduce recycling fees for air conditioners April 2011 State-ordered amount Voluntary amount Awards Reusing and Recycling Copiers in Japan Sharp won a Director-General’s Prize, Industrial Science Sharp is reusing and recycling copiers collected both through Sharp distribution channels and common and Technology Policy and Environment Bureau, Ministry industry channels. In fiscal 2010, approximately 29,000 used copiers were collected (down 15% over the of Economy, Trade and Industry; 2008 Resource previous fiscal year). Many of these were dismantled and the disassembled components sorted and Recycling Technologies and Systems Commendation recycled by type of material. For some models, Sharp worked with sales subsidiaries to create a system to (left) for the development of closed-loop material refurbish the units through a process of cleaning, replacing worn parts, and inspection. recycling technology for plastic recovered from waste appliances, and a Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Sharp also collected approximately 1.1 million used toner cartridges (up 13% over the previous fiscal year) Association Chairman’s Prize at the 2010 Reduce, through its own collection channels and remanufactured them into approximately 580,000 toner cartridges Reuse, Recycle Promotion Achievement Awards for the (up 35% over the previous fiscal year; 15 varieties of cartridges), assuring customers the same quality as construction of a dedicated high-efficiency recycling line new toner cartridges. for flat-panel TVs. Sharp will continuously work to increase the numbers of models of copiers and types of toner cartridges it recycles with the goal of expanding reuse and recycling. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 051 Operations Promoting Environmental Sustainability Management Sharp operates an environmental management system to improve the environmental awareness of employees and to strengthen environmental sustainability management. To further improve the efficiency of plants and offices in accordance with their respective characteristics, Sharp is working to restructure the underlying framework of this system, including the rules and operational structure of environmental sustainability management. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Restructure S-EMS at plants • Re-evaluate S-EMS and compile proposed revisions • Completed re-evaluation of S-EMS provisions • Restructure framework to promote environmental • Ensure that new promotion system is firmly • Acquired ISO 14001 certification as one of 11 participating sustainability management system at plants established companies at GREEN FRONT SAKAI • Restructure framework to promote environmental sustainability management system at offices in Japan • Completed re-evaluation of current framework to promote • Transition to promotion on individual corporate body • Ensure that system to promote environmental • Set up supervisory sites in each region environmental sustainability management basis management on individual corporate body basis is • Implement EMS training for auditors under new firmly established framework • Expand and improve EMS training to accommodate new system • Promote environmental e-learning − − • Hold step 2 (advanced course) • Implemented e-learning in refresher training for internal auditors Developing the Sharp Environmental Management System Stepping Up Environmental Education Sharp is promoting its environmental management system at its plants and offices to improve environmental Sharp systematically promotes employee awareness among employees and strengthen environmental sustainability management. environmental education, divided into Master, Expert, Master and General courses according to the level of Environmental Master Since fiscal 2004, Sharp has put in place its own environmental management system (S-EMS: Sharp knowledge about the environment. The pages that training (Japan) Environmental Management System) at its plants, based on ISO 14001 plus an additional 49 original follow present working examples of each course. management criteria. This proprietary system is intended to improve environmental performance and reinforce environmental legal compliance. In fiscal 2010, Sharp restructured and revised S-EMS to work Expert toward greater efficiency. In addition, Sharp Corporation and the 10 other companies participating in GREEN FRONT SAKAI jointly acquired ISO 14001 certification in March 2011. • IMS* auditor training • S-EMS auditor training In fiscal 2010, at office locations, Sharp conducted a review of its system to promote environmental • Environmental laws and regulations training sustainability management to comply with the revised Energy Conservation Law that requires that individual • Recycling training corporate bodies ascertain the actual amount of energy they use. After reviewing various methods for • Eco Best Practice Forums • e-learning implementing promotion systems, such as on the individual company basis or on a regional basis, Sharp made the decision to work for greater efficiency by transitioning from the previous system of operating on * IMS (Integrated Management System) • Basic environmental an individual business site basis to a consolidated system with the head office departments of each was created by merging S-EMS and QMS training • Company-wide General company and the branches that supervise each region at its core. (Quality Management System) • Overseas assigned environmental training employee training In the future, Sharp will work to tailor this environmental sustainability management system to the characteristics of each individual plant and office. Environment-Related Accidents or Violations of Laws There were no lawsuits against the Sharp Group, or fines levied against the Group related to the environment in fiscal 2010. There were also no serious environment-related accidents. Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 052 Examples of Environmental Education Courses Systematic Environmental Education for Employees (SSI, Indonesia) SSI, Sharp’s manufacturing subsidiary located in Karawang, Indonesia, has been working to raise ■ Master Course environmental awareness among employees and improve their knowledge and skills by conducting ongoing systematic environmental education. The Master course is designed to foster the leaders In fiscal 2010, SSI provided training on waste needed for future environmental sustainability management in eight sessions with a total of 93 management. participants. The aim of this training is to give Environmental Master training, which targets the employees working in manufacturing a deeper environmental departments of plants in Japan, was held understanding of waste generated during each six times in fiscal 2010 for a total of 149 people under production process. Preand post-session tests the theme of energy conservation. This training is ensure that the knowledge is firmly anchored and designed to provide an opportunity to share the latest enable SSI to measure the effectiveness of the information, such as activities at each business site and training. initiatives taken by other companies. In the future, In addition, SSI held chemical substance Sharp plans to expand this training overseas. Environmental Master training management training a total of nine times for 145 individuals. This training will help ensure that chemical substances are properly managed and Waste management training ■ Expert Course strengthen understanding and awareness of environmental laws and regulations. The Expert course targets environmental promotion leaders and persons in charge of environmental affairs at each department with the goal of enhancing professional competence, for example, by providing training in environmental laws and regulations, and environmental management systems (ISO 14001), relating to the business activities of their own department. Lecture on Preserving Biodiversity (Kameyama Plant, Japan) In fiscal 2010, Sharp provided Internal Environmental Auditor training a total of 11 times for 196 individuals, and also conducted refresher training for internal auditors, which is required every three years, for 186 The Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) hosted a lecture with speakers invited from the Mie individuals. In addition, at plants in Japan, training can be provided at any time in response to a request Prefecture Environmental Conservation Agency aimed at raising awareness among employees about from the plant. In fiscal 2010, Sharp conducted a training course at the Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara preserving biodiversity. This same agency conducted environmental impact assessments at the time the Prefecture) on environmental laws and regulations for 42 individuals. At offices in Japan, training was held industrial park where the Kameyama Plant is located was constructed, and is familiar with the environment on the theme of internal audits as part of education about the environmental sustainability management around the plant, as well as conservation measures taken at the time of construction and their subsequent system for a total of 322 participants. progress. Overseas, Sharp worked to further increase environmental awareness across the entire Sharp Group by Through this lecture, Sharp was able to heighten the interest of participants in preserving biodiversity, holding Eco Best Practice Forums* 13 times for environmental promotion leaders at a total of 21 production including the relationship between the plant and the surrounding environment, and the shape of future facilities. environmental protection activities. * See page 55. ■ General Course This course is intended to help all employees master basic knowledge about the environment and improve environmental awareness. In fiscal 2010, with the goal of expanding the number of individuals who have passed the Eco Test (Certification Test for Environmental Specialists), Sharp conducted Eco Test workshops for 1,096 individuals at 17 business locations in Japan. In addition, Sharp also worked to enhance the acquisition of Sharp employees gain a deeper understanding of biodiversity protection environmental knowledge by inviting representatives from environmental certification organizations to speak and conducting environmental refresher training for 110 individuals at the Head Office and Tanabe Building. Sharp and the Environment Products Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 053 ■ ISO 14001-Certified Plants and Offices Europe Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM)*2 UK Japan As of March 31, 2011 Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain Plants Tochigi Plant Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France Yao Plant Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland Hiroshima Plant Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (SEEG) Germany Nara Plant Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK) Katsuragi Plant (including Toyama Plant) UK Sharp Laboratories of Europe, Ltd. (SLE) Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant Sharp Electronics France S.A. (SEF) France Mie Plant Offices Sharp Electronics (Italia) S.p.A. (SEIS) Italy Tenri Plant Sharp Electronics (Schweiz) AG (SEZ) Switzerland Mihara Plant Plants Sharp Electronics (Nordic) AB (SEN) Sweden Kameyama Plant Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. (SEB) Netherlands GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant *2 Manufacturing division of SUK Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Asia, Middle East, Oceania Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) Sharp Yonago Corporation Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd. (SOCC) Sharp Mie Corporation Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) Kantatsu Co., Ltd. Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) Sharp Display Products Corporation Thailand Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Head Office/Tanabe Building Plants Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia Sharp Corporation Makuhari Building (Tokyo Branch) Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines Tokyo Ichigaya Building PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Indonesia PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. Shanghai Sharp Mold and Manufacturing Systems Co., Ltd. (SSMC) China Sharp-Engineering Corporation Sharp Document Systems Corporation Sharp India Limited (SIL) India Offices Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation Sharp Korea Corporation (SKC) Korea Sharp Trading Corporation S&O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) Malaysia Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sharp Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (SES) China One Stop Support Corporation Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) Sharp Office Rental Corporation Sharp Electronic Components (Taiwan) Corporation (SECT) Taiwan Sharp Electronics Sales Okinawa Corporation Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SEM) Malaysia Sharp Finance Corporation Sharp-Roxy Sales (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SRS) Singapore Recycling Plant Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd. Sharp Electronics (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SESL) Offices North America Sharp Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. (SSDI) India Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA)*1 US Sharp Middle East Free Zone Establishment (SMEF) UAE Plants Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd. (SCA) Australia Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC) Sharp Corporation of New Zealand Ltd. (SCNZ) New Zealand US Offices Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc. (SLA) Sharp-Roxy Sales & Service Company (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SRSSC) Malaysia Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. (SECL) Canada Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. (SRH) Hong Kong (China) *1 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 054 Operations Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories Sharp is working to raise the level of environment performance at all its factories to a level above Green Factory by putting into place a certification system that evaluates the environmental performance of its production facilities using its own criteria and standards. Sharp is also promoting efforts to raise all its plants to the level of Super Green Factory, which features an extremely high level of environmental performance. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • 10 Sharp Corporation plants • 10 Sharp Corporation plants • 2 plants SGF II Grade A or higher based on new • 10 plants SGF II Grade A or higher based on new • All plants SGF II Grade A or higher • All plants SGF II Grade S evaluation criteria evaluation criteria (4 plants SGF II Grade S, 1 plant SGF (8 plants SGF II Grade S) [Sakai solar cell plant]) • 8 Japanese plants (subsidiaries/affiliates) • Implement SGF II at 3 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 3 SGF • Implement SGF II at 4 SGF • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher • 5 SGF in total • 4 SGF in total • 8 SGF in total • 21 overseas plants (subsidiaries/affiliates) • Implement SGF II at 11 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 11 SGF • Implement SGF II at 18 SGF • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher • 16 SGF in total • 18 SGF in total • 21 SGF in total • Eco Best Practice Forums • Hold forums at least once a year in each region (North • Held forums at least once a year in North America, • Hold forums at least once a year in each region • Hold forums at least twice a year in each region America, Europe, Asia, and China) Europe, Asia, and China (at least once a year in each (North America, Europe, Asia, and China) region for a total of 13 times) Making More Factories Super Green Factories ■ Green Factory Concepts In addition to reducing environmental impacts, Sharp has set a goal to earn the trust of the community, and Greenhouse gases Minimize emission of greenhouse gases so has defined factories with a certain level of environmental consciousness as Green Factories (GF). The basic policies and operational know-how to achieve GF status have been formulated in line with 10 Energy Minimize energy consumption concepts in the GF Guidelines, which Sharp has been applying to all production bases in Japan since fiscal 1999 and overseas since fiscal 2001. Waste Minimize discharge of waste With construction of the Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture), in fiscal 2003 in Japan Sharp established assessment criteria for Super Green Factories (SGF)—factories with exceptionally high levels of environmental performance—and launched efforts to award in-house certification. Sharp started GF Resources Minimize resource consumption certification in fiscal 2004 and overseas as well, and achieved its medium-term objective of having all Sharp plants in Japan and overseas certified for GF status and all 10 Sharp Corporation plants in Japan certified Chemical substances Minimize risk of environmental pollution and accidents caused by chemical substances for SGF status by fiscal 2007. For the assessment criteria, Sharp has established its own environmental performance evaluation items, Atmosphere, water, soil Minimize environmental burden on the atmosphere, water, and soil each with a quantitative numerical value, to provide more detailed scoring in the assessment. A plant must score 70 or more points out of a possible 100 in the assessment process to earn GF certification, and Harmony with nature Endeavor to preserve and restore nature both on and off site score 90 points or more to achieve SGF certification. In fiscal 2010, an additional two plants in Japan and seven overseas were certified as SGF*, making 33 of Harmony with the community Encourage harmony with the local community Sharp’s 40 worldwide plants SGFs. * See page 55. Environmental consciousness Foster high environmental awareness among employees Information disclosure Disclose information on the environment Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 055 SGF II 200 points S 180 points SGF II—An Initiative to Further Enhance Improved A the Environmental Performance of SGF 160 points ■ SGF/SGF II System B Beginning in fiscal 2008, Sharp launched SGF II, a new initiative for plants in Japan that have attained SGF 140 points certification. In addition to prior initiatives that focused on upgrading “hard” aspects, such as introducing high-efficiency equipment and abatement systems, SGF II incorporates the “soft” aspects in evaluation C points such as the know-how to maintain and manage this environmental equipment to ensure operation at SGF 100 points Improved full performance. SGF II has evolved into a mechanism for assessing overall performance, for example, the 90 points resulting emission reductions. GF In fiscal 2009, Sharp began expanding its SGF II efforts to plants outside of Japan that have been SGF 70 points certified, and looking ahead to fiscal 2012, has set a goal of having all plants in Japan and overseas attain • Under SGF criteria, when a production base achieves a score Grade B or above under the SFG II system. of 90 points or more, it is certiﬁed as an SGF and transitions to SGF II evaluation criteria • Under SGF II, plants are certiﬁed as Grades S through C depending on the number of points scored Case Study: Japan 0 Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Equipment Sharp has been focusing on utility equipment* in pursuing reductions in environmental impacts at its ■ SGF/SGF II Quantified Environmental Performance Criteria and Assessment Weighting production facilities in Japan. Sharp’s environmental management divisions, production engineering Environmental performance criteria Assessment Sub total Total weighting divisions, and production divisions have also been jointly taking proactive steps to reduce the environmental impact of production equipment, which accounts for a large percentage of the impacts, without hurting Reduction of Greenhouse gases • Reductions in CO2 emissions environmental • Reductions in energy costs product quality or productivity. impacts and 65 points contribution to • Reductions in waste discharges * Ancillary services and equipment such as power, air conditioning, etc. management Waste • Reductions in waste disposal costs SGF II 100 Operational safety and • Operational safety and emergency points Safety measures 25 points Case Study: Overseas emergency preparedness preparedness measures • Measures implemented related to information Information disclosure disclosure, community interaction, 10 points Raising Environmental Performance Levels and community-based interactions and community service activities Through Eco Best Practice Forums • Reductions in PFC gases • Promotion of variable control systems As an initiative to improve the “soft” aspects of environmental performance prioritized under SGF II, Eco Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions • Recovery and recycling of waste heat • Introduction of high-efﬁciency equipment 25 points Best Practice Forums for mutual learning are held to share valuable environmental protection know-how per production unit • Introduction of new energy sources 200 and ensure that it is deployed widely. These forums • Implementation of managerial decisionpoints making standards are linked by videoconference and have been held at overseas production bases since fiscal 2009. They • PRTR atmospheric emissions provide participants from each plant who may have Reductions in the release of chemical substances • PRTR water emissions 27 points little contact with one another in the course of routine • Sulfoxides produced by combustion • Elimination of all noxious odors 100 SGF business activities with an opportunity to introduce points their environmental protection efforts and to generate • Zero discharge to landﬁll new ideas and develop new know-how by discussing Appropriate disposal of industrial waste • Conﬁrmation of appropriate disposal 18 points • Recycling waste as valuable resources problems and solutions. • Use of rain and condensate water In fiscal 2010, Eco Best Practice Forums were held a Reductions in the consumption of industrial water 10 points • Recovery of production rinse water total of 13 times in North America, Europe, Asia, and • Disaster and ﬁre prevention measures for China with the participation of all 21 Sharp production hazardous materials Monitoring and safety 20 points sites. Sharp will continue to hold these forums on a • Special safety measures • Adoption of central monitoring measures regular basis to further enhance the eco-friendliness Four production sites in Europe participated in an Eco Best Practice Forum of its plants around the globe. Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 056 ■ Certified Plants ■ SGF Certified Plants Worldwide Country Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Tochigi Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Sharp Corporation 1 Hiroshima Plant 2 Mihara Plant 3 Fukuyama Plant 4 Yao Plant 5 Katsuragi Plant Equivalent to SGF II grade A or higher Yao Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade A Hiroshima Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade A 6 Nara Plant 7 Tenri Plant 8 Kameyama Plant 9 Mie Plant 10 Tochigi Plant Nara Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade S 11 GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant Katsuragi Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A SGF II Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies in Japan in place (based on self evaluation) Sharp Fukuyama Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade S Corporation 12 Sharp Yonago Corporation Mie Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF Grade S 4 13 14 13 Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation 1 2 3 Tenri Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A 10 14 Kantatsu Co., Ltd. 12 Mihara Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Japan 15 Sharp Display Products Corporation Kameyama Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF SGF Grade S GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant SGF SGF in Japan: 15 11 15 8 9 Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation GF GF GF SGF 5 6 7 Introduce Introduce Sharp Yonago Corporation GF GF SGF SGF II SGF II Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies Overseas Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation GF GF GF GF GF 1 SUKM (UK) 2 SMF (France) 3 SEES (Spain) 4 NSEC (China) Sharp Mie Corporation GF GF GF GF GF GF 5 SOCC (China) 6 SSEC (China) 7 SMTL (Thailand) 8 SOEM (Malaysia) Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. GF GF GF GF GF GF GF 9 SMM (Malaysia) 10 SSI (Indonesia) 11 SEMEX (Mexico) 12 SMCA (US) Kantatsu Co., Ltd. GF GF GF SGF Introduce SGF II 13 WSEC (China) 14 SSMC (China) Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. GF GF GF GF GF GF GF 15 SKC (Korea) 16 SATL (Thailand) Sharp Display Products Corporation SGF 17 SPC (Philippines) SEMEX Mexico GF GF GF SGF 18 SMPL (Poland) SUKM*1 UK GF GF GF SGF 1 18 SGF overseas: 18 2 SEES Spain GF GF SGF 3 4 5 6 15 12 SMF France SGF SGF SGF SGF 13 14 Note: Underlined plants 11 Introduce Introduce 7 16 SOCC GF SGF SGF SGF achieved SGF in fiscal 2010 17 China SGF II SGF II 8 9 NSEC GF GF SGF SGF 10 SOEM SGF SGF SGF Malaysia SMM GF GF GF SGF SMTL Thailand GF SGF SGF ■ Number of SGF Certified Plants SMCA*2 US GF GF GF SGF (No. of plants) SSEC GF GF GF GF SGF Introduce SGF II 40 40 39 39 40 40 40 38 38 38 WSEC GF GF GF GF SGF 36 China 33 STW GF GF GF GF 30 SSMC GF GF GF GF SGF 21 21 SKC Korea GF GF GF GF SGF 24 18 20 21 SATL Thailand GF GF GF SGF 16 11 SPC Philippines GF GF GF SGF 9 SSI GF GF SGF Introduce SGF II 6 SGF 10 Indonesia 8 19 19 overseas SEID GF GF GF GF 3 13 15 3 1 10 12 SGF SIL India GF GF GF GF 2 5 0 1 1 2 2 in Japan SMPL Poland GF SGF 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) *1 Manufacturing division of SUK *2 Manufacturing division of SEC Plan Plan Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 057 SATL (Thailand) Achieves SGF Status TOPICS In 2010, manufacturing subsidiary Numerous Honors for GREEN FRONT SAKAI SATL in Chachoengsao, Thailand started operation at a new plant for Located in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, GREEN FRONT SAKAI is an environmentally producing refrigerators and air advanced manufacturing complex at which Sharp makes energy-efficient LCD panels conditioners, which it named Cool e3. and energy-creating solar cells. A number of companies with cutting-edge technology are concentrated and coordinate business at GREEN FRONT SAKAI to The plant makes possible natural create one virtual company that realizes environmentally friendly, highly efficient operation. The site also ventilation thanks to large louvers on boasts the latest environmental facilities, including an integrated energy management center that uses IT to the outside walls combined with keep GREEN FRONT SAKAI energyand labor-efficient; an inter-building transport system that reduces indoor fans, and a monitor roof. As environmental impact in transporting items between plants and raises productivity; and approximately well, it was designed to allow natural SATL’s new Cool e3 plant 100,000 LED lights around the entire site. These efforts have earned Sharp high praise, including an Award light into the building. And there’s a of Excellence in the 2010 Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Awards sponsored by Nikkei Inc. solar power generation system on the roof. The LCD panel plant (Sharp Display Products Corporation) and the solar cell plant (Sharp Corporation) of SATL aggressively reuses and recycles in order to reduce waste by separating 22 kinds of non-hazardous GREEN FRONT SAKAI achieved SGF status in fiscal 2010. waste and 12 kinds of hazardous waste. A portion of the company’s plastic waste is given to a local Sharp Corporation and the other 10 companies that make up GREEN FRONT SAKAI have been jointly women’s organization, which uses it to make packaging. awarded ISO 14001 certification. Through shared environmental policy, goals, and targets, it is expected that GREEN FRONT SAKAI’s environmental protection measures will be conducted even more smoothly. SATL is also taking part in a project with the TEI (Thailand Environment Institute) to expand green procurement and spread the use of environmentally friendly products, and it is active in community work such as tree-planting. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2010 SATL was designated as an SGF. Artist’s rendering of GREEN FRONT SAKAI Certification for ISO 14001 for the 11 companies of GREEN FRONT SAKAI Ventilation through large louvers Air is sent out through a monitor roof Natural light through a skylight on the outside wall ■ Awards for GREEN FRONT SAKAI Award Name Sponsor Award of Excellence, 2010 Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Awards Nikkei Inc. Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize; Green IT Award 2010 Green IT Promotion Council Osaka Governor’s Award, 4th Osaka Sustainable Architecture Awards Osaka Prefecture Illuminating Engineering Outstanding Facility Award, 2009 Good Lighting Awards Institute of Japan Solar power generation system Plastic waste is given to a local women’s Project meeting between SATL and the TEI organization to be reused as packaging Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 058 Operations Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices Sharp established the Green Office certification system as an initiative to increase the level of environmental performance at its offices. This system builds on the know-how accumulated under the Green Factory certification system, which achieved demonstrable results in strengthening the environmental performance of production facilities. This system was introduced in Japan in fiscal 2007 and overseas in fiscal 2009. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Revise certification criteria in Japan and overseas • Number of Green Office certified sites • Japan: Certify all 54 offices • Japan: 46 out of the total 46 offices* • Japan: Introduce new organizational structure centered • Japan: Establish new organizational structure • Overseas: Certify 8 (two each in North America, Europe, • Overseas: 19 out of the total 20 offices on main offices • Overseas: Establish organizational structures on a Asia, and China) out of the total 20 offices • Overseas: Introduce organizational structures on a regional basis regional basis in North America, Europe, Asia, and China * At the beginning of fiscal 2010, the Green Office certification system was being applied to 54 offices in Japan. However, as a result of organizational changes and office consolidation, and the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake, a total of 46 offices were ultimately evaluated for environmental performance. Green Office Initiatives in Japan ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Japan, Fiscal 2010) Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items) In fiscal 2007, Sharp began applying its Green Office certification system to improve the environmental Compliance with laws, system for ensuring compliance with laws, performance level of its offices at the Head Office and the offices of its sales and service subsidiaries in Compliance with environmental laws other measures (3) Japan. Under this system, which is intended for offices that have acquired ISO 14001 certification, an Reduction of environmental impact Status of achievement of work specific to each business division, annual performance evaluation is conducted based on certification criteria covering 27 items in eight fields through work specific to each business division improvement of skills, other measures (2) (see table at right). Offices that meet the specified criteria in all eight fields are certified as Green Offices. Reduction of CO2 emissions, reduction of electricity use, Prevention of global warming other measures (4) In fiscal 2009, all 54 offices attained Green Office certification, and for fiscal 2010, Sharp set a goal to achieve a higher level, and added new evaluation indicators, such as the percentage of employees who Reduction of total emissions, recycling of waste as valuable resources, Waste management other measures (4) have passed the Eco Test. Following the success in fiscal 2009, all 46 offices were certified as Green Offices. In fiscal 2011, Sharp will introduce a new promotion system with greater autonomy centered on Green purchasing, etc. Promotion of green purchasing, use of FSC-certified paper, relatively large-scale offices and will work to ensure that this system is firmly established. other measures (4) Operational management of equipment, introduction Environmental maintenance in the workplace of advanced equipment, other measures (4) Green Office Initiatives Overseas Eco Test certification acquisition ratio, environmental auditor training, Environmental education, etc. other measures (2) In fiscal 2009, Sharp began to introduce the Green Office certification system for the 20 offices of its main sales subsidiaries overseas. Because environmental laws and regulations are different in each country and Environmental social action programs Community activities, other measures (2) region, and because infrastructure and business customs vary widely, Sharp has established a total of 34 performance-evaluation criteria in five fields divided into “common criteria” which all offices must address, and “optional criteria” that are specific to the characteristics of each individual region (see table at right). ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Overseas, Fiscal 2010) In fiscal 2009, the first year this system was applied, a total of 13 offices attained Green Office certification. Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items; common/optional) In fiscal 2010, Sharp strengthened this initiative by adding evaluation criteria for preserving biodiversity, as Expansion of sales of energy-saving and energy-creating products Sales of environmentally conscious products, other measures (1/2) well as holding informational meetings on a regional basis to present case studies and introduce concepts related to saving energy, a problem common to all offices. As a result, 19 offices attained Green Office Reduction of environmental impacts Reduction of electricity use, waste reduction, other measures (8/9) certification. In fiscal 2011, Sharp will introduce a promotion system on a regional basis (North America, from business activities Europe, Asia, and China), and will give it a jump-start by specifically designing the system to better fit each Environmental action plans, promotion of local environmental strategy, Environmental governance region, and will work to ensure that it becomes firmly established. other measures (1/3) Conditions of compliance as evaluated by audits, statutory reports, Compliance with environmental laws other measures (3/0) Environmental education, community services, biodiversity protection, Environmental communication, etc. other measures (3/4) Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 059 SESC (China) Receives Green Office Certification SUK (United Kingdom) Runner-Up in Sustainable FM Awards At Sharp sales subsidiary SESC in Shanghai, China, all employees strive daily to protect the environment Sharp sales subsidiary SUK in Middlesex, UK was judged a runner-up in the category of the Most through efforts like saving energy and reducing the amount of paper used. Environmental education is part Sustainable Private Sector Organization at the Sustainable FM Awards 2010*2, organized by Abbey of Sharp’s Eco-Positive Strategic Measures*1, and SESC places special emphasis on conducting training Publishing & Exhibitions (UK) Ltd. The award recognizes SUK’s comprehensive environmental efforts for new employees every year. The training teaches Chinese environmental laws as well as Sharp policy and including energy-saving equipment, a motion lighting sensor system, solar panels installed on the SUK office initiatives in order to raise awareness of the importance of environmental protection among employees. roof, a toner cartridge recycling scheme, the setting of environmental targets, and education for employees. SESC also leads environmental education at local elementary schools. The company set a target of zero discharge to landfill, which it achieved in In fiscal 2007, SESC began recycling copier toner cartridges, with cartridge collection boxes placed next to August 2010 by making it possible to recycle all of its waste. Sharp copiers. In fiscal 2010, SESC teamed up with office equipment manufacturing subsidiary SOCC in In November 2010, it held Green Week as part of employees’ Changshu to create a system for repairing the circuit boards of copiers. And in January 2011, SESC environmental education. With seminars led by outside experts and contracted with a subcontractor for the recycling of the copiers themselves. Such recycling efforts help activities like tree-planting, the week further raised employee awareness reduce the use of non-genuine toner and prevent the illegal reselling of used copiers on the market. and led to greater energy-saving actions. Thanks to these and other efforts, in fiscal 2010 SESC was certified for Sharp’s Green Office certification system. The company will continue to pool the hard work of all employees in working for the environment. *2 Awards honoring public and private sector organs that show outstanding results in managing facilities in a sustainable manner. FM stands for “Facilities Management.” *1 See page 28. Sustainable FM Awards 2010 certificate Car Sharing at SEMC (Japan) In 2009, Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation (SEMC), a sales subsidiary in Japan, introduced car sharing at three sites (Ichigaya and Ueno in Tokyo, Ebisu in Osaka). All shared vehicles are equipped with a GPS linked to a centralized management system that monitors vehicle running conditions and route information. The system enables eco driving by monitoring sudden start-ups and accelerations and by automatically calculating gas mileage, thus greatly reducing vehicle operation and maintenance costs as well as raising employees’ environmental awareness. A brochure recommending the use Environmental training session for new SESC employees of genuine Sharp toner ■ Car Sharing System Vehicle Computer Shared vehicle Daily logs management system terminal Vehicle running Gas mileage GPS satellite conditions calculations In-vehicle GPS ・Venicle reservations ・Shared database Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 060 Operations Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sharp is taking active measures to curb greenhouse gas emissions resulting from its business activities. Sharp is reducing CO2 emissions through the introduction of cogeneration systems and energy-efficient equipment, the installation of solar power generation systems, and the meticulous implementation of energy-saving activities at plants and offices. At the same time, Sharp is also reducing emissions of greenhouse gases such as PFCs*1 by installing abatement systems and adopting replacement gases with lower global warming potential. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 and 2012 • Production-based CO2 emissions for the 10 Sharp Corporation plants* 2 • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 31.3% from ﬁscal 2007 levels (ﬁscal 2007: 968,000 t-CO2 → ﬁscal 2010: 665,000 t-CO2) • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU*3 • Reduced by 3.2% compared to BAU • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 3% compared to BAU • Production-based CO2 emissions per adjusted production unit*4 for all 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduce by 35% from ﬁscal 1990 levels (average for ﬁscal • Reduce by 35% from ﬁscal 1990 levels • Reduced by 46.3% from ﬁscal 1990 levels 2008 to 2012) • CO2 emissions per production unit*5 for overseas plants • Reduce by 2% from previous ﬁscal year • Reduced by 15.5% from previous ﬁscal year • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 2% from previous ﬁscal year *1 A general term for perﬂuorocarbon gases, which are greenhouse gases. *2 The 10 plants of Sharp Corporation, excluding the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (see page 73). *3 Business As Usual: Amount of CO2 estimated to be emitted, relative to emission levels in the preceding ﬁscal year, assuming no measures to reduce CO2 emissions are implemented. *4 Per adjusted production unit (t-CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ {production output (100 million yen) ÷ Japanese corporate price index determined by the Bank of Japan}. (Corporate price index: Weighted average of “Electrical machinery & equipment,” “Information & communications equipment,” and “Electronic components & devices”) *5 Per production unit (t-CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ production output (100 million yen) Sharp Group Activities to Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1 1 Amount of Sharp Group’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2 Amount of Production-Based CO2 Emissions (Thousand t-CO2) for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants*2 Total greenhouse gas emissions for the Sharp Group in fiscal 2010 increased by 9% compared to the previous 2,000 (Thousand t-CO2) fiscal year as a result of production increases associated with the LCD panel plant (Sharp Display Products 1,799 1,000 Corporation) at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) entering full-scale operation, and the start of 1,600 1,634 31.3％ 322 1,531 1,500 500 operations at the solar cell plant at the same location ( 1 ). 968 58 261 315 834 711 270 665 For the 10 factories of Sharp Corporation*2, CO2 emissions were reduced by 6.4% compared to the previous fiscal 1,200 290 52 35 48 0 year, and by 31.3% compared to fiscal 2007 levels. They were also reduced by 3.2% of baseline (BAU emissions) 300 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 280 278 ( 2 , 3 ). In addition, CO2 emissions per adjusted production unit for all 11 Sharp Corporation plants were reduced by 46.3% from fiscal 1990 levels ( 4 ). This is the result of establishing a target to lower CO2 emissions by 3% of 800 3 BAU Reduction Rate of CO2 Emissions baseline (BAU emissions) beginning in fiscal 2010 based on a program to reduce CO2 emissions, taking fiscal for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants*2 1,129 2007 as the peak year for such emissions. These results reflect Sharp’s commitment to strengthen its efforts by 400 938 905 983 (Thousand t-CO2) 711 extending them to all equipment, including production equipment as well as utility equipment. 700 687 22 3.2% reduction rate At the same time, CO2 emissions at production facilities abroad increased by 8% compared to the previous fiscal 650 0 year, reflecting a rebound in production, while CO2 emissions per production unit decreased by 15.5% compared 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 600 BAU to the previous fiscal year ( 5 ). PFC emissions 665 CO2 emissions from ofﬁces in Japan and overseas 0 In addition to deploying energy-saving measures, Sharp will continue its efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions to the CO2 emissions from overseas plants 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) greatest possible extent by optimizing operation of abatement systems on all PFC emission sources. Sharp will also take CO2 emissions from plants in Japan Reductions from energy savings CO2 emissions steps to reduce CO2 emissions overseas by deploying know-how developed in Japan to overseas production facilities. • Refer to page 75 for the CO2 emission coefﬁcients used. • Based on the Energy Conservation Law, emissions since ﬁscal 2010 exclude CO2 emissions from fuel used outside of Sharp premises Promoting Private Power Generation such as in company vehicles. • CO2 emissions for the Sharp Group as a whole, not taking into account inputs from purchases of Green Power Certiﬁcates (renewable energy certiﬁcates), were 1.638 million t-CO2; for overseas plants, 301,000 t-CO2; and for ofﬁces in Japan and overseas, 39,000 t-CO2. Sharp is working to provide a stable supply of electric power and reduce CO2 emissions by generating its own electricity privately. Sharp has been installing cogeneration and fuel cell systems, as well as solar power generation systems. 4 Production-Based CO2 Emissions per Adjusted 5 CO2 Emissions per Production Unit*5 ■ Self-Generated Electricity Output Production Unit*4 for All 11 Sharp Corporation Plants for Overseas Plants (millions of kWh) *6 Electricity generated by on-site (t-CO2/100 million yen) (t-CO2/100 million yen) Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 cogeneration systems, solar Fiscal 1990 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Self-generated power generation systems, and electricity output*6 287 261 285 220 32.2 17.3 (down 46.3% from fiscal 1990 levels) 30.4 25.7 (down 15.5% compared to the previous fiscal year) fuel cell systems. Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 061 Case Study 1 Saving Energy Case Study 3 Saving Energy Mie Plant (Japan) Focuses on Energy Efficiency SMCA (United States) Installs 460 kW of Solar Power on Site At the Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie Prefecture), the CO2 Emissions Reduction Sectional Committee, made up SMCA, the Tennessee-based manufacturing division of SEC, is harnessing of employees from the production, process technology, and utility management departments, meets the power of the sun to help power manufacturing operations in Memphis. monthly to consider measures for reducing the volume To date, SMCA has installed 460 kW of solar power generation systems of CO2 emissions. It also holds a monthly meeting with and 20 solar-powered LED pathway lights on site, demonstrating to the persons in charge of production equipment. In fiscal community SMCA’s commitment to the environment and the practical 2010, the meetings included representatives of benefits solar power brings to business and industry. subcontractors, in comprehensive efforts across the Solar power generation system As part of its goal of spreading eco-awareness in the community, SMCA on the roof of SMCA entire plant to reduce CO2 emissions. gives lectures in the local community to These efforts have resulted in the Mie Plant reducing introduce its environmental efforts. It has also CO2 emissions by 3% a year for three consecutive years launched the Sharp Solar Academy to give starting in fiscal 2008. environment-themed lessons in local elementary schools. Regular meeting of the CO2 Emissions Reduction Sectional Committee Solar LED pathway lights Solar array on SMCA premises Case Study 2 Saving Energy Case Study 4 Saving Energy Nara Plant (Japan) Optimizes Cooling Water Pump to Realize SSEC (China) Honored for Energy Savings Energy Savings On December 15, 2010, Sharp manufacturing subsidiary SSEC in Shanghai received multiple honors for At the Nara Plant (Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture), greater energy efficiency has been achieved by contributions to energy efficiency. Sponsored by the Energy Reduction Forum, which operates under adjusting operation of the cooling water pump for production equipment. Since production equipment gives Shanghai Yidian Holding (Group) Company, the awards recognized SSEC in three categories: outstanding off heat from its operation, it must be constantly cooled using water. Cooling used to be carried out using efforts in reducing energy consumption by a company; outstanding group energy-saving project; and pumps on both the first and second floors, but Sharp optimized the cooling system by replacing production outstanding individual efforts in reducing energy consumption, for SSEC President Norimasa Akinaga. The equipment and determining the minimal amount of water needed for cooling. The second floor pump was award for outstanding efforts in reducing energy consumption by a company recognizes SSEC’s overall made smaller and a bypass cooling water pipe was installed, connecting the second floor and first floor success in reducing energy consumption, while the outstanding group energy-saving project award honors production equipment, and allowing the first floor pump to be shut down. The result was an annual the company’s success in reducing energy consumption by re-designing the air conditioner heat exchanger reduction of approximately 90 t-CO2. production line. ■ Optimization of Cooling Water Pump 2nd floor Pump capacity reduced from 75 kW to 22 kW Production Pump equipment Bypass cooling water pipe on 1st floor 1st floor Shut down Production 2010 award for outstanding efforts in 2010 award for outstanding group 2010 award for outstanding individual reducing energy consumption energy-saving project efforts in reducing energy consumption Pump equipment by a company Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 062 Operations Minimizing and Recycling Waste Sharp has been working to bring down its total amount of waste discharged and to recycle as much of its waste as possible. Sharp plants in Japan*¹ have achieved zero discharge to landfill*² for 10 consecutive years, and overseas production facilities have reduced the level of waste, etc. discharged per production unit. Sharp will continue to advance these efforts in the future. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Every Fiscal Year • Amount of waste discharged*³ at the 10 Sharp Corporation plants* 4 • Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 52.4% from ﬁscal 2007 levels (ﬁscal 2007: 170,000 t-CO2 → ﬁscal 2010: 81,000 t-CO2) • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce to below ﬁscal 2007 levels • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU*5 • Reduced by 12.0% compared to BAU • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 6% compared to BAU • Amount of waste, etc. discharged*6 per production unit at overseas plants • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Reduced by 7.5% from previous fiscal year • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year *1 The 10 plants of Sharp Corporation excluding the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI, plus subsidiaries and affiliates in *3 Amount of waste discharged = Industrial waste discharged + general waste from business activities Japan, excluding Sharp Display Products Corporation (see page 73). *4 The 10 plants of Sharp Corporation, excluding the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (see page 73). *2 Sharp defines “zero discharge to landﬁll” as a ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of less than 0.5%. Final landﬁll disposal rate (%) = Amount *5 Business As Usual: Amount of waste estimated to be discharged, relative to discharge levels in the preceding fiscal of landﬁll disposal / amount of waste, etc. discharged (amount of waste discharged + amount of valuable resources) x 100. year, assuming no measures to reduce waste are implemented. In ﬁscal 2005, to make the deﬁnition of zero discharge to landfill more rigorous, Sharp replaced the value for the denominator of *6 Amount of waste, etc. discharged = Waste discharged + valuable resources “total amount of waste generated” with “amount of waste, etc., discharged (amount of waste discharged + amount of valuable resources)”, a smaller value. Figures from ﬁscal 2004 include subsidiaries and affiliates. 1 Amount of Waste, etc. (Including Valuable Resources) 3 BAU Reduction Rate of Waste Discharge Discharged by the Sharp Group for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants*4 Curbing the Amount of Waste, etc. Discharged by the Sharp Group (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons) 300 120 In fiscal 2010, waste, etc. (waste and valuable resources recovered from waste) discharged by the Sharp Group 100 95 92 increased by 19%, exceeding levels of the previous fiscal year both in Japan and overseas ( 1 ). This increase reflected 250 248 6 223 228 80 11 12.0% expanded production volume resulting from the LCD panel plant (Sharp Display Products Corporation) at GREEN FRONT 40 6 6 reduction rate 200 191 35 SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) entering full-scale operation, and the start of operations at the solar cell plant at the 34 6 60 same location. 150 29 40 BAU 81 20 The 10 Sharp Corporation plants* achieved dramatic reductions in waste discharges of 14.7% compared to the previous 4 100 202 183 187 0 fiscal year and 52.4% compared to fiscal 2007, and the percentage of valuable resources recovered rose by 3.9 points 156 50 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) compared to the previous fiscal year ( 2 ). In addition, waste discharges were reduced by 12.0% compared to baseline Reductions in waste discharged Waste discharged levels (BAU emissions) ( 3 ). This is the result of reinforcing efforts in this area by setting a goal of reducing discharges by 0 6% of baseline (BAU emissions), based on a program to curb waste, taking fiscal 2007 as the peak year for such 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 4 Final Landfill Disposal Rate of Waste Offices in Japan and Overseas plants Plants in Japan from Plants in Japan discharges. In particular, the Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) and the Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie overseas Final landfill disposal rate (%) Prefecture) made significant contributions to this effort through measures to reduce discharges of liquid waste, and the 2.0 Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture) through measures to reduce the amount of waste glass. In addition, in 2 Amount of Waste and Valuable Resources Discharged, fiscal 2010, at some Sharp Corporation plants, the amount of waste discharge subject to administrative reporting and Percentage of Valuable Resources Recovered, 1.5 at the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants*4 1.5 requirements was affected by excluding waste discharged by on-site subcontractors. (Thousand tons) Percentage of valuable resources recovered (%) Sharp defines “zero discharge to landfill” 1.0 Fiscal 2010 was the 10th consecutive year for Sharp production plants in Japan*1 to achieve zero discharge to landfill ( 4 ). 200 198 100 as a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5% 28 180 At overseas plants, total waste, etc. discharged increased by 21% compared to the previous fiscal year. However, waste 0.5 discharged per production unit declined by 7.5% compared to the previous fiscal year ( 5 ). This can be attributed to 150 38 75 132 0.12 0.06 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.011 0.006 0.006 0.009 0.009 making full use of the Eco Best Practice Forums*7 to deploy effective waste reduction measures on a global basis. 119 0 100 170 37 50 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sharp will continue to work proactively to recycle waste and curb emissions. 142 38 (Fiscal year) *7 See page 55. 28.0 31.9 50 21.1 25 5 Waste, etc. Discharged per Production 14.1 Appropriate Storage and Treatment of PCB Wastes in Japan 95 81 Unit at Overseas Plants (ton/100 million yen) Sharp complies to the fullest extent with laws and regulations covering PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) wastes, 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 their proper storage, and reporting requirements to the government. In addition, Sharp has achieved its target of (Fiscal year) 3.20 2.96 (down 7.5% compared to the previous fiscal year) completing registration with the Japan Environment Safety Corporation (JESCO) for treatment of its PCB wastes Valuable Waste discharged Percentage of valuable resources resources recovered prior to the 2016 deadline set by law, and is treating PCB wastes according to schedules set by JESCO. Sharp • Waste discharge in fiscal 2010 is the sum total of discharges subject to administrative reporting requirements excluding the amount also does not use PCBs, with the exception of a certain amount present in high-voltage transformers. discharged by subcontractors on the premises of the Kameyama Plant and Mie Plant (11,000 tons). Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 063 ■ Amount of Waste by Category from Sharp Corporation Plants in Fiscal 2010 (Unit: tons) Waste, etc.*¹ Waste*² Recycled into valuable resources Recycled (not including Intermediate treatment Final landfill disposal Case Study 3 Reducing Waste valuable resources) Waste alkali 40,910 36,282 4,628 36,282 0 0 Hiroshima Plant (Japan) Recycles Mobile Phones into Valuable Resources Waste oil 30,933 10,335 20,597 10,334 1 0 The Hiroshima Plant (Higashi-Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture) is working to recycle mobile phones and Sludge 9,187 9,135 52 9,135 0 0 other devices that have outlived their usefulness into valuable resources. The plant takes mobile phones Waste fluid (waste acid) 20,795 17,990 2,804 17,979 11 0 used in development and prototyping and for evaluation purposes inside the plant, as well as printed circuit Waste paper 7,936 755 7,182 711 42 2 boards replaced as part of repair and service, and subjects them to a shredding and grinding process to Waste glass 8,010 5,167 2,843 5,165 0 2 ensure security. The plant sells approximately 30 tons of the resulting material each year as a valuable Scrap iron 439 18 421 18 0 0 resource. The material is sold to metal refineries where scarce metals such as gold, silver, copper, and Waste plastic 2,664 1,573 1,091 1,517 55 1 palladium are recovered. Others 908 493 412 489 0 4 Total 121,782 81,748 40,030 81,630 109 9 ■ Process Flow *1 Amount of waste, etc. discharged = Waste discharged + valuable resources *2 Amount of waste discharged = Waste recycled + intermediately treated + amount of landfill disposal Mobile phones Case Study 1 Reducing Waste Printed circuit boards Katsuragi Plant and Others (Japan) Convert Scrap Glass to a Valuable Resource Shredder Grinder The solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) and the Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture) are promoting the conversion of Sold as scrap glass cut from the edges of thin-film solar modules during the production Gold, silver, a valuable resource process into a valuable resource. copper, palladium, etc. There are many types of waste glass, but thanks to technologies to make the Metal recovered at a refinery sorting process more efficient and a membrane separation technology developed by a subcontractor, all types of scrap glass can be converted to valuable resources. Pulverized material The recovered scrap glass can be used as an effective heat insulation material and in reflective marking materials for lane stripes on roadways, enabling waste sent for final disposal to be reduced by about 2,600 tons annually. Scrap glass used effectively as an insulation material (top) and Case Study 4 Reducing Waste in reflective marking materials for lane stripes on roadways STW (China) Earns Cleaner Production Certificate by Promoting Waste Reduction Case Study 2 Reducing Waste STW, Sharp’s manufacturing subsidiary in Wuxi, China, changed the material used for trays to transport Kameyama Plant (Japan) Reduces Discharge of Wastewater Containing parts for LCD panels from polystyrene (PS) to the more durable polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and was able to reduce the number used by more than 7,000 Chemical Elements from LCD Cleaning Process each year. In addition, by increasing the reuse of The Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) is working to reduce the amount of wastewater packaging materials, STW reduced the number used containing chemical elements that is discharged from the cleaning process in LCD panel production. by more than 2,700 units per year. Previously, such wastewater was treated “as is” as industrial waste. However, after noting that the wastewater was highly diluted, the plant began using existing concentrating/volume reduction equipment*3 In addition to these efforts, STW was praised for to concentrate the chemical elements, making it possible to reuse the evaporated water. As a result, the various energy conservation and resource amount of wastewater discharged was reduced to about one-eighth of previous levels. conservation measures, and as a result, earned a Cleaner Production Certificate from Wuxi City for *3 System to concentrate the chemicals contained in wastewater by separating out the water 2010. STW will continue to work on reducing environmental impacts. Before introduction Wastewater After introduction Concentrating/ volume reduction equipment Production Production Reuse Evaporated water treatment facilities Wastewater process process PET trays Cleaner Production About one-eighth Certificate from Wuxi City Concentrated of previous levels liquid waste Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 064 Operations Effectively Using Water Resources Sharp has worked to reduce the amount of new water (i.e., water from the water supply system) it uses by expanding the use of recycled water. In addition, it makes efforts to reduce the volume of water used in production from the viewpoint of saving energy and aims to conserve valuable water resources. Effectively Using Water Resources Reducing the Use of New Water The volume of new water used by the Sharp Group in fiscal 2010 increased by 8% over the previous fiscal The Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie 3 Amount of New Water Used per Unit Produced year due to the expansion of production ( 1 ). However, the Group is making efforts to increase the use of Prefecture) continues efforts not at the Mie Plant recycled water and reduce the volume of water used per unit produced ( 2 , 3 , 4 ). to increase the volume of new (fiscal 2001=100) water it uses, despite The volume of recycled water used at the plants of subsidiaries and affiliates in Japan increased 2.7 times, expanding production, through 100 as a result of the LCD panel plant (Sharp Display Products Corporation) at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai increasing its use of recycled City, Osaka Prefecture) entering full-scale operation. At the same time, it dropped 13% over the previous water, monitoring the volume of fiscal year at Sharp Corporation plants ( 2 ), due to efforts made to reduce the volume of water used in 75 cooling water used in air production from an energy-saving viewpoint ( 4 ). conditioning, and other efforts. Sharp will continue its efforts to reduce the volume of water it uses by effectively using water resources. 50 As a result, the volume of new water per unit produced in fiscal 2010 was approximately a 25 1 Volume of New Water Used by the Sharp Group 2 Amount of Water Reused at Sharp Group Plants quarter of that used in fiscal 2001. (Million m3) (Million m3) 20 20 0 19.3 0.1 19.4 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 19.0 0.2 (Fiscal year) 0.2 0.6 0.2 17.0 16.2 0.4 0.3 15 2.3 14.3 15 2.4 6.5 Reducing the Volume of Water Used 14.1 0.4 0.4 13.0 Equipment that recycles 100% 4 Volume of Water Used per Unit Produced 1.3 2.0 0.4 2.4 of the drainage from the at the Kameyama Plant 2.0 production process was (fiscal 2004=100) 1.3 10 1.9 10 installed at the Kameyama Plant 1.3 100 19.0 (Kameyama City, Mie 18.5 Prefecture) when it was built. However, since a large amount 75 14.2 of energy is necessary for the 12.3 12.3 recycling process, the plant is 5 10.6 5 50 9.3 9.4 making efforts to reduce the volume of water it uses from an energy-saving viewpoint. 25 As a result, the volume of new 0 0 water used per unit produced in 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) fiscal 2010 was approximately a 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Offices in Japan and overseas Plants of overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies quarter of that used in fiscal 2004. Plants of overseas subsidiaries and affiliated companies Plants of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan Plants of subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan Sharp Corporation plants Sharp Corporation plants Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 065 Operations Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories Sharp meticulously controls chemical substances used at its plants and manages their safety through preliminary audits based on the process assessment system, daily operation safety activities, and emergency response training simulating accidents. Effective Management of Chemical Substances ■ Destinations of PRTR-Listed ■ Pollutant Loads of Chemical Substances Public Water Areas in Japan When introducing new chemical substances and handling equipment and when revamping existing handling equipment, Sharp in Japan conducts rigorous preliminary audits based on the process assessment system*1 to ensure safety, health, and lower environmental impact. Discharge into atmosphere 0.03% Discharge to water areas 0.00% COD (chemical oxygen demand) Sharp strives for effective management of chemical substances: employees handling these go through regular education and drills to Transfer to sewers 0.00% (Tons) prevent accidents, the Special Safety Management Committees oversee all control activities, and checks are carried out through an Transfer to 25 Removal off-site environmental safety operations audit system*2. 15.4% 15.2% 20 Of the chemical substances covered by the PRTR*3 Law, the number of chemicals handled in quantities 500 kg or more in fiscal Consumed (contained 15 14.9 2010 at each plant in Japan was 17 substances, revised according to the reduction in the volume used and amendments to the law. in products) 12.5 11.8 12.3 Moreover, the total amount handled in Japan was approximately 10,503 tons. Even with the start of full-scale operations at the LCD 0.5% 10 panel plant (Sharp Display Products Corporation) and the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture), the Recycle volume of chemicals used decreased 10% from the previous fiscal year (fiscal 2009: approximately 11,709 tons). 68.8% 5 *1 A system for conducting preliminary safety assessments of chemical substance handling equipment. 0 *2 A system for assessing the activities of the division in charge of environmental management at factories. 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) *3 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system to collect and publicize data, such as the amount of harmful chemicals discharged and transferred. ■ Atmosphere Emissions in Japan SOx emissions Nitrogen pollutant load ■ Fiscal 2010 PRTR Data (Japan) (Tons) (Tons) (Unit: kg) 10 9.9 150 Amount discharged Amount transferred Amount consumed Chemical Amount handled Amount removed 8 8.3 120 Into atmosphere Into public Into sewage To off-site Contained Recycled water area in products 104.8 2-Aminoethanol 8,984,200 896 44 0 781,355 0 7,073,243 1,128,663 6 90 77.3 Indium and its compounds 36,881 0 0 0 8,284 1,129 27,467 0 67.2 63.0 4 60 Ferric chloride 185,121 0 0 0 0 0 117,326 67,795 3.1 3.0 Xylene 1,589 48 0 0 636 0 0 905 2 30 Silver and its compounds 63,246 0 0 0 0 54,101 9,146 0 0 0 1, 3-Dioxolan 644 9 0 0 242 0 0 393 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) N, N-dimethyl-formamide (DMF) 40,503 16 0 0 6,539 0 0 33,948 1, 2, 4-Trimethylbenzene 515 217 0 0 298 0 0 0 NOx emissions Phosphorous pollutant load 1, 3, 5-Trimethylbenzene 628 18 0 0 251 0 0 359 (Tons) (Tons) Naphthalene 941 396 0 0 545 0 0 0 150 2.5 Lead and its compounds 1,618 0 0 0 95 1,521 2 0 135.5 120 2.0 Pyrocatechol (also known as catechol) 3,585 0 0 0 3,585 0 0 0 4-Tertiary butylphenol 5,304 39 0 0 5,265 0 0 0 90 95.7 1.5 1.4 1.3 76.1 Hydrogen-fluoride and its water-soluble salts 1,167,121 1,420 0 0 781,036 0 0 384,665 60.8 1.1 60 1.0 Boron and its compounds 5,731 3 0 0 5,728 0 0 0 0.8 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether 1,700 0 6 0 1,509 0 0 185 30 0.5 Molybdenum and its compounds 3,611 0 31 0 790 262 2,527 0 0 0 Total 10,502,938 3,062 81 0 1,596,158 57,013 7,229,711 1,616,913 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 066 An Environmental Safety Operations Audit System Special Safety Management of Hazardous Materials and Toxic Chemicals for Reducing Environmental Safety Risks Special safety management is Sharp’s program to An environmental safety operations audit system was created based on Sharp’s Environmental Safety safely manage the hazardous materials and toxic Operations Guideline and implemented at all plants in Japan in fiscal 2010. chemicals among the chemical substances used at its plants. Sharp strives for meticulous, wide-ranging management of these substances—from R&D to ■ Business Classification (total: 9 categories, 237 items) production lines. ① Pollution prevention ② Waste processing ③ Operations safety management*1 Sharp has established Special Safety Management ④ Emergency response ⑤ Special safety management*2 Committees at each plant in Japan made up of ⑥ Energy Conservation Law/Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures engineers in the production, technical, and ⑦ SGF promotion ⑧ Human resource development ⑨ On-site facility management environmental management divisions. The *1 Maintenance and management of energy supply facilities, production facility utilities, environmental protection facilities, committees oversee the process assessment and other facilities. system and carry out education and emergency Katsuragi Plant: *2 Safety management of hazardous materials and toxic chemicals among the chemical substances used at the plants. response training in preparation for the possibility of Chemical Handling Training Session an accident, with the goal of continuously raising the The Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture) holds ■ Evaluating Achievement Levels level of safety. training sessions twice annually taught by outside specialists. These sessions help employees reaffirm their basic knowledge regarding the handling of chemicals. Employees learn about the Plants are evaluated on four levels per item in each business category and audited on site. Based on the behavior, risk, and handling of various chemicals; leak and fire results of this audit, improvement and corrective action are taken to reduce any further risk to the safety of prevention; fire emergency response; accident case studies; the environment. and other areas. P Formulate plan Risk Communication and Information Disclosure Plan On the environmental and social activities section of the Sharp website and in site reports published by the plants, Sharp regularly discloses information on the environmental risk associated with business activities. Sharp also promotes communication between the company, its neighboring residents, and the local government through regular environmental festivals and meetings. A D Environmental safety analysis (improve non-compliant PDCA items and revise Act based on plans Environmental Safety Action Cycle Do Operations Guideline) C Check Plants checked through self-auditing and on-site audits by the Environmental Protection Group Mie Plant: Public Meeting Fukuyama Plant: The Mie Plant (Taki Town, Mie Prefecture) holds public meetings Three-Party Wastewater Sampling regarding environmental efforts with employees from the Taki and Analysis Town Office and the heads of each region within Taki Town. At the Fukuyama Plant (Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture), Sharp, local residents, and the local municipal government each collect and analyze wastewater samples two times a year. The results are checked and compiled and this event is used as an opportunity to enhance communication among all concerned parties. Audit at the Katsuragi Plant Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 067 Operations Reducing Environmental Impacts in Distribution and Packaging In cooperation with shipping contractors, Sharp is working to reduce environmental impacts in distribution; for example, by improving transport methods, transport routes, and load efficiency. In packaging, Sharp is also working to further reduce environmental impacts by reducing the use of packaging materials. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Every Fiscal Year • CO2 emissions per shipping volume*1 by Sharp Group in Japan • Between ﬁscal 2007 and ﬁscal 2010, reduce by average 1% • Reduced by 4% from previous ﬁscal year • Reduce by 1% from previous ﬁscal year • Every ﬁscal year: Reduce by 1% each year against ﬁscal 2006 from previous ﬁscal year *1 CO2 emissions per shipping volume (t-CO2/thousand ton-km) = CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ÷ shipping volume (thousand ton-km) Promoting Measures to Reduce Environmental Impacts Shifting to Environmentally Friendly ■ Transport Volume by Rail and Ship in Each Area of Distribution Modes of Transport in Japan (Thousand ton-km) 40,000 38,348 Sharp established the Committee for Compliance with the Energy Conservation Law as a Shipper in ﬁscal In Japan, Sharp is shifting from conventional 2006. This committee assesses the environmental impacts of logistics in the areas of product sales, trucking to more environmentally friendly 30,000 30,787 procurement and production, waste disposal, and parts*2, and works to strengthen energy-saving transportation modes, such as rail and ships. In 25,832 21,024 22,993 measures in distribution across the Sharp Group. Sharp has declared an objective of achieving an average ﬁscal 2010, Sharp was able to increase the use 19,987 17,861 20,000 annual reduction in CO2 emissions per shipping volume of 1% or greater, a legal mandate for speciﬁed of rail and ship transport by approximately 25% 10,595 14,196 shippers, for all members of the Sharp Group in Japan, and is promoting efforts to save energy, such as over the previous ﬁscal year. Sharp will 6,345 shifting to environmentally friendly modes of transport and improving transport and load efﬁciencies. continue expanding the shift in transport 10,000 modes. 17,324 13,642 12,398 11,636 12,926 In ﬁscal 2010, Sharp Group CO2 emissions from shipping activities in Japan were 50 thousand t-CO2. This was up 18% from the previous ﬁscal year but at the same level as the base year of ﬁscal 2006. Emissions 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 per shipping volume were 0.21 t-CO2/thousand ton-km, down 4% from the previous ﬁscal year and 13% (Fiscal year) lower than in ﬁscal 2006. Ship Rail *2 Distribution of parts used for after-sales service, such as repair and maintenance of products. Case Study: Environmentally Friendly Modes of Transport ■ System to Promote Energy Savings in Distribution Sharp Certified as Eco Rail Mark Authorized Company Committee for Compliance with the Energy In ﬁscal 2008, Sharp mobile phones acquired the Eco Rail Mark enacted by Conservation Law as a Shipper the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the Railway Chairperson: Environmental Protection Group General Manager Freight Association. In ﬁscal 2009, Sharp was recognized as an authorized Eco Rail Mark*3 company after expanding its mobile phone shipments to Ofﬁce 17,000 tons of railway freight in Japan. Further, domestic railway shipments of mobile phones reached 21,000 tons in ﬁscal 2010, and Sharp again acquired Sharp Corporation company certiﬁcation. *3 Companies must meet one of the following criteria for transporting freight overland via rail for distances greater than 500 km: the volume or the volume multiplied by the Corporate Global Logistics Environmental CS Promotion Sharp Electronics distance transported is over 15%, the volume transported per annum is over 15,000 Procurement Center Center Protection Group Group Marketing Corporation tons, or the volume multiplied by the distance is over 15 million ton-kilometers. (procurement and (product sales (waste disposal Eco Rail Mark authorized (parts distribution) and other afﬁliated production distribution) distribution) logistics) company certiﬁcate companies Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 068 Green Logistics Wins METI Minister Award (Hiroshima Plant, Japan) Case Study: Low-Pollution Vehicles Sharp received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) Minister Award, the top award, in the 2010 Excellent Green Logistics Commendation Program*1 for efforts related to transportation logistics Introducing Hybrid Forklifts (West Japan Logistics Center, Hiroshima, Japan) involving the shipment of mobile phones and related products from the Hiroshima Plant (Higashi-Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture) to telecom service providers. This award was jointly presented to Sharp and The West Japan Logistics Center in Hiroshima, which mainly Tonami Transportation Co., Ltd., Sharp’s distribution partner, for the distinguished achievement of Sharp’s handles the transportation logistics of mobile phones, introduced transportation logistics efforts in counteracting global warming. hybrid forklifts for use at the logistics center with the cooperation of Tonami Transportation Co., Ltd. They received recognition for reducing CO2 emissions through the introduction of a double-rack system that improved load efficiency and the switch from truck transport to rail transport for approximately 80% of The hybrid forklift is fitted with a capacitor, as well as a all deliveries from the Hiroshima Plant to various telecom service providers (with delivery distances greater conventional battery, so the amount of energy used decreases than 500 km). approximately 20%, because it can efficiently store regenerative energy created when the forklift starts moving or stops. *1 Awarded by METI; the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT); and freight and logistics organizations. Improved load efficiency by introducing the A hybrid forklift used at the logistics center double rack Reducing the Environmental Burden of International Distribution Before using rack After using rack Sharp is also making efforts overseas to cut CO2 emissions from international and intraregional transportation. In fiscal 2010, the CO2 emissions from internationally transporting products and devices that Introducing Low-Pollution Vehicles were produced by domestic and overseas Sharp Group production companies and sold to Sharp Group companies overseas came to approximately 310,000 t-CO2. Sharp is working to reduce the environmental Sharp is switching to the use of low-pollution vehicles for the cars used by sales people and for the forklifts burden of distribution through reducing air transportation, improving load efficiency, and preferring to use used in logistics activities. More and more low-emission, hybrid, and electric vehicles are being used as shipping companies that are actively reducing CO2 emissions. business vehicles and all forklifts used are electric. 99% of Sharp’s business vehicles are now low-pollution models. In China, Sharp decreased its annual CO2 emissions by 193 tons. This was achieved by switching from trucks to rail for the transport of LCD TVs from ■ Percentage of Low-Pollution Vehicles Used as Business Vehicles in Japan Nanjing—where they are produced by Sharp’s (%) manufacturing subsidiary, NSEC—to Chengdu. The 100 0.2 4.5 1.8 4.9 4.7 5.2 6.3 5.5 7.3 5.6 8.8 5.5 new transportation method was initiated in January Electric vehicles 2010. 90 Hybrid vehicles Moreover, sales subsidiary SEC participates in the 80 Low-emission vehicles SmartWay Transport Program*2 in the United States, 70 Conventional vehicles takes the initiative to spread the program, and 60 74.3 promotes awareness through stop-idling activities and 50 81.3 82.8 85.6 84.7 84.8 other activities. The total weight of freight volume of 40 products distributed by SEC that complies with the 30 program has reached over 99%. 20 10 Loading a rail container with LCD TVs bound for Chengdu 20.9 2.6 2.4 0.9 *2 A joint effort by the US Environmental Protection Agency 0 11.9 7.3 and industry to promote environmentally conscious 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) shipping and distribution. Sharp and the Environment Operations Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 069 Case Study 1 Reducing the Environmental Burden of Packaging Case Study 2 Reducing the Environmental Burden of Packaging Making AQUOS LCD TV Packages Thinner Introducing Biodegradable Packaging (SEC, US) Sharp is moving to make the AQUOS LCD TV package thinner as the TV itself becomes thinner. Sharp SEC, Sharp’s sales subsidiary in New Jersey introduced biodegradable package cushioning and stretch made the enclosed stand mounting fixture more compact and adopted a package design that prevents the film*. Microorganisms work to break these materials down into water and carbon dioxide and return them package from tipping over due to it being thinner. These measures reduced the cubic volume of the to the soil, thereby reducing the environmental burden when compared to the disposal of conventional package for the new 2011 domestic models by 36%, and the depth by 34%, when compared to the 2010 plastic and paper packaging waste. model package. As a result, the volume of packaging used was reduced by 20% and the volume that can be loaded on a 10-ton truck increased 66%. * Packaging material used to prevent the load collapsing and soiling when transporting by pallet. ■ Package Comparison ■ Downsizing the Stand Mounting Fixture LC-40DZ3 Biodegradable package cushioning Biodegradable stretch film LC-40Z5 ■ Anti Tip-Over Design LC-40DZ3 LC-40Z5 LC-40Z5 (2010 model) (2011 model) Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 070 Relationships Promoting Environmental Communication To provide environmental communication for its wide range of stakeholders, Sharp discloses environmental information through exhibitions and forums, as well as Environmental and Social Reports, websites, and site reports. Environmental and Social Report, Website, and Site Reports Environmental Forums Every year, Sharp issues a report on its environmental and social activities, and discloses in plain language To more widely disseminate information on its initiatives on behalf of the environment, Sharp has been its policies, objectives, achievements, challenges, and future plans related to the environment and CSR. holding environmental forums for government officials, journalists, and the general public. In fiscal 2010, Sharp’s website uses articles from the Environmental and Social Report, and also presents examples of Sharp held such forums in Japan and China. community-based social action programs. The 2010 edition of the Environmental and Social Report was Sharp has held a total of 10 environmental forums in China since fiscal 2007, including one in fiscal 2010 in produced in two forms—a detailed version for professionals and specialists (PDF), and a simplified version Kunming. At the Kunming forum, a total of 24 government officials and journalists gathered to hear Sharp for the general public (printed hardcopy and PDF)—with the aim of meeting the widely varying needs of presentations on the targets and actions various stakeholders. In addition, the Sharp website has been redesigned to make browsing smoother. that make up its Eco-Positive Company In addition, a site report has been issued for each factory in Japan and overseas. Copies of these reports corporate vision and Eco-Positive Strategy. are distributed to residents in the vicinity as well as to visitors to the facilities. The Mie Plant site report won Kunming Deputy Mayor Wang Daoxing the Encouragement Prize in the 14th Environmental Communication Award jointly sponsored by the Global introduced his city’s environmental policies Environmental Forum and Ministry of the Environment for the second consecutive year. and offered Sharp some advice. The forum was a valuable opportunity to strengthen ties with government officials and the media. A scene from the 10th Environmental Forum in Kunming, China Sharp Environmental and Website for Sharp’s social and Mie Plant Site Report Social Report 2010 environmental activities: Factory Tours and Community Exchanges (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ To enhance communication with its wide range of stakeholders, Sharp holds factory tours, exchange conferences, and other events. Sharp Corporation holds public festivals at its factories, where employees host their families and local residents to help them learn about Sharp’s environmental activities, interact with Exhibitions and know the environment better, and enjoy eco-related games and events. Participants have praised Sharp for such efforts to contribute to the community and get to know residents in a lively, amicable Sharp introduces its environmental activities to the public atmosphere. by taking part in trade fairs and exhibitions. At Eco-Products 2010, one of Japan’s largest environmental As part of environmental studies held by “COP10 in fairs, Sharp used the slogan “Sharp eco efforts will change Mie”—a partnership program in support of the 10th the world. Sharp—an eco-positive company” to show how meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the it is contributing to a green society. On display were Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10)—the examples of Sharp’s efforts in solar power—symbolizing Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) held Sharp’s goal of becoming a total solar power solutions tours for 157 participants from seven countries attending company—and energy-efficient products such as the that program. AQUOS Quattron LCD TV and LED lighting. And at the Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie Prefecture), fruitful ideas were exchanged at a meeting between Sharp and Mie University in an effort to improve environmental Eco-Products 2010 reporting and the Mie Plant site report. An environmental lesson by COP10 in Mie Sharp and the Environment Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 071 Biodiversity Protection Protecting Biodiversity Under the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity, the Sharp Group carries out a multifaceted approach in which it protects biodiversity through business activities and social action programs at all worldwide bases. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Every Fiscal Year • Develop Sharp Biodiversity Initiative • Introduce Sharp Biodiversity Initiative at Sharp Group • Introduced Sharp Biodiversity Initiative at all Sharp Group • Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity • Every ﬁscal year, increase rate of progress set out in Sharp bases in Japan and overseas bases in Japan and overseas and assessed progress in Initiative by three points from previous fiscal year Biodiversity Initiative by three points from previous fiscal year efforts to protect biodiversity Contribute to Biodiversity Protection Through Business ■ Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity and Social Action Programs 1. Basic Concept Biodiversity refers to the existence of a variety of ecosystems, species, and genes. With the modern world’s Aim to be a more “Eco-Positive Company” by promoting Sharp’s Eco-Positive Strategy and social action environmental pollution, more and more species are becoming extinct and ecosystems are in danger. Since programs with an eye to conservation and the sustainable support of biodiversity. Sharp both affects and benefits from biodiversity, it is crucial that it protects and makes sustainable use of it in all of its business activities. 2. Objective: Understand the Link with Biodiversity Understand the link between every stage of the value chain and biodiversity (how Sharp business activities Based on the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity, Sharp formulated detailed benefit from biodiversity and how they affect biodiversity). measures, the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, in November 2009. The initiative’s aim is to ensure the protection and sustainable use of the world’s biodiversity through business activities and social action programs. 3. Objective: Reduce Impact on Biodiversity In addition, the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative explains the link between environmental measures and Try to reduce the negative impact of business activities on biodiversity with an eye to conservation and biodiversity. It is also used to monitor the progress of environmental activities. Sharp has detailed measures sustainable support. in each step of the value chain for ensuring that business activities exert minimal impact on biodiversity. And 4. Promotion Structure in social action programs, Sharp strives to continue carrying out activities that match the lifestyles and Sharp’s Environmental Protection Group and CSR Promotion Group are in charge of promoting environment of each community and region. company-wide activities pertaining to biodiversity. Sharp will keep tabs on the progress made at each base and will share information across bases so that the entire Sharp Group can better protect biodiversity. ■ Sharp’s Efforts for Protecting Biodiversity Business Multifaceted Social action activities approach programs Efforts throughout the value chain Foster biodiversity-minded employees Procure environmentally conscious Procurement parts and materials (Sharp Green Club activities, etc.) Develop environmentally Plant trees and protect satoyama areas Development conscious products and devices (Sharp Forests, etc.) Reduce the amount of greenhouse Educate the general public Manufacturing gases and waste generated in factories (Elementary school environmental education, outdoor environmental education classes) Reduce the amount of greenhouse Sales gases and waste generated in offices Shift modes of transportation to Logistics reduce CO2 emissions Sharp and the Environment Biodiversity Protection Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 072 Global Activities Based on the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative Social Action Programs Leading Toward Protection of Biodiversity (SUKM, UK) To increase the effectiveness of the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, which has been introduced at all Sharp Group bases around the world, Sharp has created a tool for monitoring progress in its efforts to protect SUKM, the Wrexham, Wales-based manufacturing division of sales subsidiary SUK, has been utilizing part biodiversity. Using a 26-item checklist, this tool monitors the progress being made at each step of the value of the factory’s profit from sales of valuable materials for activities to protect biodiversity. chain: procurement, development, manufacture, sales, and logistics—the fundamentals of Sharp’s business activities—as well as in social action programs. Since fiscal 2006, SUKM has been participating in various programs, including the Dormouse Project run by the North Wales Wildlife Trust, which is showing good improvements in the numbers of these rare In the area of procurement, for example, Sharp monitors the level of environmental protection and hibernating mammals. In May 2010, in support of the United Nations International Day for Biological biodiversity-conscious business activities by suppliers, based on its Green Procurement Guidelines for Diversity, SUKM planted 12 apple trees to start an orchard on the factory campus. North Wales used to environmentally conscious procurement. have many farms and orchards, but 95% of those orchards have been lost over the past 60 years, and In the area of social action programs, Sharp monitors its efforts to protect biodiversity, in order to help build wildlife lost habitat as a result. In order to protect as much wildlife as possible, SUKM plans to continue its a society where nature and people can coexist harmoniously, as well as to raise the awareness of tree-planting program. SUKM has also been growing rare plants, such as red cowslip, contributing to the employees in this regard. increase of insects such as bees and butterflies. By itemizing in this management tool the efforts that should be made across all areas of Sharp’s business SUKM has also been engaging in activities such as repainting benches and planting flowers in the yards of activities, Sharp is helping every employee conduct business in a way that is mindful of the need to protect local elementary schools so that students can learn about biodiversity by experiencing nature directly. biodiversity. The global implementation of this management tool has enabled Sharp to centrally monitor the progress of efforts made at all its bases and to rank those efforts into three levels. In fiscal 2010, Sharp issued the “Good Examples towards Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use,” which introduces examples of excellent efforts from various bases, aiming to improve the level of efforts by the Sharp Group as a whole. Sharp will continue to make such efforts, integrating them into its business activities at a deeper level, and will work hard to protect biodiversity around the world. Dormice Planting apple trees on factory grounds Protecting Local Habitats and Wildlife The United Nations has designated the next 10 years (2011–2020) as the ‘United Nations Decade on Biodiversity.’ For a number of years, SUKM has been helping local community projects in North Wales that aim to support biodiversity. All of our efforts are showing real benefits, creating new habitats, and conserving existing ones. At SUKM, we are proud of the involvement we have had over the last several years, and we will continue to play our part in the restoration and Bill Thomas conservation of our local habitats and wildlife. General Manager Quality Control Centre SUKM Good Examples towards Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use Sharp and the Environment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 073 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices ■ Boundary of Environmental Performance Data Europe Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries. Note that the category “plants” includes non-consolidated Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM)*2 UK Wrexham, North Wales subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Consolidated Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain Barcelona Plants: 41 plants/30 companies (19 plants/9 companies in Japan, 22 plants/21 companies overseas) Plants Offices: 78 offices/31 companies (54 offices/8 companies in Japan, 24 offices/23 companies overseas) subsidiaries Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France Soultz As of March 31, 2011 Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland Torun Japan Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (SEEG) Germany Hamburg Tochigi Plant Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK) Middlesex UK Yao Plant Sharp Laboratories of Europe, Ltd. (SLE) Oxford Hiroshima Plant Sharp Electronics France S.A. (SEF) France Paris Nara Plant Consolidated Offices Sharp Electronics (Italia) S.p.A. (SEIS) Italy Milan subsidiaries Katsuragi Plant (including Toyama Plant performance) Sharp Electronics (Schweiz) AG (SEZ) Switzerland Rüschlikon Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant Sharp Electronics (Nordic) AB (SEN) Sweden Bromma Mie Plant Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. (SEB) Netherlands Houten Tenri Plant (including Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories performance) Sharp Electronics Russia LLC (SER) Russia Moscow Mihara Plant Plants *2 Manufacturing division of SUK Kameyama Plant Asia, Middle East, Oceania GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) Shanghai Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd. (SOCC) Changshu Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Consolidated Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China Wuxi Sharp Mie Corporation subsidiaries Sharp Yonago Corporation Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) Nanjing Sharp Display Products Corporation Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) Wuxi Non-consolidated Consolidated subsidiary Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) Chachoengsao subsidiaries Thailand Affiliated Kantatsu Co., Ltd. Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Nakornpathom companies Sharp Takaya Electronic Industry Co., Ltd. Plants Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia Johor Head Office/Tanabe Building Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines Manila Sharp Corporation Makuhari Building (Tokyo Branch) PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Karawang Tokyo Ichigaya Building Indonesia PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Jakarta Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Non-consolidated Shanghai Sharp Mold and Manufacturing Systems Co., Ltd. (SSMC) China Shanghai Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. Offices subsidiaries Sharp India Limited (SIL) India Pune Sharp-Engineering Corporation Consolidated Affiliated Sharp Korea Corporation (SKC) Korea Incheon Sharp Document Systems Corporation subsidiaries companies S&O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) Malaysia Kedah Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation Sharp Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (SES) Sharp Trading Corporation China Shanghai Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) Sharp Electronic Components (Taiwan) Corporation (SECT) Taiwan Taipei North America Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SEM) Malaysia Selangor Consolidated Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA)*1 US Tennessee Consolidated Sharp-Roxy Sales (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SRS) Plants Offices Singapore subsidiaries Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico Baja California subsidiaries Sharp Electronics (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SESL) Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC) New Jersey Sharp Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. (SSDI) India Bangalore US Consolidated Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc. (SLA) Washington Sharp Middle East Free Zone Establishment (SMEF) UAE Dubai Offices subsidiaries Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. (SECL) Canada Ontario Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd. (SCA) Australia New South Wales Sharp Corporation Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SCMEX) Mexico Mexico City Sharp Corporation of New Zealand Ltd. (SCNZ) New Zealand Auckland *1 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp and the Environment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 074 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices ■ Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indices [1] Period covered April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 [2] Organizations covered Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries. Note that the category “plants” includes non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Plants: 41 plants/30 companies (19 plants/9 companies in Japan, 22 plants/21 companies overseas) Offices: 78 offices/31 companies (54 offices/8 companies in Japan, 24 offices/23 companies overseas) [3] Calculation method for environmental performance indices Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version) published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment were used as reference. Environmental performance indices Unit Calculation method Electricity purchased annually (kWh) x units of heat used*1 + Σ [ Annual consumption of each fuel x heat value per unit *2 ] *1 Based on regulations of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (enforced April 1, 2006): • Daytime electricity 9.97 MJ/kWh • Nighttime electricity 9.28 MJ/kWh *2 Based on the heat value per unit per energy source used by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy (February 2002): • City gas Overseas Japan Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider: Energy consumption TJ • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 45.0 GJ/km3 • Fukuyama Gas: 46.0 GJ/km3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas: 46.04655 GJ/km3 • Hokkaido Gas: 46.05 GJ/km3 Highest figure from among those known in Japan: • 46.05 GJ/km3 • LPG: 50.8 GJ/t • Heavy oil: 39.1 GJ/kl • Kerosene: 36.7 GJ/kl • Gas oil: 37.7 GJ/kl • Gasoline: 34.6 GJ/kl • Steam: (SSEC) 2.817 GJ/t, (WSEC) 3.771 GJ/t, (NSEC) 3.782 GJ/t • Heating/cooling: Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider (currently, only the 0.802 GJ/GJ value for Makuhari is available) Electricity Million kWh Electricity purchased annually Manufacture City gas Million m3 City gas purchased annually LPG Tons LPG purchased annually I Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline kl Fuel oil purchased annually N P Thousand U PFCs purchased PFCs purchased annually T GWP t-CO2 Chemical substances (PRTR) handled Tons Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law*3, the total amount of substances handled in quantities 500 kg or more annually at each plant 3 Water consumed Million m Annual consumption of water supply, well water, and water for industrial use Packaging materials used Thousand tons Packaging materials consumed annually Resources consumed Million tons Total weight of products in the 15 major categories sold in fiscal 2010 (estimate), plus waste, etc. generated Logistics Energy consumption TJ Revised ton-km system TJ Estimate of annual energy used by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2010. Product use Energy consumption (million kWh) Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate (using a heat value per unit of 9.97 MJ/kWh). Home appliances (four kinds) Amount of used home appliances (four kinds) recycled into new home appliances Copiers Amount of recycled copiers Recycling Tons PCs Amount of recycled PCs Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastics Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastics *3 Law Concerning Reporting, etc. of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management Sharp and the Environment Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 075 Standards for Environmental Performance Indices Environmental performance indices Unit Calculation method Σ [ Electricity purchased annually x CO2 emission coefficient + annual consumption of each fuel x CO2 emission coefficient for each ] CO2 emission coefficient • Electricity Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 Overseas Japan CO2 emission coefficient (t-CO2/MWh) 0.453 0.373*1 0.351*1 0.351*1 Using the fiscal 2003 coefficient of each country from the Report on the CO2 Emissions Intensity of the Power Sector of Various Countries that was compiled by the Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association (June 2006) *1 Based on the values officially announced by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (after reflecting the Kyoto Mechanism credit). Figure for fiscal 2009 updated from that announced last year (0.373). CO2 emissions Million t-CO2 • City gas Overseas Japan Calculated by multiplying the standard calorific value (GJ/km3) individually confirmed for each gas provider × carbon conversion factor (0.0136 t-C) × 44/12(t-CO2/t-C) • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 2.244 t-CO2/km3 • Fukuyama Gas: 2.294 t-CO2/km3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas/Hokkaido Gas: 2.296 t-CO2/km3 Highest figure from among those known in Japan: • 2.296 t-CO2/km3 Values taken from the guidelines for calculating, reporting, and announcing greenhouse gas emissions, Article 3 of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan: • LPG: 2.999 t-CO2/t • Heavy oil: 2.710 t-CO2/kl • Kerosene: 2.489 t-CO2/kl • Gasoline: 2.322 t-CO2/kl • Gas oil: 2.585 t-CO2/kl • Steam: (SSEC) 0.166 t-CO2/t, (WSEC) 0.158 t-CO2/t, (NSEC) 0.159 t-CO2/t • Heating/cooling: Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider (currently, only the 0.032 t-CO2/GJ value for Makuhari is available) Σ [ Annual emissions of each PFC gas*2 (t) x global warming potential of each PFC gas*3 ] Thousand PFC emissions *2 CF4, C3F8, c-C4F8, CHF3, SF6, NF3 *3 Based on the IPCC’s Third Assessment Report: Manufacture GWP t-CO2 • Sulfur hexafluoride: 22,200 • The coefficient corresponding to segmentalized gas is used for HFC and PFC O (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: U Handled as if there are no emissions because it is assumed that the fuel contains no sulfur. T SOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: P U Amount of sulfur contained in fuel (kg/year)/32(kg-S) × (32+16×2) (kg-SO2)/1,000 T (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: Fuel consumption per year (Nm3/year) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/Nm3) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kg-NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 NOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: Fuel consumption per year (liters/year) × fuel specific gravity (kg/liter) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/kg) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kg-NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 Drainage Million m3 Annual drainage into public body of water and sewer system COD (chemical oxygen demand) Tons COD concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Nitrogen pollutant load Tons Nitrogen concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Phosphorus pollutant load Tons Phosphorus concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Final landfill disposal Tons Final landfill disposal of industrial waste + final landfill disposal of general waste discharged from business activities Chemical substances (PRTR) released and transferred Tons Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law, the amount of substances, which are handled in quantities 500 kg or more annually at each plant, released and transferred CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 Revised ton-km system Logistics Transport volume Million ton-km Revised ton-km system Product shipments Million tons Total weight of products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2010 (estimate) Product use CO2 emissions Million t-CO2 Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2010. Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate. CO2 reductions Million t-CO2 Amount of electricity generated annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2010, plus CO2 emissions reduction Weight of that which was not recycled Recycling Tons Weight of four kinds of home appliances, PCs, and copiers collected – Weight recycled into new products or materials, or reused into new products or materials, or reused Sharp and Society Objectives and Achievements Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 076 in the Social Dimension of CSR Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR On the basis of its business philosophy, its business creed of “Sincerity and Creativity,” the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp sets major social themes and targets for each type of stakeholder within the framework of CSR and promotes activities following those themes, to continue to be a company that has the trust of people and society. Promoting CSR Efforts in the Social Dimension R-CATS* Small-Group Activities with a CSR Perspective To promote CSR efforts in the social dimension, Sharp develops important initiatives for its different types of stakeholders, sets fiscal-year goals, and implements a variety of measures. To offer products and services that deliver satisfaction and peace of mind to stakeholders, particularly The Sharp business philosophy states: “Our future prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity of our customers, all Sharp employees in Japan and overseas belong to small groups called R-CATS. These customers, dealers and shareholders …indeed the entire Sharp family.” Therefore, Sharp makes efforts to teams engage in group activities that take the viewpoint of stakeholders in confronting the challenges communicate with its various types of stakeholders and promotes CSR activities accordingly. of improving the quality of their work and building new systems and methods to carry out job tasks. Sharp will work proactively to incorporate these CSR objectives and measures into operational processes In fiscal 2010, over 37,000 employees worldwide participated in R-CATS activities. by regularly assessing their progress and by utilizing a management system that enables the identification of * R-CATS: Revolution-Creative Action Teams emerging problems and the implementation of further improvements. ■ Status of Activities ■ Activity Teams and Participants Around the World Overall Results of CSR Efforts in Fiscal 2010 Enhance brand equity / CSR / Improve quality As in the previous year, Sharp after-sales service received high ratings in fiscal 2010. Achievements in other Explicitly state leadership areas include implementing CSR trial audits for suppliers, initiatives to develop global personnel with an policies of top management SUKM China: 6 bases Transatlantic: 7 bases emphasis on diversity, and conducting environmental education in special-needs schools in Japan to teach SEEG SMPL (674 teams) (60 teams) hearing-impaired children. Business strategy deployment SOCC SSMC Policies and objectives by function WSEC,STW SKC SEC Policies and Sharp is also involved in a wide range of efforts in various fields, particularly responding to the recent Declare policies objectives by department Concrete SMF NSEC SMCA SATL SSEC earthquake disaster by providing assistance to the affected areas. and objectives implementation SMTL Sharp (Japan) SEMEX (top down) of measures SIL (bottom up) SOEM The results of Sharp’s special efforts such as these can be seen in the Close-Up, Topics, and Case Study R-CATS activities SEM (service) SPC Japan: 47 groups/subsidiaries SMM sections on pages categorized by type of stakeholder. CS (customer satisfaction) SREC SSI 2,539 teams/ E (environmental SEID approx. 26,300 members conservation) Q&R (ensuring quality and Asia: 11 bases Overseas: 24 bases reliability) (526 teams) 1,260 teams/ C (cost reduction) approx. 11,300 members D (shortening delivery time) Number of teams S (ensuring safety) Less than 10 11 to 50 51 to 100 101 or more M (workplace morale) Business management innovation tools Company-Wide Convention (semi-annual) Create a place where employees Japan Overseas Overseas bases also can receive recognition participate Group conventions Regional conventions Held twice a year Sharing know-how globally Presidential awards Affiliated company • Asian convention • Transatlantic convention conventions • China convention Company-wide convention Leadership training International presentations Regional conventions Highly rated for after-sales service Holding environmental education classes for elementary (see page 83 “For Customers”) schools worldwide (see page 103 “For Local Communities”) Sharp and Society Objectives and Achievements Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 077 in the Social Dimension of CSR Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Field Important Self See (Stakeholders) Themes Actions for Fiscal 2010 Evaluation Objective for Fiscal 2011 page(s) Objectives • Strengthen global quality assurance and customer service activities • Advance global efforts on measures to improve quality and customer satisfaction Secure quality and • Established contact points in China for inquiries on LCD TV installation (Shanghai) and smartphone • Improve customer response skills through implementing safety ○ knowledge systems in call centers in overseas bases 79, 80 assistance (Beijing) to handle surge in inquiries stemming from increased sales of LCD TVs and Achievements • Improve quality consciousness and methodology by smartphones there • Held training sessions for 140 engineers to improve quality and technique at five bases in China training engineers in overseas bases Objectives • The pursuit of usability • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Continue improving products by taking on customer’s Create products that • Improved products in major categories to make them more user-friendly for customers point of view For Customers are easier to use ○ • Develop VOC program in China, following programs in 81, 82 Achievements • Extended VOC (Voice of the Customer) program by collecting feedback (call information) from North America and Europe, to incorporate customer European and North American customers to analyze in Japan feedback in product design Objectives • Improve service quality • Implement Japanese-style training systems for service staff in China to improve quality of service Improve customer satisfaction • Implemented repair service visits that allows customers to select time they want repairs to be ○ 83–85 Achievements made by introducing 365-days-a-year service and service staff shift work system in Japan • Conducted training on customer satisfaction skills to improve interaction with customers Objectives • Build system to conduct audits and do on-site verification of status of CSR measures • Build CSR audit system based on CSR audit trials For Business Promote CSR across 86–89, entire supply chain ○ website Partners Achievements • Conducted trials of CSR audits for plants of suppliers in Japan and China • Improve information disclosure to shareholders and investors and respond to diversifying needs of • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen Improve Objectives investors information transmission for shareholders and investors For Shareholders communication with 90, 91, shareholders and ○ website and Investors • Increased amount of information available on website investors Achievements • Held various kinds of IR meetings Objectives • Continue strengthening human rights education • Continue strengthening human rights awareness activities • Continue human rights training sessions at business sites Expand efforts related and affiliates in Japan to human rights • Undertook approximately 60 human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan ○ • Undertake human rights training sessions for management 92 Achievements • Distributed booklets, covering topics like respect for human rights, to newly appointed heads of staff assigned overseas overseas Sharp bases Objectives • Continue training to support development of global business • Continue training to support development of global business • Promote GATE and G-BANK training Strengthen human resource development • Approximately 170 employees received overseas assignee training (GATE) ◯ • Promote GOAL program 93, 94 Achievements • Approximately 90 employees received global personnel training (G-BANK) • Promote GRID program for fostering young global For Employees • Started GOAL language training program (January 2011) employees Objectives • Establish diversity program • Take diversity programs company-wide • Hold activities to raise awareness about diversity inclusion Development of • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote utilization of four • Have diversity committees at each site company-wide diversity demographic groups: female, non-Japanese, physically or mentally challenged, and elderly • Take diversity training company-wide 95–98 management (strategy employees in Japan ○ for utilizing employee Achievements • Appointed first female executive officer (April 2011) diversity) • Dramatic increase in percentage of male employees who took childcare leave, expansion of programs for nursing care • Planned and implemented diversity inclusion training Sharp and Society Objectives and Achievements Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 078 in the Social Dimension of CSR Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results nearly met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Field Important Self See (Stakeholders) Themes Actions for Fiscal 2010 Evaluation Objective for Fiscal 2011 page(s) Objectives • Continue strengthening industrial accident risk reduction activities • Continue strengthening global health and safety management and activities to reduce and remove industrial accident risks • Bring operations at production sites more strictly in line with • Implemented risk assessment and measures to reduce and remove risks by introducing OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system • Formulate standards for in-house occupational health and • Acquired OHSAS 18001 certification at 7 sites in Japan safety management system covering administrative sites and ◎ 99 Achievements affiliates • Build globally applicable health and safety promotion system, and systematically introduce occupational health and safety management system at overseas production sites Objectives • Strengthen measures for primary prevention of mental illnesses (illness prevention and health promotion) • Continue strengthening measures for primary prevention of Promote occupational mental illnesses (illness prevention and health promotion) health and safety • Continue mental health group work training • Held mental health group work training, with approximately 10,000 taking part ○ 100 • Improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by For Employees Achievements • Raised knowledge on mental health by having employees take third-party certification course encouraging acquisition of third-party certification in mental (in fiscal 2010, approximately 720 people passed exam for level II and III of Mental Health health management Management certification program) Objectives • Implement aggressive measures for health promotion • Implement aggressive measures for employee health promotion • Follow up health exams with improved health guidance for employees who require it (including counseling focused on • Health checkup participation rate was 99.99%. Health guidance (including counseling focused on metabolic syndrome) metabolic syndrome) was given to 97% of those who needed follow-up • Hold group health seminars and health workshops at each • Held company-wide sports festivals (approximately 6,800 participants for the year) ○ workplace 100 Achievements • Held walking events such as company-wide team walking (approximately 16,800 participants for • Get people in the habit of exercising and energize the the year) workplace through events like sports festivals and team walking • Implement smoking cessation measures such as no-smoking campaigns centered around Sharp No-Smoking Day Japan • Hold community-based Sharp Forest activities that lead to • Promote and expand Sharp Forest activities the protection of biodiversity • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, provide craftsmanship education at • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, 100 elementary schools provide craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools Objectives • Hold new educational programs that combine factory tours, visits to the Sharp Technology Hall, • Continue educational programs that combine factory tours, and environment/craftsmanship classes visits to the Sharp Technology Hall, and • Provide educational support for persons with disabilities (at special-needs schools) environment/craftsmanship classes • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases • Continue educational support for persons with disabilities (at • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having 30,000 employees volunteer special-needs schools) • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales • Created new Sharp Forests, bringing the total to 12 and service bases • Provided environmental education for about 27,100 children at 520 elementary schools and • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of craftsmanship education for about 2,800 children at 91 elementary schools having 30,000 employees volunteer Expand and diversify • Began programs that combine factory tours and environment/craftsmanship classes; about 2,300 For Local ○ 101–106 social contribution children from 45 schools took part Communities activities Achievements • Began providing educational support at special-needs schools for the hearing impaired; about 260 children at 20 schools took part • A total of about 25,000 employees participated in a total of 903 local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases • A total of about 30,000 employees participated in volunteer activities at all Sharp offices and bases Overseas • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in Objectives • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China China • Expand environmental education in overseas regions • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas regions • In China, provided scholarships (about 150 people at 9 universities), donated Sharp high-density • Promote environmental protection activities and other social Plasmacluster Ion generators (a total of about 100 units to 27 hospitals and 8 welfare facilities), action programs in overseas regions carried out beautification campaigns in areas near Sharp bases, conducted tree-planting activities, Achievements built elementary schools, etc. • Conducted environmental education lessons at overseas locations, notably in North America and China (for about 7,100 children at 75 schools) Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 079 For Customers Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Constantly thinking from the customer’s point of view in order to develop and provide products and services that customers ﬁnd useful is one of Sharp’s fundamental values. Sharp is also applying customer feedback toward making better products that customers can rely on for years and striving to improve sales and after-sales service. Sharp seeks to satisfy customers so that they choose Sharp now, next time, and every time. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Strengthen global quality assurance and • Established contact points in China for inquiries on LCD TV installation (Shanghai) and • Advance global efforts on measures to improve quality and customer satisfaction customer service activities smartphone assistance (Beijing) to handle surge in inquiries stemming from increased sales of • Improve customer response skills through implementing knowledge systems in call LCD TVs and smartphones there centers in overseas bases • Held training sessions for 140 engineers to improve quality and technique at ﬁve bases in China • Improve quality consciousness and methodology by training engineers in overseas bases • The pursuit of usability • Improved products in major categories to make them more user-friendly for customers • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Extended VOC (Voice of the Customer) program by collecting feedback (call information) from • Continue improving products by taking on customer’s point of view European and North American customers to analyze in Japan • Develop VOC program in China, following programs in North America and Europe, to incorporate customer feedback in product design • Improve service quality • Implemented repair service visits that allows customers to select time they want repairs to be • Implement Japanese-style training systems for service staff in China to improve quality of made by introducing 365-days-a-year service and service staff shift work system in Japan service • Conducted training on customer satisfaction skills to improve interaction with customers Basic Stance and Vision on Quality and Customer Satisfaction (CS) subcontractors, established a system that can provide safe, high-quality products and service. In fiscal 2010, Sharp responded to a surge in inquiries stemming from increased sales of LCD TVs and The Sharp Group meets customer needs and demands, and offers safety, quality, reliability, and better smartphones in China by strengthening the capability of call centers there. Sharp established new contact environmentally friendly products and services to gain customer trust and to improve customer satisfaction. points for inquiries on LCD TV installation (Shanghai) and smartphone assistance (Beijing). Quality Philosophy ■ Quality and CS System To respond to society’s needs and make products that satisfy our customers, we keep the slogan “Quality First” in mind at all times. Customers (worldwide) Inquiries, response 品質第一 私たちの心です Building a relationship of trust through quality and service so that customers choose Sharp Quality First in Heart and Mind now, next time, and every time. Call center Service company Service agent Retail outlet Quality slogan CS slogan CS Promotion Group Coordination Sales and • Quality control division • Service division marketing divisions Sales companies Quality and Customer Satisfaction Promotion System Response Information sharing, Coordination Coordination report, instructions, investigation Company-wide CS conference Sharp undertakes all its business activities from product development through sales and service based on approvals Business groups Overseas bases Global CS conference management from the customer’s point of view, and has established the CS Promotion Group as a Company-wide quality Coordination company-wide promotion organization to further boost product quality and safety, and customer Sharp Corporation • Quality control division • Quality control division conference, etc. satisfaction. president • Service division • Service division Sharp Group (worldwide) Sharp established a CS Promotion Center and a Quality Assurance Division that undertake product service and quality control in each business group, and the Sharp Group, including overseas bases and Subcontractors Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 080 Quality Assurance System ISO 9001-Certified Sites (as of April 2011) Sharp specifies the quality levels it provides to customers, thus ensuring that all employees in product Certified business groups and subsidiaries in Japan Location Audio-Visual Systems Group Yaita City, Tochigi Prefecture; Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture planning, design, production, sales, and after-sales service aim for the same targets in their ongoing pursuit Health and Environment Systems Group Yao City, Osaka Prefecture of quality improvement. Business Solutions Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture All Sharp Corporation business Communication Systems Group Higashi-Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture; Yamato-Koriyama City, Nara Prefecture groups and all production sites of Solar Systems Group Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture; Yao City, Osaka Prefecture consolidated subsidiaries in Japan Quality assurance in the planning stage Electronic Components and Devices Group Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture; Katsuragi City and Tenri City, Nara Prefecture; Mihara City and Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture Expectation/ demand Planning Plan products with comfortable operability and abroad have obtained the and a sense of high quality that respond to Display Device Business Kameyama City and Taki Town, Taki District, Mie Prefecture; Nara City, Nara Prefecture; Minato Ward, Tokyo Product-making cycle Large Liquid Crystal Display Business Group Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture; Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture international ISO 9001 certification customer expectations Sharp Display Products Corporation Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture of quality management. They have Quality assurance in the design stage Customers Design Inspect and confirm the safety of the Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture; Shinjuku Ward and Sumida Ward, Tokyo; Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture also adopted the SHARP product and the degree of achievement Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Yao City, Osaka Prefecture Corporation Standards—the Sharp of quality targets Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sumida Ward, Tokyo; Osaka City, Osaka Prefecture Group’s proprietary quality Quality assurance in the production stage Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Niigata City and Kashiwazaki City, Niigata Prefecture; Toyama City, Toyama Prefecture assurance standards—and conduct Production Inspect and test the safety of the product and 100% realization of quality Sharp Yonago Corporation Yonago City, Tottori Prefecture various quality assurance activities Certified bases (companies) overseas Location in each stage of the Quality assurance on the market Satisfaction/ Sales, afterSharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA) US product-making process, from impression sales service Reflect customer feedback obtained through telephone support and after-sales Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico planning, design, and manufacture service in product-making Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM) UK to testing/evaluation and marketing. Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES) Spain Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) China Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co,. Ltd. (SOCC) China Since the Sharp Group acknowledges that ensuring product safety is one of the most important Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China management issues and one of its corporate social responsibilities, for customer safety and peace of mind Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) China it promotes information disclosure and prioritizes efforts to ensure the safety of the products it manufactures Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) China and sells. To put this into practice, Sharp compiled a voluntary action plan on product safety and it strives Sharp Korea Corporation (SKC) Korea to receive an even higher level of confidence from society. Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) Thailand Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Thailand Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia Efforts to Ensure Product Safety S & O Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SOEM) Malaysia PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Indonesia At Sharp, product safety is based on adherence to the safety standards, laws, and regulations of every PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Indonesia country. In addition, Sharp has its own technical safety standards, which are applied to all products. Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Philippines Through these standards, Sharp aims to ensure complete safety even when rare and unexpected problems Sharp India Limited (SIL) India arise, especially concerning issues such as incombustible material usage and abnormal motion detection. To ensure an even higher level of safety, Sharp revises the standards whenever the need arises. TOPICS Also, Sharp is adjusting its system for ensuring product safety so that unexpected product problems can be dealt with more swiftly and precisely. Along with responding in a timely manner to changes in the social Quality and Technique Training at 5 Bases in China situation and revisions to laws pertaining to product safety, Sharp will continue to increase its efforts at In fiscal 2010, a number of training sessions in quality and technique were offering products that customers can use with peace of mind. held for a total of 140 engineers belonging to the design centers and quality control departments at five design/development/manufacturing bases in China (Shanghai, Nanjing, Changshu, and two in Wuxi). The three-day training included lectures on statistical quality control, reliability engineering, and quality engineering, as well as practical exercises in statistical analysis using analytical tools. Sharp will continue these training sessions as a way to further raise the reliability of its Engineers in Changshu learn about products. quality and technique Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 081 Applying Customer Feedback to the Making of Products Case Study In order to deliver products that customers find easy to use, Sharp is implementing VOCS (Voice of the Customer & Service Staff) activities so that customer evaluations and opinions are put to use when Investigating the Latent Dissatisfaction and Needs of Customers and products are made. Reflecting Them in Product Design ■ Field Research Sharp carries out VOC activities to improve its products by finding out what kind of issues customers face and when they feel Sharp products are not easy to use. Sharp collects and analyzes customer feedback Based on the concept of user-centered design (UCD), as obtained from the Customer Assistance Center or during repair service visits. While protecting the outlined in the international ISO 13407 standard, Sharp anonymity of customers, the results of this analysis are then published on the company intranet, so that investigates customers’ latent dissatisfaction and needs as part employees in product planning, development, and design can access them. of its product development process and reflects those findings in the specifications and design of its products. The development departments constantly keep an eye on customer feedback and use that information to understand what can be quickly improved and to make progress in product improvement. Through In addition to getting feedback from its Customer Assistance cooperation and information sharing between the customer service departments and the development Center, Sharp collects information on how customers interact departments, Sharp continuously aims to create products from the user’s point of view and that meet the with products through field research and surveys, as well as needs of customers to make its products even more appealing. usability tests (observing how customers actually use Sharp Conducting research at a customer’s home products). Sharp then improves its products based on those results. ■ Usability Tests Sharp also promotes the manufacture of products that take into consideration universal design, so many more customers can comfortably use its products. As of November 2010, 67 models of 17 products had been recognized as universal design home “Choose Sharp Now, Next Time, and Every Time” appliances by the Association for Electric Home Appliances in Make Sharp products the consistent choice of customers Japan. Through activities such as these, Sharp is raising the appeal of its products. Satisfaction level (high) A customer tries out a product Purchase Sharp Product making Products Purchase Use brand again Purchase Inquiries to Customer Repair service other brand Global VOC System for Utilizing Customer Feedback Assistance Center visits Second-to-none quality Satisfaction Sharp developed the Global VOC System to gather information Absolute safety level (low) in Japan from overseas call centers and utilize that information Ease of use Assistance on Cause of trouble for the improvement of product quality and the development of purchase Background of Assistance on use trouble easy-to-use products. Fault diagnosis How product In fiscal 2010, the Global VOC System was expanded to ・・・ was used ・・・ include information from call centers in Europe as well as information from North America. That information has since been made accessible. Feedback from Feedback from customers service staff Sharp will continue to advocate the importance of VOC Product development/improvement activities to managers of local call centers and make progress VOC VOS in global information sharing. Voice of the Customer Voice of the Service Staff Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 082 Case Study Product Improvements Humidifying Air Purifier (KC-Z80/Z65/Z45) Digital MFP (MX-2310F) A design that delivers ease of use ■ Concave buttons are easy to press MX-2310F ■ Easy-grip handles make it easy to open/close paper drawers KC-Z80 KC-Z65 KC-Z45 ■ Wheels enable easy movement during ■ Verifiable results—monitor displays housecleaning moisture and cleanliness levels • Shows the current humidity level and humidiﬁer status • Shows air quality—level of household dust, AQUOS LCD TV (LC-Z5/V5 Series and other models) Slides from odors—at a glance side to side ■ Water tank is easy to fill and easy to clean A Z5 Series model Easy-to-fill height ■ Frequently used buttons are double the size of those on previous models (compared to ES50 Series remote control buttons) Built-in handle Upright water tank Height Wide mouth Opening ■ Certified for Color Universal Design (CUD)* thanks to adopting an makes it easy to remains steady 327 mm makes it is easy to diameter easily visible color combination for the color keys frequently used (KC-Z65) 75 mm Z5 Series V5 Series carry with one hand when being filled clean inside by hand for functions in digital broadcasts remote control remote control * A user-oriented design system developed in consideration of people with various types of color vision to allow information to be accurately conveyed to as many individuals as possible. The system was developed by the Color Universal Design Organization, a nonprofit entity in Japan. Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 083 Customer Service That Exceeds Expectations Case Study Efforts in After-Sales Service in Japan From before a product is purchased until after the customer is finished using a product, Sharp’s Customer Assistance Center in Japan always aims to meet or exceed customer expectations. No.1 in After-Sales Service Satisfaction in 4 Product Categories All Customer Assistance Center agents (operators) are periodically monitored by a response-quality for 2 Years Running manager. Based on those results, agents undergo training to improve their responsiveness in terms of providing assistance that matches the customer inquiry as well as their methods of speaking and listening. Sharp was selected as the top brand in four product categories—flat-screen TV, Blu-ray/DVD/HDD This enables the agents to maintain a high level of response skills while also boosting their awareness of recorder, air conditioner, and washing machine/dryer—in the 2010 After-Sales Service Satisfaction customer satisfaction. Ranking survey published in the July 26, 2010 issue of the Nikkei Business magazine, following the same achievement in fiscal 2009. Sharp is the first company to be ranked as the top brand in four In fiscal 2010, Sharp took steps to ensure that customers do not have to wait on the phone when calling categories two years in a row. the Customer Assistance Center. It also enhanced the support section of its website so that customers can solve problems without calling. The website provides customer-oriented services that include eight types of In order to improve the repair skills of service staff to ensure that they can complete repairs in one visit, Fault Diagnosis Navigation, where customers themselves diagnose the symptoms and solve problems by Sharp set up a training facility where consumer electronic products are placed with furniture and other following instructions on the screen, and a section titled “Smart Use of Consumer Electronics,” which everyday items, simulating the house of a customer, for service staff to be trained on their repair skills explains how to maintain products and ways to save energy. in a realistic setting. In fiscal 2010, in addition to maintaining quick service, Sharp implemented 365-days-a-year repair service visits and a service staff work shift system to fit with the diverse Sharp also actively supports the sales and service activities of its dealers. In fiscal 2010, Sharp consolidated lifestyles of customers, making repair visits on the date and time requested by the customer. All the the different contact points for its dealers on such areas as product assistance, maintenance and repair customer service-related departments, including service companies, call centers, and parts centers, assistance, repair parts ordering, and solar technology assistance for solar installation companies. made efforts to boost service, and those efforts were reflected in Sharp’s after-sales service satisfaction rankings. Sharp will continue to improve its customer service and the technical skills of employees involved in after-sales service to retain its top-brand status. Sharp will also continue to work hard to provide the ■ Number of Calls Received at the Customer Assistance Center (Japan) kind of high-quality service that increases the loyalty of customers so they will choose Sharp again. (Thousand calls) 6,000 5,544 5,000 4,245 4,615 4,000 4,098 3,728 3,000 3,000 Fiscal 2010 ranking Fiscal 2009 ranking Surveyed products 2,000 1 1 Flat-screen TV 1,000 0 1 1 Blu-ray/DVD/HDD recorder 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 1 1 Air conditioner 1 1 Washing machine/dryer TOPICS Internal CS Contests Words from a Service Employee Sharp regularly holds internal CS contests in Japan as part of ongoing Achieving the No. 1 position for the second year in a row has heightened efforts to improve the response skills of Customer Assistance Center customers’ expectations for Sharp. We will not be able to satisfy customers employees. A form of training, the contests help employees understand just by providing conventional services. Without becoming complacent, we the feelings and needs of customers through practice with pretend will work hard to improve our service skills, such as communication skills and customers. technical skills, to provide service that each one of our customers can be Sharp will work to further improve the quality of its telephone satisfied with. communications, which are a key part of supporting Sharp’s status as Tsutomu Wada Kobe Service Center the top brand in customer satisfaction. Sharp Engineering Corporation Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 084 Global Customer Support System Case Study Efforts in After-Sales Service Overseas As in Japan, Sharp is working hard to improve customer satisfaction in the main regions of the world where it does business, with call centers functioning as the control tower for the entire customer service process. Improving Customer Satisfaction in Indonesia Service agents in overseas regions carry out repair services using know-how developed in Japan and adopted internationally, aiming to provide fast, reliable, and locally rooted after-sales service. —Third-party recognition for after-sales service— Sharp will continue striving to improve its brand image through after-sales service worldwide. SEID, a manufacturing and sales subsidiary in Indonesia, has been providing value-added after-sales service like its Royal Service, which provides service visits within three hours of receiving a request by phone, for users of AQUOS 2 China Call Center LCD TVs and Healsio superheated steam ovens. (run by SESC) ■ Sharp Call Centers Around the World For its locally rooted programs and for making its services accessible through the most extensive service network in Winner of SQ Golden Awards for two years in a row the region (about 290 bases), SEID has earned outside 3 1 recognition. At the Indonesian Service Quality Awards 2011 in May of the same year, SEID was selected from among approximately 500 eligible companies in 26 industries to receive—for the second year in a row—the SQ (Service Maastricht Quality) Golden Award in two categories: home Europe Call Center Dortmund North America Call Center entertainment and home appliances. In October 2010, (run by SEEG) Orleans Chicago (run by SEC) SEID received the ICSA (Indonesian Customer Satisfaction Shanghai 3 Jamaica 1 Award) 2010 for providing the best service in two Hong Kong categories: refrigerators and washing machines. Jakarta Sydney Indonesian Customer Satisfaction Awards Europe Call Center 2 4 5 North America Call Center (run by SEEG) (run by SEC) 1st Home Appliance After-Sales Service Convention Held in Vietnam Hong Kong Call Center Indonesia Call Center Australia Call Center In June 2010, sales subsidiary SVN in Vietnam hosted its (run by SRH) (run by SEID) (run by SCA) first home appliance after-sales service convention, welcoming about 100 people from 97 service agencies for home appliances and audio-visual products from across No. of calls handled No. Region Call center locations (country and city) (2010) Vietnam. Participants learned about Sharp’s customer satisfaction efforts in Vietnam, Sharp’s basic service 1 North America US (Chicago), Jamaica (Kingston) 900,000 policies, and quality assurance systems at Sharp 2 China China (Shanghai, Hong Kong) 1,590,000 manufacturing bases. SVN will continue to do its best to improve customer support in cooperation with all service 3 Europe Germany (Dortmund), The Netherlands (Maastricht), France (Orleans) 120,000 agencies. 4 A scene from the first home appliance after-sales Asia Indonesia (Jakarta) 260,000 service convention in Vietnam 5 Oceania Australia (Sydney) 40,000 SEC: Sharp Electronics Corporation (sales subsidiary in the US) / SESC: Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (sales subsidiary in China) / SRH: Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. (sales subsidiary in Hong Kong) / SEEG: Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (sales subsidiary in Germany) / SEID: PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (sales and manufacturing subsidiary in Indonesia / SCA: Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd (sales subsidiary in Australia) Sharp and Society For Customers Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 085 Educational Activities in Japan for the Safe Use of Products Close-Up Special Service Support in Response Through its website and pamphlets, Sharp is enlightening to the Great East Japan Earthquake customers on the safe use of its products. In response to the aftermath of the recent Great East Japan After the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, Sharp started providing a special service for Earthquake, Sharp also added on its website information on how consumer electronics products being used by customers in the disaster-hit areas. Sharp lowered its to handle electronics products in case of power outages, tips for repair fees as part of efforts to support the recovery of those areas. saving power and water, as well as measures to prevent products Although Sharp’s service bases in the Tohoku region were not hit directly by the tsunami, after-sales from tipping over or falling. service had to be suspended for a week due to the disruption of utilities and transportation systems. Soon after that, employees rushed from service bases across the country to help resume repair Web page showing tips for saving power and water services. By the end of May 2011, some 500 people had taken part in activities to support the Tohoku region. For disaster relief, Sharp service bases have also taken on the task of installing Sharp-donated home appliances in emergency shelters and temporary housing so that displaced residents can start using Disclosure of Information When Quality Problems Arise the donated appliances as soon as possible. In the event that a Sharp product is found to be responsible for injury to customers or for damage to Knowing that it will take a long time for the disaster-hit areas to fully recover, Sharp will continue to property, Sharp will disclose relevant information immediately in newspapers and via its website, or through make efforts to contribute to local communities as much as possible through after-sales activities. other methods. Sharp also has contact points to directly receive inquiries from customers and is striving to keep quality problems to an absolute minimum. During fiscal 2010, Sharp notified customers as below, providing free-of-charge inspection, repair, and product recovery. Based on the Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy, Sharp also releases on its website details of serious accidents involving products that are judged to be caused by a product or suspected to be caused Words from a Service Employee by a product that were reported to the Consumer Affairs Agency and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Right after the disaster, there was not enough gasoline, and infrastructure Industry in Japan. restoration was nowhere in sight, so we were not able to go right away to customers wanting repairs. When, after several days, we were finally able to make visits, customers thanked us for coming, despite having had to wait in inconvenience for so long. We will do everything we can to help the people of the Tohoku region by solving customers’ problems as quickly as possible through our after-sales service. Free-of-Charge Inspection and Repair Yuki Washio Sendai Service Center ● 32-Inch LCD Color TV for the US (August 2010) Sharp Engineering In response to the occurrence of cracking in the section connecting the stand and display due to Corporation faulty resin parts, Sharp conducted free inspections and parts replacement. ● Blu-ray Disk Recorder for Japan (January 2011) In response to the occurrence of malfunctions in some products due to problems with a software update downloaded via digital broadcasts, Sharp provided an update disk to update the software. ● Refrigerator/Freezer for Japan (May 2011) In response to the occurrence of cooling system (for freezing and refrigerating) malfunctions in some products due to an overheating problem in the starting relay (electric component for starting up the system), Sharp conducted free inspections and parts replacement. Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 086 For Business Partners Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers Sharp conducts its business activities on the basis of fair evaluation, ensuring that all companies are provided with equal opportunities. Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with business partners by building relationships of cooperation and trust through dialogue and communication that deepen mutual understanding. Sharp is also promoting CSR activities throughout the entire supply chain. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Build system to conduct audits and do on-site verification of status of CSR • Conducted trials of CSR audits for plants of suppliers in Japan and China • Build CSR audit system based on CSR audit trials measures Determining Procurement Based on Providing Equal Opportunity and ■ Basic Purchasing Principles Requests to Suppliers Fair Evaluation 1. Compliance with laws and social standards • Compliance with laws related to manufacture and distribution of material Sharp has production activities around the world and it chooses who it will procure local parts, materials, 2. Promotion of sound business • Compliance with laws related to labor and equipment from by providing all Japanese and overseas suppliers with an equal opportunity to do operations • Compliance with laws related to health and safety and arrangement of proper business with Sharp. This opportunity includes a fair evaluation of whether a supplier’s procurement labor environment conditions meet Sharp’s requirements for quality, standards, and performance. 3. Consideration for the environment • Prohibition of child and forced labor 4. Securing optimal quality and cost Sharp has also formulated Basic Purchasing Principles that contribute to a prosperous coexistence with • Prohibition of discrimination based on race and sex and respect for the dignity 5. Stable supply of parts and materials business partners. The Principles stipulate impartiality and fairness in all purchasing activities and the of each employee creation of a relationship of cooperation and trust with suppliers. 6. Leading technology • Compliance with environmental laws 7. No disclosing of confidential • Prohibition of bribery and unfair act information Close Communication and Mutual Understanding To ensure continued mutual growth and prosperity with its suppliers, as well as to achieve sustainable development, Sharp is going beyond initiatives related to the quality, price, and delivery of parts and Words from a Materials Procurement Manager materials. Through CSR initiatives across the entire supply chain, Sharp is also seeking to fulfill its social Aiming to Be No. 1 in QCD + CSR responsibilities over a wide range of areas including product safety, environmental protection, human rights Our task in Sharp’s procurement department is to work with suppliers based on a relationship of cooperation and labor, and health and safety. and trust to procure the highest quality goods (Q) at a reasonable cost (C) with timely delivery (D), so that Implementing CSR initiatives such as complying with all laws, regulations, and social standards, and Sharp as a product manufacturer can provide customers with safety and peace of mind as well as joy and protecting the environment, is clearly stated as one of Sharp’s procurement policies in the Basic Purchasing pleasure. At the same time, in the global electronics market, borderless competition with international Principles. To help its business partners gain an understanding of such concepts and to deepen the corporations is growing, and the globalization of business activities, including procurement, is unavoidable. As understanding between Sharp and its business partners, Sharp business groups and overseas production companies move forward with globalization, there are many laws, regulations, and bases have been holding regular roundtables and meetings for their suppliers. In addition, buyers for social standards that must be followed with regard to corporate social responsibility, various materials used by Sharp exchange ideas and information with sales representatives of suppliers on such as the problem of conflict minerals set against the background of human rights a daily basis. and labor protection, controlling toxic substances as an activity to protect the environment, fair trade practices and ethics, and the rejection of business dealings with socially destructive companies. Demands for implementing CSR efforts up and down the supply chain are strong. Basic Purchasing Principles In 2007, Sharp produced and published the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. Since then, Sharp has been actively involved in a wide variety of CSR activities working together with its suppliers, and by redoubling its efforts along the entire supply chain, is aiming to be “No. 1 in the world for QCD + CSR”. Fumihiro Yamazoe General Manager We would like to express our thanks to everyone involved for their support and Corporate Procurement Center cooperation. Sharp Corporation Sharp and Society For Business Partners Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 087 Promoting CSR Measures Throughout the Supply Chain CSR Procurement Survey Status In 2000, Sharp formulated its own Green Procurement Guidelines and requested that its suppliers adhere to In fiscal 2007, Sharp began gradually introducing globally a CSR Procurement Survey using an online them in manufacturing eco-friendly parts and providing environmentally friendly materials as well as in their response system to enable suppliers to use the Internet to enter answers to self-checks based on the routine business activities. And in 2007, to help its suppliers gain an understanding of Sharp’s CSR Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. philosophy and promote measures toward CSR among suppliers, Sharp created its own Sharp Based on the results of the self-check, Sharp requests that suppliers prepare and submit an improvement Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook and distributed it to major suppliers, and also made it available plan for any area that received a low score and where improvement is needed. on the Sharp website. In fiscal 2010, Sharp conducted a third survey of suppliers in Japan, as well as a second survey of suppliers Through this initiative, Sharp is advancing CSR efforts throughout the entire supply chain by requesting that in China and Malaysia, and for the first time, introduced the survey to suppliers throughout the Asian region suppliers around the world step up their efforts in areas related to CSR. This guidebook conforms to the as well as in Europe and North America. To date, CSR Procurement Surveys have been completed by Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook produced and distributed by the Japan Electronics and approximately 2,000 supplier business partners worldwide. Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). Sharp plans to continue conducting surveys once a year as a general rule. Sharp will also request that In fiscal 2007, Sharp began gradually introducing a CSR Procurement Survey based on this Guidebook, needed improvements in low-scoring areas and items be made and will provide support for measures to and in fiscal 2011, will be working in cooperation with suppliers on the following initiatives as a next step: implement them. 1. Revise the Basic Parts Purchase Agreement to clearly explain compliance items in their CSR efforts based on the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook; and, 2. Visit supplier manufacturing and work sites to verify their CSR efforts based on the results of the CSR Procurement Survey, and develop a system to implement CSR audits with the intention of improving CSR efforts. Contents of the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook Status of Supplier Self-Evaluations in the CSR Procurement Survey* I. Human Rights and Labor ■ Rankings by Overall Score • Prohibit forced labor • Prohibit inhumane treatment and infringements of human rights • Prohibit child labor • Prohibit discrimination • Pay appropriate wages • Regulate working hours • Respect the right to freedom of association D rank : 3.8% II. Occupational Health and Safety • Apply safety measures for equipment and instruments • Promote safe activities in the workplace • Promote hygiene in the C rank : 7.0% workplace • Apply appropriate measures for occupational injuries and illnesses • Properly manage disasters and accidents Rank definitions • Be careful about physically demanding work • Promote safety and hygiene in all company facilities • Promote health A : Excellent maintenance programs for employees A rank : 52.8% B : Good III. Environment B rank : 36.4% C : Fair • Establish and apply an environmental management system • Control hazardous chemicals in products • Control hazardous chemicals in manufacturing • Minimize environmental pollution (water, soil, air) • Obtain environmental permits • Promote D : Inadequate resource and energy saving by reusing, reducing, and recycling (3R) • Promote greenhouse gas reduction • Promote waste reduction • Disclose environmental preservation activities ■ Evaluation Ranking by Area IV. Fair Trading • Prohibit corruption and bribery • Prohibit abuse of a superior position • Prohibit the offering and receiving of inappropriate profit （%） and advantage • Prohibit impediments to free competition • Provide accurate information on products and services • Respect 100 5.0 1.4 1.2 0.0 2.5 0.6 1.9 intellectual property • Use appropriate export procedures • Disclose appropriate company information • Detect injustice promptly 1.4 5.5 10.8 10.2 17.4 16.5 14.0 80 19.2 18.3 V. Product Quality and Safety • Establish and apply a quality management system 31.7 29.0 60 34.1 33.8 • Ensure product safety 33.3 VI. Information Security 40 81.2 75.6 D rank • Secure computer networks against threats • Prevent the leakage of personal information 56.1 59.6 50.2 C rank 20 46.9 • Prevent the leakage of customer and third-party confidential information 42.5 B rank VII. Contribution to Society 0 A rank • Contribute to society and community Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook Overall CSR Human rights Occupational Environment Fair trading Product quality Information (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) promotion efforts and labor health and safety and safety security * Status of suppliers serving Sharp production bases in Japan and overseas that completed the CSR Procurement Survey Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook in fiscal 2010. Sharp and Society For Business Partners Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 088 Close-Up Working with Suppliers with the Goal of Further Improving Supply Chain CSR Efforts With the globalization of its business activities, Sharp’s entire value chain—from design to development, procurement, production, sales/marketing, and service—has spread around the world. Words from a Supplier Who Underwent a CSR Audit Our company has also been actively promoting CSR in recent years, but this is the first time that In this light, Sharp is committed to implementing measures on a global basis to fulfill its corporate social we have been audited by a customer. Our staff was a bit nervous, but we welcomed the responsibility, and is working in collaboration with suppliers based on the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment members of the audit team. Guidebook and Green Procurement Guidelines to ensure compliance with laws for controlling and managing chemical substance such as the European REACH regulations*1. In the audit, representatives from Sharp explained the supply chain CSR movement, and we learned that CSR had become bigger than we imagined in the electronics industry. They also Based on the results of answers to self-checks conducted by suppliers as part of current CSR procurement surveys, explained the latest CSR trends in China. There were many parts related to issues we face on a Sharp constructed a CSR audit framework under which Sharp visits the production sites of suppliers to verify their daily basis, such as environmental regulations, and we were again reminded that CSR will CSR efforts. In fiscal 2010, Sharp conducted a total of 16 trial CSR audits, including suppliers in Japan and China, continue to spread rapidly in China in the future. and also provided guidance aimed at improving the areas that diverge from desired results and at helping suppliers We then gave the audit team a look at the actual efforts of our to better their efforts. company, such as a Safety Experience Corner set up inside the plant to enable workers to gain hands-on experience in dealing with In fiscal 2011, Sharp plans to continue trial audits, and through not only on-site verifications, but also through direct work-related hazards. communication with suppliers, aims to establish an audit framework that will foster a common understanding and further improve efforts related to CSR. The basic concepts of CSR are woven into the business philosophy and action guidelines of our company group, and to remain a Through mechanisms such as ongoing CSR procurement surveys and audits, Sharp will be working continuously company trusted by society, we are striving to put them into practice with suppliers to improve the level of their CSR efforts, with the aim of making even greater contributions to the on a daily basis to build good relationships with all stakeholders. This global community throughout the entire supply chain. audit showed us that CSR is not something that can be achieved by Takeshi Matsuda only one company. We also came to realize that it must be achieved General Manager Related information *1 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) working in conjunction with the entire supply chain. Management Division are a set of regulations legislated by the European Union to advance safety Suzhou NSG Electronics Page 48: Green Procurement assessments of existing chemical substances. This law was adopted in Our whole group will continue to work hard to make improvements. Co. Ltd. December 2006 and went into effect in June 2007. Words from a Materials Manager at an Overseas Base SOCC,*2 located in Changshu City, China, has been actively promoting CSR as well as efforts to ■ Production and Procurement Bases That Conducted CSR Procurement Surveys in Fiscal 2010 protect the environment as part of the corporate strategy of the Sharp Group, based on Sharp’s North America business philosophy and its business creed of “Sincerity and Creativity.” In addition, playing a 1 SMCA (US) 2 SEMEX (Mexico) leading role in the supply chain, we take the hands of suppliers and put CSR into practice together. Europe In fiscal 2010, to respond to the European REACH regulations, we conducted a top-to-bottom 3 3 SUKM (UK) 4 SMF (France) 6 review of our response and revamped our practices, working in cooperation with those involved 4 inside the company. We then implemented a survey of the amounts of 5 SEES (Spain) 6 SMPL (Poland) 5 21 22 20 16 24 1 19 18 17 chemical substances contained in products delivered from hundreds Asia 7 23 2 of our suppliers. 8 9 7 SIL (India) 8 SATL (Thailand) 15 10 11 12 In that process, we repeatedly explained the importance of CSR and 9 SMTL (Thailand) 10 SEM (Malaysia) 13 14 environmental protection to our suppliers, and by explaining in detail 11 SOEM (Malaysia) 12 SMM (Malaysia) the importance of complying with laws and regulations of various 13 SEID (Indonesia) 14 SSI (Indonesia) countries relating to importation of goods on both a global and regional 15 SPC (Philippines) 16 SKC (Korea) 17 SEM Korean Branch (Korea) basis, and the specific measures taken by the Sharp Group, our suppliers were able to gain a deeper understanding and awareness of China Japan the importance of implementing these efforts in a variety of fields. 18 SSEC (Shanghai) 19 SOCC (Changhsu) 20 WSEC (Wuxi) 24 Each business group Gu Haipeng 21 STW (Wuxi) 22 NSEC (Nanjing) 23 SEM Hong Kong Branch (Hong Kong) *2 Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd.; a manufacturing Procurement Division subsidiary in China SOCC ● Bases that conducted CSR procurement surveys and whose suppliers underwent CSR audits Sharp and Society For Business Partners Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 089 Dealing with the Conflict Mineral Issue Device Exhibitions with Leading Suppliers In the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the environmental destruction and inhumane acts against Sharp’s Advanced Development and Planning Center in Tenri, Nara Prefecture, has been hosting local residents perpetrated by armed anti-government militia forces have become a major international technology exhibitions and business meetings sponsored by regional governments to provide opportunities issue. Minerals such as coltan, tin, gold, and tungsten mined illegally in the DRC and adjoining countries for meetings between companies, with the objectives of encouraging new business deals and sparking new have become a source of financing for the militias, and hence, these minerals are called “conflict minerals.” business and technology alliances. At these product shows, companies invited by the regional Companies that use these minerals for the manufacture or functionality of their products have been strongly governments mount panel displays to explain their products and technologies. Sharp executives, designers, urged to conduct their procurement activities appropriately in an effort to cut off funding to such armed and engineers attend the show and engage in lively exchanges of information with the participants. forces. On November 5, 2010, an exhibition entitled “Gumma New/Advanced Technology Exhibition and Business These minerals are also used in Sharp products, particularly, tin, which is a component of solder. Sharp Meeting at Sharp” was held in collaboration with Sharp and 29 SMEs (small and medium enterprises) from believes it important to take appropriate measures in response to this conflict mineral issue. Gumma Prefecture. The number of contacts with Sharp for potential business reached approximately 1,000. For some time, Sharp has been requesting that its suppliers put initiatives into practice to fulfill their social responsibility in areas such as human rights, labor, and the environment, based on Sharp’s Basic In addition, on February 2, 2011, the “Tokushima Purchasing Principles and the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. Recognizing that the Prefecture New Manufacturing Technologies conflict mineral issue is one of the key elements of supply chain CSR, Sharp has launched initiatives as a Exhibition and Business Meeting at Sharp” was held. member of the global community, and instituted a basic policy of not using minerals that are mined illegally The Governor of Tokushima Prefecture attended, in its products and devices. along with around 340 individuals from Sharp. In addition to exhibitions and business meetings, As an initial step in dealing with the conflict mineral issue, Sharp began asking suppliers in January 2011 separate technology presentations were also held. whether such minerals are contained in products and materials supplied to Sharp, and, if so, what is their country of origin. Through such opportunities to communicate with local and regional SMEs who have such outstanding Sharp will continue to respond to the conflict mineral issue while remaining in accord with guidelines whose technologies and products to offer, Sharp is working stated purpose is a resolution to the conflict mineral issue. Such guidelines include the expected rules of toward mutual prosperity with suppliers and will the conflict minerals provision (section 1502) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer continue to contribute to the development of the Protection Act established in the United States in July 2010, and the Due Diligence Guidance for communities where these businesses are located. A scene from a technology exhibit/business meeting Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, created by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Working Together with Dealers in Their Efforts Toward the Environment Audits and Education to Ensure Full Compliance with the Subcontract Act Sharp’s sales companies in Japan are helping with the CSR activities of dealers. Through workshops and study sessions, and as part of routine sales activities, individual sales representatives are communicating To comply with the Subcontract Act (Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to information to employees of dealers on topics ranging from environmental issues on the global level to Subcontractors) in Japan, Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies implement compliance checks environmental initiatives in everyday activities. and in-house education on an ongoing basis. In turn, dealers are making proposals to customers for environmentally conscious products and Regarding compliance checks, since fiscal 2002, Sharp’s Corporate Procurement Center has conducted environmentally friendly ways of using them. And the dealers themselves are aiming to build environmentally regular audits of all business groups in Japan once a year. In addition, in fiscal 2009, to encourage internal friendly stores that take the environment into consideration by making the most of efforts such as energy voluntary reporting of compliance issues and further strengthen precautionary measures to prevent conservation in their own business. recurrence of problems, the material supply and outside manufacturing divisions of all business groups, as well as Head Office groups and affiliated companies, began self-audits in which they check how well they In proposing these initiatives, Sharp sales representatives are taking full advantage of knowledge gained are complying with the Subcontract Act. through taking the Eco Test mentioned previously (see page 21). To further ensure complete compliance with the Subcontract Act by the Sharp Group, Sharp plans to hold Sharp, working together with dealers, is engaging in business activities that can contribute to the training workshops on the Subcontract Act for manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, working in environment and the community while encouraging employees to further improve their skills. collaboration with the Sharp Legal Affairs Division, legal affairs staff at all business groups, and the persons responsible for compliance with the Subcontract Act at affiliated companies. Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 090 For Shareholders and Investors Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure One of the most important management principles for Sharp is to return a portion of profits to shareholders. Through general shareholders’ meetings and IR (investor relations) activities that respond to the diversifying needs of investors, Sharp is promoting communication with shareholders and investors, and the valuable feedback of these stakeholders is applied toward management improvements. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Improve information disclosure to shareholders and investors and respond to • Increased amount of information available on website • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen information diversifying needs of investors • Held various kinds of IR meetings transmission for shareholders and investors Basic Policies Concerning Profit Sharing IR Disclosure Policy Sharp considers distributing profits to shareholders to be one of the most important management issues. Sharp discloses information to shareholders and investors in a fair and timely manner, in order to increase While maintaining consistently stable dividend payouts, and while considering its consolidated business trust in its IR activities and to ensure a proper assessment of Sharp’s corporate value in capital markets. performance, financial situation, and future business development in a careful and comprehensive manner, Sharp discloses information designated under the laws and regulations of Japan, and also actively Sharp implements a set of measures to return profits to its shareholders. discloses other information, such as business development, management policy, and strategy. For fiscal 2010, Sharp distributed a year-end dividend of 7 yen per share. The total annual dividend was 17 yen per share. ■ How Sharp Discloses Corporate Information in a Timely Manner Sharp will use internal reserve funds for investment in future growth fields, the development of uniquely featured products and proprietary devices, overseas business development, and environmental protection. Resolved/approved facts, financial results Occurred facts Administrative departments in each business group, division, and subsidiary, etc. ■ Net Income per Share (Consolidated) and Cash Dividends per Share Report on information related to material facts Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Management Planning Board, Business Development Group, Net income (yen) 93.25 93.17 ▲114.33 4.00 17.63 Corporate Accounting and Control Group Cash dividends (yen) 26 28 21 17 17 Judgment (confirmation) on material facts Report Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) ■ Share Distribution (as of March 31, 2011) Resolution, approval, and report of timely disclosure Japanese securities companies Treasury stock 17,622,900 (1.59%) 10,353,023 (0.93%) Board of Directors, President Other Japanese corporations Instructions for timely disclosure 63,400,289 (5.71%) Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) Foreign shareholders Procedures for timely disclosure 222,885,205 (20.07%) Securities and Finance Department or Corporate Public Relations Division Japanese individual shareholders Japanese financial institutions* Timely disclosure 283,950,133 (25.56%) 512,488,337 (46.14%) (stock exchange, mass media) * A total of 64,041,000 shares (5.77%) in investment trusts and pension trust funds are included in shares held by Japanese financial institutions. IR disclosure policy Sharp and Society For Shareholders and Investors Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 091 Holding Open General Shareholders’ Meetings Communication with Shareholders and Investors Sharp holds ordinary general shareholders’ meetings earlier than most Japanese companies and sends out Major activities in fiscal 2010 included holding individual interviews and meetings with institutional investors early notices of the meetings. It also strives to create an environment that enables shareholders to easily and analysts at the Osaka and Tokyo offices upon request, as well as hosting briefings on quarterly financial exercise their voting rights. Efforts include allowing shareholders to exercise voting rights by computers and results and business strategies, and giving factory tours for shareholders. mobile phones, participating in an electronic voting platform for institutional investors, and posting English Sharp holds overseas meetings to retain existing shareholders and attract new shareholders, for example, notices about the meetings on its website. In addition, Sharp is working to further enhance information visiting influential institutional investors in the US and Europe. disclosure, such as by posting video of the shareholders’ meeting on the website the day after the meeting for a certain period of time. Sharp also participated in securities company-sponsored conferences, where Sharp explained its business results and strategies and held question-and-answer sessions. IR Activities Designed to Meet the Diversifying Needs of Investors Through future IR activities, Sharp will continue to make sure a broad range of investors fully understand the condition of the company’s business. Sharp is striving to disclose a wide range of information in a timely and accurate manner while proactively engaging in communication with shareholders and investors through domestic and overseas IR activities. It also provides investors with easy-to-understand information on company performance, such as financial briefings and presentation materials. SRI (Socially Responsible Investment)* In addition to updating and expanding information on the IR website, Sharp has improved the site’s search As of September 2011, the following SRI ratings agencies had given Sharp a favorable CSR rating or capability and viewability. Sharp also strives to provide information needed by investors in a timely manner, included Sharp in their SRI indices. including financial materials and reports given at briefings. There is also a site for individual investors, where • FTSE4Good Global Index (UK) they can easily access relevant information presented in an easy-to-understand format that employs • MSCI Global Climate Index (US) layman’s language, charts, graphs, and figures. • Ethibel Sustainability Index (Belgium) And to further promote understanding of its businesses and strategies among investors, Sharp does all it • Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (Japan) can to make its annual reports engaging and informative. • oekom research AG (Germany), Corporate Responsibility Prime Status Sharp is continuing to go beyond its legal obligations to supply certain designated information by actively disclosing additional information about its businesses, as well as its management policies and strategies. * Investment in companies that fulfill not only their financial obligations but their environmental and social responsibilities as well. Investor relations website 2010 Annual Report Investor relations Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 092 For Employees Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace Sharp stresses the importance of basic human rights and personal dignity, provides opportunities for growth to enthusiastic employees, and strives to realize a human resource system and workplace conducive to a diverse range of people using their individual talents to the fullest. It also has systems for helping employees maintain a healthy balance between their work and home lives, and it strives to create a workplace that offers employees mental and physical well-being. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 • Continue strengthening human rights • Undertook approximately 60 human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan • Continue strengthening human rights awareness activities education • Distributed booklets, covering topics like respect for human rights, to newly appointed heads of • Continue human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan overseas Sharp bases • Undertake human rights training sessions for management staff assigned overseas • Continue training to support development • Approximately 170 employees received overseas assignee training (GATE) • Continue training to support development of global business of global business • Approximately 90 employees received global personnel training (G-BANK) • Promote GATE and G-BANK training • Started GOAL language training program (January 2011) • Promote GOAL program • Promote GRID program for fostering young global employees • Establish diversity program • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote utilization of four demographic • Take diversity programs company-wide groups: female, non-Japanese, physically or mentally challenged, and elderly employees in Japan • Hold activities to raise awareness about diversity inclusion • Appointed first female executive officer (April 2011) • Have diversity committees at each site • Dramatic increase in percentage of male employees who took childcare leave, expansion of programs • Take diversity training company-wide for nursing care • Planned and implemented diversity inclusion training • Continue strengthening industrial accident • Implemented risk assessment and measures to reduce and remove risks by introducing • Continue strengthening global health and safety management and activities to reduce and remove risk reduction activities occupational health and safety management system industrial accident risks • Acquired OHSAS 18001 certification at 7 sites in Japan • Bring operations at production sites more strictly in line with OHSAS 18001 • Formulate standards for in-house occupational health and safety management system covering administrative sites and affiliates • Build globally applicable health and safety promotion system, and systematically introduce occupational health and safety management system at overseas production sites • Strengthen measures for primary • Held mental health group work training, with approximately 10,000 taking part • Continue strengthening measures for primary prevention of mental illnesses (illness prevention and health promotion) prevention of mental illnesses (illness • Raised knowledge on mental health by having employees take third-party certification • Continue mental health group work training prevention and health promotion) course (in fiscal 2010, approximately 720 people passed exam for level II and III of Mental • Improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by encouraging acquisition of third-party certification in mental Health Management certification program) health management • Implement aggressive measures for health • Health checkup participation rate was 99.99%. Health guidance (including counseling • Implement aggressive measures for employee health promotion promotion focused on metabolic syndrome) was given to 97% of those who needed follow-up • Follow up health exams with improved health guidance for employees who require it (including counseling focused on • Held company-wide sports festivals (approximately 6,800 participants for the year) metabolic syndrome) • Held walking events such as company-wide team walking (approximately 16,800 • Hold group health seminars and health workshops at each workplace participants for the year) • Get people in the habit of exercising and energize the workplace through events like sports festivals and team walking • Implement smoking cessation measures such as no-smoking campaigns centered around Sharp No-Smoking Day Respect for Basic Human Rights and Personal Dignity Good Labor-Management Relationship Through Dialogue Sharp participates in the United Nations Global Compact as part of its worldwide efforts to abide by Sharp respects employees’ right to organize and right of collective bargaining based on the laws in each international standards for human rights and labor. country and region, and works to strengthen trusting relationships with labor unions. The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct stipulate the guiding In Japan, Sharp has monthly meetings of labor-management heads: these include the Central principles on human rights for all executives and employees regarding protecting basic human rights and Labor-Management Council, which involves top executives from both sides, and local labor-management personal dignity, prohibiting discrimination and human rights violations, and prohibiting both child and meetings at each site, where opinions are exchanged on the business environment and labor-management forced labor. issues. Overseas, Sharp strives to prevent human rights violations based on local laws, and it gives newly In Europe, Sharp holds European Works Council meeting every year to review managerial issues throughout appointed heads of Sharp bases booklets covering topics like respect for human rights. In Japan, Sharp Europe. In China, under the Employment Contract Law enacted in 2008, companies are obligated to hold works to ensure respect for human rights by annually conducting human rights training at each site (a total meetings with employee representative assemblies to decide on issues like employee working conditions. In of approximately 60 sessions in fiscal 2010). line with this law, Sharp strives to build a system in which workplace issues can be solved in a manner beneficial to both labor and management. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 093 Personnel, Education, and Training Systems That Value Employee Initiative ■ Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, Career Development Rotation and Diversity Sharp Corporation has a number of job rotation systems that promote individual skills and career development. Under Sharp’s Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, once a year all As a global corporation striving to expand business in the world’s rapidly growing markets, Sharp employees in Japan document a career development plan and their job aptitude. Sharp then uses the systematically promotes human resource development. In addition to holding seminars classified by information to develop skills and organize job rotations. Sharp also implements a Career Development function and job type to help employees deepen their knowledge and gain required expertise, Sharp has Rotation to give mainly young employees in Japan the opportunity to experience multiple types of jobs. implemented a variety of personnel, education, and training systems designed to bring out the character, The aim is to systematically foster personnel who balance a high degree of expertise and a wide intellectual motivation, and creativity of each employee. Sharp’s human resource development systems (introduced horizon. below) are based on respect for employee individuality and diversity. Education, Training, and Self-Development Support Systems Next-Generation Human Resource Development Systems ■ Step-Up Campaign (Qualification Acquisition Encouragement Plan) ■ Leadership Program, Challenge Course Supporting self-development for employees, Sharp introduced the Qualification Acquisition Encouragement Sharp introduced the Sharp Leadership Program in Japan as an educational and promotion system Plan in September 2004 in Japan to reward employees who have acquired any of the specified six targeting all employees, from younger employees in semi-managerial positions to those in supervisory qualifications, such as public accountant certification. In 2010, in addition to the existing required positions, with the objective of systematically nurturing management personnel. It is intended to nurture qualifications in techniques and skills for specialized fields, as well as those directly related to daily duties, management skill and leadership that is in line with global standards. the plan now covers 242 qualifications, with a focus on language training and other skills needed for the development of global employees. Employees receive monetary rewards for acquiring these qualifications, The Challenge Course, for younger employees in semi-managerial positions, eliminates seniority-based with the amount depending on the difficulty in acquiring the qualification. Approximately 5,200 qualified factors and sets up a monthly compensation system based on performance. Along with an education applicants received the respective monetary rewards in fiscal 2010. support system, it is intended to enable early promotion of younger personnel. ■ Commendation System ■ Master System Sharp annually honors domestic and overseas employees and The Master System in Japan was designed to create and develop one-of-a-kind technical skills, pass down divisions/departments that have achieved outstanding these skills to the younger generation, and foster master technicians. Through the scouting and nurturing of performance. In fiscal 2010, approximately 150 awards were highly skilled persons, Sharp aims to maintain vitality within the company organization. The system covers presented to about 4,000 employees. seven types of skills. ■ Systems for Training Global Personnel (see page 94) Sharp implements the GATE overseas assignee training, the G-BANK global personnel training, the GRID program Fiscal 2010 ceremony to award employees who for fostering young global employees, and the GOAL achieved outstanding performance language training program. GATE training TOPICS China Personnel Development Center Promotes Employee Growth Talent Development and Motivation-Boosting Programs Until recently, each Sharp base in China handled its own personnel development. But now Sharp wants to be able to constantly train personnel capable of driving the rapidly growing business in China, and to this ■ Open Recruitment System end Sharp established the China Personnel Development Center in October 2010 as a dedicated site for the Sharp implements the Open Recruitment System in Japan to solicit applicants from among all employees comprehensive planning and implementation of consistent human resource development. company-wide, inviting them to take newly available positions in critically important areas, such as The center runs the Sharp Leadership Program China (SLP-C) for the training of leaders who can tackle and expanding business in newly emerging economies, pioneering new business, as well as developing new solve management issues. This is just one of numerous programs in which human resource and education technologies and products. In fiscal 2010, jobs were offered in approximately 70 topic areas, and about 120 systems merge with the aim of fostering the growth of employees. employees were assigned a new position. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 094 Close-Up Stressing Diversity to Develop Human Resources Who Can Compete Worldwide Sharp believes that having people of diverse values and languages smoothly communicating and furthering business will create new value and help it grow as a global company. To achieve this, Sharp Case Study is building human resource development systems and a corporate climate conducive to turning out internationally minded people who respect the individuality and values of others and who use diversity GOAL: Language Learning Support and to maximum effect. Awareness Activities Sharp human resource development systems include the following: Language Learning Support 1. GATE for the training of employees scheduled for immediate overseas assignments • Subsidies for part of an employee’s language training • Monetary rewards for passing standardized tests such as TOEIC 2. G-BANK for the training of employees scheduled for overseas assignments within three years and the Chinese Proﬁciency Test 3. GRID for the training of young employees who will be key to developing Sharp’s future overseas • English study method seminars business Awareness Activities • Established GOAL website, a language learning portal site 4. GOAL for training employees throughout Sharp in second languages • Posters promoting GOAL in Sharp workplaces Language study session in the workplace • GOAL introduced in Sharp in-house magazine Name of system Details of activities The website contains useful information for • Employees assigned outside of Japan are given systematic training that gives them the concrete and practical improving language skills, knowledge and skills needed for understanding culture and carrying out management duties in other countries including study advice from • Starting in ﬁscal 2011, the following two courses are being introduced to boost the program: people who have passed 1. Global leadership (turn out people who can work in a global setting by training them to exert their influence on proficiency tests, details on the organization and the diverse people around them) what each workplace is GATE 2. Study of particular newly emerging economy (participants acquire the knowledge and know-how for doing doing, recommended business in a particular emerging economy in areas such as laws, social norm, business practices, history, study materials, and test government, and legal risk) information. • Approximately 170 participants in ﬁscal 2010; the cumulative total for the three years since ﬁscal 2008 is Posters put up in all workplaces GOAL website approximately 300; plans are for 240 trainees in ﬁscal 2011 • Participants acquire the basic knowledge for working in a global setting and improve their second language skills Words from a GATE Participant G-BANK • Approximately 90 participants in ﬁscal 2010; the cumulative total for the three years since ﬁscal 2008 is approximately 590; plans are for 120 trainees in ﬁscal 2011 This is my ﬁrst overseas assignment, so naturally I’m anxious and confused but working full speed ahead every day. In China, I was stressed out worrying • Employees will be sent for one or two years to newly emerging economies (countries with promising economic growth such as India and Russia), both those with and without Sharp bases, where they will learn in the actual about whether I could get my job done in a country with a different culture, GRID market by immersing themselves in local culture and lifestyles language, and business practices. Then I remembered the words of my • The program started in April 2011 and plans are for approximately 200 participants over three years instructor in the GATE program in Japan, who said, “Start by trying to Kiyoshi Odai communicate.” So I had an intimate discussion with the Chinese staff and did Section Chief • Workplaces where foreign languages like Chinese and English are necessary are designated as Global my best to understand what they were thinking while telling them how I felt. Technical Planning Workplaces (as of the end of February 2011 there were 286 such workplaces with approximately 3,240 Even if you’re not good at your second language, you can get your point Department GOAL employees), and relevant employees are given intensive language training Sharp Laboratories of across if you have the will. So I was gradually able to set a good work pace. • All employees are given support and awareness in the study of second languages China Co., Ltd. (SLC) Work processes are systematized and countries differ, but in the end you are working with another fellow human being. What’s most important is mutual understanding and trust. I had a chance to meet some of my GATE classmates in Shanghai, and after talking about our problems With employees getting more opportunities to work with people of various nationalities in various and exchanging information, I left with a feeling that there is still much more I can do. My study in the places, Sharp’s aim is to step up these training programs and promote diversity in Sharp. GATE program, as well as the people I have met and worked with, have been invaluable assets in my work and life in China. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 095 Efforts Toward Diversity Diversity Inclusion (Workplace Improvement for Equal Opportunity) Sharp believes that carrying out diversity management*1 is crucial to boosting the competitiveness of a Sharp is providing information on the effectiveness and importance of diversity as a business strategy, as company in a world in which business is becoming increasingly global. From this point of view, Sharp realized through diversity management. As well, Sharp is striving to build a foundation of diversity inclusion initiated the Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program as the first step in diversity by holding workshops in each department to encourage employees to be aware of diversity. management in June 2005 in Japan. In October 2004, the company established the Corporate Equal Partnership Project Team, which was responsible for planning and promoting affirmative action programs, and in March 2009, changed the name of the organization to the Diversity Development Team. In addition to continuing to create an environment Case Studies where women can excel, Sharp in Japan is promoting total diversity, including utilizing the skills and talents of non-Japanese employees in Japan, employing the physically or mentally challenged, and reemploying Win-Win Network retirees who have reached mandatory retirement age. Sharp posts information on its intranet Win-Win Network that The Diversity Promotion Committee is made up of managers responsible for promoting diversity and disseminates information on work-life balance and diversity, members representing various groups. The Committee, as well as topic-based subcommittees, holds with the aim of creating a work environment where diverse regular meetings to confirm the implementation status of diversity promotion measures for each group, employees can happily exercise their potential. Sharp uses exchange views on policies, and share information on problems. The aim of the Committee is to foster its Win-Win Network to post results of in-house attitude mutual cooperation while promoting diversity in a consistent manner. surveys and information on various programs as well as to These efforts have earned high appraisal from outside the company, with Sharp receiving a special award at introduce a variety of role models for all employees. the 4th Diversity Management Awards sponsored by Toyo Keizai Inc. in April 2011. Win-Win Network information site Diversity Workshops ■ Concepts Underlying the Diversity Program Each department holds workshops with the goal of raising awareness of diversity inclusion. 1. Diversity management is a human resources strategy for utilizing a diverse range of employees; it is also a business strategy. NonJapanese 2. Diversity is part of Sharp’s business philosophy. Participation in External Networks Women Workshop 3. Based on their unique individual attributes, formulate and promote In 2010, Sharp signed the Women’s Empowerment programs aimed at promoting the active participation of women, Diversity Program Principles, collaboratively created by UNIFEM (now UN non-Japanese employees in Japan, the physically or mentally Diversity & Inclusion Physically Women*2) and the UN Global Compact. For this support, challenged, and the elderly. or mentally Sharp was honored with a certificate at the APEC WLN challenged 4. Consistently promote diversity. The (Women Leaders Network) Sakai meeting in Japan in elderly September 2010. 5. As a foundation for promoting diversity, strive to ensure that systems supporting the balance between work and family are established and With the aim of becoming a corporation in which women can become widespread. Work-Life Balance (Way of Working) succeed, Sharp participates as an organizing corporation in Business Philosophy, Business Creed the Women’s Networking Forum (60 corporations/ 6. Work to build a corporate environment that accepts diversity. organizations and 550 members), which was established in *1 Diversity management (strategy for utilizing diverse employees) accepts the ideas and values of employees with diverse 2005 in Japan. backgrounds (with regard to gender, age, or nationality) without being influenced by previous corporate or social standards. It is a strategy for promoting company growth and the personal satisfaction of employees by responding In this way, Sharp is networking beyond the corporate rapidly and flexibly to changes in the business environment. (Taken from the report by the Diversity Work Rule Study framework and creating a work environment that can accept Certification ceremony at the APEC WLN Sakai meeting Group of the Japan Federation of Employers’ Associations.) diversity. Moez Doraid, Deputy Executive Director of UNIFEM (at the time; left) presents the certificate *2 The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the to Nobuyuki Taniguchi, Sharp Corporation Empowerment of Women, established through the merger of four Director and Executive Officer, Group General former UN entities for women’s empowerment. Manager, Human Resources Group Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 096 Taking Diversity Programs Company-Wide ■ Sharp Corporation Personnel Composition (As of April 1, 2011) Promoting Activities of Female Employees Male Female Total (persons) (Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program) Directors, executive officers, auditors 37 1 38 Sharp continues to promote the creation of an environment Managers 3,037 64 3,101 where female employees can excel, not as preferential Corporate Affirmative Action for Sub-managers 7,479 561 8,040 treatment for women, but as a business strategy for maximizing Women Strategy Program Targets 1) Female leader candidate development Employees General staff 9,380 1,589 10,969 the abilities of each female employee. program: Expanding the number of (fiscal 2011 new employees) (218) (37) (255) In fiscal 2010, Sharp stepped up training for female managers female managers (at least 100 persons in fiscal 2012) Subtotal 19,896 2,214 22,110 with the aim of putting more women into management positions. 2) Development of female junior Total 19,933 2,215 22,148 Thanks to these efforts, in April 2011, Sharp’s first-ever female managers: Increase the ratio of junior executive officer was appointed. managers to all female employees Ratio (%) 90.0 10.0 100.0 (30% in fiscal 2012) ■ Percentage of Female Junior Managers ■ Number of Female Managers*³ ■ Personnel by Gender at Major Overseas Subsidiaries (As of March 31, 2011) (Sub-Managerial Positions)*¹ (%) (Persons) Directors/ Non-supervisory employees Total 30 70 71 Base managers (permanent employees) 25.3 63 Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) 25 23.9 24.8 60 53 22.3 20 19.8 21.1 50 48 SEC (US) Sales 80.3 19.7 67.8 32.2 70.2 29.8 17.3 40 39 15 SMCA (US) Manufacturing 78.9 21.1 42.3 57.7 45.2 54.8 30 28 10 20 21 SEMEX (Mexico) Manufacturing 84.4 15.6 53.6 46.4 54.8 45.2 5 10 SEEG (Germany) Sales 91.5 8.5 61.5 38.5 67.1 32.9 0 0 SUK (UK) Sales 76.9 23.1 68.6 31.4 71.2 28.8 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) *² (As of April 1 each year) *² (As of April 1 each year) SUKM (UK) Manufacturing 95.5 4.5 67.8 32.2 69.2 30.8 *1 Sharp Corporation only SMPL (Poland) Manufacturing 91.8 8.7 30.1 69.9 31.2 68.8 *2 Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program started in 2005 *3 Managers at Sharp Corporation in Japan, including personnel posted to domestic affiliates SEID (Indonesia) Manufacturing/sales 85.2 14.8 62.7 37.3 64.2 35.8 SATL (Thailand) Manufacturing 79.4 20.6 27.7 72.3 29.9 70.1 Words from Sharp’s First-Ever SMM (Malaysia) Manufacturing 72.5 27.5 34.1 65.9 39.8 60.2 Female Executive Officer SESC (China) Sales 83.2 16.8 60.5 39.5 62.9 37.1 To carry out one-of-a-kind management for the pursuit of SOCC (China) Manufacturing 90.9 9.1 31.3 68.7 33.2 66.8 “one-of-a-kindness” in everything we do, it is essential that we think out of NSEC (China) Manufacturing 63.1 36.9 62.6 37.4 62.6 37.4 the box. To do this, we must put diversity into action by creating a workplace WSEC (China) Manufacturing 66.7 33.3 39.2 60.8 41.6 58.4 where a diverse range of people—men and women of all ages and nationalities—can energetically use their talents to the fullest. Besides looking forward to everyone’s contributions in this respect, I will do everything in my power to help create a workplace where diversity plays a vibrant, central role. Employment of Non-Japanese Keiko Okada Executive Officer With the globalization of business, Sharp is working globally to secure and systematically train human Group General Manager, One-of-a-Kind Products and Corporate Design Group resources who match the needs of each overseas base. The aim is to strategically nurture local human Group General Manager, Global Brand Strategy Group Sharp Corporation resources who can play a central role in overseas markets in the future. Sharp will also expand the hiring of foreign students and other foreign nationals in Japan. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 097 Promoting the Employment of the Physically or Mentally Challenged Case Study Sharp has been deeply concerned about social service and welfare since its establishment and has worked to promote the employment of the physically or mentally challenged. Each company within the Sharp Efforts of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Group makes efforts to proactively employ the physically or mentally challenged and create a better work The precursors of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co., a special subsidiary, were the Hayakawa Branch environment for these employees. Factory, a pressing factory for blinded WWII veterans, and later the Tokusen Metal Limited Partnership, The ratio of physically or mentally challenged employees at Sharp Corporation is 2.19% (2.03% for the which was founded in 1950—both established on the strong feelings of Sharp founder, Tokuji Sharp Group), exceeding the rate mandated by law (1.8%) as stated in the Act for Employment Promotion Hayakawa, who wanted to repay persons with disabilities for opening up his life path. In 1977, Sharp etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Tokusen Industry was the first company to be certified as a special subsidiary to employ the physically or mentally challenged in Japan. It changed and expanded its operations to fit the development of One recently started effort is a website containing news and information on physically or mentally Sharp Corporation’s electronics business, and operates utilizing cutting-edge equipment today. challenged Sharp employees. Sharp is also trying to make the company an easier place to work through efforts such as sign language lessons in departments that intend to hire the hearing impaired. Sharp Tokusen Industry’s main business includes the processing and inspection of laser chips, the processing of refrigerator parts, the functional evaluation of mobile phones, LCD panel repairs, document printing, digitization, and translation. For employees, the greatest joy is achieving the ■ Physically or Mentally Challenged Employment Rate in Japan realization that happiness comes from overcoming one’s limitations through hard work. (%) 2.5 Towards that end and to help fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, Sharp Tokusen Industry will continue to proactively expand employment and will further develop its areas of business. 2.0 2.00 2.02 2.02 2.02 2.09 2.19 ( Sharp Group 2.03% ) ■ Employment by Disability Rate mandated by law Other physical disabilities Hearing impaired: (including psychiatric and 31 employees 1.5 1.80 developmental disorders): 1.59 1.63 1.68 1.49 1.52 1.55 5 employees Intellectual disabilities: 1.0 4 employees Total: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) Wheelchair: 52 employees Sharp Corporation + Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. 3 employees Average of all private-sector firms (based on a survey by the Japanese Ministry of Heath, Labour and Welfare) Physical disabilities: The current office building 9 employees As of March 31, 2011 Website for the Hiring of Reemployment of Seniors the Physically or Mentally Challenged Holding Sign Language Classes In response to the fact that public pension is not paid until a retiree is 65 years of age in Japan, Sharp basically reemploys interested employees who have reached the mandatory retirement age of 60 until they are 65. This is not in response to a legal request, but from the stance of the company to promote the utilization of senior employees who have a strong work ethic, and from the stance of the employees who wish to give back to society their skill and knowledge accumulated over many years. Website for the hiring of the physically or A sign language class at Sharp mentally challenged Related information Page 104: Social Welfare Activities in Japan Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 098 ■ Work-Life Balance Support Programs (Main Programs and Participation at Sharp Corporation) Promoting Work-Life Balance Participation (year and no. of persons) Program Description In line with its promotion of diversity, Sharp supports its employees by creating a rewarding, safe, and name 2008 2009 2010 healthy workplace. Sharp gives employees a choice of work styles—allowing them to select the style that best suits them at various stages in their lives—thereby helping them achieve a work-life balance that will Allows a leave of any length until the last day of March following enable them to lead rich lives both at work and at home. the child’s first birthday or until the child is 18 months old. (In 2008–2009, 97.5% of those who took childcare leave To this end, Sharp is expanding support programs focusing on childcare and nursing care to meet today’s returned to work.) 170 109 288 Childcare Childcare assistance grants: ( ): Men employee needs. Sharp is trying to familiarize employees with these programs and promote their use Leave 1) The 10-day period beginning at the start of the childcare leave （78） （54） （211） through company intranet information that includes program explanations and examples of employees who period is treated as a period with pay. are participating in these programs, and it is holding seminars and making the childcare system easier for 2) An allowance of 60,000 yen a month is provided during the men to take advantage of. leave period (excluding the 10-day period when salary is paid). To help employees realize an efficient working style that offers satisfaction both at the company and at ReducedA system by which an employee can reduce work time for a home, Sharp labor and management continuously work together to change the way people work through Hours maximum of three hours per day in units of 30 minutes during Employment pregnancy. Also allows a female/male employee the same initiatives like No Overtime Day and by During 80 72 62 reduced-hours employment system until the last day of March encouraging employees to plan for and take their Childbearing/ after her/his child has reached the sixth year of elementary school. annual paid vacation days. Childcare Childcare Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) until These efforts have earned high appraisal from Support the last day of March after the child has reached the sixth year of outside the company, with Sharp receiving Work elementary school. Allows an employee to shorten working hours 344 389 428 certification from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Program up to an average of three hours per day in one-hour units. Labour and Welfare based on the Act on The Next-Generation Certification mark Nursing Allows an employee to take leave to care for a family member Advancement of Measures to Support Raising (nicknamed Kurumin) Care 11 11 9 requiring nursing care for a total of two years (can be divided up). Next-Generation Children, as well as being shows that the Leave company is certified by honored in the 4th Work-Life Balance Awards Work-Life Balance the Ministry of Health, Nursing Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) for sponsored by the Japan Productivity Center. Guidebook and Nursing Care Guidebook Labour and Welfare Care nursing care for a six-month period per application (can be Support 9 9 9 Work renewed if necessary). Employee can shorten working hours in Program one-hour units up to an average of three hours per day. Case Study Other Programs Nursing Care Seminars Held Reduced-Hours Employment for Nursing Care, Guaranteed Reemployment after Childbearing/Childcare, Paternity Leave, Daycare Adaptation Leave, Reduced Weekly Working Days for Nursing Care, Home Helper In Japan, Sharp holds nursing care seminars that offer nursing care information from both inside and Expense Subsidies, Volunteer Leave, Multipurpose Leave, Leave of Absence/Increasing Half-Day Use of outside the company. The aim is to ensure that when the need arises employees are prepared to take Annual Paid Holidays for Fertility Treatment, Fertility Treatment Financing System, Multipurpose Leave Taken in care of an elderly family member without delay. One-Hour Units (or half-day units) The seminars give preliminary knowledge that makes it easier to handle nursing care issues so that employees are prepared to handle sudden emergencies or increasingly serious nursing care problems. Life Planning Seminars Held Nursing care can also go on for extended periods. The seminars help avoid the problem of family members becoming In Japan, Sharp holds life planning seminars for employees 45 and 55 years old so that after retirement they physically and mentally worn out by explaining what company can enjoy their new life with peace of mind. support systems and outside services are available and The seminars focus on what is needed for each age group: life planning basics and financial preparation for appropriate. 45-year-olds, and social insurance and financial management for 55-year-olds. So that the employees’ With an increasing number of employees expected to face the spouses can also take part, the seminars are held on weekends and at main Sharp offices. Last year issue of nursing care, Sharp will continue holding these approximately 900 employees took part in the seminars for both age groups. seminars so that employees can take care of their family without Participants have praised the seminars for giving them an opportunity to think about life planning and better interruptions to work. A nursing care seminar understand pension plans. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 099 Basic Philosophy and Principles on Health and Safety Promoting the Introduction of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System Sharp Corporation has established the Basic Philosophy and Principles on Health and Safety. Every year, the company draws up specific objectives and action plans, with the goal of totally eliminating industrial Sharp is promoting the introduction of an occupational health and safety management system in an effort to accidents. further address the potential risk of accidents in the workplace and to firmly set in motion proactive safety activities that prevent or reduce risks. As of fiscal 2010, Sharp Corporation’s 11 domestic production sites Basic Philosophy had acquired OHSAS 18001 certification*3. In fiscal 2011, with the aim of giving Sharp Corporation’s With the goal of creating a work environment where everyone at Sharp can work non-production sites and affiliates the same level of know-how in preventative safety measures as healthily and safely, Sharp places the utmost priority on health and safety and is production sites, the company is formulating the standards for an original occupational health and safety working with sincerity and creativity to achieve the target of zero industrial accidents. management system. In addition, to raise the standard of its occupational health and safety management globally, Sharp is also making continued efforts to acquire OHSAS 18001 or certification for occupational health and safety Health and Safety Principles management system standards in each country*4 for its overseas manufacturing bases. 1. Zero industrial accidents. 2. Each individual promotes his or her own health and safety. *3 One of the occupational health and safety management system certification standards; it is the most widely used standard around the world today. 3. Observe the rules and coexist in harmony with local communities. *4 For example, manufacturing subsidiary SATL in Thailand acquired TIS 18001 Thai occupational health and safety certification in August 2007. ■ OHSAS 18001-Certified Sites (as of March 31, 2011) Aiming for a Secure, Safe, and Healthy Workplace Sites & overseas bases Date certification acquired Every three months, Sharp Corporation holds Central Health and Safety Committee Meetings that bring the Plant No. 2 May 2004 company and the labor union together to confirm the status of company-wide health and safety efforts and Mie Site share valuable information. It has also organized a team consisting of Central Health and Safety Committee Plant No. 1 and 3 April 2009 members to conduct health and safety inspections at each plant. Kameyama Site June 2007 Moreover, a Health and Safety Committee consisting of labor and management representatives at each Mihara Site January 2010 business location holds a monthly meeting to report and discuss health and safety activities and decide on improvement measures. Also, the Health and Safety Council at each business location holds meetings to Toyama Site February 2010 further improve the health and safety of subcontractor employees permanently stationed within Sharp sites. Katsuragi Site July 2010 The result of these continuing measures is that the Sharp Group’s*1 industrial accident rate (frequency rate Japan of lost-worktime industrial accidents*2) in Japan in 2010 was 0.15. This rate is consistently below the Hiroshima Site July 2010 national average for the manufacturing industry. Tochigi Site Plant No. 1 August 2010 *1 Sharp Group in Japan: Sharp Corporation, SEMC, SEO, SAS, SSP, SEK, SDS, SFC, SMS, SDP, STC, OSS, SOR, iDeep Solutions Nara Site September 2010 *2 Indicator that represents the incidence of industrial accidents per million work hours (one day or more of suspended operations). Fukuyama Site December 2010 Yao Site January 2011 ■ Sharp Corporation’s Annual Industrial Accident Rates (Frequency Rate of Lost-Worktime Industrial Accidents) Sakai Site March 2011 All-industry average 2.0 1.9 1.83 Manufacturing industry average PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (Indonesia) February 2009 1.75 1.62 1.5 Sharp Group (Japan) Overseas Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (Poland) September 2009 1.02 1.09 1.12 0.99 1.0 Note: Averages for all industries and Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (China) December 2009 0.5 the manufacturing industry are 0.29 0.15 0.18 0.23 0.15 based on a survey by the 0.0 Japanese Ministry of Health, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) Labour and Welfare. Sharp and Society For Employees Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 100 Enhancing Mental Health Care and Expanding the Support System for Employees Taking or Returning from Medical Leave Programs for Mental Health Care In order to help employees prevent mental illnesses or deal with them at an early stage and to support • Providing job-level-specific training and other mental health awareness activities employees on medical leave in making a smooth return to work, Sharp has an improved counseling system • Providing mental stress checkups simultaneously with regular physical checkups for all employees in which medical specialists or industrial counselors are stationed at main offices and plants. The company also conducts various training and educational activities. • Providing face-to-face counseling at main sites by company counselors or medical specialists Also, as part of periodic health checkups, Sharp carries out mental stress checkups on all employees by • Giving advice by e-mail, phone, or in-person counseling through specialized outside organizations self-diagnosis (99.6% participation rate in fiscal 2010). For employees who are diagnosed with high stress • Counseling for those employees who have experienced major changes in their environment, such as levels, Sharp gives one-on-one counseling through industrial physicians or counselors. transfer, transfer not accompanied by family, and job promotion In fiscal 2011, Sharp will continue working for the primary prevention of mental illnesses by strengthening • A support system that provides ongoing communication with employees on medical leave from work cooperation among its staff (General Affairs Department, industrial physicians, Healthcare Division, union chapters, counselors, etc.) at Sharp sites and affiliates. It will also (1) conduct mental health group work • A support program to help employees who were on medical leave from work make a smooth return to work, training, (2) raise knowledge of mental health-related issues by encouraging employees to acquire in cooperation with an industrial physician, one’s assigned department, and the General Affairs Department third-party certification in mental health management, and (3) encourage the use of counseling resources • Providing a trial period for employees who were on medical leave to support their return-to-work training both inside and outside the company. • Holding regular meetings attended by the person in charge of mental health at every office and plant, and the company’s healthcare staff Getting and Keeping Employees in Shape Sharp in Japan has company-wide fitness measures relating to metabolic syndrome, smoking, and mental health. Sharp strives to make these measures an integral part of employees’ daily routines that they use to improve their lifestyles by carrying out the Get Healthy campaign. Employees receive support from Sharp so Programs That Get Sharp Employees in Shape that they can take care of their own health by setting targets for exercising, eating properly, stopping • Aggressive population approach* smoking, and watching their weight. In fiscal 2010, in addition to previous systems for individual support • Information on the Sharp Health Insurance Association website and the intranet bulletin board, health education activities and group education, Sharp introduced workshops held at each workplace and led by company healthcare * The approach works to prevent lifestyle diseases, reducing health risks in all of Sharp by helping individual employees staff, which allowed Sharp to provide a wider range of employees with health-related information. exercise regularly and eat properly. Exercise is indispensable to preventing disease and improving health. • Post-health-checkup support and counseling for individual employees by industrial physicians and company Sharp has therefore been working to make exercise an integral part of healthcare staff members employees’ lives, with events like company-wide sports festivals, team walking, and other walking events. At the sports festivals, a • Rebuilding of a data management system that includes health checkup results and the creation of an improved and consistent follow-up system for checkups cumulative total of approximately 6,800 employees took part in the three sports of futsal, softball, and bowling. And the number of • Improvement of the health guidance system (including counseling focused on metabolic syndrome), skills people taking part in the regularly held team walking events has training, case reports grown to a cumulative total of 16,800, making these events a • Health education including group seminars and workshops at each workplace led by company healthcare staff successful way to create vitality in the workplace. • Forming exercise habits To help employees quit smoking, in fiscal 2010 Sharp held its • Company-wide sports festivals to create vitality in the workplace first-ever all-day Sharp No-Smoking Day as a first step towards Softball game at a sports festival • Regular company-wide team walking and other walking events to creating an atmosphere conducive to stopping smoking. A total of encourage employees to get into the habit of exercising 490 employees took part in the company-wide quit-smoking campaign, which helped employees take the • Promote smoking cessation first steps to quitting smoking by offering individual support including providing medicine, and holding the • Besides Sharp No-Smoking Day, initiated in fiscal 2010, Sharp Mission Sparkling Clean Teeth campaign. No-Smoking Week was established in fiscal 2011 to step up efforts The company, the labor union, and the Sharp Health Insurance Association will continue to work together to to get employees to stop smoking do everything possible to contribute to improving employees’ health. • Helping employees take the ﬁrst steps to quit smoking by offering individual support including providing medicine • Support for employees from dentists (oral hygiene guidance) and fitness center staff (exercise guidance) Walking event Sharp and Society Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 101 For Local Communities Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen Based on its business philosophy “to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world” and as a corporate citizen, Sharp addresses various social challenges with a global viewpoint and conducts community-based social contribution activities, aiming for a harmonious coexistence with society. Sharp recognizes environment, education, and social welfare as priority fields, has created structures and systems for these activities, and voluntarily and continuously tackles these areas. Objectives for Fiscal 2010 Achievements for Fiscal 2010 Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Japan: • Created new Sharp Forests, bringing the total to 12 • Hold community-based Sharp Forest activities that lead to the protection of • Promote and expand Sharp Forest activities • Provided environmental education for about 27,100 children at 520 elementary schools biodiversity • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, and craftsmanship education for about 2,800 children at 91 elementary schools • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools, provide craftsmanship provide craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools • Began programs that combine factory tours and environment/craftsmanship classes; education at 100 elementary schools • Hold new educational programs that combine factory tours, visits to about 2,300 children from 45 schools took part • Continue educational programs that combine factory tours, visits to the Sharp the Sharp Technology Hall, and environment/craftsmanship classes • Began providing educational support at special-needs schools for the hearing impaired; Technology Hall, and environment/craftsmanship classes • Provide educational support for persons with disabilities (at about 260 children at 20 schools took part • Continue educational support for persons with disabilities (at special-needs schools) special-needs schools) • A total of about 25,000 employees participated in a total of 903 local social contribution • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales activities at all Sharp sales and service bases • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having 30,000 employees and service bases • A total of about 30,000 employees participated in volunteer activities at all Sharp offices volunteer • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of and bases having 30,000 employees volunteer Overseas: • In China, provided scholarships (about 150 people at 9 universities), donated Sharp • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in high-density Plasmacluster Ion generators (a total of about 100 units to 27 hospitals and 8 • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas regions China welfare facilities), carried out beautification campaigns in areas near Sharp bases, • Promote environmental protection activities and other social action programs in • Expand environmental education in overseas regions conducted tree-planting activities, built elementary schools, etc. overseas regions • Conducted environmental education lessons at overseas locations, notably in North America and China (for about 7,100 children at 75 schools) Fundamental View of Social Contribution Activities ■ Three Important Fields Sharp provides employees with opportunities for contributing to their local communities through volunteer of Social Contribution activities. It also has a volunteer leave system, whereby employees can take up to a one-year leave from Sharp promotes social contribution activities based on the business philosophy Activities work to engage in volunteer activities, and a multipurpose leave system, whereby employees can receive “to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world.” eight days of extra paid leave per year to engage in socially valuable activities. Sharp focuses on social challenges from a global viewpoint and uses its own Environment And in a unique initiative, Sharp and its labor union in Japan jointly established the Sharp Green Club (SGC) resources to conduct community-based activities that contribute to society in to carry out such activities as local cleanup campaigns and forest preservation activities. Japan and in areas around the world. Harmony and Coexistence with Society Sharp recognizes the environment, education, and social welfare as priority fields Education Social S Welfare Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support for these activities, has created structures and systems for these activities, and voluntarily and continuously tackles these areas. These activities will help Sharp Sharp is supporting the reconstruction of the areas afflicted by the disaster through monetary donations both maintain the trust of society and aim for a harmonious coexistence with and the use of corporate resources to provide what help it can. society. Soon after the earthquake, Sharp and Shin-Kobe Electric Machinery Co., Ltd. jointly prepared solar power systems* for the devastated areas and donated them to emergency shelters with the cooperation of the Structures and Systems for Promoting Social Contribution Activities Japanese Ministry of Defense. Moreover, Sharp provided LCD TVs, refrigerators, washing machines, and other household appliances for use at temporary housing. Sharp Corporation has a division that specializes in the planning and promotion of all domestic and overseas social contribution activities. This division plans social action measures and builds structures and Sharp will continue to support the recovery of the afflicted areas. systems for implementing social contribution activities. * The disaster-relief solar power system is a stand-alone power system For its educational support programs, Sharp continues to develop human resources, including training that consists of Sharp solar cells, Shin-Kobe Electric Machinery storage batteries, and an AC power strip. The generated power can employees to serve as instructors in regions throughout Japan and registering those employees as be used for purposes such as recharging mobile phone batteries. in-house-qualified personnel. Sharp also encourages employees to acquire a skill—like sign language—that Disaster-relief solar power system (left) would enable them to contribute to society. Solar power systems being sent to afflicted areas with the help of the Ministry of Defense (right) Sharp also works to foster a corporate climate conducive to volunteering and to enhance employees’ social awareness. It does this by providing the systems and the type of environment that make it easier for its Related information Page 105: Reconstruction Support to Areas employees in Japan to participate in social contribution activities. Stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake Sharp and Society For Local Communities Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 102 Case Studies Environment As a corporate citizen, Sharp undertakes activities to protect biodiversity, as well as other environmental conservation activities, and contributes to the global environment through its business activities, as laid out in its vision of “Becoming an Eco-Positive Company.” Sharp also carries out activities led by the joint labor-management organization Sharp Green Club (SGC). In Japan, these activities include Sharp Forest work, cleanup campaigns, and greening activities at all production sites and sales and service bases. Forest preservation work and other environmental conservation activities are also conducted at bases outside of Japan, in close coordination with local communities. It is also worth noting that Sharp has formulated the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, a set of company-wide measures for protecting biodiversity, and is continuously carrying out activities rooted in local lifestyles and social climates. Related information Page 71 & 72: Protecting Biodiversity Environmental Conservation Activities in Japan SGC: A Joint LaborSharp is developing 12 Sharp Forests near its large-scale production Management Volunteer Group sites and sales and service bases. Activities related to that are mainly carried out by SGC and include biodiversity protection and Jointly established by Sharp and its labor union in regeneration of the area between the foot of a mountain and arable Japan in 2003, SGC is a volunteer organization land, known in Japan as satoyama. In Sharp Forests, participants aimed at fostering an awareness of environmental plant trees and take care of trees that have already been planted. protection among employees. It does this Some Sharp Forests are also the site of outdoor environmental through various environmental protection classes. SGC has been recognized for its efforts over the past five activities and by developing a tighter coexistence years to regenerate satoyama areas in the Konoyama Sharp Forest with local communities. SGC in Kishiwada, Osaka Prefecture and has received a certificate of COP10 Partnership Campaign* Cleaning Up the Beach in Ishikawa Prefecture will actively continue these appreciation from the governor of Osaka. From August to November 2010 at all Sharp In May 2011, about 30 Sharp employees and their activities as chances for each Forests across Japan, about 1,000 Sharp family members took part in Clean Beach Ishikawa, a employee to think about Sharp promotes cleanup campaigns, greening employees and their family members took part campaign to clean up approximately 584 kilometers environmental protection and activities, and biodiversity protection activities in such activities as taking care of trees and of shoreline in Ishikawa Prefecture. The campaign as opportunities to make in areas and communities near its production nature observation walks, as part of the COP10 now involves the entire prefecture and has expanded social contributions that sites and offices. In fiscal 2010, a total of Partnership Campaign. to cleaning up mountains, rivers, and the ocean—all deepen the sense of approximately 25,000 employees participated an important part of the natural ecosystem. fellowship among our Akikazu Tsuda * A campaign of environmental efforts implemented by SGC Vice Chairman in approximately 900 campaigns. Sharp will various organizations in Japan in support of the 10th Participants cleaned up the beach in the hope of employees and local (Sharp Workers continue making contributions to local meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the protecting wild birds and the ocean’s biodiversity. residents. Union Chairman) communities through a variety of activities Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10). aimed at strengthening ties with them. Related information Page 21: Further Raising Awareness of CSR Among Sales and Service Employees Sharp Forests Overseas Environmental Conservation Activities As a corporate citizen, Sharp is proactively undertaking environmental conservation activities, such as biodiversity protection, targeting various environmental social issues at local bases around the world. Sharp aims to develop environmental awareness among its employees through these activities, while at the same time contributing to the global environment. In fiscal 2010, biodiversity protection activities were held in 26 countries and regions in support of the May 22 United Nations Tree Planting in a National Park Tree Planting in a Park Beach Cleanup in Thailand International Day for Biological Diversity. in Mexico and Kindergarten in Austria In May 2010, 363 employees of Thailand-based Sharp will continue developing community-based environmental Since 2010, about 100 employees of In June 2011, Austria-based sales subsidiary manufacturing subsidiary SMTL cleaned up a conservation activities. Mexico-based sales subsidiary SCMEX and SCEE planted trees in a local park and on the local beach. their families have been planting trees in a grounds of a kindergarten, in cooperation with national park. an NGO. Sharp and Society For Local Communities Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 103 Case Studies Education Sharp is undertaking educational activities directed at children, on whose shoulders the future will rest, to increase their awareness of global environmental issues and their interest in science, and to get them thinking about future careers. In Japan, Sharp began providing environmental education at elementary schools from fiscal 2006, and craftsmanship education at elementary schools from fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, Sharp officially started a program that combines factory tours and environment/craftsmanship education. Recognizing that environmental issues are global social issues, Sharp is also undertaking environmental education around the world. Educational Activities in Japan 8th Corporate Philanthropy Awards Japan Philanthropic Association Director Yoko Takahashi ■ Elementary School Environmental Education (left) and Moriyuki Okada, Sharp Corporation Executive Managing Officer; General Manager, Domestic Sales and Since October 2006, Sharp has conducted environmental education activities—in collaboration with the Weathercaster Network (WCN) Marketing; Group General Manager, Domestic Sales and and with the cooperation of the Asaza Fund—at a total of 500 elementary schools across the nation annually. The aim of the classes is to Marketing Group foster concern for the global environment in children, on whose shoulders the future will rest, by conveying to them current global environmental issues in easy-to-understand lessons, leading them to do environmentally conscious activities at home. Another aim is to increase children’s interest in science through presentations on environmental technologies, experiments, and other methods. By November 2010, classroom presentations had been given in a total of approximately 2,000 schools, reaching 130,000 children. These activities have earned high praise from local communities, and in February 2011, Sharp received the “Environmental Relay for the Future” special award at the 8th Corporate Philanthropy Awards in Japan. ■ Elementary School Craftsmanship Education From fiscal 2009, craftsmanship education classes are being given at a total of 100 elementary schools around Japan annually. These classes aim at conveying to children in easy-to-understand language the fun and dreams of craftsmanship, and the importance of teamwork, an inquiring mind, and curiosity in craftsmanship, in the hope that the lessons will act as a catalyst to increase students’ interest in science and get them thinking about future careers. 2010 Award of the Minister of Education, In January 2011, Sharp received the 2010 Award of the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for Excellence in Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for Excellence in Career Education by School Career Education by School Boards, Schools, Companies, and PTA Groups on the recommendation of the Sakai Municipal Board of Boards, Schools, Companies, and PTA Education, which highly valued Sharp’s efforts. Groups Isao Shibamura, Superintendent of Education, Sakai City (left) and Kazutoshi Goto, Sharp ■ Factory Tours and Environmental/Craftsmanship Classes Corporation Executive Officer; Group General In fiscal 2010, Sharp began combining tours to its factory in Kameyama and R&D center in Tenri with its environmental and craftsmanship Manager, CSR Promotion Group classes for schoolchildren in Japan. With the aim of increasing the children’s interest in science and their awareness of environmental issues, this program features a variety of displays that explain, in an easy-to-understand way, Sharp’s cutting-edge technologies and the environmental efforts made by its factories. These tours are popular with local educators, who find the educational content to be much more effective than that of conventional factory tours. Factory (Kameyama) tour and environmental/craftsmanship class Overseas Environmental Education Environmental education for elementary school students began in fiscal 2008, starting in the United States and China, and has since expanded to other countries. In Malaysia and Indonesia, the presentations have focused on themes related to local environmental issues like ecological preservation, which has been taught through tree planting at the schools. Environmental education was also given at local Japanese schools in Germany. In fiscal 2010, approximately 7,000 students in 75 schools overseas learned about the environment. Environmental education at an elementary school in Malaysia Environmental education at an elementary school in Indonesia Environmental education at a Japanese school in Germany Sharp and Society For Local Communities Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 104 Case Studies Social Welfare Sharp conducts various activities on a global scale, including employment of the physically or mentally challenged, job assistance for the physically or mentally challenged through sales opportunities for vocational training centers, environmental education classes for physically or mentally challenged children in Japan, and donations to welfare facilities and charities overseas. Social Welfare Activities in Japan ■ Activities at a Special Subsidiary ■ Providing Sales Opportunities for Vocational Words from a Cooperating Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. was the first Training Center* Products company to be established as a special As a joint effort between labor and management, Sharp Support Group subsidiary in Japan and employ the provides sales opportunities on its premises for Face-to-face selling at large corporations is an physically or mentally challenged, handmade products from vocational training centers, invaluable experience for the physically or allowing them to participate in society. working together with local governments and non-profit mentally challenged working at vocational organizations. As of the end of fiscal 2010, sales took training centers. In October 2010, an employee received place at 12 locations throughout Japan, and there are an award for long-time service from the plans to expand sales to other sites in the future. The challenged from those centers derive a Osaka Prefectural Association of Sales at Sharp Tokusen Industry boost to their confidence and much pleasure Award from the Osaka * A workplace for the physically or mentally challenged who Employment Development. have difficulty gaining immediate employment at corporations from the experience, Prefectural Association of Employment Development and businesses. which also leads to the Sharp Tokusen Industry also actively advancement of the fulfills requests for work experience from ■ Environmental Education at Special-Needs Schools vocational assistance special-needs schools and other Sharp conducts environmental education lessons at business. schools. In fiscal 2010, 70 students approximately 20 special-needs elementary schools for participated in the work experience This is great educating the hearing impaired across Japan annually. program and found it a useful experience encouragement for us, The lessons are based on the government curriculum for their future careers. and we hope to support guidelines and incorporate visual lesson aids and such opportunities in the interactive experiments, with the aim of increasing the Yuichiro Asada Related information future. students’ interest in science. Osaka Intellectual Disabilities Page 97: Promoting the Employment of Employment Promotion Building Service the Physically or Mentally Challenged Work experience training Cooperative Business Association (L-Challenge) Related information Page 106: Close-Up Environmental education at a special-needs school Overseas Social Welfare Activities As a corporate citizen, Sharp is proactively undertaking activities, targeting priority issues in social welfare even at local bases around the world. Sharp is specifically focusing on undertaking donation and charity activities for facilities and schools for the physically or mentally challenged and the elderly. These activities will lead to an improved social awareness in Sharp employees, while at the same time contributing to local Donating School Supplies Selling Products Made Renovating a Schoolyard in the UK society. in the Philippines at a Welfare Facility in China In July 2010, UK-based sales subsidiary SUK Sharp will continue developing community-based social action In December 2010, employees of Philippines-based In January 2011, China-based manufacturing repaired and repainted the benches and tables programs. sales and manufacturing subsidiary SPC collected subsidiary NSEC cooperated with the local community in a local schoolyard to make it a better place for school supplies, clothing, and toys and donated them to and began sales at its company store of products students. a local facility for the physically or mentally challenged. made by the physically or mentally challenged. Sharp and Society For Local Communities Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 105 Case Studies Disaster Area Reconstruction Assistance, Others Reconstruction Support to Areas Stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake A Message from the Minamisoma Municipal General Hospital Sharp made monetary donations and undertook the following Sharp received a letter of appreciation and photographs from the Minamisoma Municipal General reconstruction support activities for the areas devastated by this Hospital staff, who are caring for victims in emergency shelters, after providing 70 Plasmacluster Ion air unprecedented, large earthquake and tsunami. Sharp will purifiers for use at the four emergency shelters in continue making contributions to the region’s quick recovery Minamisoma, Fukushima Prefecture. through volunteer reconstruction activities conducted by employees and through other methods. To show solidarity with Japan, US-based sales Many citizens of Minamisoma are still living in subsidiary SEC invited employees’ families to its offices and procured children’s t-shirts decorated emergency shelters due to the recent disaster. with a heart and a red cross. All of the proceeds Because they spend their waking and sleeping hours in Monetary Donations were donated to an earthquake relief fund. The school gymnasiums, which are now serving as children also sent messages of support to Japan. • Corporate donation (via Japanese Red Cross Society and other emergency shelters, evacuees are concerned about organizations): 100 million yen the physical impact of this lifestyle. The Plasmacluster • Sharp Group employee donations (incl. overseas employees): Ion air purifiers provided by Sharp have reduced dust Approximately 42 million yen and odors, alleviating some of the health concerns of Sachio Kanazawa, Director, Minamisoma Municipal evacuees and greatly improving their living conditions. General Hospital, sender of the letter (left), Product Donations We thank you for warming the hearts of the evacuees. Akemi Takada, nurse (right). With them, emergency • Disaster-relief solar power systems: 250 units shelter staff (center left) and Hideaki Shinoda, Board Member, NPO Peacebuilders, coordinator of the • Six varieties of household appliances: 1,325 units installation (center right) (LCD TVs, refrigerators, microwave ovens, fully automatic washing machines, rice cookers, Plasmacluster Ion air purifiers) • Industrial-use Plasmacluster Ion generators: 335 units Employees of UK-based R&D subsidiary SLE Examples of Disaster-Area Support in Fiscal 2010 held a charity concert and an auction to raise money for the disaster victims. They also paid (1) April 2010, Qinghai Earthquake, China: Donation approximately 14 million yen Related information silent tribute to the victims. (2) November 2010, Indonesian natural disasters (West Sumatra earthquake, Mt. Merapi eruption): Page 101: Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support Relief supplies worth 2 million yen (3) January 2011, Australian ﬂood damage: Donation approximately 2 million yen (4) February 2011, New Zealand earthquake: Donation approximately 3.6 million yen TOPICS Sharp Charity Foundation in China Actively Helps Out the Community in Fiscal 2010 Through Air Purifier Donations, Scholarships, and Other Measures Every year, the Sharp Charity Foundation (SCF), established in 2006, continues its social contribution activities, such as donating Sharp products, granting scholarships, cleaning and tree-planting activities, and conducting environmental education. In fiscal 2010, SCF donated about 100 high-density Plasmacluster Ion generators to 27 hospitals and 8 welfare facilities, and granted about 150 youth scholarships to nine universities. SCF also held a charity auction of event display models and donated the proceeds towards part of the construction costs of an elementary school. The Sharp Hope Primary School* was completed in September in Dahua Yao Autonomous County, Guangxi Province, and an inauguration ceremony was held the same month. * The third Sharp Hope Primary School following those in Anhui Province and Chongqing City. Donating to the Shanghai Charity Foundation Inauguration ceremony for the Sharp Hope Primary School Shanghai Charity Foundation Vice Chairman Song Yiqiao (right) and Nobuyuki Sugano, Sharp Corporation Director and Senior Executive Managing Officer; Group General Manager, China Group Sharp and Society For Local Communities Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 106 Close-Up Environmental Education at Special-Needs Schools for the Hearing Impaired In fiscal 2010, Sharp Corporation and domestic affiliated companies officially Words from the National Association for the Deaf School Principals began environmental education in special-needs elementary schools for the When Sharp proposed its elementary school environmental education program, I was impressed hearing impaired based on the appraisal of the National Association for the Deaf with the depth of the content and the opportunity for our students to learn from actual specialists, so School Principals in Japan. I approached schools for the hearing impaired across the country. The response has been superb. The classes are conducted using visual aids and experiments, so the content is The presentations incorporated information assurance* for hearing-impaired children and taught the easy to understand for hearing-impaired students. Sharp received the following students in a visual, easy-to-understand way through experiments. That’s why I have received positive feedback from the teachers. “The classes were effective in increasing requests to hold the classes again next year. We are grateful that, for this social contribution activity, hearing-impaired students’ appetite for learning.” “The lessons were easy to Sharp not only adjusts the lessons to suit each school’s needs, but also conducts the classes using understand through the use of sign language introductions and a sign language Shigeki Suzuki student participation and hands-on experiments. We hope Sharp continues this activity in the future. interpreter. The content was also highly suited to the children.” “Few visiting President National Association for * To support communication with a hearing-impaired person. teachers are invited to our special-needs school for the hearing impaired, so the Deaf School Principals these classes were a great stimulant for the students.” Sharp aims to increase the number of schools at which classes are held to meet Words from a Cooperating Board of Education Words from a School at Which a Class Was Held higher expectations. Sharp is also considering conducting classes at The lesson concept was clear and, as We rarely have weather forecasters special-needs schools for the visually expected from a corporation, made and employees from manufacturers impaired and will continue its educational an impact. The instructors had present to us within our daily routine, support activities in line with the welfare learned sign language and made so it was like a dream. These ideals of its founder. efforts to deliver the information to the activities show the corporate power students. I was impressed that this Japan has built up over many years. was also excellent career education They have a large influence on the Mieko Sakai for the children. I am sure the Tomio Furukawa education of children who are the Former Head Direction students were left with a strong sense Primary School Teacher future of Japan. We hope to see Manager of the importance of environmental Nara Prefectural School Sharp continue these classes with Osaka Prefectural for the Deaf Education Center efforts and deep impressions of conviction. Osaka Prefectural seeing adults take pride in their work. Environmental education at a special-needs Board of Education school for the hearing impaired Words from a Cooperating Weathercaster Words from a Sharp Environmental Education Network Instructor Instructor I remember being very nervous on the I went to the first presentation first day I made a presentation, wondering how the children would especially about whether I could sign feel about the presentation, but they properly. But I could strongly sense were a feisty bunch and it was fun. I n write Childre ssions the children’s enthusiasm for these was so moved on seeing their pre environmental lessons, and after diligence at not letting their disability their im e classes finishing, I began looking forward to hamper them that I had tears in my of t h the next one. The children make me Mayumi Domen eyes. I am looking forward to the Akiko Okada NPO Weathercaster feel there is a purpose to my work. Assistant Supervisor next presentation. Network No. 2 Sales Division Chugoku & Shikoku Branch Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Related information Page 104: Social Welfare Activities in Japan Honors from Third Parties Since Fiscal 2010 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 107 ■ Efforts Year Month Award Sponsor Winner 5 SQ Golden Award (home entertainment and home appliances), Carre-CCSL (Carre-Center for Customer Satisfaction PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia Indonesian Service Quality Awards 2011 and Loyalty), Marketing magazine (Indonesia) Special award, 4th Diversity Management Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 4 ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence 2011 Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy (US) Sharp Electronics Corporation (US) “Environmental Relay for the Future” special award, 8th Corporate Philanthropy Awards Japan Philanthropic Association Sharp Corporation Encouragement Prize, 14th Environmental Communication Awards Ministry of the Environment, Global Environmental Forum (Japan) Sharp Corporation Mie Site 2011 2 Osaka Governor’s Award, 4th Osaka Sustainable Architecture Awards Osaka Prefecture (Japan) GREEN FRONT SAKAI Wuxi City Cleaner Production Certificate Wuxi City (China) Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (China) Osaka Governor’s Award, 9th QC Circle Championship in Osaka QC Circle Kinki Branch (supported by Osaka Prefecture, Japan) Sharp Corporation West Japan Customer Assistance Center 2010 Award of the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, 1 Sharp Corporation for Excellence in Career Education by School Boards, Schools, Companies, and PTA Groups Science and Technology (Japan) Excellent Company Award, 2010 Internet IR Best Company Awards Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. (Japan) Sharp Corporation World’s Top 500 Corporations – China Contribution Award Southern Weekly (China) Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. 2010 China Best CSR Award 21st Century Business Herald (China) Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. Japan Institute of Logistics Systems; 12 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Minister Award; Japan Federation of Freight Industries; Ministry of Economy, Sharp Corporation; Tonami Transportation Co., Ltd. 2010 Excellent Green Logistics Commendation Program Trade and Industry; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Outstanding efforts in reducing energy consumption by a company; outstanding group energy-saving project; Shanghai Yidian Holding (Group) Company (China) Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (China) outstanding individual efforts in reducing energy consumption Award of Excellence, 2010 Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Awards Nikkei Inc. (Japan) GREEN FRONT SAKAI Award of Excellence, 12th Green Purchasing Awards Green Purchasing Network (Japan) Sharp Corporation 2010 Green Management Prize, 2010 China Business News Green Love Eco-Series Green Awards China Business News Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. 11 Award of Excellence, 4th Work-Life Balance Awards Japan Productivity Center Sharp Corporation 59th Chugoku and Shikoku Region Greening Contributor Award Chugoku and Shikoku Region Greening Association (Japan) Sharp Green Club (Fukuyama, Mihara, Higashi-Hiroshima) (for Sharp Forest tree-planting activities) Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award; Intellectual Property Achievement Award 2010 Japan Patent Office; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Sharp Corporation Sharp Corporation; Kanden Energy Solution Co., Ltd.; Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize; Green IT Award 2010 Green IT Promotion Council (Japan) Yokogawa Electric Corporation Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association Chairman’s Prize; Sharp Corporation Environmental Protection Group; 10 2010 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Achievement Awards Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association (Japan) Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association Chairman’s Prize; Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association (Japan) Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant 2010 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Achievement Awards Honors from Third Parties Since Fiscal 2010 Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 108 ■ Efforts Year Month Award Sponsor Winner Frontier Consulting Group, ICSA (Indonesian Customer Satisfaction Award) 2010 PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia 10 SWA Sembada magazine (Indonesia) Runner-up, Sustainable FM Awards 2010 Abbey Publishing & Exhibitions (UK) Ltd. Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. 2010 Outstanding CSR Award China Business News Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. 7 No. 1 in four categories of the After-Sales Service Satisfaction Ranking Nikkei BP Marketing, Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation (flat-screen TV, BD/DVD/HDD recorder, air conditioner, washing machine/dryer) 6 Technological Achievement Award Research Association for Feedstock Recycling of Plastics, Japan Sharp Corporation 2010 Outstanding Facility Award, 2009 Good Lighting Awards Illuminating Engineering Institute of Japan GREEN FRONT SAKAI 5 SQ Golden Award (home entertainment and home appliances), Carre-CCSL (Carre-Center for Customer Satisfaction PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia Indonesian Service Quality Awards 2010 and Loyalty), Marketing magazine (Indonesia) IEEE Milestone (for the commercialization and industrialization of solar cells) IEEE (US) Sharp Corporation Award of Merit, 13th Green Reporting Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 4 Minister’s Award; Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; 19th Grand Prize for the Global Environment Award Fujisankei Communications Group (Japan) Sharp Corporation, Weathercaster Network (for elementary school environmental education) ■ Products Year Month Award Sponsor Winner 5 Winner (Best Home Appliance category), Mother’s Selection, 4th Best Mother Awards 2011 Japan Mothers Society Plasmacluster air purifiers, ion generators Information Processing Technology Heritage Information Processing Society of Japan Compet CS-10A desktop electronic calculator 2011 2 Grand Prize (Nikkei Sangyo Shimbun Award), Nikkei Inc. (Japan) AQUOS Quattron 2010 Nikkei Outstanding Products and Services Awards Development and practical application 1 Grand Prize, 53rd 10 Best New Products Awards Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. (Japan) of e-book service platform 8 European TV Innovation Award, EISA Awards EISA (European Imaging and Sound Association) Quattron four-color technology Health-function air conditioners: Award of Excellence, 2010 Electrical Technology Achievement Awards JEMA (Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association) 1st and 2nd products ever to receive Evidence-Based Relaxation & Comfort Recommendation Mark (third-party certification) Development of SJ-ZF52S and X Series 2010 Award of Merit, 2010 Electrical Technology Achievement Awards JEMA (Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association) Plasmacluster refrigerators 4 Development of highly efficient, lightweight air conditioner Award of Merit, 2010 Electrical Technology Achievement Awards JEMA (Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association) outdoor unit fan modeled on the shape of a bird wing Science and Technology Award (development category); Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science Development of home air conditioner with anti-fatigue effect Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Awards and Technology (Japan) and its verification protocol Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 109 Sharp’s business activities comprise “Consumer/Information Products” that are actual consumer electronics and information products, and “Electronic Components” that provide the key components of electronic products. By undertaking the development of both key devices based on proprietary technologies and their application products, Sharp aims to inspire and impress customers by bringing forth never-before-seen, one-of-a-kind products and devices, and by pioneering new markets. Corporate Profile Name Sharp Corporation Operations* Manufacture and sales of audio-visual and communication equipment, health and environmental Head Office 22-22, Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka equipment, information equipment, LCDs, solar cells, and other electronic devices 545-8522, Japan Capital Stock* 204,675 million yen (rounded down to the nearest million) Representatives Katsuhiko Machida, Chairman Number of Employees* Consolidated: 55,580 Mikio Katayama, President Entire Sharp Group: 64,246 (31,510 in Japan; 32,736 overseas) Founded September 15, 1912 * As of March 31, 2011 Main Products Audio-Visual and LCDs Communication Equipment Free-Style AQUOS Smartphones Multi-screen display system 3D LCD LCD color TVs, color TVs, projectors, DVD recorders, Blu-ray Disc recorders, Blu-ray Disc players, mobile phones, TFT LCD modules, Duty LCD modules, System LCD modules mobile communications handsets, electronic dictionaries, calculators, facsimiles, telephones Health and Solar Cells Environmental Solar power generation plant Equipment High-efficiency in Thailand using Sharp thin-film solar cells Plasmacluster Ion generators LED ceiling lights monocrystalline solar module (artist’s rendering) Refrigerators, superheated steam ovens, microwave ovens, air conditioners, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, air purifiers, Crystalline solar cells, thin-film solar cells dehumidifiers, humidifiers, electric heaters, small cooking appliances, Plasmacluster Ion generators, LED lights, solar-powered LED lights, network control units Other Information Electronic Equipment Devices Information display Digital full-color MFP LED lighting device Tuner unit for terrestrial digital/analog broadcasting POS systems, handy data terminals, electronic cash registers, information displays, digital MFPs (multifunction printers), CCD/CMOS imagers, LSIs for LCDs, microprocessors, flash memory, analog ICs, components for satellite broadcasting, terrestrial options and consumables, software, FA equipment, ultrasonic cleaners digital tuners, RF modules, network components, laser diodes, LEDs, optical pickups, optical sensors, components for optical communications, regulators, switching power supplies Corporate information Outline of the Sharp Group Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 110 ■ Net Sales, Operating Income, and Net Income (Consolidated) ■ The Sharp Group at a Glance (as of March 31, 2011) Operating income, net income Net sales (billions of yen) (billions of yen) 3,600 3,417.7 240 • Consolidated subsidiaries: 70 (16 in Japan, 54 overseas) 3,127.7 3,021.9 3,000 2,847.2 200 186.5 183.6 2,755.9 • Overseas structure 2,400 160 1,800 120 101.7 101.9 Sales subsidiaries 30 companies in 25 countries/regions 1,200 78.8 80 51.9 600 40 Manufacturing bases 21 companies in 13 countries/regions 19.4 0 4.3 0 -40 R&D bases 5 companies in 4 countries/regions -55.4 -80 R&D company and parts supplier 1 company in 1 country/region -120 -125.8 Solar project developer 1 company in 1 country/region 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Net sales Operating income Net income Finance company 1 company in 1 country/region Representative offices 2 offices in 1 country/region ■ Fiscal 2010 Net Sales Component Ratio ■ Fiscal 2010 Net Sales Component Ratio by Product Group (Consolidated) by Region (Consolidated) Total 61 companies/offices in 26 countries/regions Electronic components Consumer/ Overseas 47.3% Domestic 34.8% information products 52.7% 65.2% Other electronic devices 5.7% Others 8.0% Solar cells 8.8% ■ Number of Sharp Group Employees 64,246 China (Persons) 61,734 348 17.1% 59,639 LCDs 60,000 58,912 319 Audio-visual and 55,731 331 318 20.3% Europe Japan communication 55,000 12.2% 52.7% 307 equipment Information 47.2% 50,000 Americas equipment 10.0% 17,878 19,167 18,556 21,071 23,272 Health and 45,000 9.1% environmental equipment 40,000 8.9% 4,687 4,226 4,177 4,600 35,000 3,744 2,818 4,730 4,795 4,471 4,516 30,000 ■ Principal Financial Performance Indicators ■ R&D Expenditures (Consolidated) (Consolidated) 25,000 (%) (Billions of yen) 12 200 20,000 8.9 189.8 196.1 195.5 8.4 166.5 173.9 30,984 30,724 31,017 31,696 31,510 15,000 Others 6 150 6.9 Asia 1.9 10,000 3.7 0.4 6.1 5.7 6.0 5.8 0 3.4 100 Europe -4.4 0.2 0.7 5,000 Americas -6 50 0 Japan 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) -12 -11.1 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Note: Sharp Group comprises Sharp Corporation, its consolidated subsidiaries, affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method, and other affiliated ROE (return on equity) R&D expenditures Ratio to net sales companies. Figures as of the end of each fiscal year (March 31). Corporate information ROA (return on assets) Investor relations English Translation of the Independent Assurance Report Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 111 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan Phone: +81-6-6621-1221 http://sharp-world.com/ Published September 2011
