Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2011 Page 1 of 15 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles 4 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 7 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 15 Page 2 of 15 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) remains as committed to the 10 principles regarding human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption as laid down in the United Nations Global Compact, UNGC. 2011 has presented challenges as well as opportunities for LGS to show its continued support. Along with others in the international supplies sector LGS has faced difficulties in these economically uncertain times. The team has once again shown its resourcefulness in turning challenges into openings in many ways including the areas highlighted in the UNGC. Retaining our principled approach is paramount as ever and it is with pleasure that I can reiterate our belief in the importance of the UNGC remains strong. We look forward to another year of opportunities to embrace and uphold the principles of the UNGC. Lynda ScottTomlin LGS Managing Director Lynda ScottTomlin LGS Managing Director Page 3 of 15 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Below is an overview of the ways in which LGS complies with the principles of UNGC. It also includes an outline of the company policies and outcomes, and aims for the coming year. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human rights. LGS places great value on the Human Rights of its employees. The respect and support of human rights is not limited to the immediate workplace, rather, LGS recognises the importance of upholding the human rights of all workers existing within its sphere of influence. LGS is very conscious that it engages in a worldwide supply management chain. Therefore, it is within the company’s responsibilities to ensure that all operations involved in the supply process adhere to internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Page 4 of 15 Company Current Actions Outcomes Policies • As a company we • Support of Howard • Appreciation of adopt a nonLeague freedom of discriminatory policy, speech and therefore any • A large part of our expression discrimination of work is around employees election projects, • Greater throughout the largely in Africa. appreciation of supply chain based LGS staff is made difficulties on age, gender, aware of the faced by religion, race, potential for minority culture or political is discrimination groups and not tolerated. against minority understanding groups and some of importance • Subsequently, LGS have taken part in of the does not deal with training courses to democratic companies which we combat such process. see to breach human behaviour. rights. Future Aims: Support charities whose aim is to correct abuse of human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. LGS takes a breach of human rights within its supply chain very seriously. Our multinational team help to ensure clear and accurate communication with manufacturers, and therefore aims to avoid any misunderstanding regarding the human rights of workers throughout the supply chain. Page 5 of 15 Company Current Actions Outcomes Policies • LGS does not • LGS continues to engage in • Suppliers engage with any regular factory visits. As we are made company seen to have started offering new aware of be breaching products this has involved a this and human rights. significant number of visits do we to suppliers in the supply believe • LGS only chain to check they adhere examine participates in to an acceptable level of some of bids which do not human rights. their violate human practices rights. • Where a breach of human as a rights is uncovered, LGS result. takes appropriate action to either insist that practices are changed, or to switch suppliers. Future Aims: To continue to keep vigilant in our choice of suppliers. Page 6 of 15 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As a company we value the choices and opinions of our employees. All workers are respected and listened to, and we uphold the freedom of association. Managers are in place to improve communication between employees. Collective bargaining in its purest sense is not relevant to this company’s environment, mainly due to the nature and size of the company. However, the spirit of collective bargaining is recognised, and employees withhold the right to voice their opinions collectively as well as individually. After discussing the election of a workers representative, we decided that due to the nature and size of the company, it is not the most fitting solution. We resolved to maintain constant openness between all staff. Page 7 of 15 Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • To respect and • Regular • Improved listen to all communications communication employees. meetings between employees. between • Employees have employer, • Improved working the freedom to managers and environment. join any employees to association. ensure effective • Any issues that arise and efficient are addressed and communication dealt with from both sides. accordingly. Future Aims: Whilst collective bargaining is not relevant to our business we will positively encourage its use throughout our supply chain. Page 8 of 15 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. LGS is very sensitive to all forms and causes of forced labour. Our multinational, multi cultural team allows effective communication with our suppliers, to ensure that forced labour does not become part of our practices without our knowledge. Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • All employees • Wherever possible • LGS supports a have an staff encouraged to charity that employment chat to factory provides shelter and contract. workers on regular sustenance to visits made to people who have • Large scale production sites suffered misfortune projects are and who are monitored • Factory visits ensure homeless. This throughout the that we are aware of vulnerable sector of supply the labour standards society can be process. employed throughout subject to our supply chain. unsavoury work practices. Future Aims: LGS plans to formalise its approach to reducing forced labour by requesting that suppliers confirm in writing that they are not using inappropriate staff in their workforce. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. LGS condemns any practice of child labour, and works to ensure that under no circumstances it is used within the company’s supply chain. However, discovering the practice of child labour can be challenging, Page 9 of 15 despite stringent and regular factory visits. If use of child labour is identified, LGS ensures that appropriate measures are taken. Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • LGS closely • Factory visits attempt to • LGS does not adheres to ensure that child labour is knowingly national labour not employed at any point engage with laws and along the supply chain. practices of regulations as child labour. well as minimum • If an incident of child labour age provisions. is uncovered, LGS takes positive action against its • LGS uses its practice, through either influence on working towards changing suppliers to the practices of the promote ethical company or by changing labour standards. their supplier. Future Aims: To continue to visit new suppliers. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LGS’ UK team still includes English, Chinese, South African, Algerian, Belgian and Bulgarian employees. This in itself promotes equal opportunities. The company is a Home Office recognised sponsor of non-EU workers We believe that our multicultural team allows effective communication throughout the supply process and leads to efficient business. Page 10 of 15 Company Current Policies Actions Outcome • Recruitment of staff is • Training is offered • A multi – based purely on to all staff. cultural and qualifications, skill and multi-talented relevant experience. team. • Employee recruitment, training and promotion records are kept uptodate. Future Aim: Leading by example, we will continue to encourage our suppliers to adopt the same non discriminatory policies. Page 11 of 15 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We try to establish whether more environmentally friendly options regarding manufacturing, are available throughout the supply chain. Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • Consideration of the • We continue to push • Preservation impact of freight on for clients to organise of the the environment. their required environment purchases as early as is a key driver possible in order to in our quest benefit from both cost to discourage and environment the use or air saving transportation transport methods i.e. sea not unless air absolutely necessary • Again this year the company will send out Christmas e-cards, not only does this save on paper, but the money saved in the process will be donated to charity. Future Aims: Continue to improve the sea-freight services we can offer our clients Page 12 of 15 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. LGS continuously strives to be more conscious of its environmental responsibility. We are continually looking for further ways to increase energy efficiency and to promote environmentally friendly practices. Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • Communicating • Where possible, use • Improved with supplies to cleaner production productivity try and achieve processes and source of resources. better closer to the delivery environmental destination. • Reduction in performance. office waste. • Aim to recycle • Promote kitchen waste where environmentally possible. friendly practices within the office. • Re-using paper which has only been partly used. Future Aims: To continue to promote environmentally friendly practices. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LGS encourages the use of technologies which promote environmentally friendly practices and are more ecoefficient. Page 13 of 15 Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • When possible • Visiting factories • Environmentally and available, and meeting with friendly LGS aim to use suppliers to ensure practices. the most that the best environmentally possible technology favourable is used in technology. production. • Performing spot checks on factory production. Future Aims: Continue to improve our technology. Page 14 of 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are committed to working against corruption in all forms. We have regular contract with our industry peers and are committed to exposing corruption if and when we become aware of it. Company Current Actions Outcome Policies • LGS does not • LGS does not • Transparency tolerate any form engage with, or of bribery, associate with • Support towards extortion or any practice of combating corruption within extortion, corruption. any of our bribery or companies corruption. practices Future Aims: Continue with our vigilance and be prepared to work against all forms of corruption. Page 15 of 15
