1. Elimination of all forms of forced and Winpac Paper does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour compulsory labour and all our policies are aligned with Singapore‟s employment legislations. 2. Business should uphold the freedom of Winpac Paper launched the „Speak-Up‟ Campaign association and effective recognition of since April 2007 and the programme is still on– the right to collective bargaining (eg. going. Workers right and protection) It constantly reminds everyone about confidential reporting service that provides anonymity and protection. Employees can raise their concerns by contacting Speak Up using an international 24 hours telephone help line or a multilingual online website, email or fax option. There is monthly office and warehouse inspection, to ensure that the work place is safe for all employees. Every employee was given an „Employee‟s Handbook‟ and „Personal Safety‟ booklet that comprise information aimed at helping employees keep their workplace safe, fair and honest. 3. Elimination of discrimination in respect of Apart from our charitable works, PaperlinX employment and occupation (eg. Gender Singapore truly puts our employees‟ welfare and age fairness) ahead. We are a signatory to the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices to prevent discrimination in the workplace and to uphold the principles of fair employment. Our staff also participates in an annual corporate web-based training programme related to the Anti-Competition Act to encourage fair trading practices and business ethics. Such are; a) Continuous relevant training provided to all employees, from forklift training to customer service and technical training b) Financial and other means of support for promising employees who wish to further their studies c) Internal promotions and opportunities for career enhancements Winpac Paper launched the „Speak-Up‟ Campaign since April 2007 and the programme is still on– going. It constantly reminds everyone about confidential reporting service that provides anonymity and protection. Employees can raised their concerns by contacting Speak Up using an international 24 hours telephone help line or a multilingual online website, email or fax option. 4. Businesses should support a We bought carbon offset credits from a Methane precautionary approach to environmental Capturing Project to help finance the high challenges (eg. Environment protection operational costs of the equipment and also to show our support for the environmental cause of and conservation efforts) reducing air pollution for this project. In 2011 we passed the FSC audit with no nonconformance also passed the audit with 2 noteworthy efforts in training and invoicing information for the PEFC. In addition, we also promoted not just awareness of PEFC but sustainable business practices through a public seminar we organised in February 2011. Previously in May 2009, we were audited by PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). PEFC is a scheme for auditing forestry operations, taking into account the effects on the environment. promoting responsible forest management., We are committed to providing our customers with product options that have strong environmental credentials. Our business is well positioned to meet these requirements. Many of our papers also bears the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) logo, which confirms the FSC certified wood used in their production. FSC is an international organisation that promotes responsible stewardship of world forest. We are proud to be the first paper merchant in Singapore to be awarded the Forest Stewardship Council Certification. 5. Undertake initiatives to promote greater We make it a must to conduct Eco talks throughout environmental responsibility the year and organise field trips for clients to our PEFC certified paper mills to spread the awareness of responsible forestry. We go one step further in promoting the green message by offering sponsorships in support to companies that organise green activities. 6. Encourage the development and diffusion We are currently still using the “Power Stabilizer” to of environmentally friendly technologies reduce the electricity consumption and also converted the whole office to use LED bulbs instead of the conventional ones. Most of the CRT monitors have been replaced by the low power consumption LCD monitors. 7. Businesses should work against all forms Staff members participated in a 12-month webof corruption including extortion and based training programme relating to Antibribery Competitive practice and in compliance with the Competition Act 2009 section 34 and 37. This training is being conducted on a yearly basis. To further fulfil our cause for social responsibility, we initiated a marketing programs to corporates in support of the “Pressed Flower Project”, partnering up with asia-based voluntary network, Care Channels International (CCI) to help slum dwellers sell their handmade gift crafts for means to support their livelihood. Communication on Progress 2011 Statement of continued support As a member of the UN Global Compact, our organisation supports the actions and principles contained in the UN Global Compact. Winpac Paper Pte Ltd promotes good forestry through purchasing materials from known, legal, in progress and fully certified sources in line with FSC/PEFC requirements and GFTN Responsible Purchasing Guidelines. We are committed to ensure all wood materials purchase shall not knowingly come from forest areas that do not comply with relevant national legislation and categories as controversial sources. We are dedicated to maintain a chain of custody programmed in line with the certification requirements such as FSC/PEFC and/or GFTN, and will comply with all laws and regulations related to our operations including health and safety. We will ensure this by following the FSC/PEFC independently audited system of tracking of all raw material and work to continually increase the proportion of material from sources in the process of being certified or already certified by credible bodies. Winpac Paper Pte Ltd will work towards sustainability goals as well as standards defined in the universal principles on Corporate Social Responsibility Ms Genevieve Chua Managing Director 12 August 2011
