LIVE UP LIFE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Table of Contents Letter from the Managing Director 2-3 About the Report 4 Company Profile 5-6 Human Rights & Labour Practices 7-9 Environmental Responsibility 10 11 Anti-corruption 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 13 Masthead 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 01 Letter from the Managing Director I am honored to present to you Tana Netting’s first CSR report. You may find it surprising that Tana Netting has never produced a CSR report during the roughly 30 previous years of operations especially since the company is active in the public health and humanitarian aid segment. Even more so because “corporate social responsibility” is since long one of Tana Netting’s most important corporate values that has shaped the foundation of the company’s behavioral standards. Actually, being socially responsible is so much embedded in the culture of the company that we have never even felt the need to explicitly tell our stakeholders that we are. Perhaps we have been looking too much inside ourselves that we have forgotten to openly communicate to the outside world where Tana Netting stands for. Indeed our mission statement only describes what kind of products we are offering and not in what way we wish to accomplish our mission: “We are committed to improving the lives of people through effective and innovative products that fight diseases like malaria and offer consumers durable protection wherever they are.” Fighting disease like malaria and helping the United Nations achieve its 2015 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to encourage development by improving social and economic conditions in the world's poorest countries, by itself are considered by many as important CSR activities. But Tana Netting has raised the bar by adding that it does not only strive to produce products that improve people’s lives, but strives to do this in a way that is good for our stakeholders and the planet. At Tana Netting we call this “Doing Business with Care.” “Doing Business with Care” has everything to do with behaving responsibly. And as mentioned before Tana Netting has always been committed to doing business responsibly and conducting itself in ways that earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders – from creating a great workplace to ensuring our customers that they receive top quality products that are produced with care. It means that we are dedicated to creating an enjoyable workplace in which the rights, needs and unique contributions of every employee are consistently respected. We place priority on providing a supportive environment in which employees can prosper. “Doing Business with Care” also means that we believe that our success should not come at the expense of the environment, so we strive to operate in a way that is mindful of long-term environmental sustainability. An example of “Doing Business with Care” is the launch of Tana Netting’s proprietary 3E technology which is building on the End-Of-Line production technology that was developed in cooperation with USAID, Bayer and Netmark. Tana Netting’s 3E technology takes the LLIN production process to the next level, producing quality, long-lasting insecticidal nets with increased cost effectiveness, faster production times, ensured worker safety and minimal environmental impact, thus reflecting Tana Netting’s commitment to improving lives for all its stakeholders. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 02 The 3E technology arguably represents the most socially responsible production process of LLINs in the industry. Unlike other products, our branded DawaPlus® LLINs are treated only after they have been sewn, minimizing worker exposure to chemically-treated textiles. The 3E impregnation process also does not create any insecticide impregnated cut & sew waste. On top, the closed system ensures that no liquid chemicals have to be released into the environment. Tana Netting is committed to bringing its 3E technology closer to the areas where it is most needed as per the principles outlined in the 2001 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development Issue Paper on Transfer of Technology. Local production of LLINs is providing a vital public health product to local communities and it simultaneously boosts regional economic development. Using Tana Netting’s modular production process, local producers are given the means to enter the critical LLIN supply chain, with low start-up costs and minimal start-up time. With the Technology transfer Tana Netting aims to: • produce LLINs where they are needed most, thus reducing the lead time for delivery and having an increasing ability to adapt the product to local needs; • add value locally by creating employment opportunities for local populations; • provide a sense of ownership and pride for locally produced products. In 2010 Tana Netting also launched a new insectidal bednet brand, YAXA®, focusing on the green aspect of personal protection during traveling and outdoor recreation. The packaging of the net is made of reclaimed rice bags and the information leaflets are made of 100% recycled paper. In 2011 we are planning to extend the YAXA® line with a travel net made of recycled netting material to make this product line even more environmentally friendly. These are just a few examples of the participation of Tana Netting in the international personal protection realm. Tana Netting is determined to continue its mission to improve people’s lives around the world despite the continuously changing business landscape with challenges in the form of exchange rate fluctuations, increasing raw material prices and adverse economic conditions. It goes without saying that these external factors have a negative impact on production cost. This means that it becomes even more complex to look for the right balance between producing affordable high quality products and living up to our Corporate Social Responsibility values but Tana Netting is ready to face those challenges. Nevertheless, we cannot afford to stop there. The occurring external obstacles may consume significant time and attention but they should not keep us from looking for solutions that address other important issues related to LLIN distribution such as insecticide resistance, durability of nets and suitable final destinations for used bednets. While living our “Doing Business with Care” principle, Tana Netting believes we should improve the openness of our communication and continue to engage and collaborate with our stakeholders. One way we are trying to do this is by producing this Corporate Responsibility Report that details our efforts to do business responsibly. I hope you enjoy reading and we will sincerely appreciate if you will send us your comments, suggestions or questions regarding its contents or layout. Yours sincerely, Jurgen Swinckels Managing Director Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 03 About the Report This document represents Tana Netting’s first Corporate Social Responsibility report and presents data captured in calendar year 2010. Thus, this report should be seen as a “baseline” report, against which future evaluations will be assessed. Where possible, we provide estimated data for calendar year 2009 as well to provide readers the ability to benchmark our progress in key areas. It is our goal to publish a comprehensive report on an annual basis, with updates on key performance indicators. Unless otherwise indicated, the information contained in the report reflects data collected from our fully-owned operations in Thailand, which includes our Bangkok headquarters and production facilities in Chon Buri province. We expect that this report will be useful for all our key stakeholders, including our employees, shareholders, partners, business partners, consumers and communities. It will assist them seeing the progress we are making in the areas of environmental and social performance. In the report, readers will learn about our business and our commitments to human rights, labour, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption. We also proudly present our humble achievements regarding corporate social responsibility activities that we have carried out in close cooperation with our valuable partners. The Tana Netting team looks forward to receiving feedback from our stakeholders to enable us to improve our performance in the future. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Maxime Besnier Global Liaison and Regulatory Affairs Manager maxime@tananetting.com The report is available at www.tananetting.com Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 04 Company Profile Tana Netting Co., Ltd. is a producer and distributor of high quality personal protection products to both the public health community and individual customers. Its headquarters is located in Bangkok, Thailand, and the production facility is located in Amata Nakorn Industrial Estate, Chon Buri Province which is 57 kilometers South-East of Bangkok. All our employees enjoy fair wages and they work in a clean, safe and healthy environment Our key clients for public health product include ministries of health, national malaria control programs, NGOs, international procurement agencies and in-country distributors. “I am happy to work in a nice, Our DawaPlus 2.0 ® long-lasting insecticide treated mosquito net has received interim recommendation warm and cozy home office with from the World Health Organization Pesticide Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES) in 2009. DawaPlus 2.0 ® Thai style decoration. Moreover, is one of a handful of LLIN products recommended by the World Health Organization for malaria it is my privilege to work for a company which respects emcontrol and prevention. ployees and Thai culture. This important value for me is inheThe company also offers environmentally friendly, sustainable and innovative protection for outdoor rited from Mr. Nicolaas Pierson, founder of the company.” and travel market, under the brand YAXA® mosquito net. Siriporn Potidokmai, Our Mission and Values Administration & Human Resources Manager We believe that business, social and environmental performance are inseparably linked. As such, we have devised clear policies in the areas of human resources and eco-friendliness. All areas of our business are guided by these guidelines regarding social responsibility. Mission Tana Netting is committed to improving the lives of people through effective and innovative products that fight diseases like malaria and offer consumers durable protection wherever they are. Values Social responsibility At Tana Netting, employees are working in a safe and healthy environment with full respect to each other. We also take serious concern about human rights, labour practice and environmental sustainability. Expertise We have a profound understanding of the needs of the end users, market conditions and the demand for products and solutions. We seek out and develop new opportunities for growth, by combining our knowledge of markets, products, services and applications. Partnership The partnerships we have built with public and private sector organizations and the network of entrepreneurial distributors provide a significant platform for the exchange of new technologies, commercial and technical knowledge as well as market access. Thus, strengthening existing alliances and seeking out new sustainable partnerships that will help both partners achieve their goals are focused. Tana Netting contributes in supporting global programmes and optimising bednet performance, use and reliability for maximum impact. We participate on a regular basis in the Roll Back Malaria Initiative working groups as well as the Alliance for Malaria Prevention meetings. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 05 Sustainable performance Economic development has been promoted through sustainable business models. Internally we recognize that sustainable profitability is essential to our future success and we continually evaluate new investments. We provide long-term employment and bring new business to our suppliers. We help to boost Thai exports and are actively engaged in developing sustainable retail markets for mosquito nets, particularly in potential disease risk areas. Tana Netting also participates in Croplife International Vector Control Project Team meetings on a regular basis, in order to address important vector control issues. All Croplife International Vector Control Project Team members are WHOPES approved vector control product manufacturers. The Our Founder team aims to make sustainable, lasting contributions to fight against malaria and other vectorTana Netting was founded in 1985 borne diseases, and is continuously seeking to launch new and innovative vector control tools. as SiamDutch Mosquito Netting by Nicolaas Pierson who during Passion his travels in Asia was struck by We are passionate about what we do, and we are driven to excel in every aspect of our business. the simple beauty and utility offered by mosquito nets. Our team is dynamic, creative, energetic and professional. A ‘can-do’ attitude of our people ensures that the needs of our partners are always accommodated in the best possible way. Our diverse His goal was to promote econoand experienced team has an entrepreneurial mindset. We strive to have a flat hierarchy which mic development in Thailand by empowers our staff to nurture their strategic initiatives and make decisions. exporting a product that was high in demand for public health in developing countries as well UN Global Compact as for decorative and travel applications in Europe and North America. SiamDutch Mosquito Tana Netting supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, a set of core values in the Netting and later Tana Netting areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. became an industry leader, supplying nets to leading travel Human Rights suppliers and home décor retailers as well as governments, UN agencies around the world. • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Almost 30 years later, Mr. Pierson’s dream lives on. As a flexible and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. socially-conscious company, Tana Netting retains its commitment Labour to promoting economic development and improving the lives of people through innovative and • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition effective products. of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We firmly believe that quality of life improvements promoted by our company should not be limited to the end users of our products. As such, Tana Netting adheres to the principle that business, social and environmental performance are mutually dependent and has devised clear policies in the area of social responsibility. We put these policies into action in every area of our operations. Examples of these practices are highlighted in the following pages of this report. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 06 Human Rights & Labour Practices Having evolved over 26 years, our company is shaped by unique characteristics and a mix of personalities and backgrounds that make Tana Netting flexible, entrepreneurial, and a great place to work. Our clients and partners recognize and value these traits, and continue to work with us largely because of them. Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What we do Tana Netting regards employees as its valuable asset. Our experienced team has a creative and entrepreneurial mindset, committed to pursue strategic initiatives and make decisions, both of which are crucial for a medium-size company like ours to succeed. Since long our business is meeting international industry standards and we have formalized our status by joining the Bednet Industry Dialogue, an initiative for voluntary ethics compliance and self-certification for bednet manufacturers, supported by the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Tana Netting respects its engagement with the Bednet Industry Dialogue to adhere to best practices and to the Industry Code of Conduct for Bednets. In 2010, we have developed a formal policy statement on this matter: Statement of Business Conduct and Corporate Compliance Plan. These documents are guidelines to ensure that directors, managers, and all employees at Tana Netting are striving to meet the highest standards of ethical conduct. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 07 We are in process of providing training sessions for all staff members and newly hired employees in order to make sure that each Tana Netting employee is empowered to make decisions and conduct our business in a responsible, honest, and ethical manner. After successfully participating in these training sessions, the employees will sign a “Certificate of Compliance.” We also have implemented communication channels (suggestion boxes, a dedicated telephone hotline and corporate compliance email address), so that all staff members may report to our Corporate Compliance Officer any violation of our Statement of Business Conduct. The Management Team will carefully consider all reported violations and will ensure that every concern or non-adherence to our Statement of Business Conduct will be properly handled. In 2009 and 2010, we did not receive any serious complaints from our staff members. To ensure employee satisfaction and appropriate strategies on human resources management, the company provides its employees various platforms for exchanging information, sharing opinions and finding solutions on personnel issues. Our “Human Resources weekly meeting”, held on a regular basis, presents an opportunity for our Human Resources (HR) team to meet and share opinions regarding HR issues in general, review performance of the past week and set a plan for upcoming weeks. Moreover, the “Welfare Committee” gets together every 2-3 months to reflect employees’ needs and finds ways to serve them as much as possible. Last but not least, organized once a month, a “Site Communications” meeting is aimed to update staff members in factory about news and changes. This meeting also allows employees to ask questions to the factory’s management team and openly express their opinions about the improvement of their work. Further more, all staff members have a good opportunity to know each other better through team building activities after the meeting. Diversity Tana Netting is committed to ensuring that its employees are treated fairly, compensated appropriately, and hired and promoted without discrimination by reason of nationality, ethnic origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, political belief or disability. Where ever Tana Netting operates, we respect the culture and religion of the countries and the people who live there. We recruit people regardless of their religion. Moreover, Tana Netting supports the protection and observance of internationally proclaimed human rights and freedoms within its sphere of influence. In 2009-2010, and even since SiamDutch, Tana Netting’s predecessor, was incorporated in 1981, we have never been accused or charged of violating any laws or regulations regarding the abuse of human rights. Child Labour We believe in the rights of the child and therefore do not support the use of any work by a person who is younger than the legal age limit. The only exception to this policy is for students participating in school-mandated internship programs developed in cooperation with vocational colleges, who are under constant care and supervision by a full-time staff member. “I have been working with Tana Netting for over 20 years. Here, it seems to be my second home in which plenty of warmth and happiness is all around. Moreover, as a Tana Netting employee, I am so proud of being part of mosquito-borne-disease protection” Dueanpen Banjungam, Production Assistant Manager Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 08 Freedom of Association Tana Netting supports the upholding of the freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining afforded to employees under Thai labour laws. Compensation Tana Netting’s wages, holidays and sick leave meet or exceed legal and industry minimum standards. In addition, we help employees at our factory realize additional savings by providing free transportation and complimentary healthy meals in our canteen. Our wage and benefits composition is clearly detailed for workers and remuneration is rendered in a form that is convenient for employees. Employee Safety and Training We use the most effective accident prevention measures in regards to the planning of workplaces, equipment, safety management and personal behavior in the everyday working environment. In 2010, Tana Netting has taken steps to minimize hazards and prevent on-the-job accidents and injury. At our factory in Amata Nakorn Industrial Estate, training programs such as safe practice, evacuation, first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) are provided to every employee. Moreover, wellness and health is also an important consideration for us. Annually, we provide physical general check ups, eyesight check-ups, and X-Ray lung analysis. Our efforts in prevention are fruitful, as in 2009 and 2010 we had no major accident or injury in the company. Working Environment Tana Netting provides a safe and healthy working environment to its employees. Our state-of-the-art facility is well-ventilated, clean and has been designed to provide our employees with a pleasant working environment, with plenty of open green spaces and rest facilities, and appropriate safety equipment. Lowest Worker Exposure At Tana Netting, we believe in the socially responsible production of long-lasting health products. Tana Netting’s unique 3E Technology (Enhanced efficiency, Ensured safety, Eco-friendliness) has revolutionized the production of long lasting insecticide-treated nets, with a process that is worker-friendly. Our 3E Technology ensures safety of our workers because the insecticide is applied directly to our finished nets in an enclosed system, keeping them protected from exposure to chemicals in the production process. Our impregnation technology is unique because all other WHOPES recommended suppliers use a treatment technology whereby either insecticide is incorporated in the yarn or the netting material is impregnated before the nets are sewn. “Our 3E technology production process chemically treats netting material only after it has been cut and sewn to minimize employees’ exposure to chemically-treated textiles.” Phatpon Phakdeesattayapong, Factory and Production Manager Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 09 Environmental Responsibility We share our planet and its valuable natural resources with many other living beings. That is why Tana Netting places great importance on operating in an environmentally friendly way. Global Compact Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What we do Tana Netting continuously seeks to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. For example, we carefully monitor air and water emissions, and we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Air emissions Tana Netting has taken careful steps to minimize air emissions of substances harmful to the environment. The plant’s exhausts are fitted with water scrubbers that ensure that no particles or chemicals are released into the air. Regular testing shows that our air emissions are meeting or exceeding international clean air standards. Please see more details from the table below. Table 1 shows the details of Tana Netting’s air emissions in ppm. Parameter 2008 2009 2010 Standard Sulfure dioxide (SO2) N.D. N.D. <1.29 60 Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 2.137 N.D. <1.11 200 Carbon monoxide (CO) 23 54.0 67 690 Acetic acid N.D. N.D. 0.453 10.1875 Isopropyl alcohol N.D. 0.45 0.423 *400 Remarks: 1. Standard: The Notification of the Ministry of Industry, issued under Factory Act B.E. 2535 (1992), published in the Royal Government Gazette. Vol. 123, Special Part 125 ง, dated December 4, B.E. 2549 (2006). 2. Standard (Acetic acid and Isopropyl alcohol in working area): The Notification of the Ministry of Interior, issued under the Announcement of Revolutionary Party No. 103, date March 16, B.E. 2515 (1972), published in the Royal Government Gazette Vol. 94, Part 64, dated July 12,B.E. 2520 (1977). * Standard of OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration), U.S. Department of Labor Protecting the Safety and Health of America’s works. 3. N.D.: Non-Detectable (<0.001 ppm) Dust emissions Dust is another factor that we concern because dust from cloth could lead people to respiratory problems. We have maintained the quantity of dust in very low level. The amount of dust in our factory is far less than the standard which is illustrated in table 2. Table 2. Dust emissions measured at Tana Netting in mg/m3 from 2008 to 2010. Area Parameter 2008 2009 2010 Standard Sewing Total dust 0.14 1.67 0.255 15 Section Respirable dust 0.06 0.05 0.127 5 Packing Total dust 0.11 0.96 0.321 15 Section Respirable dust 0.04 0.67 0.142 5 Cutting-Laying Total dust 0.08 4.29 0.125 15 Section Respirable dust 0.03 0.75 0.083 15 Remark: Standard: The Notification of the Ministry of Interior, issued under the Announcement of Revolutionary Party No. 103, dated March 16, B.E. 2515 (1972), published in the Royal Government Gazette Vol. 94, Part 64, dated July 12, B.E. 2520 (1977). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 10 Waste water Tana Netting’s production process has been designed with concern for the environment. The chemical solution that is prepared to impregnate the nets is tailored to the specifications of the netting material so that no excess chemicals from the production process are released into the waste water and the environment. Therefore, our waste water effluent mostly consists of washroom and kitchen effluents. It is regularly tested to ensure compliance with the local standards. Furthermore, Tana Netting is located in the Amata Nakorn industrial estate with a closed, seminatural water treatment system that cleans and recycles water for industrial use. Waste management “Fresh and green environment Our 3E Technology has brought us a new and improved level of waste management standard. It is what I love about my workplace. offers the post-production treatment of netting in a closed system which provides zero chemical I am also proud that our team has waste exposure to the environment. This process results in no waste of insecticides (because we been putting their knowledge can apply the exact amount of insecticide to each net) and also no cutting waste of insecticide and attempt to leverage our pollution control standard with treated netting material. The waste of untreated netting material is furnished to local manufacturers our cutting-edge technology.” for recycling purposes. Chawantaya Songsithibavorn, Laboratory chemical waste generated during product testing process is sent to a specialized and Supply Chain Manager authorized company for proper disposal. In addition, we make all necessary efforts to minimize solid waste where feasible. We are also seeking ways to use less packaging material for our products and to make use of only bio-degradable materials wherever possible. Besides biodegradable materials, we also apply recycled materials for packaging. Noise Noise is closely monitored and controlled within the standard. Table 3 shows the low (Leq) and peak (Lmax) noise levels which our employees in the factory experience during 8 hours. The slightly increasing noise level results from natural wear and tear of the equipment. Table 3. Noise monitoring at the Tana Netting plant in decibel dB(A) from 2008 to 2010. Area Parameter 2008 2009 2010 Standard Packing Leq 85.4 74.7 75.5 =<90 Section Lmax 87.3 101.2 104.9 =<140 Impregnation Leq 81.7 77.6 89.1 =<90 Equipment Lmax 83.7 90.0 113.2 =<140 Remark: Standard: Notification of the Ministry of Labour, issued under Industrial Hygiene, Safety and Environment Management, Heat Level Light Level and Sound Level Act B.E. 2549 (2006), published in the Royal Government Gazette No. 123 Part 23 ก, date March 6, 2549 (2006) Heat The table shows the consistent temperature in the working place. This condition moderately comforts employees to work. Table 4. Temperature monitoring at the Tana Netting plant in degree Celsius (◦C) from 2008 to 2010 Area 2008 2009 2010 Standard Sewing Section 28.6 28.6 27.3 32.0 Packing Section 28.4 28.6 27.1 32.0 Treatment Section 28.1 28.7 28.2 32.0 Remark: Standard: Notification of the Ministry of Labour, issued under Industrial Hygiene, Safety and Environment Management, Heat Level Light Level and Sound Level Act B.E. 2549 (2006), published in the Royal Government Gazette No. 123 Part 23 ก, date March 6, 2549 (2006) Always exploring We constantly strive to become more environmentally friendly. For example, our factory team plans to boost cost effectiveness and pollution control by improving combustion efficiency. This initiative will help reduce gas consumption and unwanted excess pollutants into the environment. No matter how much progress we make, we believe that we can always do more. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 11 Anti-corruption We do think that Tana Netting’s success is dependent upon our reputation for integrity and quality in everything we do. Our company does not support any form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Conducting our professional affairs based on responsibility, fairness and integrity is a priority for us. Global Compact Principles Principle 10: Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. What we do Tana Netting is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and makes commitments to our shareholders, customers, business partners in all the countries where we do business. As a company involved in manufacturing products dedicated to save lives, we seek to grow through sustainable and ethical partnerships. In the last years, the key to success has been the partnerships we have built with others organizations in the private and public sector. In 2011, Tana Netting will engage meaningful and transparent consultation with all its stakeholders through a policy checklist which spans all aspects of business behavior and within which all our business partners are required to operate. Tana Netting promotes fair competition across the industry. We have never faced any legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, and did not experience non-compliance with any laws or regulations concerning anti-trust or monopoly practices. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Tana Netting actively contributes to local and international communities as part of its commitment to enhance the well-being of people and the environment. We collaborated with government and non-government organizations to donate our insecticidetreated nets to individuals in Thailand and abroad. We are dedicated to improving the lives of people through continuous contributions of our products and expertise to fight against malaria and other diseases. In addition to our products, we also engage in charitable activities to assist local communities to strengthen our relationship and show our dedication towards social responsibility. In response to the flood disaster in Pakistan, Tana Netting joined forces with the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its relief efforts by donating DawaPlus® long-lasting insecticide-treated nets. Floodings may cause malaria outbreaks which is just one of the problems flood victims may be facing. Sleeping under an insecticide-teated mosquito net can alleviate their worries as it is one of the most effective tools in preventing malaria. We have provided long-lasting insecticide-treated nets to Pioneer Group Bulechia, a malaria control project supported by Malaria No More Netherlands in Western Kenya’s Shibinga Region. The project’s aim is to make the Kenyan government’s free net distribution program more accessible to beneficiaries. The donation was made in conjunction with Team Tana Netting Against Malaria’s visit during their overland journey from Amsterdam to Cape Town. The team, sponsored by Tana Netting, focused on raising malaria awareness in Europe and Africa. Tana Netting donated bednets to Operation Blessing Thailand’s medical mission where volunteers and doctors travel to remote regions of Thailand to provide healthcare to individuals. Though malaria has been eradicated in Thailand, there are still some occurrences in several regions. For World Malaria Day 2010, Tana Netting joined forces with Kenya Airways in Thailand to raise awareness of malaria among business and leisure travelers on the Bangkok-Nairobi flight. Passengers received limited edition bednets that came with information on malaria, its prevention, and what individuals and businesses can do to eradicate the disease. Underscoring its commitment to support partners in the public health community, Tana Netting fully supports the MENTOR INITIATIVE’s efforts to enhance the response capacity of humanitarian organizations in affected areas. In 2010, Tana Netting was pleased to sponsor weeklong workshops on malaria control in complex emergencies being organized by the MENTOR INITIATIVE in Bangkok, Thailand and Mombasa, Kenya. To strengthen community ties, the company’s employees jointly donated money and goods to projects and causes in need, including to schools and temples in Thailand. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 13 Masthead Publisher: Tana Netting Co., Ltd. 27 Sukhumvit Soi 53 Khlongton-Nua, Wattana Bangkok 10110 Thailand Editor Viraya Khunprom Phone: +66 2258 5621 ext. 111 E-mail: viraya@tananetting.com Corporate Social Responsibility Maxime Besnier Phone: +66 8 1837 5655 E-mail: maxime@tananetting.com Tana Netting on the Internet www.tananetting.com Date of Publication: April 2011 Donation in Uganda Tana Netting is a member of the United Nations Global Compact, a network of businesses and other stakeholders seeking to contribute to a more inclusive and stable market. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 14
