Nissan: Enriching People s Lives Sustainabilit y Report 2011 Sus Sustai stainabbilityy eporrtt RReport 011 2011 2 11 Contents NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 1 Introduction 2 CEO Interview Toward a New Chapter in Automotive History 5 Nissan’s Approach to CSR 11 The Renault-Nissan Alliance KEY CSR AREAS 13 Environment Achieving a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature 43 Safety Aiming for a Society with No Traffic Accidents 56 Quality Enhancing All Customer-related Quality 67 Economic Contribution Growing the Company for Society’s Development 70 Employees Fostering Individuality 81 Value Chain Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain 85 Philanthropy Contributing to Global Society 93 Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Maintaining Trust Through Transparency 102 CSR DATA 103 Nissan CSR Scorecard 108 Fiscal 2010 Financial Review 109 Performance Data 110 Environmental Indices, Human Resources, etc. 111 Business and Other Risks 114 Third-Party Evaluation 001 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Introduction Guided by its corporate vision of Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan aims to contribute to the sustainable development of society through its full range of global business activities in addition to providing value through its products and services. Our pioneering efforts to promote electric vehicles and to make mobility more affordable for people in emerging economies are part of our corporate social responsibility initiatives rooted in this vision. In order to share our activities in these fields with as many people as possible, each year we publish this Sustainability Report, which presents our CSR-related thinking and activities. We believe that sharing this information broadly with stakeholders increases the transparency of our actions, as well as giving us an opportunity to improve our activities by incorporating external feedback, thereby contributing to the development of society. In 2006 we published our last print edition of the Sustainability Report. Out of consideration for the environment, we now publish the report exclusively online. It can be downloaded from our website as PDF files. CORPORATE PROFILE Date of Establishment: December 26, 1933 Vision: Nissan: Enriching People’s Lives Consolidated Net Revenue (Fiscal 2010): ¥8.7731 trillion Mission: Nissan provides unique and innovative automotive Number of Employees (As of March 31, 2011): products and services that deliver superior measurable 155,099 values to all stakeholders* in alliance with Renault. * Our stakeholders include customers, shareholders, employees, dealers main Group Structure and Business Outline: business includes sales and production of vehicles, and suppliers, as well as the The Nissan Group consists of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., communities where we work and operate. subsidiaries, affiliates and other associated companies. Its main business includes sales and production of vehicles, forklifts, marine products and related parts. The Nissan Group also provides various services accompanying its main business, such as logistics and sales finance. Our Related Websites Corporate Information Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/CSR/ Environmental Activities Quality Initiatives http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ENVIRONMENT/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/QUALITY/ IR Information Safety Activities http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/SAFETY/ Product Information (by Country) Latest Technologies http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/GLOBAL/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/TECHNOLOGY/ Product Information (Japan) Design Activities http://www.nissan.co.jp/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DESIGN/ Citizenship Activities Company Information Library http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/CITIZENSHIP/ http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/LIBRARY/ 002 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 CEO Interview Toward a New Chapter in Automotive History Nissan has performed well coming out of the financial crisis that started in 2008 and is charting a bold course to the future of zero-emission mobility with the Nissan LEAF, the first affordable, mass-marketed, 100%-electric car. But the earthquake that shook eastern Japan on March 11, 2011, has presented the company with a new set of challenges to overcome, as well as the opportunity to reconsider the nature of the company as it again confronts crisis. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) specialist Peter David Pedersen asked Nissan President and CEO Carlos Ghosn about Nissan’s approach to CSR issues and his views on the future of the company and global mobility. Carlos Ghosn President and Chief Executive Officer, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Peter David Pedersen: The massive earthquake and tsunami on March 11 brought deep change to the Japanese economy and business environment. In a time of crisis, do you see corporate social responsibility taking on greater importance or new meaning for corporations? Carlos Ghosn: We face a shifting risk environment at all times, not just at times of major disasters. No company, no matter how far back its tradition goes, can stay the same and survive in a state of constantly changing risk. Managing risk flexibly and effectively is a key to long-term success. For Nissan, risk management—which has crisis response as a major component—is always a key part of fulfilling our corporate responsibility to society. The role of CSR does not change when we face a disaster on the scale of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, but it does stand out in sharper relief in times of crisis. Peter David Pedersen Chief Executive E-Square Inc. Pedersen: You recently reorganized the way Nissan manages CSR issues, setting up a direct line of Chief executive of E-Square Inc., a communication between the CSR officer and you as CEO. Why have you restructured at this time? Is there sustainability consultancy in Tokyo, Japan. Has extensive experience something in the business climate that makes such a change imperative for Nissan? working with Japanese multinational corporations on sustainability and CSR issues, in particular facilitating vision Ghosn: I think this is a normal evolution, although it has been accelerated by our experiencing two major and strategy building. Is also a much sought-after moderator of stakeholder crises in recent years—first the financial crisis that started in 2008 and, second, the 2011 earthquake. dialogues. When events of this magnitude happen, suddenly the values that were considered obvious in society become less obvious and people question the values of corporations. People both within and outside Nissan revisit fundamental questions about the purpose of the company: What is its reason for being? What is it working for? What relative weight does it place on its values? When we created the direct line of communication between the CSR officer and the CEO, we sent an extremely important signal that CSR is foremost in the minds of the leaders of the company. Everything we do has a social meaning—not only in terms of technology, but also what we are doing to support communities. And it’s not sufficient just to do it; we give meaning by communicating our actions to people so that they understand their importance and the reasons why we are pursuing those actions. 003 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 CEO Interview I am not micromanaging Nissan’s CSR activities, but I am paying attention to Nissan’s CSR priorities, resources and content. This direct link from the CSR group to my office ensures swift action. There is no unnecessary debate about our decisions. We need no arbitration once a policy is set; we just have to take action. This is why repositioning CSR in the company—clarifying our priorities—was important. Everything we do as a company has meaning in light of CSR, and now the CSR team can make direct suggestions about what new priorities and new actions we need, confident that they are being heard at the top level of the company. Pedersen: Does this mean Nissan has staked out a new leadership role in the area of CSR? Ghosn: It is not for us to say whether we are leading or innovating in this field. Whether Nissan is ahead of the game or below average is something for people outside our organization to decide. We are starting from what we feel society needs and what we are capable of doing, and we are taking the initiative in that direction. If we find ourselves in a leadership position as a result, that’s great. But CSR is not a competition. That being said, we are working very hard to be a leader in certain areas that are often defined as CSRoriented for their eco-awareness. We have set a course toward zero-emission mobility and sustainable mobility for all. Nissan is a business. We develop our technologies and products in order to develop our company and to meet the demands expressed—or yet to be expressed—by society. In the case of zero-emission mobility, we believe this demand is coming. The signs are evident. Customers aren’t saying, “I want to buy an electric car”; they are saying, “I want something different” or “I want something compatible with the environment.” The need exists, and it’s a good need. Environment-compatible products will be beneficial for Nissan because consumers want them, and they will be beneficial to society as a whole. We are developing the technology in order to make them an affordable, mass-marketable, zero-emission reality. Pedersen: This reality is already here in the form of the Nissan LEAF. It’s exciting to see that you’re advancing the Nissan LEAF not as a green niche product, but as a global strategy vehicle. Ghosn: The Nissan LEAF is our flagship eco-car. It’s a true game-changer. This initiative is not purely socially driven, of course. We need to justify our investment with a return on our money. But we are not blind to the fact that we are achieving something positive by promoting this technology and product. In a way, we are in a sweet spot with the Nissan LEAF. We are bringing to market a product that consumers will want while doing something good for the planet. We are not going to see an immediate transformation. But looking at the industry five or 10 years down the road, we will see the return of the mass-marketed, popular electric car. This will be a major new chapter in automotive history. 004 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 CEO Interview Pedersen: You’re initially rolling out the Nissan LEAF in Japan, the United States and Europe. But Nissan isn’t focused solely on these industrialized markets. This new chapter will be more global in nature, right? Ghosn: This is another facet of sustainability and another key part of Nissan’s CSR approach: our drive for mobility for all. As people in the world’s growth markets become more affluent, they reach out for the mobility that only cars can give them. Nissan is ready to meet their demand with affordable options and global growth models—vehicles that compete in important segments all around the world. If all this mobility depends on fossil fuels, though, we will face growing concerns. Will we have enough oil? What will happen to oil prices? What kind of emissions will increasing mobility produce? But when zero-emission cars are a mass-marketable part of reality, and not niche products, they will breathe new life into the idea of sustainability. What we are doing with the Nissan LEAF, as well as with our highly efficient PURE DRIVE gasolinepowered cars, is displaying options. We are showing people around the globe that lowand zero-emission mobility for all is within reach. We are pointing the way toward solutions that may help us avoid potential ecological crises in the future. Pedersen: To return to the theme of crisis, particularly the March 11 disaster in eastern Japan, do you see Nissan engaging in the creation of zero-emission infrastructure or encouraging new forms of mobility as rebuilding takes place? Ghosn: I don’t think we’ll see a specific region of Japan implementing special efforts toward this sort of goal. But every crisis brings transformation. The earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis will be no exception. It’s too early to predict what kind of transformation will occur or how deeply it will affect Japan, but some interesting signs are already appearing. In one of the communities most affected by the earthquake, one form of aid that residents asked us for in particular was electric cars because no gasoline was available in the region. We made available a number of Nissan LEAFs, which people told us were a great help. I don’t think there is any doubt that Japan will shift its energy policy. We’re going to see moves in terms of nuclear power, in terms of electric vehicles. A great many changes are happening. The crisis is opening people’s eyes to the need to transform Japan’s society and energy systems, and the course of this transformation will become clearer as the lessons of March 11 are digested and adapted by Japanese society. Japan is now sending a strong message of resilience. Nissan, too, has put all its plants back online, including our Iwaki Plant, which was hit hard by the quake. Overcoming crisis like this, ensuring that our people have a place to work and a way to contribute to the economy as Japan recovers, is one way we fulfill our responsibility to society. When I first came to Nissan in 1999, the crisis we faced was internal. We needed to put our house in order. Over time we made that house strong enough to weather external storms like the financial crisis of recent years and the natural disaster of 2011. But a company is only as strong as the society around it. We recognize the need to take the initiative, for instance, by helping disaster victims. At Nissan we support the people and society around us. This is our CSR. 005 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR Guided by the vision of Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan seeks to create value through the provision of its products and services and to contribute to sustainable social development through all its global activities. To this end, we listen carefully to the concerns of stakeholders around the world, working together with them as we pursue activities that meet society’s needs. Our Idea of CSR Nissan aims for both sustainable, profitable growth and sustainable social development. The task of balancing the two has made it important to incorporate CSR concepts into our management. Our belief is that strengthening CSR initiatives will help forge relationships of trust with our customers, business partners and other stakeholders. In its pursuit of CSR-based management, Nissan views three balances as key. First is the balance between shortand long-term perspectives. Faced with a range of challenges, we must make business decisions from a balanced viewpoint taking both shortand long-term concerns into account. Second is the balance between growth and societal development. Rather than pursuing only our own profit, we heed society’s concerns and seek mutual sustainable development. And third is the balance of value provided by Nissan to all stakeholders. We take care to provide value to all categories of stakeholder, rather than prioritizing certain ones. At Nissan, we use CSR as a process-management tool in the pursuit of these three balances in our various fields of business. Balancing Profitable Growth with Sustainable Development Growth for Nissan Building trust with stakeholders Customers Sustainable, CSR-based Business Employees profitable management partners growth Communities Shareholders and future Development for society and investors generations Three Balances We Pursue 2. A balance between 3. A balance of value 1. A balance between shortcorporate growth and provided by the company and long-term perspectives societal development to all its stakeholders Our CSR Management We have defined our approach to CSR management by establishing the Nissan CSR Policy and eight 006 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR key areas of focus for efforts in this field. We have also set up a CSR Steering Committee, composed of 20 midlevel managers of the sections involved with those areas, as a means of organizing and tracking developments in each field across the company. (The committee was unable to meet in fiscal 2010 because of the impact of the March 11, 2011, Tohoku earthquake and tsunami.) Nissan strives to conduct its business in a way that aligns corporate activities with the demands of society, while taking into careful consideration the views of many stakeholders. At the core is our stance of listening to the voices of society and identifying the seeds of both opportunity and risk. The framework for this plan is built around the PDCA, or “plan, do, check and act,” cycle shown below. Our Vision Nissan: Enriching People’s Lives Our Mission Nissan provides unique and innovative automotive products and services that deliver superior measurable values to all stakeholders in alliance with Renault. Our Business Principles The Nissan Way: “The power comes from inside” The focus is the customer, the driving force is value creation and the measurement of success is profit. Our CSR Policy • Ethical conduct, strong corporate governance with a high degree of transparency and a clear focus on diversity are the foundation for all our activities worldwide. • We aim for the sustained profitable growth of the company, and at the same time contribute proactively to the sustainable development of mobility and society. • We will listen to, and work with, our stakeholders around the world and create trust, opportunity and long-term sustainable value. CSR Steering Committee Organization CEO CSR Steering Executive Committee Corporate Planning Safety Quality Committee Human Resources Regional Affairs Compliance Committees relating to Organizer each CSR issue IR Product Planning Brand Management Global • Global Environmental Communications Management Committee and CSR Division Technology Planning Diversity Development Legal • Global Quality Meeting CSR Group • Global Compliance Purchasing Internal Audit Committee • Diversity Steering etc. Corporate Committee Environment Citizenship Activities etc. PDCA Cycle to Promote CSR at Nissan Internal management External communication Plan Act The CSR Steering Committee, chaired by the COO Nissan defines priority areas of focus based on and including members from all related departments, analysis of external evaluations and research on confirms progress and decides measures to be competitors. pursued in the following year. Do Check Based on CSR Steering Committee decisions, Nissan takes into account input from social actors, process owners in each relevant department take such as CSR rating agencies and SRI funds. action in line with the CSR scorecard toward achievement of goals. Defining Our Key Areas and Advancing CSR in Focused Ways As a global automaker, Nissan specifies eight key areas of focus for its CSR efforts. Each area is 007 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR indispensable to Nissan’s continued viability as a corporation that society trusts and needs. At the same time, we forge even stronger bonds of trust by providing society with added value. Nissan listens to social concerns regarding each of the eight areas, working to swiftly grasp opportunities and risks in each of them as a means of continually improving its business. Eight Key Areas for CSR Corporate Governance Environment Safety & Internal Control Nissan aims to lead a social Nissan develops innovative Nissan aims to conduct fair, transformation aimed at bringing technology and plays an active impartial and efficient business about a sustainable mobility role in safety promotion, making activities, having a high degree society by reducing vehicles’ the automobile society safer for of transparency and consistency environmental impact throughout all. by adhering to the applicable their life cycle and expanding the laws and corporate rules. lineup of effective green products and technologies. Economic Value Chain Contribution Nissan promotes ethical, Nissan aims for sustainable, environmentally sound actions in profitable growth, contributing to all stages of the supply chain. economic development for all of society. Quality Employees Philanthropy Nissan provides top-level quality Nissan aims to form an attractive Nissan carries out social in its products and services organization where diverse contribution activities as a around the world. human resources can achieve corporate citizen, focusing on personal growth through education, environmental experience in global business. awareness and humanitarian relief. Nissan’s CSR Scorecard Nissan makes year-round use of the CSR scorecard as a fundamental tool for monitoring and reviewing 008 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR its progress and for bringing the three balances into clearer focus. On its vertical axis we list the eight key areas to check the balance between stakeholders. The horizontal axis, meanwhile, represents the points of intersection between the direction of Nissan’s growth and that of society’s development. Our aim is to balance shortand long-term perspectives, based on equilibrium between the two axes. Each year we revise the scorecard in line with our progress and release it to the public. (See pp. 103–107 for our scorecard.) Nissan’s CSR Scorecard Balance of shortand long-term Balance between Nissan’s growth and development for society perspectives Management guidelines Values and management for actions Society’s demands indices guiding to take in the of corporations Balance of value Nissan’s business activities medium to Nissan provides long term to all stakeholders Corporate Governance & Internal Control Economic Contribution Quality Environment Eight key areas Employees Safety Value Chain Philanthropy Communicating Nissan’s CSR Activities Internally In addition to sharing information with the public via the Sustainability Reports and online, Nissan has long been committed to communication inside the company. We have enhanced this internal communication to Nissan CSR Handbook 2010 is prompt individual employees to consider their connection to CSR and translate this into concrete action. available for download from our Specifically, in December 2010, we published and uploaded to our website the Nissan CSR Handbook website. http://www.nissan-global.com/ 2010, which clearly explains the company’s CSR stance. The printed version of the handbook was EN/COMPANY/CSR/LIBRARY/ HANDBOOK/2010/ distributed to all Nissan employees in Japan. Nissan holds CSR Caravan study meetings at individual departments and divisions as a means of deepening awareness. Nissan’s CSR Headline site, located on our WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan) intranet, introduces the company’s own activities and provides a wide variety of CSR-related information. Future CSR Activities Nissan will continue promoting its CSR approach by steadily implementing the PDCA cycle to advance CSR not only among management and related divisions but throughout the company as a whole. We will also engage in ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. The economic climate surrounding the automobile industry remains difficult, but it is our belief that these challenging circumstances in fact give us an opportunity to let people know about Nissan’s CSR activities. By energetically communicating these activities, we aim to strengthen our relationship of trust with stakeholders and to build mutual recognition for our respective values. A Message from the Officer 009 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR in Charge of CSR Activities Noriko Ikari General Manager A Responsive CSR Approach CSR Department with a Nissan Touch Global Communications and CSR Division As Nissan’s business expands, so do the company’s influence and responsibility. We are at the same time called upon to respond promptly to unpredictable shifts in our operating environment, such as of the financial crisis touched off by the Lehmann Brothers collapse and the massive natural disaster that hit Japan on March 11. In this shifting context, all of us at Nissan are working hard to push forward our CSR initiatives, striving to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and to increase corporate value in a way that reflects the Nissan way of doing business. This is the eighth edition of the Nissan Sustainability Report. We will continue to work to increase transparency and to deepen our stakeholders’ understanding of the work we do. Nissan as a Responsible Global Citizen Since January 2004, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. has participated in the United Nations Global Compact, a corporate responsibility initiative built around universal principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The U.N. Global Compact was originally proposed by U.N. SecretaryGeneral Kofi Annan in an address to the World Economic Forum (Davos forum) in 1999. Businesses may pledge to support its principles of their own free will. In order to convey its progress in activities that contribute to fulfilling these 10 principles, Nissan publishes its annual Sustainability Reports on the U.N. Global Compact website. The 10 Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Labor Standards friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Anti-Corruption and the effective recognition of the right Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, to collective bargaining; including extortion and bribery. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Additional information on the of employment and occupation. Global Compact is available online. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Joining the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Nissan is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), an international association of companies with a shared interest in sustainable development based on three pillars of economic growth, environmental preservation and societal fairness. Some 200 companies from more than 35 countries and 20 major industrial sectors have joined the WBCSD. The Council pursues the following objectives in contributing to industry: Business Leadership: to be a leading business advocate on sustainable development Policy Development: to help develop policies that create framework conditions for the business contribution to sustainable development The Business Case: to develop and promote the business case for sustainable development Best Practices: to demonstrate the business contribution to sustainable development and share best practices among members Global Outreach: to contribute to a sustainable future for developing nations and nations in transition Additional information on the WBCSD is available online. http://www.wbcsd.org/ A Message from the Head of Nissan’s 010 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Approach to CSR Global Disaster Control Headquarters Toshiyuki Shiga The Time to Fulfill Chief Operating Officer Our Corporate Social Responsibility Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Japan suffered horrific damage in the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster of March 11, 2011. I extend my deepest sympathies to those whose lives have been touched by the disaster and pray that reconstruction in the affected areas proceeds as quickly as possible. Immediately after the disaster, Nissan set up a Global Disaster Control Headquarters. As well as ensuring the safety of all employees, this taskforce has worked to ascertain the level of damage sustained in the disaster—including by our suppliers and sales companies—and has implemented a variety of measures to restore damaged facilities. Nissan has also been proactive in extending support as a corporate citizen. On the day of the disaster itself, we decided to provide immediate cash assistance. We have made 65 of our Nissan LEAF 100% electric vehicles available for use in the stricken areas free of charge, as well as 50 Nissan Patrol fourwheel-drive vehicles. Another contribution was our gift to the Japan Red Cross to match donations raised by employees of the global Nissan group. To date, Nissan has provided assistance worth a total of ¥430 million. For our employees, there are also special leave arrangements making it easier to take time off to participate in volunteer activities. We will continue to mobilize the strengths of the entire Nissan group as we continue to do everything in our power to support those affected. We began repairing our damaged factories soon after the disaster, even before infrastructure had been fully restored and with powerful aftershocks continuing to shake eastern Japan. As a result of concerted efforts by the entire Nissan group, including valuable support from many other factories, we succeeded in restoring production in all our automobile assembly plants approximately one month after the disaster. The damaged Iwaki Plant also regained its full production capacity on May 17. However, many tasks remain: some of our suppliers have yet to reopen and our supply chain, including overseas factories, has yet to be fully restored. We continue to devote our energies to getting back to full operating capacity as quickly as possible. In view of the increasingly serious energy shortage, Nissan is doing everything it can to conserve electricity as a company. We also continue to exhort all our employees to do everything they can in this regard. Now is the time to fulfill our corporate social responsibility. Nissan’s recovery and restoration to full operational capacity will have a knock-on effect on the regeneration of Japanese craftsmanship, acting as a driving force to bring renewed vigor and energy to Japan as a whole and the wider world economy. We can do it, Japan! We can do it, Nissan! Nissan’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake For more information on our postNissan has been providing a wide range of assistance to hasten the recovery effort in areas in earthquake operations and relief northeastern Japan afflicted by the March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami. In addition to providing activities, please see our website. http://www.nissan-global.com/ emergency cash assistance, Nissan has sought to do its part with the products, material and EN/110311.html humanitarian aid essential to the recovery. Some major aspects of the assistance from Nissan and its group companies as of this report’s publication are as follows. • ¥30 million donated to the NGO Japan Platform • 50 Nissan vehicles donated to the U.N. and nonprofit groups to assist their relief activities in the disaster areas (41 vehicles in use as of the end of April) • Seven vehicles leased free of charge to four NPOs offering on-site assistance in the disaster areas • 65 all-electric Nissan LEAFs leased free of charge to local governments in the disaster areas where gasoline supplies are lacking • Needed supplies donated to the disaster areas via the Kanagawa Prefectural government and the Japan Self-Defense Forces, including 700 blankets, 50,000 medical masks and 300 bottles of antiseptic • ¥120 million donated to the Japanese Red Cross by matching contributions from employees of Nissan Motor Co. and overseas Nissan subsidiaries In addition to the efforts outlined above, Renault has contributed €500,000 to Red Cross organizations, and Calsonic Kansei Corp., Nissan Shatai Co. and our overseas affiliates have also provided assistance. Globally, Nissan has provided total monetary and other assistance in excess of ¥400 million. Moving forward, we will be monitoring needs in the disaster areas in order to provide additional assistance while continuing our collaboration and dialogue with NPOs and the civic sector. 011 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 The Renault-Nissan Alliance Nissan has greatly increased its global footprint and achieved dramatic economies of scale through the Renault-Nissan Alliance, a unique and highly scalable strategic partnership founded Please see our website for more in 1999. Renault and Nissan together sold 7.28 million cars* in 190 countries in 2010, making the information on the Renault-Nissan Alliance the third largest auto group worldwide. The Alliance unites 350,000 employees worldwide Alliance. http://www.nissan-global.com/ under five brands: Nissan, Infiniti, Renault, Renault Samsung Motors and Dacia. EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/ ALLIANCE/RENAULT01/index.html * This figure includes Lada sales (AvtoVAZ of Russia). Global Pursuit of Synergy and Growth Although it was initially considered a unique arrangement in the late 1990s, the Alliance quickly became a role model for several other partnerships in the auto industry. Meanwhile, the Alliance itself broadened its scope substantially, forming additional partnerships with automakers including Germany’s Daimler, China’s Dongfeng Motor and Russia’s AvtoVAZ. The Alliance is based on the rationale that substantial cross-shareholding investments compel each company to act in the financial interest of the other, while maintaining individual brand identities and independent corporate cultures. Renault currently has a 44.3% stake in Nissan, and Nissan holds a 15.0% stake in Renault. The cross-shareholding arrangement requires mutual trust and respect, as well as a transparent management system focused on speed, accountability and performance. The Alliance pursues a strategy of profitable growth with three objectives: 1. To be recognized by customers as being among the best three automotive groups in the quality and value of its products and services in each region and market segment 2. To be among the best three automotive groups in key technologies, each partner being a leader in specific domains of excellence 3. To consistently generate a total operating profit among the top three automotive groups in the world, by maintaining a high operating margin and steady growth The Alliance remains committed to developing synergies through such common organizations as the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization (RNPO), joint working groups and shared platforms, components and industrial facilities. In its second decade of existence, the Alliance also keenly focuses on maintaining its clear lead in sustainable transportation. Zero-Emission Leadership The Alliance invested €4 billion in research, engineering, product development and manufacturing to 012 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 The Renault-Nissan Alliance develop the first wave of zero-emission cars—electric vehicles (EVs). Unlike other carmakers, the Alliance focused on development of a unique, purpose-built EV that could be mass-produced at affordable prices for mainstream consumers. The first tangible result of the investment was the groundbreaking Nissan LEAF, which went on sale in Japan and the United States in December 2010. The Nissan LEAF—which was named the 2011 World Car of the Year—will be available globally starting in 2012. The Alliance is developing eight additional EVs for production by 2014. The heart of the Alliance’s initial investment is the EV battery. The Alliance is working on five all-new battery production plants in Japan, France, the United States, the United Kingdom and Portugal. When fully ramped up, these plants will give the Alliance battery production capacity of 500,000 units a year. This advanced technology and total supply chain control guarantees an advantage unmatched in the global automotive industry, allowing Renault and Nissan to achieve a full production scale of hundreds of thousands of EVs per year. This priceless “first-mover advantage” will give Nissan and Renault significant brand equity, customer awareness and market data from real-world drivers. While the Alliance is focused on the EV, it also continues to work on and invest in hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles (FCVs) and future zero-emission strategies. Emerging Market Dominance The Alliance will always remain committed to the brands’ roots and core markets, including Japan, Europe and North America. At the same time, the Alliance is expanding aggressively in the world’s fastest-growing economies, positioning the companies shrewdly for the rest of the 21st century and beyond. To take one example, the Alliance has invested heavily in India, where a plant in Chennai began producing cars for both Nissan and Renault in 2010. The first vehicle produced was the Nissan Micra. Starting in 2011, the plant will produce the Renault Koleos and Fluence. The Chennai factory represents an investment of about €800 million from February 2008 to 2015. The plant—which has full stamping, body, paint, plastic, trim and chassis shops, as well as two test tracks—will eventually have the capacity to produce 400,000 vehicles a year. The Alliance is likewise planning for ambitious growth in China, Brazil, Russia, Morocco and other emerging markets. While these investments mean more affordable cars and trucks for new consumers overseas, they also mean more jobs in the Alliance’s homelands—particularly in additional value-added positions in research and development, manufacturing processes and vehicle design. This means that the Alliance’s emerging-market expansion is a definitive “win-win” for both historic markets and those that are experiencing double-digit growth. 013 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Environment Achieving a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature Nissan’s environmental philosophy, “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicle and Nature,” expresses our ideal picture of a sustainable mobility society. To achieve this, we have defined three key issues to be tackled: reducing CO2 emissions, reducing other emissions (to protect the air, water and soil) and recycling resources. We are working toward the ultimate goal of keeping the environmental impact caused by our operations and Nissan vehicles throughout their life cycle to a level that can be absorbed naturally by the Earth. Three Key Issues 1. Reducing CO 2 Emissions The automobile industry is entering an age when it must work not only to help reduce CO2 emissions, but also to reinvent its business structures to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. As a global automobile manufacturer, Nissan is working to reduce CO2 emissions at every stage of its vehicles’ lives, from production to transport and operation, as well as to develop technologies for making use of renewable energy and to create related business models. Reducing CO 2 Emissions 2. Protecting the Air, Water and Soil Our lives depend on a balance within the ecosystem composed of air, water, soil and other living beings. At Nissan, we are working to reduce the environmental effects of our vehicles throughout their life cycles so that we may hand down a healthy global environment to future generations. We are making this approach a new part of our values as we continue to develop and champion environmentally friendly technologies. Protecting Recycling the Air, 3. Resources Water and Soil Recycling Resources Nissan manufactures and markets its vehicles all around the world, utilizing resources in a variety of forms. In line with our basic stance of treating resources as limited, and believing that they should be used as efficiently as possible, we are working to make effective use of resources at every stage of our vehicles’ life cycles. 014 KEY CSR AREAS Environment NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environmental Vision Environment Achieving “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature” As a global automaker, Nissan takes active steps to identify the direct and indirect impacts of its business on the environment and subsequently work to help minimize them. Our ultimate goal is to reduce the environmental impact caused by our operations and Nissan vehicles throughout their life cycle to a level that can be absorbed naturally by the Earth, leaving as small a footprint on the planet as possible. Nissan aims to be a “sincere eco-innovator.” Toward this end, we take a proactive stance toward addressing environmental challenges and helping to reduce the real-world environmental effect of our products, people and facilities, as well as providing our customers with optimal value in the form of innovative products, technologies and services as contributions to a sustainable mobility society. By actively working to contribute to the protection of the global environment through sustainable mobility, we hope to make our vision of achieving “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature” a reality. The Nissan Green Program To propel the company forward in pursuit of its ultimate goal, Nissan established a medium-term environmental action plan, the Nissan Green Program (NGP), and is working to advance it companywide. We have completed most of the action plans intended to target three key issues—reducing CO2 emissions, reducing other emissions (to protect the air, water and soil) and recycling resources—for NGP2010, which was launched in 2006. During this time, we introduced many new environmental technologies to the market as we focused on reducing CO2 emissions in all of our business fields. We also established an environmental management framework and steadily moved forward with measures for achieving our long-term goals. In the next phase of this action plan we will continue to work to reduce the environmental dependency and impact of our vehicles and business activities while continuing to strive to achieve zeroemission mobility by promoting effective products and technologies, leading society toward greater sustainability. (For more information on the goals of NGP2010, please see pp. 17-18.) Environmental Management Framework Nissan has built a global environmental management system that achieves maximum results targeting 015 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment the three key issues outlined earlier by organically linking divisions engaged in product and technical development, production, logistics, marketing and sales. To promote environmental management globally, Nissan has created specific organizational roles and responsibilities to clarify areas of activity and responsibility. Our Global Environment Management Committee (G-EMC), headed by Nissan’s chief operating officer, determines overall policies and the proposals to be put before the Executive Committee. The Global Environmental Planning Office, established in 2007, determines which proposals will be forwarded to the G-EMC and assigns specific actions to each division. It is also responsible for the efficient management and operation of environmental programs based on the PDCA cycle: plan, do, check and act. In addition, we further enhance our activities by soliciting the ideas of leading environmental experts and organizations at our Environmental Advisory Meetings, and by learning about the trends of socially responsible investment funds and assessments from rating organizations. We use this information to help understand the opinions of our stakeholders and to better assess our goals and activities. We have also introduced the Nissan Global CO2 Management Way (QCT-C), a new set of management indices with CO2 (C) added to the traditional indices of quality, cost and time. In this way we have placed CO2 reductions alongside these more traditional measures in importance, and we are promoting corporate activities with a balance in these four areas with the aim of creating new value. Our Framework for Global Environment Management Stakeholders Communication Three Key Issues Reducing CO2 Emissions Products Manufacturin Manufacturing Marketing Protecting the Air, Water and Soil & & & Technology Logistics Sales Recycling Resources Nissan Global Environment Management Sincere Eco-Innovator Nissan’s Global Environment Management Organization CEO Global, Functional, corporate focuses regional focuses Customers Executive Committee Plan PDCA Business Employees partners Global Environment Global Environmental Environmental Management Act Do PDCA Advisory Meetings, Planning Committee etc. Office Communities PDCA Shareholders Check and future and investors generations A Full Range of Environment Management Systems Nissan is progressing with the introduction of environmental management systems to all of its operation 016 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment sites worldwide. In January 2011 we obtained integrated ISO 14001 certification for our Global Headquarters and all of our main facilities in Japan for research and development, production and distribution, as well as for our product development processes. With this certification, we are creating a consistent framework for management of environmental issues. In addition to undergoing audits by third-party organizations, each year we carry out our own internal audits of our environmental systems and environmental performance as a means of strengthening the company’s measures based on the PDCA cycle. We have also obtained ISO 14001 certification at our main production plants outside Japan. Our policy is to extend environmental management systems with these same criteria to regions in which we are newly expanding. We have also introduced an original approach to environmental management based on ISO 14001 certification, which we call the Nissan Green Shop certification system, to our sales companies in Japan. This system is managed through internal audits conducted by the sales companies themselves every six months, in addition to regular annual reviews and certification renewal audits carried out every three years by Nissan headquarters. As of the end of March 2011, some 2,800 dealership outlets of 174 sales companies, including parts and forklift dealers, have been certified under the system. Additionally, 18 of our 20 consolidated manufacturing affiliates have obtained ISO 14001 certification. Shared Approach with Suppliers The purchasing divisions of Nissan and Renault carry out supply-chain management in a manner consistent with The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way, a booklet outlining policies for dealing with suppliers, and the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers published in 2010. With respect to environmental issues, since April 2008 we have set standards for the efforts of our automobile parts and material suppliers in the form of the revised Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. We are now expanding the coverage of these guidelines worldwide. Through these purchasing guidelines we seek to share our environmental principles and action plans with our suppliers and to promote the reduction of environmental impact throughout the entire supply chain, thus helping to realize our philosophy of “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature.” (Please see pages 82 and 83.) Utilizing the Life Cycle Assessment Method Nissan uses the life cycle assessment (LCA) method to quantitatively evaluate and comprehensively assess environmental impact in all stages of the vehicle life cycle, from resource extraction to production, transport, customer use and vehicle disposal. With the aim of developing more environmentally friendly vehicles, we also carry out LCAs for new technologies as they are introduced. Environmental Education for Employees Nissan conducts environmental education for all of its employees in Japan to promote and deepen individual awareness of environmental issues. Basic education is a part of the orientation of new employees when they join the company. Additionally, classes and seminars following Nissan’s original environmental education curriculum are held to raise the awareness of managers and midlevel employees. We are also developing localized educational tools for employees at our operation sites around the world. Nissan Green Program 2010 (FY2006–2010) Activities 017 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Item Target Activities up to the end of FY2010 See page Reduction of CO2 Establish global environmental management framework with QCT-C (CO2) Launched global CO2 management scheme in each area of value 15 emissions chain in FY2008 and continued implementing the scheme Improve fuel Attain fuel efficiency standards in Japan, Europe, U.S. and China, and further Continued promoting activities for fuel economy improvement in each 20 economy fuel economy progress market Japan: Introduce eco-friendly vehicles addressing both inside and the ambient Introduced fuel-efficient “Nissan ECO Series” in Japan in 2009 — environment Internal combustion Introduce VVEL system to reduce CO2 emissions by Introduced engine with VVEL system in Skyline Coupe in FY2007 — engine improvement approximately 10% Introduce gasoline engines comparable to current Adopted MR16DDT engine with a highly efficient compact turbo 26 diesel engines in CO2 emission levels (approx. 20% charger in Juke in 2010; adopted 5.6-liter V8 engine with VVEL and less emissions) Direct Injection Gasoline system on Nissan Patrol/Infiniti QX in U.S., GCC and China Introduce vehicles comparable to current hybrid Started production of Micra DIG-S, achieving ultra-low CO2 — electric vehicles (HEVs) in CO2 emission levels, emissions in Europe in March 2011 starting in the Japanese market Transmission Global sales of CVT: Approx. 1 million sales per Continued annual global sales of over 1 million units since FY2007; 27 improvement year total sales in FY2010 were 1.58 million units Develop and introduce 7-speed AT Introduced Infiniti FX50 with 7-speed AT to US market in 2007; more — models using this AT to be rolled out Develop and Vehicles compatible E85: Continuously expand in US market Launched Titan FFV in 2005 — expand clean with bioethanol fuel Launched Armada FFV in 2007 energy vehicles E100: Introduce within three years in Brazil Launched E100-compatible Livina in 2009; more compatible models — to be rolled out Strengthen development of EV core technologies Established a joint company, Automotive Energy Supply Corporation 23 (motors, batteries and inverters) (AESC), in 2007; AESC started marketing laminated compact lithium-ion batteries in 2008; AESC started mass production of the batteries in Zama Plant in October 2010 Introduce all-electric vehicles in Japan and U.S. by FY2010; mass-market Launched Nissan LEAF in Japan and U.S. in December 2010, and in 21 globally by FY2012 Europe in March 2011 Promote initiatives to popularize EVs in cooperation with national and local Renault-Nissan Alliance has entered into over 90 partnerships as of 21 governments March 2011 Market HEVs with Nissan’s proprietary hybrid technologies in U.S. and Japan Introduced Fuga using the original hybrid system in Japan in 26 November 2010 and Infiniti M hybrid model in U.S. and Europe in March 2011 Accelerate plug-in HEV development Development advanced — Introduce next-generation fuel-cell vehicles (FCVs) with in-house developed Development advanced toward practical technology within the 2010s 25 fuel-cell stack (in early 2010s, in U.S. and Japan) Manufacturing Reduce CO2 reduction from factories worldwide by 7% from 2005 levels Achieved 18.6% reduction from FY2005 levels in global per vehicle 30 and logistics (global per vehicle CO2 emissions) CO2 emissions in FY2010 Global: Begin measurement of emission levels and launch emission Started measurement of emission levels in FY2006 and launched 32 management for Nissan’s logistics global management in FY2007 Dealers and Japan: Launch emission management at dealers and offices Started measurement of emission levels in FY2007 and launched 33 offices Global: Launch emission management at national sales companies and offices emission reduction activities in FY2008 Achievement of clean Cleaner exhaust Early compliance Japan: Early introduction of models compliant with Started using new exhaust emission tests on Serena in 2007; — emissions emissions with upcoming future regulations, implementation of exhaust X-TRAIL 20GT met Japan’s 2009 Emission Regulations in 2008 (to preserve air, water exhaust emission measurement methods and soil quality) regulations Europe: Early compliance with emission regulations Started marketing regulation-compliant G Sedan, G Coupe, EX and — such as Euro5 FX in 2008 U.S.: Expand PZEV and SU-LEV compatible PZEV: Introduced Altima in 2006 and Altima Coupe in 2007 — vehicles SU-LEV: Introduced Rogue in 2007 and Sentra in 2008 China: Early compliance with emission regulations Compliance with Livina, Qashqai and Sylphy in 2006 — such as Euro4 Develop atmospheric air-level emission vehicle Advance development work completed — Introduce vehicles with clean diesel engines for Japan, U.S. and China Japan: Launched a new clean diesel X-TRAIL 20GT (MT) in 2008; 35 added AT models in June 2010 Introduce 2-liter-class vehicles with clean diesel engines (Euro4) in FY2007 in Launched Qashqai and X-TRAIL equipped with clean diesel engines — Europe in 2007 Expand use of low precious metal catalysts for gasoline-powered cars utilizing Developed an ultra-low precious metal catalyst for gasoline vehicles 35 only half the precious metal compared to conventional models in 2007, introduced it in the new Cube in 2008; developed ultra-low precious metal catalyst for clean diesel engines in 2010 Management and Ban/reduce the use of four heavy-metal compound and specified bromine Compliance with all new models launched in 2007 38 reduction of flame retardants environmentReduce in-cabin VOC emissions Achieved JAMA’s voluntary targets for 13 compound concentration 38 impacting substances levels set by the Japanese Health Ministry in all new models launched in 2007 Compliance with European REACH standards Started chemical substance management in 2006 38 Reduction of VOCs in Global: Achieve VOC reductions exceeding each country’s standards Promoted activities to comply with each country’s regulations 36 painting process in Japan: Achieve 10% reduction in volume of VOC emissions from FY2005 Achieved 17.1% reduction in FY2010 36 plant levels (per unit, body and bumper total) Control environmentJapan: Protect water and soil through Nissan Green Shop (NGS) activities Promoted activities — impacting substances Global: Study potential for overseas expansion of activities at dealers Reduce drive-by noise Compliance with voluntary standards tougher than each country’s regulations Compliance achieved for all models starting in 2007 — 018 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Item Target Activities up to the end of FY2010 See page Recycling of Design to facilitate Promote, expand design to facilitate recycling Achieved 95% recovery rate in all new models since 2005 39 resources (promotion recycling Develop recycling technology for electric vehicles (HEVs, EVs and FCVs) Development advanced 41 of the 3Rs) Effective utilization of Improve plant resource Global: Industry-best level in each country Activities promoted 41 resources recovery rate Japan: Resource recovery rate 100% (NML and Achieved 100% resource recovery rate at 5 Nissan plants, 2 offices 41 affiliates) and 5 affiliates in FY2010 Logistics: Improve parts packaging efficiency Activities promoted 41 Product: Expand the volume of recycled material Activities promoted 40 At sales companies, Improve ELV recovery Global: Promote activities to achieve 95% recovery Activities promoted — dealers rate rate Japan: ELV recovery rate of 95% (5 years ahead of Achieved recovery rate of 97.0% in FY2010 — 2015 regulation) Recycling activities at Japan: Optimize waste disposal procedures through Activities promoted 42 dealers and national Nissan Green Shop (NGS) activities sales companies Global: Feasibility study for introducing above activities Management Business Partners Consolidated and affiliated companies: Expand management boundary and Started measurement of CO2 emission levels, set a reduction target — global environment management system and established CO2 management scheme in FY2007; started CO2 management in FY2008 Renault: Joint implementation of CSR procurement Conducting based on the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way — Suppliers: Manage environment-impacting substances by green procurement Working in line with Nissan Green Procurement Guidelines since — system 2008 Companywide Establish LCA procedures for product and operational aspects Reduction of environmental impact promoted through LCA method — activities Environment-conscious Nissan Advanced Technical Center (NATC) in NATC and GHQ received top “S” CASBEE ratings in 2008 — designs for new Atsugi, Kanagawa and Nissan Global Headquarters buildings (GHQ) in Yokohama Regional headquarters around the world Adopted environment-conscious designs for Nissan North America’s — new headquarters and some sites in Europe in 2008 Employees’ awareness Develop global environmental education program Started Nissan environmental e-learning program co-developed with — Natural Step (NGO); introduced the program in Japan in FY2008 and expanded to affiliates in FY2009 Working with society Collaborating with CO2 reduction with government ministries, other companies by utilizing ITS Implemented the ITS Project to reduce traffic accidents and ease — other sectors congestion in 2006; launched STARWINGS project with Beijing Transportation Information Center in 2007; navigation system with congestion-avoidance route information installed as standard in top luxury-grade Teana in 2008; New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) commissioned Nissan to test Beijing traffic system in 2010; Renault-Nissan Alliance launched “YOKOHAMA Mobility Project ZERO” with city of Yokohama in 2009 Study of economic approaches such as emission trading Launched carbon offset program linked to the sale of March Collet in — 2008 Support for environmental studies and education through Nissan Science Implemented support — Foundation (now Nissan Global Foundation) Communication with Timely environmental information disclosure Updated information disclosed in June every year — stakeholders Promote eco-driving to Expand eco-driving support services through the Started providing monthly eco-drive rankings and advice in 2007; — customers Nissan CARWINGS navigation system in Japan started “Eco-Driving and You” in 2008 Develop new technologies for eco-driving Expanded use of fuel-efficiency gauges from 2007; developed Eco — Pedal in 2008 and installed in Fuga (Infiniti M) in 2009; promoted installation of systems featuring CVT and engine modulation in 2009; started adoption of Eco-mode Function, Eco-drive Navigator, etc. in 2010 Promote eco-driving Started holding training sessions at various events and at — GRANDRIVE test course in FY2008; started “E1 Grand Prix” for eco-driving practice in FY2009 Continue environmental education program Carried out Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School from FY2008 — Improve Nissan’s environmental activities through continuous communications Carried out Nissan Environmental Advisory Meeting from FY2005; — with stakeholders published Sustainability Report on website; introduced activities through brochures and leaflets; conducted tours of environmental facilities 019 KEY CSR AREAS Environment NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Reducing Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) Environment Nissan’s Tasks to Tackle Issues related to fossil fuels and natural resources are the focus of increasing attention in connection with the rapid growth of the world’s emerging economies. The automobile industry is entering an age when it must work not only to help reduce CO2 emissions, but also to reinvent its business structures to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. Nissan strives to maintain a sense of urgency about these issues as it creates revolutionary technologies and business models to provide new value to customers and accelerates its efforts toward the realization of a more sustainable mobility society. Nissan’s CO2 Emission Levels 2,486 kton 1,586 kton 90,000 kton* 371 kton Production Logistics Use of Nissan vehicles Offices, etc. * Tank-to-wheel Calculated according to Nissan’s internal standards (projected lifetime emissions from new cars sold in FY09) Nissan’s Approach Technical innovation is essential for reliable progress in reducing CO2 emissions, but there is also a need for society to come together as a whole to tackle the major issues. To help achieve steady reductions in the overall amount of CO2 emissions, Nissan defines its basic approach of introducing technology as the “four rights”—providing the right technology, at the right time, in the right market and at the right value to the customer. We aim to provide effective technologies at prices customers can afford and to spread these technologies swiftly and widely with a focus on their total contribution to sustainable mobility. CO2 emissions produced during vehicle operation can vary greatly depending on vehicle performance and type of fuel, as well as on driving technique and road conditions. We therefore focus not only on our vehicles, but also on support for eco-driving habits and coordinated improvements to the traffic environment. In this way we approach CO2 reductions from the three perspectives of vehicles, drivers and the driving environment. Long-Term Goals and Roadmap Opinions vary with regard to the levels at which average global temperature and CO2 concentration will 020 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment need to be in the future. According to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), it is necessary to stabilize atmospheric CO2 at 450 parts per million or lower in order to keep average temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius on a global basis. Based on this, we have calculated that “well-to-wheel” CO2 emissions for new vehicles—including “well-to-tank” emissions, from primary energy extraction through fuel refinement and delivery to customers, in which automakers are not involved, along with fuel consumption during operation—need to be reduced by 90% in 2050 compared with levels in 2000. To help achieve this 90% reduction, we see the need to further improve the fuel efficiency of internal combustion engines in the short term, and in the longer term, to bring about widespread use of electric and fuel-cell vehicles, making use of renewable energy sources to provide the power they need. We are bolstering our development of new technologies with this long-term scenario in mind. Specifically, we are concentrating our efforts on two pillars: Zero Emission, which involves widespread use of zero-emission vehicles in a holistic approach to promote a sustainable society, and PURE DRIVE, which reduces CO2 emissions by developing fuel-efficient internal combustion engine technologies and introducing them into the market. Our CO2 Reduction Scenario New cars’ well-to-wheel CO2 emissions Well-to-wheel CO2 emission reductions by future powertrain （%） （%） 100 100 Source: IPCC 80 80 60 60 450 Renewable Electricity Renewable Hydrogen ppm 40 40 20 90% 20 reduction 0 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Internal Hybrid Electric Fuel-cell combustion electric vehicle vehicle engine vehicle Average CO2 Emissions of New Passenger Cars (Japan, EU, USA) 120 (%) 100 24% reduction 80 60 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 FY Note: Nissan calculates the companywide averages for fuel consumption in Japan and North America, and for CO2 emissions in Europe, according to the number and type of vehicles shipped each year. Efforts in Our Products and Technologies 021 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Moves Toward Zero-Emission Mobility Realizing a sustainable society will require the widespread use of zero-emission vehicles that produce no CO2 emissions. This means there is a need to go beyond merely producing and selling zero-emission vehicles, and we must also put the needed infrastructure in place and make sure that the vehicles are economical to use, which no single company can accomplish on its own. The Renault-Nissan Alliance, which is positioning the launch and popularization of electric vehicles (EVs)—one form of zero-emission vehicles—as a key corporate strategy, has committed to Zero Emission leadership. In addition to boosting the development and production of EVs, we are forging partnerships with national and local governments, electric power companies and other partners in a range of industries to promote zero-emission mobility and carry out discussions on the construction of the required infrastructure. As of March 2011, the Alliance has entered more than 90 partnerships around the world, including with the governments of Kanagawa Prefecture and the city of Yokohama in Japan, the government of Portugal and 27 entities (state or local governments and utilities) within the United States. We are also taking part in a comprehensive range of initiatives built around the zero-emission mobility axis, including the production of lithium-ion batteries, secondary use of batteries, use of recycled materials in cars, in-house manufacturing and sale of quick-charging equipment, construction of vehicle-charging infrastructure and standardization of charging methods with other manufacturers. A Comprehensive Approach to a Zero-Emission Society Zero-emission vehicle Battery engineering, Collaborating engineering, manufacturing manufacturing with governments Battery secondary-use 4R business* Smart-grid research, New mobility proposals CHAdeMO* EV recycling charging networks Nissan-made quick chargers * 4R business: see page 22; CHAdeMO: see page 23. Developing and Manufacturing Zero-Emission Cars We launched the Nissan LEAF, our 100% electricity-powered vehicle, in Japan and the United States in December 2010 and in Europe in March 2011. As a zero-emission vehicle with no tailpipe emissions including CO2 during operation, the Nissan LEAF has achieved outstanding environmental performance. Its high-capacity lithium-ion battery, Nissan-developed inverter and electric motor provide powerful, smooth acceleration and a luxurious, quiet ride at all speeds. The Nissan LEAF offers superior handling stability The award-winning Nissan LEAF realized by its excellent weight balance and features a maximum driving range of up to 200 kilometers on one full charge (as measured in JC08 test mode). It provides a driving experience unlike any other vehicle ever marketed. With this car and the advanced information technology systems that provide convenient, functional support for its operation, we are seeking to provide new value and a new style of mobility to our customers. The Nissan LEAF and the steps we are taking to bring about a new zero-emission society have received high marks within Japan and around the world. In Japan, we won the 2010 Good Design Gold Award from the Japan Industrial Design Promotion Organization for our “holistic approach to promote the adoption of Nissan LEAF electric vehicle and zero-emission mobility.” On the international stage, in its Green Awards 2010 the British auto enthusiast magazine What Car? presented a special Editor’s Award to the Renault-Nissan Alliance for the companies’ work on EVs. In the 022 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment United States, the Nissan LEAF’s electric propulsion system won recognition as one of the 2011 Ward’s 10 Best Engines, becoming the first non-gasoline-powered, zero-emission winner in the award’s 17-year history. The Nissan LEAF was also named the European Car of the Year for 2011, another first for an electric car in the 47-year history of these awards. The world’s first truly mass-produced, affordable, globally marketed EV beat out 40 internal combustion competitors to win this high honor. Technology to Support EV Drivers To make new lifestyles with EVs as a part of them more convenient and comfortable, Nissan is developing a range of functional support programs making full use of advanced IT systems. The What Car? Editor’s Award The Nissan LEAF’s onboard communication unit, for instance, allows users to connect to the vehicle with their mobile phone, smartphone, or personal computer. This gives them access to the vehicle’s functions like climate control, allowing them to set a comfortable temperature before they get into the car. This system also lets users check on the battery charge level or start the recharging process while away from the vehicle. The Nissan LEAF earned high We designed an EV-exclusive version of our Carwings navigation system in Japan allowing drivers marks for its engine. to search quickly for the nearest charging stations. Once a destination is set, the navigation system automatically calculates whether recharging will be necessary along the way and indicates where there are charging stations along the route. Newly installed stations are automatically added to the system’s map data. The Nissan LEAF’s exclusive IT systems earned widespread praise for their innovation and high quality, winning the Best Mobile Innovation for Automotive and Transport prize in the 2011 Global Mobile Awards. These prestigious awards are presented each year by the GSM Association, a global info-communications industry organization, to leading mobile services and products from around the world. Our 4R Business for Batteries The high-performance lithium-ion batteries used in Nissan’s EVs retain up to 80% of their initial capacity after five years of use under average conditions. This means these batteries still have useful roles to play even when they are no longer used in vehicles. In September 2010, Nissan and Sumitomo Corporation launched 4R Energy Corp., a joint venture to develop secondary-use business opportunities for used EV batteries. This company is pursuing the four Rs—reusing, reselling, refabricating and recycling lithium-ion batteries to find ways to put them to effective use in non-automotive second life applications including energy storage solutions. The intent is to add new value to used batteries and establish a closed energy cycle that will contribute to the realization of a lowcarbon society in the future. A Closed Energy Cycle for a Low-Carbon Society Keeping prices lower by secondary use of batteries; reducing CO2 emissions at power generation stage with renewable energy use Zero-emission mobility A Closed Energy Cycle for a Low-Carbon Society Renewable energy Secondary battery use Contributing to society with charging infrastructure, Giving used batteries new value devices for storing and effectively using renewable energy as energy storage solutions Global EV and Battery Production In Japan, Nissan and NEC Corp. launched the joint venture Automotive Energy Supply Corporation (AESC) 023 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment in 2007. At the AESC plant in Zama, Kanagawa Prefecture, battery modules, which contain four battery cells, are assembled and then shipped to the Nissan Oppama facility, where 48 of them are assembled into the electric car’s battery pack. The Oppama Plant has an annual production capacity of 50,000 Nissan LEAFs. We have also announced that preparations are underway to produce the Nissan LEAF in the United States as well. In late 2012, the Nissan plant in Smyrna, Tennessee, will be outfitted to produce EVs, as well as lithium-ion battery packs. When this plant gets up to full speed it is expected to produce 150,000 EVs and 200,000 battery packs per year and to create some 1,300 new jobs in the state. In Europe, we are planning to begin production of 60,000 battery packs per year in 2012 at our Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. In the first half of the following year, this plant will also see the launch of EV production, with capacity to reach 50,000 vehicles annually. We expect these new U.K. operations to create 200 new jobs within Nissan and 600 positions in our supply chain. Battery production will also begin at Renault’s plant in Cacia, Portugal, in December 2013, with capacity of 50,000 Nissan lithium-ion battery packs per year. In 2015, the Renault-Nissan Alliance is projected to have an annual global production capacity of 500,000 EVs and 500,000 battery packs. Our Quick EV Charger In May 2010, ahead of the launch of the Nissan LEAF, our parts dealers throughout Japan began sales of a quick-charging unit developed by Nissan for electric vehicles. By putting its EV R&D know-how and factory facilities to work in the in-house development of this quick charger, Nissan was able to produce a unit at a very competitive price. The charger makes full use of a range of safety devices to achieve a high level of safe reliability; it can be used even when it is raining, and specialized models are also available for use in hot or cold climates. A Full-Coverage Charging Network Nissan has worked together with Toyota Motor Corp., Mitsubishi Motors Corp., Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to form the CHAdeMO Association.* This group aims to standardize the forms of the chargers and to increase the availability of quick-charge units—a must for the spread of EVs. In addition to automakers and power companies, the association includes manufacturers of charging equipment, charging service providers, other companies playing supporting roles and administrative bodies. In all, there are 332 members from all around the world as of March, 2011. Nissan’s charging units are based on CHAdeMO standards, and can therefore be used for other manufacturers’ EVs that share this interface as well. All of Nissan’s approximately 2,200 dealerships in Japan are now equipped with standard 200-volt charging units. Some 200 of these dealers have also quick-charging stations on the premises. In this way we provide nationwide coverage in a worry-free driving environment that never leaves EV drivers more than 40 kilometers away from a quick-charging facility. In September 2010, Nissan announced it would jointly develop a quick-charging network for EVs with Endesa, Spain’s largest electricity utility. We are now working with Endesa to create this network of DC quick-chargers covering all of Spain. * An abbreviation of “CHArge de MOve,” or “charge for moving,” CHAdeMO is the trade name for this quick-charging method that the association is proposing as a global industry standard. EV Charging Infrastructure for Condominiums (Japan) In August 2010, Nissan and Daikyo Inc., one of Japan’s largest condominium marketers, signed an agreement on cooperation toward the realization of a low-carbon, recycling-based society. To promote the widespread use of EVs, it will be vitally important to establish ubiquitous infrastructure for recharging the vehicles. Charging facilities at multiunit housing structures will be one key to boosting EV use in urban areas. In our memorandum of understanding exchanged with Daikyo, we agreed to launch a Demonstration Project for EV Charging Infrastructure in Condominium Buildings. Through this project we will pursue solutions to the issues involved. The Nissan New Mobility CONCEPT As part of our proposals for new forms of mobility for a sustainable zero-emission society, and as one 024 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment example of what lives of the future with EVs as part of them might be like, in November 2010 we unveiled the Nissan New Mobility CONCEPT. Society today is seeing rising numbers of senior citizens and single-member households, along with increasing use of automobiles for short-distance trips and to carry small numbers of passengers. We focused on these trends in coming up with this efficient, high-utility, sustainable means of mobility. This small, easy-to-handle concept car represents a completely new form of mobility in a segment not The Nissan New Mobility covered by any existing cars. We expect it to prove handy in a range of driving situations, and we intend CONCEPT to provide various new services built around the New Mobility CONCEPT, including “seamless mobility service,” a highly efficient and convenient linkage of public transportation and EVs via IT services, and “two-mode EV car sharing,” in which the vehicle serves as a private commuter car in the morning and evening and as corporate transportation during the day. We are also considering ways for this vehicle to contribute to the revitalization of local communities, such as by increasing the accessibility of suburban areas and tourist destinations. Partnerships Toward a Zero-Emission Society As part of its efforts to promote zero-emission mobility, Nissan has forged partnerships with national and local governments, electricity providers and other counterparts all around the world. One facet of these partnership activities is the Future-Generation EV Kyoto Project, undertaken jointly with the Kyoto city government, Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and Horiba Ltd. since July 2010 to promote EV use, develop vehicleuse systems that match Kyoto’s traffic conditions and help spread eco-driving practices. The project aims to prompt people to switch to EVs and to put more charging infrastructure in place; it also involves development of a system that gives drivers information on the location of charging stations and whether they are currently in use, thereby creating a total supportive environment for EV use. Other goals of the project are to reduce traffic within the city limits through park-and-ride and car-sharing initiatives and experimental testing of systems for efficient automobile use. A Nationwide Tour for the Nissan LEAF In July 2010, Nissan kicked off “the new action TOUR,” a nationwide series of events in Japan aimed at spreading the word about EVs. The first event, organized jointly with the Kanagawa prefectural government and a nonprofit organization, saw some 400 people attend, with 80 of them taking part in test drives and a citizens’ workshop at our global headquarters in Yokohama and several nearby facilities. To give as many of our customers as possible a sense of the coming zero-emission society, we intend to take “the new action TOUR” to all 47 of Japan’s prefectures. In fiscal 2010, we followed the Kanagawa Prefecture launch with events in the city of Saitama in August, Kitakyushu in October, Yokohama in December, Miyazaki Prefecture in January 2011 and Kyoto in February. We will continue holding tour events, primarily in areas where the Renault-Nissan Alliance has entered partnerships with local governments to help promote zero-emission mobility. Creating Smart Energy Grids The Yokohama Smart City Project, proposed by Nissan in concert with the city of Yokohama and companies including Accenture Japan Ltd., Toshiba Corp., Meidensha Corp., Panasonic Corp., Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. and Tokyo Electric Power Co., was selected by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as one of its Next-Generation Energy and Social Systems Demonstration Areas. Through these demonstrations, the ministry intends to realize Japan-style smart energy grids, and eventually to market them overseas. The batteries that power EVs can also play a key role as energy-storage devices supporting large-scale reliance on renewable energy sources. As such, they have the potential to contribute to lowering carbon emissions throughout society as a whole, and not just in the automotive sector. Nissan has been exploring ways to make innovative use of EVs and their batteries in creating a zero-emission society. This project is giving fresh impetus to our efforts. In November 2010, Yokohama hosted the summit of the leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation member economies. In the city’s Minato Mirai 21 district, the site of Nissan’s global 025 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment headquarters, we carried out an intensive public relations campaign. These will be expanded to areas like Kohoku New Town, a heavily built-up district in Yokohama, and the city’s shoreline Kanazawa Ward, part of the Yokohama Green Valley Initiative eco-city scheme, to gauge this approach’s extensibility and potential for broad popularization. In April 2010, Nissan also signed a memorandum of agreement with the US manufacturer General Electric Co. on joint research of smart-recharging technologies aimed at boosting EV use. The companies will cooperate over three years in two areas: control of electricity supply and demand in homes and other buildings making use of EVs’ energy-storage capacity and EV charging as an integrated part of largescale electric grids. Through their joint research, Nissan and GE hope to develop reliable new technologies that can flexibly meet a range of charging and power provision needs as part of overall utility systems. Reducing CO2 Throughout the Nissan LEAF’s Life Cycle Our calculations show that the Nissan LEAF produces up to 40% less CO2 emissions over its entire life cycle than a gasoline-powered vehicle in its class. This has been verified by an LCA, or life cycle assessment, carried out by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, a public assessment institution. We will continue improving our vehicles’ electricity consumption through technological innovation and streamlining our manufacturing processes in an effort to further reduce CO2 emissions over the life cycle of our EVs. CO2 Emissions Over a Vehicle’s Life Cycle 100 (%) 80 Fuel production, electricity generation 60 Fuel consumption Car transport, maintenance, disposal 40 Production of material, parts, vehicle 20 Note: Calculated on basis of production in Japan, 100,000 km driving 0 Same-class Nissan LEAF gas-powered car Nissan’s LCA certification Work to Improve Fuel-Cell Vehicles Fuel-cell vehicles (FCVs) are another type of zero-emission vehicle emitting no CO2 or other exhaust gases. Running on electricity generated from hydrogen and oxygen, they emit only water during driving. Nissan’s FCVs make use of the lithium-ion batteries and high-power electric systems refined in the development of its EVs, as well as the control systems from its hybrid vehicles and the high-pressure gas storage technologies from its cars running on compressed natural gas. In 2008, we developed a new fuel-cell stack with twice the power density of previous stacks, and we continue to work on ways to lower costs considerably by reducing the amount of precious metal used in the stacks while also making them last longer. In January 2011, we joined 12 other companies to jointly announce efforts to develop the hydrogen supply infrastructure necessary for FCVs and to spur their adoption in the Japanese market. Development is now underway toward achieving these goals within this decade. PURE DRIVE for Low Fuel Consumption 026 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment To reduce CO2 emissions, Nissan continues to develop technologies to improve fuel efficiency in internal combustion engine technologies and bring them into the market. One special area of focus is expansion of our PURE DRIVE series of cars with low CO2 output. Unique Hybrid System Hybrid vehicles combining gasoline engines and electric motors can significantly reduce CO2 emissions. Nissan has developed a unique hybrid system using a high-output lithium-ion battery together with a single motor for both drive and regeneration, as well as an intelligent dual clutch control system in which two clutches are linked in parallel, one to the motor and one directly to the engine and transmission. With this hybrid system one of the two clutches completely disconnects the motor from the engine, resulting in quiet and highly efficient EV-mode driving. By using this EV mode in high-speed driving and similar conditions, we have achieved best-in-class fuel economy for four-door sedans with 3.0-liter or larger engines. The compact, high-output lithium-ion battery is able to charge/discharge quickly. This contributes to high-speed, precise control of the electric motor and optimum clutch control, which enable both luxury driving with smooth shift quality and sharp acceleration response. Nissan released the Fuga Hybrid equipped with this system in Japan in autumn 2010. The Fuga Hybrid achieves fuel economy of 19 km/L (10-15 mode)—comparable to that of a compact car—while providing immediately responsive driving performance. We have also installed this hybrid system in our Infiniti M models that went on sale in North America and Europe in March 2011. Hybrid System Motor: Performs both propulsion and generation functions Lithium-ion Battery: Offers high capacity, quick charging/discharging Clutch 1: Connects/disconnects motor and engine V6 3.5L DOHC Engine: Delivers efficiency and high power output Clutch 2: Engages drive, changes transmission speed Hybrid Transmission: Transmits drive force Inverter: Controls electricity flows to motor to the vehicle via electronic 7-speed system with manual mode HR12DE Engine Achieves Low Fuel Consumption of 26 km/L Nissan developed the new 1.2-liter HR12DE engine in pursuit of lighter weight and smaller size. This 3-cylinder engine requires fewer moving parts than the 4-cylinder engines more commonly used in small cars. By applying bore circularity machining to the cylinder block, we have reduced friction by 20% compared with conventional 4-cylinder engines. Moreover, improved noise vibration performance—at a level equivalent to that of a 4-cylinder engine—has been achieved by adjusting the weight balance of the engine’s rotary shaft. This engine is used in the new March launched in Japan in July 2010. HR12DE engine MR16DDT Direct Injection Gasoline Turbocharged Engine Nissan’s newly developed 1.6-liter 4-cylinder MR16DDT engine is based on a downsizing concept that combines a turbocharger with a low displacement, direct injection gasoline engine (fuel is injected directly into the engine cylinders) to achieve both higher power output and lower fuel consumption. The MR16DDT engine adopts new technologies including Continuously Variable valve Timing Control (CVTC), which continuously changes the opening-closing timing of the inlet and exhaust valves, and a new friction-reduced valve spring. From low to high engine speeds, the MR16DDT achieves an excellent MR16DDT engine balance between acceleration performance and fuel efficiency, with power equivalent to that of a 2.5-liter engine. This engine is used in the Juke sold in the Japanese, U.S. and European markets. HR15DE Engine with Dual Injectors Nissan has also developed the new HR15DE 1.5-liter engine, the world’s first mass-produced 1.5-liter 027 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment engine with dual injectors (2 compact injectors per each cylinder). The dual injectors stabilize combustion by reducing the size of the particles sprayed in the form of a mist by approximately 60%. Improved thermal efficiency and reduced air intake resistance have been achieved by combining the injectors with Continuously Variable valve Timing Control (CVTC). As a result, fuel economy has been improved by approximately 4% compared to Nissan’s conventional engines in the same class. In addition, more efficient burning helps to control the hydrocarbons in the exhaust gas and reduces the amount of noble metals needed for exhaust purification. The engine is mounted on the Nissan Juke, which was launched in Japan in June 2010. HR15DE engine Idling Stop System with Shorter Startup Time Nissan’s Idling Stop system automatically stops a car’s engine when waiting at signals or other times the car is stopped, and then restarts it when the car needs to move again. Cutting the engine when the car is stopped improves fuel efficiency and reduces CO2 emissions. The restart function after an idling stop of the engine is crucial to making this technology practical. Nissan has adopted a sensor to detect reverse engine rotation, and has achieved simpler and more convenient idling stop technology without the addition of new equipment. To do this, we worked, for instance, to reduce the time required by completing startup in the second cycle rather than in the fourth cycle as in conventional engines. This helps our system to reduce fuel consumption by about 8% (10-15 Mode). The Idling Stop system with an Energy Control Motor (ECO Motor) for quiet running and quick engine starts is used in the Serena launched in November 2010 in Japan. Use of New CVT Nissan aims to reduce total CO2 by increasing the use of genuinely effective technologies. We consider the continuously variable transmission (CVT) to be an important technology in raising fuel efficiency, and have introduced a wide range of vehicle models with CVTs, from compact to full-sized cars. Since fiscal 2007 we have sold more than one million vehicles per year worldwide, in fiscal 2010 selling more than 1.58 million units. The new XTRONIC CVT developed by Nissan utilizes a one-piece structure equipped with a subplanetary gear. Its compact, lightweight design is 10% smaller and 13% lighter than previous CVT designs, while also achieving a 30% friction reduction for powerful acceleration performance, quiet operation and improved fuel economy. Its gear ratio of 7.3 (versus a conventional CVT’s 6.0) is the world’s largest among automatic-transmission-equipped passenger cars. We have also adopted a new Idling Stop system that includes an internal lock function using the sub-planetary gear. The engine can be restarted on roads with a slope of 6% or less without sliding backwards. The engine restart time is also shortened. During everyday driving, the Idling Stop function works so smoothly that the driver will hardly be aware of it. This CVT is used on the new March and Juke. Number of CVT-Equipped Units Sold 2.00 (million units) 1.58 1.50 1.25 1.09 1.09 1.00 0.50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY New Engine Achieves High Fuel Efficiency Nissan has developed the HR12DDR, a 1.2-liter engine, aiming to achieve the lowest level of fuel 028 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment consumption in the world for gasoline-powered cars. The engine is based on the HR12DE, the 1.2L 3-cylinder engine mounted on the new Nissan March, and features power output equivalent to that of a 1.5L engine and CO2 emissions of 95 grams per kilometer (New European Drive Cycle). The engine will be mounted on the new Micra (branded as the March elsewhere) in the European market in the first half of 2011. We have achieved high engine performance and low fuel consumption levels by adopting the Miller cycle, a gasoline direct injection system and a highly efficient supercharger, in combination with the Idling Stop system. HR12DDR engine M9R Clean Diesel Engine Nissan is focusing efforts on clean diesel engine vehicles. Conventional diesel vehicles have much better fuel efficiency than gasoline vehicles with the same power, and so significant reductions in CO2 can be expected in long-distance and various other driving situations. Considerable cost savings can also be achieved with diesel fuel. To take advantage of these features, under its Alliance with Renault Nissan has developed a new clean diesel engine, the M9R, which successfully cleans exhaust gas. It is used in the X-TRAIL 20GT, which has been introduced in the Japanese market. M9R engine An automatic-transmission version of the X-TRAIL 20GT was added in July 2010. Eco-Drive Support Technology Eco-mode Function The engine and CVT are constantly controlled in a coordinated way by a computer that normally switches automatically between high-performance and fuel-efficiency modes depending on driving conditions. The Eco-mode Function incorporates a coordinated control program that makes maximum use of fuelefficiency mode to further improve the vehicle’s efficiency. Drivers can easily switch to Eco-mode using either the car navigation system screen or the Eco-mode switch. Cars driving in Eco-mode respond more gradually to accelerator input. However, in emergency avoidance and other situations when rapid acceleration is necessary, the computer immediately switches the system to enable quick acceleration. Eco-drive Navigator Differences in driving habits can greatly affect fuel efficiency, even with the same car. Nissan has developed an Eco-drive Navigator system to guide drivers in environmentally friendly driving. The system works in particular to prevent excessive fuel consumption when starting and accelerating. Pressing the accelerator pedal more than is necessary when starting and cruising can use more fuel than needed. This feedback is shown on a meter as an eco-driving guide for the driver. Eco and non-eco ranges are easily distinguished with a gauge and color display so that the driver can intuitively understand just the right amount to press the accelerator pedal. Eco-driving Diagnosis Nissan has developed the world’s first “eco-driving diagnosis” system, which analyzes driving behavior and scores the driver’s eco-driving level for each driving mode. It is adopted in all five of Nissan’s original navigation systems and sold as a dealer option to promote the real spread of eco-driving in Japan. This eco-driving diagnosis system makes use of an original theoretical model of fuel consumption developed by Nissan in its judgment algorithm. The system compares theoretical fuel consumption based on the operations of an individual driver and ideal fuel consumption as determined by Nissan’s test drivers, and the eco-driving level achieved by the driver is assessed and given a score. In this way, drivers with different vehicle models and driving environments can compare themselves fairly by score. This is the world’s first mechanism to score driving behavior in this way. Nissan’s Carwings information service for car navigation systems has been enhanced to promote eco-driving with a web-based advice service to support individual drivers’ eco-driving based on fuel consumption and other data, as well as with the “Eco-driving and You” information channel. Traffic Information System in Beijing (China) 029 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Nissan has been commissioned by the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) of Japan to work with the National Development and Reform Commission and the Beijing Municipal Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China in implementing a system to provide information to drivers from a dynamic route guidance system (DRGS) and an eco-management system. A system will also be introduced to verify the effects. In the future we will continue to promote cooperative verification projects between Japan and China. In DRGS, telematics systems (which provide information services to automobiles and other forms of mobility) are used to send traffic information in real time to in-car devices. These devices receive precise traffic information, display the fastest routes and provide road guidance to drivers. The eco-management system promotes eco-driving by making drivers aware of the amount of fuel they are using when on the road. The system provides continuous eco-driving support through advice on eco-driving and ranking comparisons with other drivers. Efforts in the Production and Logistics Stages 030 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Global Energy Saving Most of the CO2 emissions in the manufacturing process are from the consumption of energy generated with fossil fuels. We are confronting these issues directly and engaging in a variety of energy-saving activities in manufacturing our vehicles. In the area of production technology, this includes the introduction of highly efficient facilities, improved production methods and the use of energy-efficient lighting. In our business offices, fine control of lighting and air-conditioning equipment enables us to operate with lower levels of energy use and loss. We then share these activities and best practices with our global production sites. We are also advancing the use of renewable energy sources appropriate to the location of each plant site worldwide. Since 2005, we have installed 10 power-generating wind turbines on the grounds of Nissan Motor Manufacturing (UK) Ltd., which together provide about 7% of the electricity used at the entire site. In Japan, Nissan is co-sponsoring the city of Yokohama’s Y-Green Partner program for wind power generation. We are also adopting solar energy: Nissan Motor Iberica, S.A. in Spain has set up solar energy panels and Nissan Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. in Mexico has installed facilities to produce hot water by solar power. Nissan’s target was to reduce CO2 emissions by 7% below the fiscal 2005 level by fiscal 2010 as measured by the index of “CO2 emissions per global vehicle” (total emissions generated from global Nissan vehicle manufacturing sites divided by the total Nissan vehicle production volume). To achieve this, we are promoting CO2 emission reduction activities and introducing Japan’s cutting-edge energy conservation technology at our plants worldwide, while our plants in all countries also learn and share best practices with each other. We achieved the above target with CO2 emissions per vehicle in our global manufacturing sites of approximately 0.57 tons in fiscal 2010, an 18.6% reduction from the fiscal 2005 level. Global CO2 Emissions per Vehicle (t-CO2/vehicle produced) 0.74 0.70 0.66 18.6% reduction 0.62 0.58 0.54 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Global Energy Consumption 32,337 (1,000 GJ) 30,000 28,148 27,902 23,331 23,491 19,059 Japan 20,000 17,011 17,738 15,102 14,912 10,000 7,133 North America 6,419 6,301 4,231 4,563 2,870 Europe 2,945 2,590 2,987 2,459 3,275 Other 1,772 876 1,207 1,757 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Note: The figures are for the total energy consumption of the Nissan Group worldwide including 71 consolidated companies. Nissan Honored in the International Energy Star Program (North America) 031 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment The International Energy Star program to promote energy savings was started by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 1992, and is currently being implemented in seven countries and regions. There are now 17,000 companies and organizations participating in the program, carrying out various energy-saving activities. Nissan has been involved in the program since 2006, and Nissan North America (NNA) was named Partner of the Year in 2010 for Energy Management. Nissan’s manufacturing plants in Smyrna and Decherd, Tennessee, and Canton, Mississippi, are Energy Star award winners for their specific energy efficient operations. NNA has increased energy efficiency by more than 30% at the above three plants with thorough energy control that reduces energy use and loss in operations. This has resulted in savings of more than $11.5 million in energy costs annually. GSEP Initiative Certification Program (North America) In July 2010 the U.S. Department of Energy announced the Global Superior Energy Performance (GSEP) initiative, an international partnership to improve energy efficiency, with the aim of creating an international certification system for large buildings and industrial facilities. Currently, 24 governments are participating. To receive certification, a company or organization must have introduced and be using a certified energy control system, and undergo long-term inspection by a third party for improved energy efficiency. Pilot operation of the program is being handled by eight companies. NNA’s Smyrna, Tennessee, plant was selected as one of the participants and is working with the DOE, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the Georgia Institute of Technology to demonstrate the initial International Standard for Energy Management (ISO 50001). More Efficient Logistics and Modal Shifts Nissan began sending chartered trucks for pick-up and delivery of parts in 2000, a method that was 032 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment uncommon among automobile manufacturers in Japan at the time. This has enabled us to “visualize” waste during transport that had been hidden in the past. We have worked together with suppliers to optimize the frequency of deliveries and transport routes and to improve packaging specifications. The result has been better loading ratios and fewer truck runs. This approach has also been adopted widely at our overseas manufacturing sites, increasing the global efficiency of our operations. In Europe, we are conducting joint shipment of parts, as well as of completed vehicles, in cooperation with our Alliance partner Renault. In joint shipments by ferry across the English Channel, we have also linked up with other automakers to further improve transport efficiency. We are also putting much effort into devising efficient modes of packaging for the huge number of parts of different shapes and materials that go into an automobile. As a simultaneous-engineering logistics activity, we are working from the design stage to create parts and develop new vehicles with consideration for transportation efficiency, as well as to reduce the parts shipments per vehicle. We also monitor the competency levels of packaging design engineers, and are cultivating their abilities through global adoption of an original Nissan program. We have reviewed our transport methods and are undertaking a modal shift from truck to maritime and rail transport. Some 70% of our completed vehicles in Japan are transported by sea. Parts shipments from the Kanto area around Tokyo to our Kyushu Plant are nearly all by rail and ship. The Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has recognized Nissan as an outstanding enterprise for this modal shift to sea transport. At our overseas sites, transport methods are selected to best match the local geographical conditions. We are also shifting from truck to rail and ship for completed vehicle transport, depending on the destination. In Mexico, we are increasing the proportion of completed vehicles that are transported domestically by rail. CO2 Emissions in Logistics 2,000 (1,000 t-CO2) (Estimate) 1,586 1,500 1,140 1,000 815 500 0 2008 2009 2010 FY New Energy Efficient Car Carrier (Europe) Nissan unveiled the M.V. City of St. Petersburg, an all-new energy efficient car carrier for sea transport of vehicles within Europe, in December 2010. The new car carrier reduces wind resistance by up to 50% compared to conventional vessels with a sleek, semispherical bow. Based on calculations of an annual navigation rate of 75% under average hydrographic conditions for the North Atlantic Ocean, this new design can reduce fuel consumption by up to 800 tons annually, equivalent to an annual reduction of approximately 2,500 tons of CO2 emissions. Euro Marine Carrier B.V., a Dutch company owned by Nissan Motor Car Carrier that operates this new vessel, plans to use it to transport Nissan vehicles to Northern Europe and Russia. It is expected to show maximum effect in the North Sea, where the wind is known to be very strong. Efforts at Our Dealerships and Offices 033 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Comprehensive Emissions Management Nissan comprehensively manages CO2 emissions at its offices and all dealerships in Japan. In fiscal 2008 we began activities to control and reduce CO2 emissions produced in business activities at our dealers based on the Nissan Green Program 2010. Many of our dealers are making efforts to save energy, including the use of highly efficient air-conditioning, insulation films, ceiling fans and LED lighting. Overseas, we have begun managing CO2 emissions from corporate activities at our North American and European business sites. We plan to strengthen our management of CO2 emissions in many more countries and regions in the future. 034 KEY CSR AREAS Environment NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Protecting the Air, Water and Soil Environment Nissan’s Approach to Environmental Protection The United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment report issued in 2005 concluded that the ecosystem services evaluated had degraded over the past 50 years. Many scientists believe that humans have changed the Earth’s ecosystems more rapidly and extensively than in any comparable period of time in history. Humankind depends greatly on a number of ecosystem services, including provision of food and fresh water, climate regulation and protection from natural disasters. Industry must recognize not just its impact on ecosystems, but also its dependence on these services. Companies today face the pressing need to balance environmental preservation and economic progress as they pursue their business activities. Nissan makes every effort to minimize the ecological impact of its corporate activities and throughout the life cycle of its vehicles, and is working to develop and spread environmental technologies that will create new value. Our Priorities in Biodiversity Nissan has carried out extensive studies on the relationship between mobility and ecosystem services through workshops with specialists in the field. We have cooperated with the United Nations University Institute of Advanced Studies, which played a central role in the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment, on the impact of mobility on the ecosystem and the benefits to humans derived from ecosystem services. In 2010, we published the results of this research in “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector.” This joint study focused on the value of ecosystem services that nature produces in human society when biodiversity is protected. The study’s aim was to investigate how the automobile business depends on ecosystem services through the entire value chain and what kinds of effects it has on the ecosystem. Using the method of Corporate Ecosystem Services Review,* we have evaluated value chains such as that from extraction of material resources to vehicle production and operation. Based on the results, we then identified three priority areas for us as an automobile manufacturer: energy sourcing, mineral material sourcing and water usage. From now on, we will work to position the business risks and opportunities identified through this research, reevaluating and further developing our traditional environmental initiatives as we implement “Ecosystem Services and the strategic measures primarily in the areas of focus that we have defined. Automotive Sector” is available for download from our website * Developed by the World Resources Institute in cooperation with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Meridian Institute (currently in Japanese only): based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. http://www.nissan-global.com/ JP/ENVIRONMENT/SOCIAL/ BIODIVERSITY/ Efforts in Our Products and Technologies 035 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Toward Cleaner Exhaust Emissions Nissan proactively sets strict regulations and targets for the design and production of its vehicles. Building on our research and development, in which we have set ourselves the ultimate goal of emissions as clean as the atmosphere, we are working to be a world leader in reducing exhaust emissions with the early introduction of vehicles that meet emissions regulations in each country. Our Sentra CA, released in the United States in January 2000, was the first gasoline-powered car in the world to receive Partial Zero Emissions Vehicle (PZEV) certification in compliance with the emissions requirements of the California Air Resources Board. PZEV vehicles must meet the zero-evaporativeemission regulations as well as have an on-board diagnostic system that warns of problems with the catalytic converter or other emission-control systems. The Bluebird Sylphy, released in Japan in August 2000, became the first vehicle to gain certification from the Ministry of Transport (now the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) as an UltraLow Emission Vehicle (U-LEV) producing 50% less nitrogen oxide (NOx) and nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC) than the 2005 emission standards level. In 2003, this model became Japan’s first to receive SULEV certification as a Super Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle, with emissions at 75% less than that level. As of the end of March 2011, 96.4% of all Nissan gasoline-powered vehicles sold in Japan are SU-LEVs. Clean Diesel Meets Stringent Exhaust Gas Regulations While diesel vehicles have an advantage in terms of energy efficiency and level of CO2 emissions, it has been very difficult to make their exhaust cleaner. At Nissan, we have developed technologies including a diesel particulate filter that traps and eliminates substances making up sooty exhaust, as well as NOx absorption and oxidation catalysts. These next-generation environmental technologies are used in the M9R clean diesel engine, developed through our Alliance with Renault, that comes in the X-TRAIL 20GT. The X-TRAIL 20GT was the first vehicle to meet Japan’s 2009 emissions regulations,* among the most stringent in the world. Since July 2010 an automatic model with a 6-speed transmission (including manual mode) has also been available. * Japan’s 2009 emission standards stipulate that NOx is to be reduced by 47% and particulate matter by 64% from the levels required by the 2005 emission standards (applicable to vehicles weighing more than 1,265 kilograms). The 2009 Emission Regulations went into effect for new models in October 2009 and will apply to existing models and imported cars, starting from September 2010. New Catalysts Clean NOx in Diesel Engines The M9R clean diesel engine that has been used in the X-TRAIL 20GT since 2010 is equipped with a new lean NOx trap catalyst that enables cleaning of NOx, something that has been difficult to do in the past. This new catalyst uses high-dispersion catalyst technology in the NOx cleaning and NOx trap layers, inhibiting precious metal surface area reduction from thermal degradation (precious metal condensation) and displaying performance equal to that of conventional technologies, with 50% less precious metal. Technology has been developed to inhibit the reduction in metal surface area exposed to exhaust gas from cohesion of the precious metal, by integrating the substrates and wall material in ultra-low precious metal catalysts and raising the binding strength between the substrate and precious metal. Exhaust gas is further cleaned with high-level engine control to draw out the maximum cleaning performance. Efforts in the Production and Logistics Stages 036 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Prevention of Air Pollution At Nissan production plants, we thoroughly implement systems and control standards to manage air pollutants and undertake activities to reduce the amount of these substances used and emitted in our production operations. We aim for even higher levels of air pollution control than those mandated by the countries in which we operate. In Japan, we have taken strict measures to reduce emissions of NOx and SOx pollutants from our factories, reducing the amount of these emissions to one fourth of the levels emitted in the 1970s. Painting lines and other processes in vehicle production consume large amounts of heat. We have lowered NOx and SOx emissions by introducing low-NOx burners in the ovens and boilers that provide heat for our painting lines and by switching from heavy oil and kerosene to fuels with low SOx emissions for these ovens and boilers. A current challenge is the reduction of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which readily evaporate and become gaseous in the atmosphere. These account for approximately 90% of chemicals released in our vehicle production processes. We are working to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from our plants ahead of the implementation of new regulations in each country where we operate. We are also systematically switching to lines using water-based paints, which have fewer VOCs, and increasing the recycling rate for waste paint thinner in order to cut down on the total volume of VOCs used. VOC emissions from the Kyushu Plant water-based paint line are now less than 20 grams per square meter of painted surface, and we are maintaining one of the best levels in the industry. Water-based paint lines have also been introduced in our Smyrna and Canton Plants in North America and our Zona Franca Plant in Spain and other plants. With these efforts, VOC emissions per painted surface area in fiscal 2010 were reduced by 17.1% from 2005 levels. VOC Emissions 120 (%) 100 101 95.8 100 90.3 87 82.9 80 60 40 20 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Note: The figures are for VOC emissions from Nissan Motor's production plants in Japan. Water-Use Management The issue of water resources is becoming ever more serious as water use increases from the growing 037 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment world population and economic development. There are over 40 plants in 18 different countries building Nissan-branded vehicles and parts, and they all use water as part of the production process. We have therefore started efforts to reduce water consumption at our production plants. Water-use assessments were carried out at all plants, which were categorized into three levels according to a Nissan-developed index of water risks, and activities have been pursued that are relevant to the plants’ respective circumstances. The highest-risk plants were placed at Level A, defined as a plant that either already has a water-related problem or is expected to face one in the near future. Water reduction targets have been independently set for each of these plants, which will undertake activities to reach those targets. Level B plants are those with the potential for water problems; they will regularly monitor water risks, in addition to undertaking the voluntary water-reduction activities they have been pursuing to date. Level C plants are at low water risk, and they will continue their voluntary water-reduction initiatives. These classifications and activity levels have been adopted as uniform, companywide standards, and the initiatives that had been pursued separately at each plant are now being undertaken throughout the company. Water Resource Use 30,000 (1,000 m3) 25,851 23,676 22,802 20,902 20,000 15,629 15,573 Japan 16,386 14,957 14,532 9,221 10,000 4,002 North America 3,966 4,283 3,009 2,970 2,068 Europe 2,152 1,954 1,315 2,159 4,208 Other 848 1,727 1,406 2,123 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Note: The figures for FY2010 are for the Nissan Group worldwide including 71 consolidated companies. Wastewater Release 19,784 (1,000 m3) 20,000 17,401 16,987 15,970 15,000 10,436 13,870 Japan 11,878 11,573 11,040 10,000 6,293 5,000 2,404 North America 3,067 2,751 2,152 2,099 1,590 Europe 1,593 1,486 1,855 972 1,292 1,920 Other 601 1,069 1,071 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Note: The figures for FY2010 are for the Nissan Group worldwide including 71 consolidated companies. Efforts in Our Business Activities 038 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Working Locally to Preserve Biodiversity The Nissan Technical Center and Nissan Advanced Technical Development Center in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture, are located in the natural splendor of the Tanzawa-Oyama region. We are working to preserve the greenery that remains on the grounds of these centers, as well as to maintain the natural connections between these grounds and the natural environment that exists in surrounding areas. At the Nissan Technical Center, for instance, we work to preserve the natural stands of forest growing on the grounds and to maintain the area’s biodiversity by planting trees in areas affected by construction A walking trail near our facilities of the facilities. Various birds, wild deer and even troops of monkeys can be spotted on the grounds. The site is also home to a rare natural growth of a perennial orchid called ebine in Japanese, which is on the “Red List” of threatened species published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. In recent years overharvesting of these flowers has pushed them to the brink of extinction in the wild. We are carrying out minimally invasive management of these flowers to preserve them in an undisturbed, natural state. The green areas near our facilities are used by local residents for both recreation and environmental education activities. Here we have set up a network of walking trails connecting a number of nearby parks; these trails have proved popular with adults and children alike. These preservation and greening efforts at our facilities have won acclaim, and brought us recognition as a Green Top 100 Company for Biodiversity Protection by Japan’s Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure in May 2010. Supply Chain Management Nissan’s Tough Voluntary Standards Stricter controls on the environmental impact of substances are being sought in countries around the world. Examples include the European End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV) Directive and the European Commission’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, which went into force in June 2007. To help minimize the potential release of formaldehyde, toluene and other VOCs in vehicle cabins, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association has launched a voluntary program that calls for all new models launched in Japan from April 2007 to meet standards set by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for concentration levels of 13 compounds in vehicle interiors. Nissan has steadily advanced efforts to meet these requirements. In an effort to reduce the potential release of environment-impacting substances, we have established voluntary standards to meet the environmental regulations enacted in countries where we do business. We are working on a global basis to prohibit or limit the use of four heavy metals (mercury, lead, cadmium and hexavalent chromium) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame retardants in all new models (excluding OEM vehicles) launched from July 2007 onward. To meet European Union requirements, we have fulfilled our registration and notification duties under the REACH Regulation, and have filed notification of the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures in line with the CLP Regulation. To reduce VOCs in vehicle cabins, we have adopted the voluntary targets of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association as Nissan’s global standards and are reconsidering the parts and adhesives used in seats, door trim, floor carpets and other vehicle parts. 039 KEY CSR AREAS Environment NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Toward Sustainable Recycling of Resources Environment Nissan’s Approach to Resource Recycling Demand for natural resources such as metals and oil is skyrocketing in response to the rapid economic growth of emerging countries. In addition to promoting reduced use of virgin natural resources through resource-saving and resource-recycling measures, it is becoming important to procure natural resources that have a lower impact on the Earth’s ecosystems, not only from the standpoint that these resources are limited, but also considering the wide-ranging effects that resource extraction has on ecosystems. Nissan has targeted 100% resource recovery for end-of-life vehicles (ELVs), while also promoting design centered on the vehicle life cycle, waste reduction, and other such resource-saving measures. In addition to continuing these activities, we will promote expanded use of recycled materials to reduce ecosystem degradation and reliance on virgin natural resources, doing our utmost to contribute to the development of a sustainable society. Nissan’s Goals for the Resource Cycle • Ecosystem Degradation Parts Material • Natural Resource Sustainability Production Production DEPENDENCE (Mining, etc.) Vehicle Resource Production Recycling IMPACT (Waste, CO2, etc.) Vehicle ELV • Potential Climate Change Use Processing • Environmental Pollution Efforts in Our Products and Technologies Design Centered on Vehicle Life Cycle Nissan designs and develops new vehicles from the point of view of the three Rs—reduce, reuse and recycle—taking into consideration the automobile’s entire life cycle, from the design stage until the end of its useful life. We seek to avoid the use of substances that impact the environment and ensure that our products are easy to dismantle and recycle. Since 2005, Nissan has achieved a recoverability rate of 95% or greater for all new models in Japan, and we are focusing development efforts on pushing this rate still higher. Working together with our Alliance partner Renault, we have created a recycling simulation system called OPERA for use in the early design stages to calculate recoverability rates and recovery costs for new models. This has led to enhanced recycling efficiency from an economic standpoint as well. Reuse of Vehicle Parts Nissan recycles used ELV parts and promotes their reuse as material for new automobiles. One example is 040 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment aluminum wheel rims. We collect aluminum rims from ELVs and recycle them as materials for new vehicles. While waste aluminum materials are usually recycled into engine parts, we work together with recyclers throughout Japan to collect rims from Nissan ELVs and put the recycled high-grade aluminum back to use in suspensions and other important vehicle parts. Striving to reduce the use of virgin natural resources, in fiscal 2010, we collected and recycled around 248 tons of end-of-life aluminum wheel rims each month. We also promote the collection and recycling of used plastic bumpers accumulated during the repair and replacement of vehicle parts at dealers in Japan. Material reclaimed from the damaged bumpers is reprocessed and then recycled into new vehicles as plastic parts. Furthermore, we are promoting the use of recycled materials from sources other than automobiles. Number of Recovered Bumpers 400,000 (parts) 300,000 269,000 245,000 231,000 229,000 230,000 200,000 100,000 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Use of Recycled Materials in the Nissan LEAF The all-electric Nissan LEAF not only features life-cycle-centered design, but is also tied deeply into the company’s car-to-car recycling efforts, utilizing ELVs as a source of new parts. Plastic interior trim parts collected from ELVs, for example, are processed using a new technology to maintain colors and improve product quality, and then incorporated into the Nissan LEAF as plastic parts. For bumpers, we have developed a device that strips the paint without the use of chemicals and without deteriorating the material’s quality. Painted bumpers damaged during the production process are recycled with this device and then used in new Nissan LEAF bumpers. Nissan applies recycled material from non-ELV sources as well, including plastic bottles, which are utilized as seat fabric. Recycled Materials Used in the Nissan LEAF Plastics recycled from ELV parts Plastics recycled from unpainted bumpers Other recycled plastics Other recycled fabric PLA and recycled PET fabric Plastics recycled from end-of-life home appliances Plastics recycled from painted bumpers Recycled PET fabric Vibration dampers with wood powder Dismantling Methods that Raise the Recovery Rate To optimize processing and improve the recovery rate for ELVs, Nissan carries out experimental studies 041 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment to develop more efficient ways of dismantling its cars. While such research has until now focused on establishing methods of processing waste oil, waste liquids, lead and other substances that impact the environment, we are presently moving ahead with research aimed at further increasing the recovery rate in order to reclaim and reuse valuable materials from ELVs. Feedback from the studies has led to improvements in dismantling techniques and has proved useful to our product design division in choosing suitable materials and designing vehicles that are easier to dismantle. Nissan emphasizes the creation of partnerships that go beyond industry frameworks in advancing the effective use of resources. Our hope is to produce synergistic effects through these partnerships that will lead to a large circle of resource recycling. One way we do this is by distributing an ELV recycling manual to automobile dismantlers in order to promote the proper treatment of ELVs. The manual includes key points related to the location in the vehicles of and work processes for environment-impacting substances, as well as safety precautions. We also publish an instruction manual for removing lithium-ion batteries from electric and hybrid vehicles, enabling automobile dismantlers to remove these power packs safely. Efforts in the Production and Logistics Stages Thorough Measures for Waste Materials Nissan actively promotes measures based on the three Rs in its production processes whenever possible, striving to minimize the waste generated and maximize recycling efficiency by means of thorough sorting of waste. In line with the objectives of our medium-term environmental action plan, NGP2010, we have been working to achieve a 100% recovery rate for our operations in Japan and bring this rate to an automotive-industry-leading level in each region of the globe. Our efforts have paid off. As of the end of 2010, we have achieved this 100% recovery rate at all of our production sites in Japan: five manufacturing plants, two operations centers and five affiliates. Recovery Rate (%) 100.0 100 99.9 99.9 99.8 99.6 99 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 FY Container and Packaging Material Reductions Nissan has been making great efforts to reduce the number of wooden pallets and cardboard boxes used in parts shipping, replacing them with units made from such materials as steel and plastic, which can be returned for reuse. In 2010, we used roughly 4 million collapsible plastic containers and 600,000 collapsible steel containers for shipping parts to and from our operational sites around the world. We have been working with our Alliance partner Renault to expand the use of our globally standardized, returnable containers. In the area of packaging efficiency, we are making progress in reducing packaging materials from the development stage by applying simultaneous design activities to logistics as well. Efforts in the Market and at Dealerships 042 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environment Sales of Nissan Green Parts Parts with the potential for recycling include those reclaimed from ELVs as well as those replaced during repairs. In Japan, Nissan collects and thoroughly checks the quality of these secondhand parts, and those that receive a passing grade are sold through our sales outlets as Nissan Green Parts. We sell these parts in two categories: reusable parts, which are cleaned and tested for quality before sale, and rebuilt parts, which are disassembled and have components replaced as needed. Sales of these parts in fiscal 2010 reached ¥1.71 billion. Area Leaders’ Messages Hiromi Asahi Deputy General Manager Global Environmental Planning Office Corporate Planning and Reducing Vehicles’ Environmental Impact Business Development Division In fiscal 2010, we launched the 100% electric Nissan LEAF and introduced the PURE DRIVE series of vehicles, including the new March and the Fuga Hybrid. We also obtained ISO 14001 certification for all of our main operations in Japan. This progress is the fruit of Nissan Green Program 2010. It is also the starting point for the next round of challenges we will undertake. The scale of motorization is set to expand, given the growing global population and the economic growth in emerging countries. This could lead to an increase in energy and resource consumption, impacting the global ecosystem. Dedicated to enriching people’s lives worldwide through mobility, we are advancing activities to help curtail the impact of automobiles on the environment and their reliance upon valuable natural resources. 043 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Safety Aiming for a Society with No Traffic Accidents Automobiles are enjoyable, convenient vehicles that provide their users with both comfortable surroundings and a means of self-controlled mobility. Nissan aims to create cars that embody the “pleasure and richness of driving” while prioritizing our customers’ peace of mind through the pursuit of a high level of real-world safety. This of course means a focus on safety features of the vehicles themselves. It also means research and development of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) that can help reduce accidents and traffic congestion, as well as educational activities to raise safety awareness among drivers, pedestrians and even passengers in other cars. We are involved with society in a wide range of activities toward the realization of a safer automobile society. Nissan’s Safety Approach 1. Vehicles: Developing Safety Technologies Based on its unique “Safety Shield” concept, Nissan is working to develop automotive technologies from the perspective that people are at the center of the driving experience. Our focus is on solutions that help maintain distance from potentially dangerous conditions. We also provide technologies that aim to activate the vehicle’s onboard systems when a collision is unavoidable, thereby helping to reduce injuries. Vehicles 2. Individuals: Our Traffic Safety Activities To help create a better mobility society, it is important to ensure that as many people as possible, including drivers and passengers in vehicles as well as pedestrians outside them, share an understanding of road safety. Nissan takes part in educational activities to boost this safety awareness, measures to improve drivers’ skills behind the wheel and a range of other safety promotions. 3. Society: Working Together with Society Individuals Society Nissan believes that it is possible to help create an even safer automobile society by using information from the traffic environment surrounding the vehicles on the road. We are working together with a wide range of governmental agencies, universities and companies toward the eventual achievement of a safer, more pleasant mobility society making use of ITS. 044 KEY CSR AREAS Safetyy NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Improving Safety Safety Nissan’s Concept of Real-World Safety Each year around 1 million lives are lost in traffic accidents around the world. In 2010 there were 4,863 deaths resulting from traffic accidents in Japan. This was the tenth straight year for this figure to decline, Please see our website for and the total was under 30% of the number of deaths in 1970, when it peaked at 16,765. The numbers more information on our safety of traffic accidents in Europe and North America are also declining. However, further efforts need to be activities. http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ made to help reduce traffic accidents and the loss of irreplaceable lives. SAFETY/ Nissan’s fundamental approach is to pursue safety in the real world. Based on this “real-world safety” concept, we are seeking to progress toward the goal of a world with virtually no accidents leading to death or serious injury. In Japan and the United Kingdom, the number of fatalities and serious injuries involving Nissan vehicles has fallen to our target of half of its 1995 level. In emerging countries, however, traffic accidents remain a serious issue, and it can be difficult to obtain meaningful data for analysis. Fatal and Serious Injuries Fatalities Japan USA per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles 15 3 50% 50% reduction reduction 10 2 5 1 Virtually Virtually zero zero 0 0 1995 2000 2009 2015 1995 2000 2009 2015 Source: Institute for Traffic Accident Research and Data Analysis Source: Fatality Analysis Reporting System Fatal and Serious Injuries Europe (U.K.) per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles 18 50% reduction 12 6 Virtually zero 0 1995 2000 2009 2015 Source: STATS19 data, U.K. Department for Transport Triple-Layered Approach To help reduce traffic accidents, we need a comprehensive approach addressing not just automobiles, but 045 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety people and the traffic environment too. To help contribute to the realization of a truly safe society, Nissan uses a triple-layered approach with measures taken on the levels of vehicles, individuals and society. Society Improving the traffic environment with Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) and related technologies: • Telecommunications-based ITS • ITS Project in Kanagawa Prefecture to research vehicle-to-infrastructure communication and pedestrian detection Society • Participation in ASV intervehicle communication project sponsored by Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Individuals Individuals Raising drivers’ and other people’s awareness of traffic safety through educational activities: • The Nissan Hello Safety Campaign to promote traffic safety • The Quest for Safety program in the United States Vehicles • The Nissan Safety and Environment Technology Tour in China Vehicles Developing technology that: • Helps the driver to maintain comfortable driving – Distance Control Assist System – Around View Monitor, etc. • Helps the driver to recover from dangerous condition to safe driving – Lane Departure Prevention – 4-Wheel Active Steer, etc. • Helps minimize the damage when a collision is unavoidable – Zone Body construction, etc. Advanced Technology Briefings Each year Nissan hosts Advanced Technology Briefings for the media in Japan to inform stakeholders about what the company is developing. New technologies presented at the briefing held in July 2010 included our Moving Object Detection system and Forward Collision Avoidance Assist Concept. Participants had the opportunity to experience these firsthand during test rides at the event. Additionally, Nissan (China) Investment Co., Ltd. holds the Nissan Safety and Environment Technology Tour in different areas around China. In 2010 tour events were held in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Attendees were introduced to such safety technologies as our Distance Control Assist, Around View Monitor and Lane Departure Prevention, and also had the opportunity to participate in test rides. 046 KEY CSR AREAS Safetyy NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Developing Safety Technologies Safety The “Safety Shield” Concept In its efforts to create safer automobiles, Nissan relies on its “Safety Shield” concept, which is based on the idea that cars should help protect people. The concept defines the conditions surrounding a vehicle in terms of six phases, from “risk has not yet appeared” through “post-crash,” and guides our development of technologies to address each phase. Risk has not yet appeared • Distance Control Assist System • Navigation-enabled Helps the driver to Intelligent Cruise Control maintain comfortable driving with full-speed range following capability • Adaptive Front-Lighting System (AFS) • Around View Monitor Risk has appeared • Lane Departure Prevention • Lane Departure Warning • 4-Wheel Active Steer • Blind Spot Warning Helps the driver to recover • Blind Spot Intervention from dangerous conditions to safe driving Crash may occur • Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) • Brake Assist • Vehicle Dynamic Control (VDC) Crash is unavoidable • Intelligent Brake Assist • Front Pre-Crash Seatbelts Crash Helps minimize injuries • Zone Body construction when a collision is • SRS Airbag Systems unavoidable • Front-seat Active Head Restraints • Pop-up Engine Hood Post-crash • HELPNET (Emergency call service) Aiming for “Collision-Free Cars” Nissan is adding to its existing suite of collision-safety technologies with the development of new 047 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety technologies that could contribute to the realization of even more “collision-free cars.” Working from the perspective that people are at the center of the driving experience, we strive to equip our vehicles with functions that support intuitive operation, thus helping to reduce the burden on the driver. In our all-around drive-support system we have brought together various safety technologies, including our world-first Back-up Collision Intervention technology, which detects objects in the path of the vehicle when the driver backs up. Other technologies already being utilized in some Nissan vehicles include Distance Control Assist, which helps the driver maintain distance between the car and the vehicle in front; Lane Departure Prevention, which helps the driver return the vehicle to its designated travel lane; and Blind Spot Intervention, which assists in lane changes by alerting the driver to the presence of a vehicle in the blind spot. Technologies in Nissan’s Collision-Free Prototype Blind Spot Intervention Lane Departure Please see our website for more When the driver decides to Prevention change lanes and an information on our Adaptive Front-Lighting System (AFS) and When the vehicle is veering approaching vehicle is other systems. off, LDP helps the driver detected, BSI helps the driver Back-up Collision http://www.nissan-global.com/ Distance Control return to its designated lane. prevent a potential collision. Intervention EN/SAFETY/INTRODUCTION/ Assist When the driver starts backing COMFORTABLE/ When the driver is up and objects are detected in approaching too close to the path of the vehicle, BCI helps the vehicle ahead, DCA the driver avoid a collision. helps the driver maintain an appropriate following distance. Lane Departure Blind Spot Intervention Prevention Distance Control Assist System Nissan’s Distance Control Assist System uses a radar sensor to calculate the distance between the car and the vehicle in front. Based on the gap and relative speed between the cars, the system then supports the driver’s pedal operations when braking, thus helping to maintain a safe space between the vehicles. We first installed this system in the 2007 Fuga marketed in Japan. We have also developed a world-first technology integrating the car’s navigation system with these functions. Our new system can import data from the navigation system on upcoming curves in the road and help to apply the brakes gradually in preparation for them. When the driver continues depressing the accelerator pedal, the system provides support by lifting the pedal to assist the driver in switching to the brakes. The system also implements smooth deceleration when the accelerator pedal is lifted, helping make it easier to navigate curves. This upgraded system made its debut in the Fuga marketed in Japan in November 2009, and is available in the Infiniti M in the United States. Control switch Indicator Brake actuator Audible buzzer Radar sensor with main controller Accelerator pedal actuator Brake actuator controller Lane Departure Prevention This system helps the driver return the vehicle to its designated travel lane when the vehicle is drifting out 048 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety of the lane. A camera unit installed behind the rear-view mirror detects lane markers in front of the vehicle and calculates its position relative to them. When the system judges that the car may unintentionally leave its lane, it alerts the driver with visual and audible warnings and briefly activates the brakes on one side of the vehicle to assist the driver’s efforts to return to the lane center. We rolled out this system in the Skyline Crossover launched in July 2009 in Japan. In the United States, it is available in the Infiniti EX. Camera Control switch The Lane Departure Prevention system in operation Indicator Audible buzzer Please see our website for System System System information on our other systems, control control control including Lane Departure Warning. http://www.nissan-global.com/ EN/SAFETY/INTRODUCTION/ RECOVER/ Brake actuator Warning Warning Warning Blind Spot Intervention This system supports the driver’s operations when initiating a lane change, helping to avoid a collision with another vehicle that may be traveling in the blind spot. Sensors installed in the rear of the car detect a vehicle in the adjacent lane, and the system alerts the driver with audible and visual warnings. Moreover, the braking mechanism of each wheel is controlled separately, and when a vehicle is detected, the system generates a force to help the driver keep the car away from the other vehicle. The Infiniti M models launched in North America in March 2010 were the first to feature this technology. Back-up Collision Intervention When the vehicle is in reverse, such as backing out of a parking space, Back-up Collision Intervention goes to work. Sensors mounted on the rear and sides of the vehicle are used to detect vehicles and other obstacles in the car’s path. If an object is detected, an alarm sounds and then the brakes are activated to help the driver avoid a collision. Around View Monitor This world-first technology uses images from four cameras installed at the front, back and sides of the 049 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety vehicle, combining them in a composite, overhead view on the car’s navigation monitor. This allows the driver to easily grasp the position of the vehicle in relation to the parking space, simplifying tasks like parallel parking or entering a garage. The system made its debut in the Elgrand released in Japan in October 2007, while the first model to carry the system in North America was the Infiniti EX35 launched in December that year. We later added the following three functions to the system, two of them world firsts, and incorporated the upgraded version in the Skyline Crossover launched in Japan in July 2009. 1. Front/rear wide-view function The monitor displays views covering approximately 180 degrees from both the front and rear cameras, helping the driver to check for other vehicles that may be approaching. This helps put the driver at ease when the car travels through blind intersections or exits a parking space. The rear wide-view function in particular is a world first. 2. Front wide-view function linked to the navigation system After the driver registers a location on the navigation system’s map, the monitor will automatically switch to front wide-view mode when the vehicle arrives at that location and comes to a stop. This lets the driver check for approaching vehicles more smoothly, without the need to manually activate the front-view camera. We hope this world-first technology will help to enhance users’ peace of mind at intersections with poor visibility. 3. Parking Guide function This new function enhances our Around View Monitor, making it easier than ever to move the car in and out of garages or parking spaces. The driver can use the touch panel on the navigation screen to get an overhead view of the vehicle in relation to its surroundings, along with audio and visual guidance on parking maneuvers. Monitor Sonar units Cameras Sonar units The system gives helpful views when backing into a space. The Parking Guide system gives the driver an intuitive feel When parallel parking, the driver can simultaneously check for the vehicle’s position while parking. the car’s rear, side and curbside front views. New Safety Technologies for Fiscal 2010 Moving Object Detection 050 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety This function alerts the driver when a moving object is detected around the vehicle. If there is a moving object, such as a pedestrian, close to the vehicle while it is stopped or moving at low speed, an alarm sounds and a visual warning is displayed on the monitor. We hope this technology will help contribute to the prevention of accidents resulting from poor visibility, for example by helping drivers to visually confirm their surroundings when traveling through visually restricted intersections or pulling out of a parking space. When stopped Forward or backward movement A buzzer sounds and a visual warning A buzzer sounds and a visual warning appears on the monitor when a moving object appears on the monitor when a moving cuts across the field of the front or rear view display, depending on the direction in object appears in the field of the top which the vehicle is moving. view display. Buzz Buzz Buzz Forward Collision Avoidance Assist Concept This new technology can help the driver avoid a collision even when traveling at a speed of up to 60 km/h. A highly sensitive radar sensor monitors the distance to the vehicle in front and its relative speed, supporting the driver’s operations to avoid collisions. When the system detects an object in the vehicle’s path, it provides both visual and audible warnings to the driver. At the same time, it helps the driver slow the vehicle down by generating a force that pushes the accelerator pedal up. By assisting the driver with smooth deceleration, we hope to also help reduce the risk of rear-end collisions resulting from sudden braking. Deceleration Partial braking Emergency braking Distance Accelerator pedal force Tighten seatbelt Audible buzzer Visual indication Audible buzzer Beep sound Quick beep sound 1. When the system determines that deceleration is required, it 2. In case the system calculates the possibility of a collision, it alerts the driver using both audible and visual warnings. It then automatically applies emergency braking, while the seatbelts generates a force that pushes the accelerator pedal up and are tightened to help restrain passenger movement. smoothly applies partial braking to assist the driver in slowing the vehicle down. Safety Technologies for Electric Vehicles 051 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety Electric vehicles are a completely new kind of car, and Nissan sees the need to approach EV safety from a new perspective. The Nissan LEAF, released in December 2010, uses high-strength body construction that protects its lithium-ion battery in the event of a collision. The Nissan LEAF also features insulation around its Please see our website for detailed information on our Euro high-voltage parts used in such areas as the battery and the motor. Moreover, the vehicle is designed NCAP five-star rating. so that the high-voltage electrical system automatically shuts down in the event of a collision. The http://www.nissan-global.com/ EN/NEWS/2011/_STORY/ Nissan LEAF is further equipped with a lithium-ion battery controller system that continuously monitors 110525-01-e.html battery conditions to prevent overcharging, excessive discharging or overheating, which could lead to severely reduced capacity or malfunction. These features developed specifically for EVs, along with our safety technologies created for gasoline-powered vehicles over the years, have earned For more information on our “Top Nissan high safety marks around the world, including the top five-star rating from the European New Safety Pick” rating from the IIHS, please see our website. Car Assessment Programme (Euro NCAP) and the “Top Safety Pick” rating from the U.S. Insurance http://www.nissan-global.com/ Institute for Highway Safety. EN/NEWS/2011/_STORY/ 110426-02-e.html Since EVs are extremely quiet when running, the Nissan LEAF is equipped with the Approaching Vehicle Sound for Pedestrians system. The car begins emitting a sound when the driver puts the car into drive gear and releases the brake. This sound fades out when the vehicle tops 30 km/h and starts up again when the vehicle decelerates, at speeds below 25 km/h. Another warning sound is generated when the car is put in reverse. 052 KEY CSR AREAS Safetyy NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Traffic Safety Activities Safety Our Hello Safety Campaign Each year since 1972, Nissan has carried out its Hello Safety Campaign activities as part of nationwide traffic safety campaigns in Japan. The spring campaign in April 2010, intended for children and their guardians as well as senior citizens, focused on the themes of “proper use of seatbelts and child safety Omoiyari Light Campaign Logo seats in all seating positions of a vehicle” and “traffic safety education to raise awareness of dangers in daily life and ways to avoid them.” As part of the activities, we created storytelling picture cards and delivered them to traffic safety instructors around Japan. The September 2010 fall campaign drew on data from real-life accidents to focus on the important subject of preventing traffic accidents when walking or cycling at dusk and after dark. During the campaign we launched the Omoiyari Light Campaign, named with the Japanese word for “kind consideration,” encouraging drivers to turn on their headlights early so pedestrians and cyclists can more easily notice an approaching vehicle. In addition to creating posters and participating in radio promotion activities, we carried out a trial public campaign to make our traffic safety education activities more tangible. We set up a special website, accessible from computers and smartphones, for people who had heard about the movement to learn more about the importance of turning on headlights early. The Omoiyari Light Campaign is attracting attention thanks to the efforts of runner’s clubs to encourage this movement, beginning with a September 2010 fun run around the Imperial Palace in central Tokyo. Messages from Our Stakeholders Shigeki Kato Working Together Activities Chief, Promotional Activities Division to Prevent Road Accidents Japan Traffic Safety Education Association For over 40 years, the Japan Traffic Safety Education Association has worked to improve traffic safety awareness throughout society by providing road safety education for people at all stages of life, from young children to the elderly. The number of fatal road accidents has fallen in recent years for a number of reasons, including lower vehicle speeds and fewer accidents caused by poor or dangerous driving. We believe that these factors result from enhanced awareness and conduct among road users, and that public education and awareness activities have contributed significantly to bringing about these improvements. Since 2004, we have worked closely with Nissan to develop effective education materials and promotional goods, distributing the fruits of these efforts to kindergartens, local government agencies and driving schools throughout the country. We are confident that these activities have made a considerable contribution to road safety in local communities. We trust that Nissan will continue to research and develop safer vehicles and to make further contributions to reducing and preventing traffic accidents by providing information and education to drivers and other road users. It is our hope that Nissan will in this way help the Japanese people realize their desire for safer roads. Safety Education in Korea and the Middle East Nissan Middle East FZE educates children about traffic safety through a dedicated website. Launched in October 2009, the site uses puzzles, pictures for coloring and other features to make learning online fun as well. The website shares easy-to-understand information with elementary school students in Arabic, English and French. Nissan Korea Co., Ltd. launched its Nissan Kids Safety Campaign in April 2009. This campaign features similar content to that of the Middle East project and uses a website and booklets to educate children on traffic safety. Promoting Traffic Safety in China and Indonesia Traffic safety has become an increasingly important issue in China, which is seeing a rapid increase in 053 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety the number of automobiles on the road. In 2005 Nissan (China) Investment Co. hosted its first safety program to improve drivers’ skills and safety awareness in cooperation with the China Road Traffic Safety Association. In fiscal 2010 forums were held in September and October. Many customers, government officials and media representatives attended the forums, which featured programs for learning braking, cornering and other driving techniques from qualified instructors, contributing to deeper understanding of traffic safety. Programs for eco-driving skills were also included. The company also designed a contest to test Chinese high school students’ knowledge of traffic safety and environmental protection issues. The year 2010 was the fifth for the event, which aims to increase interest and awareness of safety issues among young people, the drivers of tomorrow. In addition to taking simple quizzes on basic traffic rules, automotive safety devices and environmental issues, participating students made their own presentations on automotive and traffic safety. In Indonesia, we started the Nissan Smart Driving program as a way to emphasize the importance of traffic safety. The program started out as a cooperative project with a lifestyle magazine designed to promote safe driving habits, but the scope of activities has since broadened to include hands-on safety workshops led by driving instructors for university students. Nissan will continue its efforts to help prevent traffic accidents. 054 KEY CSR AREAS Safetyy NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Working Together with Society Safety Helping Reduce Accidents and Congestion with ITS In 2006, Nissan launched the ITS Project in Japan’s Kanagawa Prefecture. This project seeks to use Intelligent Transport Systems to create integrated networks of people, roads and vehicles, thereby helping to reduce traffic accidents and ease road congestion. The ITS Project gathers and uses information on nearby vehicles and the traffic environment in order to help reduce accidents involving other parties that can be difficult for a driver to see and react to. We are building on the results of the ITS Project with our development of the Driving Safety Support System (DSSS). This will be an ongoing project promoted by Japan’s National Police Agency and the Universal Traffic Management Society of Japan, an organization operating under its aegis. It uses the latest ITS technologies, such as optical-beacon communication tools to connect vehicles and the network of roads, with the aim of reducing traffic accidents. At intersections with reduced visibility, roadside infrastructure communicates with vehicles to deliver information to drivers via onboard navigation systems, warning them of potential dangers like crossing collisions and helping make sure they notice stop signs, signals and vehicles stopped at lights. Helping Reduce Wrong-Way Accidents Recently Japan has seen a number of serious accidents caused by vehicles traveling in the wrong direction on expressways. Working together with West Nippon Expressway Company (NEXCO), Nissan has developed a navigation program that uses GPS to notify drivers of vehicles driving the wrong way on an expressway. The system detects wrong-way vehicles based on GPS coordinates, maps, traveling speeds and other data. The driver of a vehicle going the wrong way receives audible and visual warnings. The Nissan Fuga Hybrid released in October 2010 is the first vehicle in the world to employ this system. Combating Drunk Driving Nissan is taking active steps to help do away with traffic accidents caused by drunk driving, a serious social issue of deep concern. In August 2007, working with the city of Kitakyushu, Fukuoka Prefecture, the Tochigi prefectural government, the town of Kaminokawa in Tochigi and the city of Atsugi in Kanagawa Prefecture, we began trials of a system to help prevent drunk driving. Nissan has also carried out joint research with the University of Occupational and Environmental Health in Kitakyushu on the physiological, psychological and behavioral effects of alcohol on the human body. This research is aiding our development of technologies to quickly and accurately detect the errors and abnormalities in vehicle operation under the influence of alcohol. Other Nissan approaches to help reduce drunk driving include a function added to our Carwings navigation system in Japan that displays warnings against driving under the influence during the most common hours for such behavior, with the aim of increasing driver awareness of the danger of getting behind the wheel after consuming alcohol. Area Leaders’ Messages 055 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safety Toshimi Yamanoi General Manager Technology Planning Department Planning and Advanced Engineering Striving to Reduce Serious Accidents Development Division A major goal of our efforts has been to halve the number of fatalities and serious injuries involving Nissan vehicles by 2015 compared to 1995 levels. In fiscal 2010, analyzing data on automobile accidents in Japan in the previous year showed that we had succeeded in achieving this goal six years ahead of our target date. In addition to the widespread use of Nissan’s safety technologies, greater traffic safety awareness among drivers and an improvement in the standard of conduct on the roads were other likely reasons why we were able to achieve this target ahead of schedule. We will not rest now that we have met this goal. Our work to improve safety standards will continue as long as automobile accidents cause even a single fatality or serious injury. In fiscal 2010 our efforts included the introduction of a high quality tire pressure sensor. We will continue to work to make effective safety technology more widely available in the future. 056 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Quality Enhancing All Customer-related Quality The rating of a car and the value of an auto manufacturer’s brand come entirely from the customer’s appraisal of quality. For Nissan, quality is a multifaceted concept encompassing every single aspect related to Nissan customers and their vehicles. We have established four quality-related categories: “product quality,” “perceived quality and attractiveness,” “sales and service quality” and “quality of management.” Our Quality Leadership program sets out specific objectives and measures to bring about improvements in each category. This is just one way that we strive to ensure and enhance our customers’ trust and satisfaction in Nissan vehicles. Four Categories of Focus 1. Product Quality Product quality is the fundamental quality that allows our customers to enjoy years of safe, comfortable driving. We believe it is the customers who judge product quality. We have set the goal of reaching the top level in the quality indices used by third-party organizations that most influence customers in the marketplace. 2. Perceived Quality and Attractiveness Product Quality Perceived Quality and Attractiveness Perceived quality is the quality that customers feel when seeing, touching and using a vehicle. Nissan carefully analyzes and quantifies what makes people perceive something they handle to be good or attractive. Our goal is to place more than half of all Nissan models at the top of their class in terms of perceived quality across all market segments. 3. Sales and Service Quality Sales and service quality means giving our customers the sort of care that exceeds their expectations when they purchase a car or bring it in for servicing, thereby enhancing the Nissan brand. We are Sales and Quality of aiming for the highest level of customer satisfaction in our main regions of Japan, the United States Service Quality Management and Europe and in four other major countries. 4. Quality of Management Quality of management lets staff approach their work with a full understanding of company policy and confidence in it. We aim to improve our management quality by strengthening communication between management and employees to foster a sense of solidarity among all of Nissan’s people. 057 KEY CSR AREAS Quality Q y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Idea of Quality Quality Comprehensive Improvement Through “Quality Leadership” There are many aspects to the single word “quality.” We consider anything involving our vehicles to be connected with this concept, from the condition of a vehicle and the customer’s impression of the Please see our website for showroom salespeople’s service to even the creation of a working environment in which every single additional information on our Nissan employee can find fulfillment. quality initiatives. http://www.nissan-global.com/ Nissan has established the four categories of “product quality,” “perceived quality and attractiveness,” EN/QUALITY/ “sales and service quality” and “quality of management,” with the goal of becoming the auto industry leader in each category. In April 2008 we launched the Nissan Excellence Program. Specific objectives and measures for improvement to be achieved by 2012 in each of the four categories are set out in our Quality Leadership program, and the company is united in its efforts to effectively improve quality in these categories. In our aim to become the leader in overall quality, we will continue to inspire trust and ensure satisfaction in all situations involving Nissan customers and their vehicles. A Fair, Prompt Approach to Recalls It is the primary responsibility of the manufacturer to make every effort to ensure that product incidents do not occur in the first place. Nonetheless, manufacturing cars is an extraordinarily complex process, and there are occasions in which an incident, or the possibility of one, can occur unexpectedly. Our approach is to make recalls transparent and to handle them fairly and promptly. The decision to make a recall is based on our compliance with relevant laws and our consideration of how the incident may affect the safety of our customers. When Nissan judges that a recall is necessary, it is carried out swiftly to ensure that top priority is given to customers’ safety and to minimizing any disruption. Our recall decision process has received high praise from the U.S. Department of Transportation as a model for the automotive industry, and has already been implemented at all of our operation sites worldwide. A Benchmark for the Industry “Nissan’s recall process should be the benchmark for the entire auto industry.” This was the message we received at a May 2010 meeting of Nissan management and a visiting team of U.S. government representatives including Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. Secretary LaHood praised Nissan’s recall decision-making process, which relies on a purely technical analysis of how a given case will affect customer safety, and commended Nissan’s attitude of transparency in terms of legal compliance and its readiness to provide a just and prompt response. Another delegate was National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator David L. Strickland, who visited the Field Quality Center located inside the Nissan Technical Center. There he observed how Nissan has improved quality by using components retrieved from the market and case studies of past recalls. He was impressed by Nissan’s determination to learn from its mistakes. 058 KEY CSR AREAS Quality Q y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Product Quality Quality For Years of Safe, Comfortable Driving Product quality is the fundamental quality that allows our customers to enjoy years of safe, comfortable driving. We believe it is the customers who judge product quality. In order to improve product quality, we have set the goal of reaching the top level in the quality indices used by third-party organizations that most influence customers in the marketplace. To implement improvements within Nissan via a faster cycle, our objective is to halve all of the following by 2012: the number of warranty claims that arise within three months of purchase, the incident rate of supplier parts, the breakdown rate (the rate of breakdowns on the road such that the customer judges that the car can no longer be driven and calls for road service) and the lead time from the occurrence of an incident to the preparation of countermeasures. Improving Parts Quality in Leading Competitive Countries Nissan’s efforts to improve product quality start with production processes within the Nissan Group and extend across the entire supply chain, including parts procurement. Since 2007 Nissan has engaged in quality improvement activities to reduce the number of defective parts received at its manufacturing plants in Japan, North America and Europe from suppliers in the leading competitive countries (LCCs) of China, Thailand and Mexico. Specifically, we have been working together with suppliers in activities to improve production processes and to quickly and thoroughly resolve quality issues. These started with improvement activities in which Nissan took the lead, but in fiscal 2010 we shifted the emphasis to preventive activities. We will continue to strengthen our relationships with suppliers in Japan and in the other countries where we operate. Field Quality Centers Nissan has set up Field Quality Centers (FQCs) with the aim of improving the quality experience of its customers. The driving environment, customs and preferences of customers can vary from country to country. In order to better understand the needs of our customers around the world and to respond promptly to problems arising in those areas, we set up a total of seven FQCs at development bases in Japan, Europe, the United States (two locations), Brazil, China and India to pursue quality improvements in all of the markets in which we operate. Taking into consideration our “three gen” principle, namely genba (on-site activities), genbutsu (real parts) and genjitsu (facts), we try to collect as many of the problem parts and vehicles as possible at these centers. We then bring everyone together—our suppliers along with our design and production divisions—to pinpoint the cause of the problems and decide appropriate measures to be employed as quickly as possible. We locate FQCs in our development and manufacturing bases in order to quickly get a handle on problems with particular parts as well as the demands of the market. We use the information gathered in the future production of vehicles, making every effort to prevent a recurrence of defects or incidents. Quick Rollouts of Vehicle Production Structure Nissan introduced 4G Strategies to provide consistent, high-quality products to customers around the 059 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Quality world. We have been able to quickly build an optimum production structure for new vehicles at each of our operation sites worldwide according to these 4G Strategies. Nissan’s 4G Strategies Global Production Engineering Center The GPEC develops optimized production processes through focused trials and (GPEC) analysis of new vehicles. In addition to dramatically improving quality in the vehicle production preparation stage, it strives to establish quality consistency globally by spreading high quality standards to manufacturing plants in and outside Japan. Global Training Centers (GTCs) Manufacturing quality and productivity depend greatly on the skills of individual workers. To raise these skills to a competitive level in Nissan’s plants worldwide, the GTCs carry out training through classroom lectures and skills training activities based on the Nissan Production Way. Graduates of the Master Trainer programs take part in training programs for local staff in regional training centers, effectively passing their skills on to others. Global Packaging Design Center (GPDC) The GPDC functions as a training center for developing logistics specialists to work at our manufacturing bases. Training includes parts packaging design, packaging testing and evaluation methods, CAD and optimum logistics cost management to maintain high quality. Global Launching Experts (GLEs) GLEs provide support in resolving issues related to monozukuri (production) that arise in the new vehicle launch phase. We are meeting our QCT (quality, cost, time) targets for each new vehicle launch thanks to the evaluations and advice from GLE core members and the support of GLE registered members. FY2010 Achievements Resulting From Quality Improvements Country Model/Brand External Indicator Category Ranking Organizer Germany Qashqai 2011 Yellow Angel Award Quality, SUV 3rd ADAC Germany Note 2010 German Automobile Customer Compact 1st J.D. Power and Associates, Satisfaction Survey Auto Bild Italy Qashqai Reliability Survey Mid-class SUV 1st Quattroruote UK Qashqai, Note Automobile Customer Satisfaction Survey − 4/5 stars What Car? UK Nissan Reliability Rating for Vehicle Breakdowns* − 1st Royal Automobile Club (RAC plc) USA Infiniti 2010 Annual Car Reliability Survey − 5th Consumer Reports South Africa X-TRAIL Initial Quality Study Compact, SUV 1st J.D. Power and Associates China Nissan Quality Study Brand 5th J.D. Power and Associates China Tiida Quality Study Class 1st J.D. Power and Associates China Teana Quality Study Class 2nd J.D. Power and Associates China Qashqai Quality Study Class 3rd J.D. Power and Associates Japan Nissan Sales Satisfaction Index, Sales, Service 1st J.D. Power Asia Pacific Customer Service Satisfaction Index * Incidence ratio of breakdowns in which customer judges that vehicle can no longer be driven and calls for roadside assistance 060 KEY CSR AREAS Q y Quality NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Perceived Quality and Attractiveness Quality Better Understanding Customer Perceptions Perceived quality is the quality that customers feel when seeing, touching and using a vehicle. For example, when customers come to the showroom they open the vehicle doors, sit in the seats and check things like the texture of interior fittings. Nissan is carefully analyzing and quantifying what makes people perceive something they handle to be good, and has the goal of more than half of all Nissan models being at the top of their class in terms of perceived quality across all market segments. The feeling of quality is a subjective matter, and fixing quantified criteria calls for very careful investigation. Nissan evaluates cars using the opinions of numerous in-house product monitors and specialists with in-house training. We also survey customers who have purchased or are considering purchasing a Nissan car in order to fix criteria for quality evaluation from the customer’s point of view. While there is great diversity in customers’ take on what quality means, we believe that nurturing a better understanding of this will enable us to uncover common themes. On this basis, we are aiming for quality that will match as closely as possible the sensibilities of our customers. Scientific Measurement of Human Comfort In order to increase perceived quality, it is necessary to objectively understand the feelings customers experience when they look at, touch and use a vehicle. Nissan employs scientific methods to measure and analyze human perception and quantifies feelings of comfort to help create optimal designs. For the sense of touch, for example, we analyzed the feel of various objects such as clothing, furniture and traditional handicrafts. We found that softness close to that of a finger pad feels best when pushing, and a surface texture with roughness similar to a fingerprint’s ridges feels best when stroking. We are now using a new material in the armrest of the Nissan Fuga that has the softness of a finger pad and a surface texture similar to a fingerprint, creating the soft, comfortable feeling of baby skin. Further, the human finger has “moisture sensors” in the valleys of the fingerprint ridges. These trigger a moist feeling when the ridge valleys are stimulated, despite the absence of wetness. Softness, meanwhile, is felt more easily when the finger comes into contact with multiple ridges at the same time. We use a premium textured material called “soft-feel grain” in the interior door handles of the Fuga. We have also applied our findings on human touch perception of moisture and softness to improve the feel of the hard plastic materials used in the vehicle interior. 061 KEY CSR AREAS Quality Q y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Sales and Service Quality Quality Enhancing the Nissan Brand Sales and service quality means giving our customers the sort of care that exceeds their expectations when they purchase a car or bring it in for servicing, thereby enhancing the Nissan brand. We are aiming for the highest level of customer satisfaction in our main regions of Japan, the United States and Europe and in four other major countries. We are currently working on four key initiatives aimed at boosting our sales and service quality: improving the knowledge and skills of our sales and technical staff at sales outlets; ensuring service that is fully in line with our customers’ expectations when they purchase a car or bring a car in for servicing; strengthening Nissan management systems to support the quality activities of dealerships and showrooms; and fostering a customer-oriented mindset among Nissan employees. These four initiatives will be pivotal to our continuous and consistent activities to maximize customer satisfaction. The Nissan Sales and Service Way Nissan has established the Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW) as a set of global guidelines helping dealers to better respond to the individual needs of customers, seeing things through their eyes to provide professional, high-value service. We conduct various activities to increase customer satisfaction and to improve our sales and service quality based on these guidelines. These activities include dealer training to improve product-related knowledge, service skills and customer care, as well as the provision of guidance to improve dealership operations in response to customer satisfaction surveys. We are also developing personnel and systems to put these improvements into place and enhance the customer focus of our job process, with care given to the voices of customers collected through our call centers and other means. Nissan carries out these initiatives globally while keeping in mind differences in cultural conditions and customs across countries and regions. In this way we seek to provide the best customer service during the purchase and ownership experiences, as well as in other areas. Service and Support for Customers, Dealers Nissan has opened its National Customer Service Center (NCSC) in Japan to make qualitative improvements to the service support it offers customers and dealerships. The NCSC consolidates our customer support hotline, dealership vehicle repair support and service technical support functions, which were previously spread over different parts of the country. The NCSC carries out tasks including providing expertise for maintenance and repair services, giving support to dealers for repairs, carrying out training in sheet-metal coating, collecting market data on incidents and acting as a center for customer inquiries. Initiatives adopted by the NCSC include collaboration with service technical support teams, digitization of product information including catalogs and the introduction of a new call-handling system. Benefits include the provision of highly precise technical data and reduced waiting times for customers with telephone inquiries, resulting in an overall improvement in the quality of our response to customer inquiries. In conjunction with the launch of the Nissan LEAF, we introduced a support system for dealers worldwide. Utilizing information technology to exchange image and voice data, as well as data from diagnostic devices, the system links dealers with Nissan’s development division to enable prompt, accurate remote servicing. Improved Service Capabilities Nissan is making efforts to improve the technical capabilities, including basic diagnostic and repair skills, 062 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Quality as well as the customer service skills of its after-care service staff. These skills are put to the test in the All-Nissan Service Technical Contest. The event, hosted with assistance from throughout the Nissan Group, focuses on employees working in dealership service departments. The competition has four categories in total: Technical Staff (less than 10 years’ experience) and New Technical Staff (2–3 years’ experience) for those involved in diagnostic and servicing work, and Technical Advisor and Female Technical Advisor for those involved in frontline service activities. Teams and individual participants who take top honors at the nine regional competitions go on to compete at the national competition. The event brings together service staff with exceptional knowledge and experience from all around the country, giving them a chance to put their day-to-day practices to the test against those of their fellow colleagues. Such events help to increase both the technical skills and motivation of employees in service departments, thus strengthening the service structure of the Nissan Group as a whole. 063 KEY CSR AREAS Q y Quality NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Quality of Management Quality Support from the Top Quality of management lets staff approach their work with a full understanding of company policy and with confidence in it. This employee understanding will help foster a sense of solidarity between them and management, leading to corporate growth. We are actively encouraging the understanding of Nissan strategies through direct communication, with initiatives that include opinion exchange sessions bringing the CEO or COO together with employees. (See page 77.) Employee Surveys As a way to improve quality of management we carry out attitude surveys of workers at the global level and publicize the results internally. These surveys aim for improved quality of management by bringing to light issues in all divisions and departments so that measures can be drawn up to resolve them. (See page 77.) 064 KEY CSR AREAS Q y Quality NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Providing Truly Nissan Value Quality Life on Board: Designing Cars Around People Nissan’s goal is to provide customers with new value in terms of comfort and quality throughout their driving experience. We pursue this goal by giving constant consideration to potential value inside the passenger cabin, which we examine from the separate perspectives of function and emotion. For example, the increasing complexity of dashboard functions in recent years has brought a concentration of large amounts of information around the driver’s seat, giving rise to the demand for easy operation. In addition to adjusting the location and size of the buttons and implementing a touch-screen interface so that even first-time users can easily operate the navigation system, we are working on developing layouts for even more comfortable driving. Nissan’s Health & Well-Being concept goes beyond providing comfort by simply reducing stress and fatigue. We are constantly developing this concept to actively enhance the condition of health. This means paying close attention to such factors as the comfort of the seats and the onboard air conditioning, optimal posture and cabin temperature to improve blood circulation and healthy air quality. The feel of the interior from the moment that the customer slides into the seat is also a vital element. We analyze and quantify the information we receive about customers’ feelings on the look and feel of our vehicles from the viewpoints of “look,” “touch” and “use,” aiming to build vehicles with quality finish and a comfortable riding experience. Nissan has consolidated these initiatives into the “Life on Board” concept. While the experience of driving varies from person to person, we carry out research and development based on the idea that we can find universality if we increase our understanding of the feelings of various people. This approach to making cars goes a step beyond the concepts of “usability” and “understandability” generally associated with universal design; it involves thorough investigation of the essence of “people,” or to put it another way, an enhanced mastery of what makes us human. Nissan aims to build cars that exceed customers’ expectations. A Focus on Cabin Climate Nissan views cabin climate in its vehicles as a key factor in the “Life on Board” concept. An example of this is our “Forest AC” air conditioning system, which we have installed in the Fuga. We took a scientific approach, examining breezes, humidity, aroma and other components of a wooded environment, and developed the world’s first air conditioning system that lets customers feel the refreshing air of a forest inside their cars. New models including the Elgrand are equipped with our Intelligent Air Conditioning System, which adds to passenger comfort in three ways. First, the system features an automatic air intake control structure, incorporating external odor and exhaust gas sensors that actively control ventilation to keep cabin air clean and prevent the inflow of unpleasant odors. Second, the grape seed polyphenol filter traps airborne allergens, including pollen, dander and dust mites, significantly reducing their effect inside the vehicle. Third, the unit emits concentrated Plasmacluster Ions* that serve not only to reduce odors embedded in cabin surfaces, but also to protect the skin by maintaining a comfortable humidity level. The Plasmacluster Ions are also effective in reducing allergic responses to pollens by eliminating static cling in clothing, causing pollen particles to drop away. * Plasmacluster Ion is a trademark of Sharp Corporation. 065 KEY CSR AREAS Quality Q y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Increasing Employee Skills Quality Going for Gold at the National Skills Competition The National Skills Competition is the top competition in Japan for testing the skills of young technicians. Nissan actively participates in this event, which not only provides a challenge the next generation of young technicians but also offers young people in the regions where the competitions take place a great opportunity to come into contact with outstanding vocational talent. Nissan swept the podium in the automobile mechanic category, taking home the gold, silver and bronze from the 2010 event held in Kanagawa Prefecture. Nissan also won gold in the industrial electronics and mechatronics categories. We will be sending our four gold medalists to represent Japan in their three categories at the WorldSkills Competition, to be held in London, England, in October 2011. A Customer Satisfaction Mindset Nissan strives to cultivate a customer service mindset within each employee that influences them to consider things from the customer’s perspective and act in the best way to bring satisfaction to the customer. New hires, employees in their third year on the job and newly appointed managers all go through CS (customer satisfaction) Mind Training, which is carried at our operation sites in Japan, India, Brazil, China, the United States, Russia, South Africa, Singapore and Thailand. We also regularly hold events to share with employees and suppliers the latest quality-related initiatives, thus facilitating the development of a quality mindset among them all. Comments and opinions received from customers are also an important source of feedback. Nissan uses the Angel Voice II text-mining system to share valuable customer feedback in-house. This system stores the actual comments of customers who come to our service counters, allowing Nissan staff to check what they had to say at any time via the company’s intranet. Additionally, thank-you messages from customers are printed each month on employee pay stubs, where they are sure to be seen. Area Leaders’ Messages Akira Wakabayashi Delivering Reliability General Manager, Planning Group and Satisfaction to the Customer Total Customer Satisfaction Function At Nissan, our aim is to be a brand that customers can truly rely on. To achieve this, we are working on a companywide basis to implement Quality Leadership, our medium-term quality improvement plan. Our goal is to reach the top level in the external quality indices with the greatest influence on customers in each market around the world. In the first three years of the program, we achieved a 50% reduction in the incidence of defects. We remain committed to improving the quality of our products and services in order to provide customers with a satisfactory driving experience that lasts through years of ownership of a Nissan vehicle. We will continue to respond with diligence and transparency to major quality issues in our markets, promptly carrying out recalls, service campaigns and other measures as necessary. 066 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 For Our Customers Bringing Mobility to All with Lifecare Vehicles Nissan lifecare vehicles (LVs) help bring mobility to the elderly or those with physical disabilities. We regard LVs as an essential part of our lineup of cars, rather than specialty vehicles. We are enhancing our products and services available for customers who have such needs. As of the end of March 2011, in Japan there are 384 certified LV dealerships where customers can find these cars on display and a total of around 6,000 advisory staff members who are specially trained LV experts. In this way we can respond to customer needs and offer the chance to test-drive LVs in all of Japan’s prefectures. Since 2003, we have also been carrying out an annual campaign offering LV trial rides to families with limited opportunities to get out and about, letting them experience the joy of mobility. In fiscal 2010 we gave trial rides to five groups of mobility-challenged people accompanied by friends or family members. In December 2010, we also launched sales in Japan of the LV model of the Nissan LEAF. This handoperated model is designed for disabled drivers unable to engage the accelerator and brake pedals by foot. With this all-electric LV model that emits no CO2 during driving, we hope to offer the joy of mobility to an even wider range of customers. Our Universal Design NV200 Vanette Taxi The Nissan NV200 Vanette Taxi went on sale in Japan in December 2010. Conceptually, this vehicle is a “taxi for everyone” modeled after the NV200 Vanette compact van now sold in 40 countries worldwide. The taxi has been designed to be easily accessible for a wide range of passengers, including children, the elderly and wheelchair users. With it we aim to promote barrier-free transportation infrastructure. Passengers can enter or exit the vehicle via the two-tier rear slope without getting out of their wheelchair, avoiding a stressful part of the riding experience thanks to retractable belts that prevent backward sliding. The Nissan NV200 Vanette Taxi won Germany’s Universal Design Award 2011 as well as the Universal Design Consumer Favourite Award 2011. It was the first time for an automaker to win either of these awards. NV200 Tapped as New York’s “Taxi of Tomorrow” In May 2011, the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC) selected the Nissan NV200 as the exclusive vehicle model to serve as the city’s familiar yellow taxi fleet beginning in late 2013. In addition to rolling out 13,000 NV200 cabs, Nissan will work with the city authorities and taxi owners on a pilot program to study the use of all-electric taxis. We will provide six Nissan LEAF cabs, charging facilities and other support to taxi owners in this program, set to start in 2012. Nissan NV200 Taxi 067 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Economic Contribution Growing the Company for Society’s Development By achieving sustainable, profitable growth for itself, Nissan hopes to contribute to the economic development of society as a whole. Toward this end, we aim to maintain top-level performance in the global automotive market and to build a foundation for highly profitable business into the future. We also focus on speedily and accurately providing information on how we implement our strategies, vision and management plans to our shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. Two Pillars of Nissan’s Economic Contribution 1. Creating Corporate Economic Value In response to the global financial and economic crisis of recent years, Nissan has pursued a recovery plan built around revenue growth, tight cost management and the generation of free cash flow. Toward future growth, meanwhile, we have continued investing strategically in priority business areas and markets. We will keep on working to produce healthy profits and to enhance the value we create for society. Speedy, Accurate Creating Corporate Information 2. Speedy, Accurate Information Disclosure Economic Value Disclosure Nissan views its shareholders and investors as partners in the creation of a more sustainable society. To help them understand our business activities more accurately, we carry out IR activities rooted in the speedy, highly transparent disclosure of information on an ongoing basis. We will continue to enhance our communication efforts, allowing not just institutional investors but securities analysts and individual investors as well to make optimal investment decisions. Economic 068 KEY CSR AREAS Contribution NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Creating Corporate Economic Value Economic Contribution A Future-Oriented Growth Strategy In the wake of the financial crisis touched off in 2008, Nissan has been implementing short-term measures based on its recovery plan. At the same time, we have been pouring our efforts into longer-term initiatives with future growth in mind. We will continue to aim for leadership in the area of zero-emission mobility, beginning with our Nissan LEAF electric vehicle, and to strengthen our presence in emerging markets with the introduction of our global compact car. With our next medium-term business plan to go into effect in fiscal 2011, we will take steps to put these strategies into concrete action. Areas of Focus in Fiscal 2010 With the introduction of the all-electric Nissan LEAF, fiscal 2010 became the year for the full-scale launch of Nissan’s zero-emission strategy. By 2014, Nissan and its Alliance partner Renault plan to launch eight additional EV models, and in 2015 the Alliance will have a total annual production capacity of 500,000 battery units. We began preparing for this in fiscal 2010 by starting construction of battery plants in locations including the United Kingdom, the United States and Portugal. Growth in the Chinese market was another area of focus for Nissan in fiscal 2010. Together with Dongfeng Motor Co., Ltd., our China partner, we have been carrying out significant investment for eight years now. Our sales in China have grown from just 94,000 units in 2003 to more than a million in 2010. Today China is Nissan’s largest single market, and the expansion of the middle class is expected to produce rising demand for vehicles there. We have set up a new design studio in Beijing and boosted our investment to secure domestic production capacity of 1.2 million units per year in 2012, nearly double our capacity at the beginning of 2010. Area Leaders’ Messages Kazuta Amemiya Senior Manager Staying the Course on Nissan’s Strategies Investor Relations Department Nissan has recovered surely and steadily from the financial crisis touched off in 2008. March this year brought us a new, unexpected shock, the earthquake and tsunami that struck eastern Japan, forcing us to remain on a crisis footing. We are striving to respond to this latest disaster in the same way that we have dealt with previous crises—swiftly and effectively. This does not mean a sacrifice of our mediumand long-term goals as a company, though. We continue to track performance with the indicator of free cash flow, which reflects the results of a broad range of corporate activities, and we will make solid progress in implementing our strategies based on our new medium-term business plan. Through all these activities we aim to achieve high profitability supported by strong sales and brand power. This leads to growth over the longer term, making possible the creation of new, sustainable value for Nissan as a company. Economic 069 KEY CSR AREAS Contribution NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Investor Relations Activities Economic Contribution Global IR Activities The aim of Nissan’s global investor relations activities is to ensure a profound and thorough understanding of the company’s objectives and strategies. Prompt, consistent and transparent information disclosure Detailed information is available are essential. For example, as part of the quarterly financial results announcements, the IR team on our website. meets frequently with institutional investors and sell-side analysts and responds to inquiries in a timely http://www.nissan-global.com/ EN/IR/ manner. Nissan also participates in conferences held by securities companies, as well as other events to report proactively on its business. In order to further strengthen stakeholder and investor trust, Nissan IR increased the number of events and opportunities for investors to speak directly with executive management. Under the strict control of the chief financial officer, information is disclosed accurately and in a fair, transparent manner. Through timely and fair disclosure, shareholders and investors are able to make the best-informed investment decisions. Nissan’s sound IR activities ensure the trust of the marketplace, which contributes to maximizing shareholder value. 111th Shareholders Meeting The 111th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders was held at the Pacifico Yokohama on June 23, 2010, and was attended by 1,701 shareholders. The agenda included a report on the number of voting rights, an audit report and an explanation of Nissan’s business during fiscal 2009. This was followed by a question and answer session with the shareholders in attendance. After the General Meeting, we offered test drives of the Nissan LEAF electric vehicle. These test drives were held indoors, since the car produces no exhaust emissions when running. This was the perfect opportunity for shareholders to experience first hand Nissan’s zero-emissions strategy and EV. Communication with Stakeholders and Investors Nissan voluntarily discloses information to the investment community through various IR events. At the Advanced Technology Briefing in July 2010, the company presented its environmental and safety Nissan’s Japanese-language site technologies, including test drives of the Fuga Hybrid and prototype vehicles featuring the Forward for individual investors: Collision Avoidance Assist Concept safety system. At the Nomura Investment Forum in December 2010, http://www.nissan-global.com/ JP/IR/INDIVIDUAL/ Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga presented on Nissan’s fiscal 2010 performance and growth strategies. In conjunction with the Eighth China (Guangzhou) International Automobile Exhibition, Nissan IR hosted an event to provide investors and analysts more insight into the company’s business in China. The event included a roundtable meeting with top management at the exhibition venue, a tour of the Register to receive “Nissan IR Huadu Plant and a presentation on the passenger vehicle business in China. News,” our Japanese-language e-mail bulletins: Nissan IR values its individual investors and views them as important partners. Strengthening and https://www.nissan-register.jp/ irregister/ enhancing communication with them is a vital pillar of its IR activities. To further increase visibility, access information and disclose information promptly, Nissan IR created a website for individual investors and an e-mail information service known as “Nissan IR News” (both in Japanese). Top in Disclosure for Four Consecutive Years At the 16th Annual Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan, Nissan came in first for the fourth consecutive year in the automobiles, auto parts and tires category. These awards were created to improve levels of corporate disclosure. Winners are selected by analysts through a questionnaire survey assessing various companies’ IR activities during the fiscal year. Nissan was awarded for its fair disclosure policies, voluntary disclosure on corporate governance and business activities and executive management’s proactive IR efforts. Nissan was also one of the recipients of the Best IR Awards at the 15th IR Grand Prix, selected by the Japan Investor Relations Association. These awards aim to recognize companies with a deep understanding of IR objectives, active IR engagement and a track record of superior results in the field. Nissan was highly rated for its robust communication and its proactive disclosure via its website. 070 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Employees Fostering Individuality The diversity of Nissan’s employees is the driving force enabling us to meet the varied needs of our customers and to maintain sustainable growth. Our employees create greater value by sharing their knowledge, based on their individual experiences and different ways of thinking, in response to the various challenges we all face. To achieve greater business results while continuously creating new value, with our focus constantly on the customer, we have outlined five “mindsets” and five “actions” to serve as a code of conduct for all employees worldwide. Five Environments Supporting the Nissan Way 1. Nissan’s Respect for Diversity Diversity is an important strategy at Nissan. We undertake initiatives in pursuit of our goal of achieving sustainable growth while respecting diversity. 2. Career Design Support Nissan s Respect for Diversity Nissan believes that employees should “design their own careers” and actively assists their efforts to do so. 3. A Culture of Learning Career Design A Culture We believe that a corporate culture of learning cannot exist without the desire Support of Learning to create value. As an organization that grows through constant learning, Nissan supports employees’ personal growth through proactive human-resource development. 4. Stronger Internal Communication Nissan actively seeks the opinions of employees through surveys, using the results to improve management quality and employee motivation. We also ensure that information is shared with all employees around the world without delay. Stronger Internal Building Communication Safe Workplaces 5. Building Safe Workplaces Nissan promotes practices aimed at reducing worker burdens and improving productivity. We have made promotion of employee health a top priority, establishing it as a key tenet in our companywide declaration on workplace safety. 071 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 The Nissan Way Employees Action Guidelines for All Our Employees Through Nissan’s Alliance with Renault, we have developed a corporate culture that creates new values while respecting different cultures and diversity. The Nissan Way, the crystallization of our business principles, was developed based on the thinking that we could apply what we have learned in that process to our corporate activities to help ensure our future growth. It outlines five “mindsets” and five “actions” to guide our achievement of greater results while we continuously create new value with a steady focus on the customer. The Nissan Way has been made available in eight languages (Japanese, English, French, Chinese, German, Spanish, Dutch and Russian) for our employees worldwide. Building on these principles, we emphasize the idea that “the power comes from inside.” We encourage employees to think about what they can do individually with the belief that their efforts to overcome challenges are the driving force for Nissan’s growth. “The power comes from inside” The focus is the customer, the driving force is value creation and the measurement of success is profit. Mindsets Actions 1. Cross-functional, Cross-cultural 1. Motivate Be open and show empathy towards different views; How are you energizing yourself and others? welcome diversity. 2. Commit and Target 2. Transparent Are you accountable and are you stretching enough Be clear, be simple, no vagueness and no hiding. toward your potential? 3. Learner 3. Perform Be passionate. Learn from every opportunity; Are you fully focused on delivering results? create a learning company. 4. Measure 4. Frugal How do you assess performance? Achieve maximum results with minimum resources. 5. Challenge 5. Competitive How are you driving continuous and competitive No complacency, focus on competition progress across the company? and continuous benchmarking. 072 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan’s Respect for Diversity Employees Diversity as a Corporate Strategy Fostering diversity is an important management strategy at Nissan. We established a Diversity Development Office (DDO) in Japan in October 2004 to play a principal role in this pursuit. Since then, Please see our website for more we have been working with our offices in North America, Europe and other markets in a variety of ways to information on Nissan’s diversity. realize our common goal of achieving sustainable corporate growth while respecting diversity. Moreover, http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ COMPANY/DIVERSITY/ we established a Diversity Steering Committee, headed by executives representing each business division, to set the direction and establish strategies for promoting diversity throughout the company. The DDO aims to leverage workplace diversity for the company’s competitive advantage by focusing on ways to make full use of the talents of female employees while also actively exploring ways to create higher value through cultural diversity, utilizing the cross-cultural nature of the Alliance formed with Renault in 1999. Nissan requires all its people to respect the human rights of others and forbids discrimination against or harassment of others based on race, nationality, gender, religion, physical capability, age, place of origin or other reason. Nor may Nissan employees allow such a situation to go unchecked if it is discovered. Organization of the Diversity Steering Committee CEO Product Planning Purchasing COO Manufacturing Diversity Marketing and Sales Steering Committee etc. Initiatives to Utilize the Talents of Women Since fiscal 2004 the DDO has been concentrating its efforts in the following two areas as a means of better utilizing the talents of female employees. 1. Women’s career development Diversity takes on different meanings in various regions of the world. In Japan, where the ratio of women in the automobile industry workforce has traditionally been low, the participation of women, particularly in positions of responsibility, is essential to providing diverse value to our customers. Nissan is working to create an inclusive environment that encourages active participation from all employees, regardless of gender, and supports the career development of female employees. In addition to providing personalized support to female employees through individual counseling sessions with career advisors, the DDO works with Nissan’s human-resource divisions to organize activities geared especially to female employees, including skill-development training courses and networking events. Moreover, interviews with senior female employees who are active in a variety of fields within the company are posted on WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan), our corporate intranet, to offer further encouragement. Additionally, we are promoting ergonomic design of our equipment and work processes at our manufacturing plants to benefit female workers, who are generally smaller in stature and have less strength than men. 2. A work-life balance for employees In Japan, Nissan has implemented a system offering flexible working arrangements to enable employees 073 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Employees to effectively balance work with family responsibilities, such as childcare and nursing of elderly relatives. Arrangements to help employees of both genders strike an appropriate work-life balance include “Family Support Leave,” which allows an employee to take time off for a wedding, the birth of a child, child rearing or nursing care; reduced working hours and home-based telecommuting for employees to provide Nissan proudly takes part in the Work-Life Balance Promotion childcare or nursing care; and the establishment of a daycare center, called “March Land,” in our Technical Project of Japan’s Ministry of Center in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture. Nissan has been recognized by the Japanese government as Health, Labor and Welfare. (Japanese website) a corporation actively promoting childcare support, successfully implementing programs to achieve the http://www.mhlw.go.jp/bunya/ roudoukijun/sigoto-seikatu/ goals set forth in the action plan of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare based on an April 2005 law index.html outlining measures to support the development of future generations. Support Systems for Childbirth and Childcare (Japan) Pregnancy Childbirth 1 year old 2 3 6 9 12 6 wks. before due date 8 wks. after birth End of first April Childbirth leave after child turns 2 Leave 18 months old Maternal Childcare leave protection leave Family support leave (to promote childcare): Days off From pregnancy to child’s 6th year of elementary school. 12 days/year (5 paid, 7 unpaid) Reduced Shortened work hours (for childcare): working hours For employees with children up through end of 6th year of elementary school. 3 hours/day Childcare centers in company sites Other E-working Babysitting service Legally mandated Decided by Nissan For parents of both sexes Messages from Our Stakeholders Kumi Hatsukano Planning and Advanced Engineering Development Division March Land: Making It Possible to Advanced Vehicle Engineering Department Balance Work and Childcare Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. I’ve been using March Land, Nissan’s in-house daycare facility, since six months after my child (now five years old) was born. My husband is a Nissan employee too, and the three of us commute to work by car. Plenty of men make use of the March Land facility, and many drop off and pick up their children at the center every day. Some female employees incorporate the facility into their own work style by using it alongside Nissan’s reduced-hours system for mothers with young children. Without March Land, I wouldn’t be able to lead the life I have now. In our case, our basic hours are eight in the morning to eight at night, but it is a great help to know that the center will look after our child until ten at night if we need to stay late for a meeting. And because the facility is onsite, it is even possible with a little effort to breastfeed during the working day. The facility’s opening times coincide with company hours, so that you can always depend on the center to be open if you have to work weekends or on a public holiday. More than anything, though, my husband and I have been extremely impressed by the nursery staff and the high standards of care they provide. Our child seems to like it too—often protesting “I don’t want to go home yet” at the end of the day. Of course, it is not March Land alone but the understanding of everyone in the workplace that makes it possible to balance work and childcare in this way. Keeping Workers Connected While on Leave (Japan) 074 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Employees Nissan provides computers to employees upon request to allow them to access the corporate intranet and get information on the company from home while they are on leave for child or nursing care. Employees who have taken advantage of this system say it helped them to remain in the loop and to return smoothly to their tasks once the leave period ended. Female Employees Meet Diverse Customer Needs In Japan’s automobile industry, the ratio of women in the workforce remains low. This situation does not reflect the reality of the consumer market, though, where women are deeply involved in the car purchasing process. Around a third of all vehicles sold in Japan each year are purchased by women, and in another third of cases a woman is involved in the buying decision; women thus play a role in at least two thirds of all car purchases. Nissan actively trains women to meet the demands presented by this situation and to reflect society’s diversity in its own operations. In fiscal 2010, the ratio of female car-life advisors (CAs) was 6%, roughly twice the ratio in fiscal 2003, and the ratio of female technical advisors (TAs) had also climbed to 12%, about twice the fiscal 2003 ratio. Nissan is currently increasing the opportunities at domestic dealers for female CAs and TAs to put forward car-life proposals incorporating a female perspective through activities that include study meetings for female CAs and TAs to discuss ideas together. A Firm Grounding for Cultural Diversity Nissan recognizes the need to make full use of the strengths and abilities of its multinational, multicultural family of employees in order to develop the company’s business globally. We are working to leverage the synergy created through our cross-cultural Alliance with Renault, which not only recognizes and accepts cultural differences but also utilizes such differences to the full, to make cultural diversity our strength. We organize cross-cultural training workshops to help employees better understand different cultures, thereby entrenching cultural diversity as a lasting part of our corporate culture. Enhanced Diversity in the Workplace (Americas) Nissan North America (NNA) has established a regional diversity steering committee for the Americas to create accountability and provide guidance to diversity initiatives in the region. NNA also established a regional diversity office to coordinate diversity initiatives in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil. Employee-driven Business Synergy Teams (BSTs) have been launched to leverage diversity to achieve business objectives, expand cross-functional interaction and assist with community outreach. The Women’s BST, the first such group, was established in 2007. In 2009, this was followed by the creation of a Multicultural BST (MBST), which aims to enhance the company’s consumer relations capabilities through cross-cultural communications and awareness. Additional BSTs have been launched at our R&D facility located in Farmington Hills, Michigan and at our Dallas-based Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation facility. Nissan’s Diversity Mindset Nissan has been holding diversity workshops in Japan since 2005 as part of the company’s managerial training program. These workshops play an integral role in promoting diversity throughout the company by helping participants understand the importance of diversity, learn how to best utilize employee diversity and think about how diversity can be useful in the company’s business activities. Moreover, executives post articles on the company intranet discussing their views on diversity as well as their own personal experiences. Having such regular, personalized messages from management encourages the development of a diversity mindset among our employees. 075 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Supporting Career Design Employees Continually Improving Human-Resource Systems A company’s employees are its most important resource. So that both Nissan and its employees can reach their full potential, we constantly work to improve our human-resource systems. The evaluationbased remuneration system used to accurately gauge employee contributions is structured in a way that motivates them to set and achieve high goals. An employee’s salary is determined through a combination of performance evaluations, which measure how well the employee achieved certain goals (commitments), and competency evaluations, which measure such intangible variables as technical skill, knowledge and attitude. Support for Self-Designed Careers Nissan believes that employees should “design their own careers” and actively assists their efforts to do so. Employees in Japan and the Americas meet with their supervisors at least twice a year to discuss their performance and competency evaluations, as well as their career aspirations and goals. Employees in Japan also have the chance to take on the challenge of a new position through the Shift Career System (SCS) and the Open Entry System (OES). The SCS enables employees to apply for positions in other departments and work areas that interest them regardless of whether there is a position immediately available. The OES allows them to apply for all openly advertised positions. As of January 2011, 155 employees had applied for 124 open posts during fiscal 2010, and 53 of them succeeded in getting the positions they applied for. Fostering Specialized Skills Helping employees develop specialized skills over the medium to long term is vital for a company to achieve sustainable growth. We introduced the Nissan Expert Leader System as a means of strengthening and fostering further development of specialized skills in a wide range of technical and nontechnical areas like purchasing and accounting. In fiscal 2010, the system’s fifth year, we designated 46 employees as Expert Leaders and two management-level employees as Nissan Fellows in a total of 94 fields of specialization. The Expert Leaders and Fellows make use of their specialized knowledge to contribute to Nissan’s business endeavors overall. In addition to sharing their knowledge with others via our corporate intranet and other communication tools, they contribute to the fostering of the next generation of experts by passing on their specialized skills in seminars and training courses. 076 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Creating a Culture of Learning Employees A Variety of Learning Opportunities As an organization that continues to grow through constant learning, Nissan supports employees’ personal growth with a proactive, systematic approach to human-resource development. The act of learning is one in which people stretch themselves to develop skills that create value. We believe that a corporate culture of learning cannot exist without the motivation to take part in this value creation. The Learning Navigation system on our intranet is one means of providing employees with opportunities for learning. This system lets employees search for information whenever they wish to develop specialized skills, receive training in management techniques, participate in e-learning programs or take distance-learning courses. The site is updated regularly to provide information our employees need to increase their skills and build their careers, meeting their growing thirst for knowledge. The Nissan Learning Center Management Institute in Hakone, Kanagawa Prefecture, aims to cultivate human resources with the specialized skills and leadership qualities needed for future development. The institute contributes to the ongoing creation of Nissan value through a number of programs, including leadership training sessions to pass on the company’s accumulated experience and knowledge to the next generation and cultural diversity workshops. Moreover, the leaders of our business activities around the world who have taken part in such programs as our Nissan Way Workshops are now active in educating fellow employees in the Nissan Way—the crystallization of experience and knowledge gained through our company’s revival—demonstrating our commitment to promoting a corporate culture of learning. In the Americas, for example, a number of leadership training programs are in place to enhance management quality. Global Comparison of Plant Competitiveness Since 2005, Nissan has been working to compare the competitiveness of its production plants all around the world, benchmarking them according to such indices as facility operating ratio, defective parts ratio and ratio of delivery deadlines met. At present we are able to check the key data for 24 of these indices from any plant around the world at any time. This boosts our employees’ interest in aiming for higher quality and readiness to learn from one another, thus producing fresh ideas for improvement and bringing new energy to the plants’ efforts. As a result, Nissan’s global manufacturing competitiveness is rising to new levels. 077 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Internal Communication Employees Employee Surveys Nissan carries out surveys to get employee input and suggestions for improvements, using the results to help improve the company’s management quality and employee motivation. From the results of these surveys, we identify the strengths of the company as a whole and those of individual divisions, as well as areas for improvement. We then work to make improvements that will lead to the creation of a better work environment for our employees and to continued growth for the company. The results of these efforts are analyzed for the company as a whole and for each region and department. Based on these analyses, each level of management formulates and carries out action plans tailored to specific needs. Enhancing Communication Tools Nissan has introduced a corporate intranet system called WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan) as a tool to promote communication and information sharing. We continually update the system with new technologies while encouraging employees to make active use of it for internal communication and collaborative activities. We have expanded the WIN network beyond Japan, North America and Europe to include other markets and our major business partners. We also use internal newsletters and in-house video broadcasts to provide a variety of information to be shared by all employees at Nissan production sites around the world with no time lag. So that all our employees gain a deeper understanding of our products and the ability to convey their features and attractiveness to others more effectively, we also hold new model announcements and test drive events for employees. These are received very positively, with some participants stating that their enhanced knowledge of Nissan products has boosted their work motivation. Nissan hosts guided tours of company facilities and test drive events for employees’ families, too. Combined, these efforts have been effective in creating “brand ambassadors” for Nissan. N-Square, a Tool for Employee Exchange (Japan) Nissan has operated N-Square, an internal social networking service for employees, in Japan since fiscal 2009. Users form communities based around various themes, improving interaction with one another and gathering information they need. There are now more than 200 communities registered in the service. For instance, in one community titled “Office supply reuse activities,” launched in fiscal 2010, members shared information on supplies they no longer needed, helping get them transferred to places where they would be put to use, rather than discarded. This is boosting eco-consciousness among employees and leading to cost-cutting measures. At the end of fiscal 2010, we also launched an English-language version of N-Square for employees who communicate in that language. Employee-Executive Exchange Nissan holds opinion-exchange meetings involving executives and employees as a means of building trust through clear and transparent communication. These meetings are held frequently at Nissan’s global headquarters in Japan as well as the company’s business offices in China, the Americas and other parts of the world. These meetings give company leaders a venue to inform employees about the current situation of the company and to deliver key management messages. They also provide employees with opportunities to ask questions and voice their concerns in a direct and open manner. We plan to continue these meetings as an important channel for active communication. 078 KEY CSR AREAS Employees p y NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Safe Workplaces Employees A Uniform Set of Global Labor Safety Standards Nissan’s human resources are the company’s most valuable asset. So that all employees can use their abilities to the fullest, we make health and safety the top priorities when designing workplace functions and processes. We proactively work at all levels to identify potential issues or concerns in the workplace environment, develop measures to address them and make it easier for employees to get their jobs done. In 2010, we revised our safety standards that differed among our global sites, creating a single unified set of standards to be shared worldwide. We also standardized our safety key performance indicators on a global basis. We utilize them each quarter to monitor and report on safety performance for each area where we do business. Improved Production-Line Environments Nissan seeks to fulfill the company’s mission of engaging in “human-friendly production” by improving the workplace environments of its manufacturing facilities worldwide through ergonomics—the science of designing the job, equipment and workplace to fit the worker. This begins early in the product design stage when engineering, manufacturing and support groups collaborate to assure ideal ergonomic standards are met. We took a big step in this direction by introducing methods pioneered by our Alliance partner Renault to objectively gauge the difficulty and physical burden of workplace tasks. Utilizing our shared know-how, we are working to promote practices aimed at reducing worker burdens and increasing productivity. One such example is the “strike zone” approach, which provides a line worker with easy physical access to all needed parts, reducing stressful body positions and wasteful movement in the production process. In creating an environment where all workers can concentrate on their tasks without undue stress, we are contributing to improved product quality and increased productivity. Creating Safe Workplaces Nissan employs its own safety management diagnostic methods, as well as a risk-assessment approach to workplace management introduced in fiscal 2004, to create a danger-free environment and prevent accidents through proactive inspections of facilities to identify potential dangers. We also bring trainees together from around the world to give them practical instruction in labor safety management. In April 2007, we added “promotion of employee health” to the existing tenets related to occupational safety in our companywide declaration on workplace safety. Trends in Occupational Accidents (Total Accident Frequency Ratio) 1.40 1.20 1.00 Average for 14 automobile manufacturers 0.78 0.80 0.60 0.40 0.20 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 0.45 ’91 ’92 ’93 ’94 ’95 ’96 ’97 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 Total accident frequency ratio: total accident cases ÷ total working hours × 1 million Source: Statistics on occupational accidents in the automobile industry (The Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc.) Safety Activities in India 079 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Employees At Renault-Nissan Automotive India Private Limited, various activities are underway with the goal of creating a human-friendly production plant designed around the concepts of employee health and safety. In fiscal 2010, we implemented basic and advanced safety training for all employees, including contractors. We also carried out inspections of facilities and processes before the launch of volume production, regular fire prevention patrols, drills to prepare for fires and other disasters and information sharing on the lessons learned from investigations of all accidents, no matter how minor. These activities have produced solid results. All managers and employees are on the same page with respect to workplace safety and ready to make further strides in this area. Specialized Mental Healthcare Nissan has put together a specialized team led by a clinical psychiatrist to care for the mental health of employees. In fiscal 2005 we introduced a mental healthcare program, Advantage EAP (Employee Assistance Program), in cooperation with external mental healthcare specialists with the aim of providing employees with consistent care covering everything from prevention and early diagnosis to treatment and recovery. In fiscal 2007 we extended the program to include production-line workers, giving all employees in Japan and their family members access to mental-health professionals for consultations, diagnosis and counseling. We additionally offer specialized care programs that respect employee privacy, such as the eMe mental health checkups, through which employees receive advice from the doctor via e-mail or letters. We have also been providing mental-health management training for managers to help them give emotional support to subordinates. In fiscal 2009 we changed this to a topic-specific program separated into “preventive measures” and “response measures,” allowing managers to select the sessions that best suit their needs. Employee Health Promotion Nissan North America (NNA) has introduced the LiveWell initiative to help employees manage their personal health. This is a free health-improvement program open to all employees that provides targeted individual support for reducing such health risks as stress and weight gain; for preventing asthma, diabetes and other chronic diseases; and for improving maternal health during pregnancy. Another component is consumer-driven health plans that allow NNA employees to take a more active role in managing their own and their family members’ health. At Nissan Motor Manufacturing (UK) Ltd., meanwhile, management has set up an on-site medical treatment facility. Here employees have handy access to medical care as well as to courses of treatment including therapy to help them quit smoking. Area Leaders’ Messages 080 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Employees Miyuki Takahashi General Manager Innovation through Diversity Diversity Development Office As globalization continues to accelerate, companies need human resources representing different age groups, genders, cultures and nationalities to create products that meet customers’ diverse needs. To encourage diversity Nissan provides support for the career development of female employees and promotes cross-cultural understanding. The percentage of managerial roles filled by women increased from 1.6% in 2004 to 5.3% in 2010. (The average for the Japanese manufacturing industry is 2.8%.) We also energetically conduct cultural seminars on emerging markets like China and India. We aim to spread diversity in all stages of our operations, from production to the sales front, and to continue generating innovative ideas by synergizing a variety of opinions. 081 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Value Chain Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain Together with its business partners, Nissan aims to achieve sustainable, profitable growth on a foundation of mutual trust. Rather than insisting solely on our own demands, we always strive to listen carefully to the ideas and suggestions of our suppliers and dealers from an equal footing. We place a special focus on working together with them as partners, developing cooperative relations that enable us to bring in best practices in order to stay ahead in the fierce competition of the auto industry. Nissan’s value chain today extends around the globe due to the expansion of the company’s business interests. We strive to improve our CSR management by sharing our fundamental values and principles with our business partners, thereby promoting consistency in the CSR activities undertaken throughout the supply chain. With Our Business Partners 1. Pursuing CSR with Suppliers All of Nissan’s suppliers are important business partners for the company. We work with them to build relationships based on the three values of trust (work fairly, impartially and professionally), respect (honor commitments, liabilities and responsibilities) and transparency (be open, frank and clear). Pursuing CSR Pursuing CSR 2. Pursuing CSR with Dealers with Suppliers with Dealers Nissan undertakes various measures to ensure that its approach to compliance is shared with dealerships and to enhance its internal controls. We aim to further improve our CSR management by strengthening the lines of communication with dealers. 082 KEY CSR AREAS Value Chain NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 With Our Suppliers Value Chain Nissan’s Fair, Impartial Procurement Nissan uses a fair, impartial and completely transparent business process when selecting suppliers. We provide a wide variety of opportunities for other companies to do business with us, regardless of their nationality, size or history with us. When making selections, the relevant Nissan divisions meet to examine from a range of perspectives the proposals received from suppliers. We explain our final decision to every supplier that has taken part in the selection process. We make every effort to maintain the highest standards of impartiality and fairness in our business transactions, abiding by the Nissan Global Code of Conduct (item 4: Be Impartial and Fair). As well as maintaining close communication in our day-to-day dealings with suppliers, we also take heed of their ideas through regular questionnaires and direct meetings, checking our business practices from an external perspective. Nissan works hard to promote correct business practices throughout the supply chain. We have disseminated internally a leaflet on guidelines for appropriate business practices in the automobile industry, focusing on the industry’s principles of procurement and important points relating to subcontracting and antimonopoly law, and we hold briefings with our suppliers on these issues. CSR Guidelines for Suppliers The purchasing divisions of Nissan and Renault have produced a booklet, The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way, outlining the important values and processes to be adhered to when doing business. This booklet has The Renault-Nissan Purchasing been shared with the primary suppliers of the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization since 2006. Since Way and Renault-Nissan CSR that time, our business activities have expanded rapidly in areas as diverse as Asia, Eastern Europe, South Guidelines for Suppliers are available for download from our America and South Africa, while emissions reduction and other environmental issues have become the website. http://www.nissan-global.com/ subject of increasing global focus. We are expected to work together with our suppliers, who are spread EN/COMPANY/CSR/STAKE_ around the world, to put CSR into practice. HOLDER/BUSINESS_PARTNERS/ To address this situation, in 2010 we produced the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers and distributed them to all 7,600 of our global primary suppliers. The aim is to help our suppliers review their business activities from a CSR viewpoint and further instill CSR activities. The guidelines set forth Nissan’s CSR and procurement policies in five main sections on safety and quality, human rights and labor, the environment, compliance and information disclosure. We drew up this document with reference to the CSR guidelines of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. and the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association. We will work to ensure that all suppliers starting business with us from fiscal 2010 onward abide by these guidelines. Activities to Improve Manufacturing Approaches Nissan has been working to continually produce more competitive products through its Monozukuri Activities program, a collaboration among suppliers and Nissan that commenced in 2008. Since 2009, Please see our website for we have been expanding these activities through joint collaborative activities called the Thanks Activities more information on the quality initiative, which emphasizes trust and cooperation between Nissan and its suppliers. With the goal of initiatives we undertake with suppliers. working with our suppliers to become cost leaders in today’s challenging market conditions, we are striving http://www.nissan-global.com/ EN/QUALITY/PRODUCTS/ to improve product quality, cut costs and rationalize our manufacturing through measures that include GLOBAL_SP/ increasing production volume per part, promoting localization and improving logistics. From January 2010 onward we have been holding briefings on a regular basis in order to share the details and the benefits of these activities with our suppliers and to ensure their uptake. The March 2011 briefing was attended by some 400 people from around 200 supplier companies. Recognizing Supplier Contributions Worldwide Each year Nissan recognizes the contributions of its suppliers with awards presented in each of the 083 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Value Chain regions where we operate, as well as with two worldwide supplier awards, the Global Quality and Global Innovation Awards. These are presented to suppliers that have contributed to our business performance at the global level. This awards system aims to encourage suppliers in the global supply chain to embrace our management approach, which balances the economic activities of quality, cost reduction and technological development with environmental concern and social responsibility. Global Quality Award recipients are selected by our purchasing, quality and other divisions using standard criteria applied worldwide. Global Innovation Award recipients are selected from suppliers nominated by our production, development and quality divisions in the two categories of product technology and process management. In fiscal 2010, three companies received Global Quality Awards, and Global Innovation Awards went to eight companies in the product technology category. Global Expansion of Our Green Purchasing Guidelines Nissan sets forth environmental standards for its suppliers of vehicle parts and materials in the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines, asking suppliers to cooperate by reducing their environmental impact. We The Nissan Green Purchasing released the guidelines for companies in Japan in 2001, and in 2008 we updated them and have since Guidelines are available for been expanding coverage to include Europe, Asia, and other regions worldwide. We have asked our download from our website. http://www.nissan-global.com/ primary suppliers to comply with the new guidelines, extending their coverage to their suppliers as well. In EN/COMPANY/CSR/STAKE_ HOLDER/BUSINESS_PARTNERS/ this way we are promoting management of environment-impacting substances and continually reducing their use throughout the whole supply chain. We updated the guidelines once more in 2010 in line with the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers and held briefings to explain them. The Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines are published on the Nissan Global website. 084 KEY CSR AREAS Value Chain NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 With Our Dealers Value Chain Working with Dealers for CSR Management To promote consistency in the CSR management approaches taken by Nissan and its dealers, we carry out activities on an ongoing basis aimed at helping dealerships in Japan enhance their compliance. As a specific measure, we organize self-inspection programs at all dealerships to enable fuller understanding of and improvements to their current compliance management status. The programs carried out during fiscal 2010 have led to increased awareness and improvements on a voluntary basis. To bolster compliance initiatives in cooperation with dealers, we held a meeting for dealership representatives in March 2011 to share information on recent trends in compliance and on our initiatives for fiscal 2011. Nissan aims to further improve its CSR management by ensuring its sense of compliance is shared with dealerships and working to build stronger internal controls. Area Leaders’ Messages Naoki Shimbo A Common CSR Approach Senior Manager Throughout the Supply Chain Purchasing Administration Department In 2006, Nissan’s purchasing division issued a booklet, together with its counterpart in Alliance partner Renault, to share with suppliers the values and principles important to us in our business dealings. Since then, our business has expanded around the globe, making it necessary to pursue CSR activities together with those suppliers. The jointly produced Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers, distributed to Tier1 suppliers globally in fiscal 2010, will help all of our partners review their activities from a CSR viewpoint and make CSR a more essential part of their business. Nissan will continue to deepen its relationships of trust with suppliers and build mutually beneficial partnerships with them. 085 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy Contributing to Global Society In line with its vision of Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan seeks to provide attractive products and services to customers worldwide while at the same time fulfilling its responsibility as a corporate citizen to help realize a sustainable society. As a member of the global community, we engage in a variety of social contribution activities supporting the creation of a better world. We focus on three areas—humanitarian aid, support for education and caring for the environment—in making unique contributions to society, on a global basis as well as in local communities. We work together with organizations like NGOs while helping our employees to develop an active social participation mindset and promote activities that meet the needs and circumstances of each country or region. Three Focus Areas 1. Humanitarian Support Nissan provides relief assistance to areas around the world stricken by major natural disasters. Utilizing our network of group companies and operation sites worldwide, we pursue practical and effective activities, taking the conditions and needs of each country and region into account. Humanitarian Support 2. Environment Nissan’s environmental philosophy of “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature” underpins its ongoing efforts to reduce the environmental burden in various ways. In our social contribution activities as well, we prioritize protection of the environment and undertake a variety of programs focused on raising awareness and cultivating deeper understanding of the environment. 3. Education Environment Education Nissan places great importance on the cultivation of future generations in carrying out its social contribution activities. We have established partnerships with various educational organizations and work together on meaningful activities to nurture the hearts and minds of the next generation who hold the future in their hands. 086 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy py NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Our Work as a Global Company Philanthropy Unique Social Contribution Activities At Nissan, we develop our social contribution activities through careful discussion involving the relevant divisions and management. The goal is to share our vision globally among all Nissan business locations Please see our website for as we carry out activities best suited to the needs and conditions of each community where we operate. additional details about our We are working to build stronger ties with local communities where our offices and plants are located, not corporate citizenship activities. http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ only through economic measures like job creation, but with various other activities as well. In addressing CITIZENSHIP/ issues that go beyond country or region, we balance a global vision with the activities best suited to each community where we operate. We believe this approach enables us to make social contributions that are uniquely Nissan. Our Three Key Approaches In our social contribution activities, we place great importance on the following points: 1. Fostering a spirit of volunteerism among employees We do our best to support the social contribution activities carried out by individual employees and we encourage as many of our people as possible to get involved in the spirit of corporate citizenship, with the aim of contributing as much as possible to society through such activities. 2. Making the best use of our corporate strengths and qualities Some of our contributions are financial in nature, but we also aim to go beyond this by making full use of the resources built up through our business activities, such as our expertise, facilities and products, to carry out sustainable activities. 3. Cooperating with specialized NPOs and NGOs Nissan continually looks for ways to develop highly specialized programs to work with nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations in order to make its social contributions more effective and productive. Promoting Employee Participation The active participation of individual employees is vital to our social contribution activities. WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan), our intranet system, plays a key role in encouraging the development of employees’ sense of corporate citizenship. It serves as a channel for active internal communication and as a bulletin board for information about our social contribution activities worldwide. It also introduces employees to many volunteer programs and activities, thus enabling more of them to take part. Nissan supports the citizenship activities of employees in Japan through the Nissan Financial Support Program for Volunteer Activities. In fiscal 2010 we provided approximately ¥1.8 million for 15 projects. We operate a similar donation-matching program in the United States. As part of our efforts to increase employee awareness in this area, we also hosted a variety of events, including fair-trade product bazaars, used-book fairs, presentations on disaster-relief activities and film screenings, in cooperation with various NGOs (World Vision Japan, Shanti Volunteer Association, Shapla Neer and Oxfam Japan). 087 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy py NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Humanitarian Support Philanthropy Aid to Disaster-Stricken Areas Nissan has supported relief efforts to assist victims of natural disasters around the world. Nissan North America (NNA) was quick to act after a massive earthquake struck Haiti in January 2010, offering over $100,000 in financial aid on behalf of the Nissan Group. The company additionally donated 30 pick-up trucks to the United Nations’ World Food Program in Haiti, supporting the delivery of food, supplies and emergency aid. Nissan (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (NCIC) pledged 500,000 yuan (approximately ¥6.8 million) to the Red Cross Society of China for relief efforts aiding victims of the large earthquake that devastated Yushu County, Qinghai Province, in April 2010. Dongfeng Motor Co., Ltd., Nissan’s partner in China, donated supplies valued at roughly ¥40 million and provided six Nissan X-TRAIL four-wheel-drive vehicles to support rescue activities in the region. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. donated ¥3 million to the international NGO Japan Platform to assist relief efforts and aid reconstruction work in areas of Pakistan affected by severe flooding in August 2010. In Japan, Nissan donated ¥1 million to the Community Chest of Miyazaki Prefecture for the support of areas in the prefecture affected by a foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in June 2010. In the area of disaster relief, Nissan supplements its urgent response efforts with activities that take a longer-range perspective. In March 2011, we formed a partnership with Fleet Forum. This nonprofit group offers support to member NGOs, helping them to manage their vehicle fleets in safe, environmentally friendly ways. We are providing our Nissan LEAF electric vehicles to Fleet Forum free of charge for a oneyear period to assist these efforts, and we are looking at ways to expand our cooperation in the future. For information on our relief and aid efforts following the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, please see page 10. Cooperation with NPOs and NGOs NNA provides support in the fields of education and cross-cultural diversity by assisting the activities of the nonprofit group Second Harvest Food Bank, as well as through donations to NPOs including the American Indian College Fund, the PENCIL Foundation, the Harpeth River Watershed Association and the Universal Technical Institute Foundation. NNA also works with the international NGO Habitat for Humanity to provide affordable housing to people in need, including those affected by natural disasters and poverty. In fiscal 2010, NNA again contributed $1 million to the project, supporting the construction of 10 new homes for the needy across the United States and Canada. The company also donated 10 Titan pickup trucks to help with the transport of building materials. Roughly 5,000 Nissan employees, including company executives, have participated in home building to date, working shoulder to shoulder with the residents of the new homes and sharing their joy of home ownership. NNA received the honor of being named “Corporate Philanthropist of the Year” by the Association of Fundraising Professionals in November 2010 in recognition of its contributions to these activities. Aiding the expansion of our partnership with Habitat for Humanity globally, Nissan Korea Co., Ltd. and Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pty. Ltd., along with Nissan Motor India Private Limited, Nissan Motor (Thailand) Co., Ltd. and PT. Nissan Motor Indonesia (NMI), have also engaged with local branches of the organization, supporting their activities through volunteering or vehicle donations. Aid Activities in Asia In China, Zhengzhou Nissan Automobile Co., Ltd. launched a program in June 2010 to support 088 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Philanthropy impoverished university students and orphaned children. The company aims to raise 3 million yuan (roughly ¥39 million) annually, including donations from employees, totaling more than 15 million yuan (¥195 million) over five years. Nissan (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (NCIC) has also started a program to support immigrant children and migrant workers who have left their home districts for work. The company has provided scholarship funds totaling 50,000 yuan (¥640,000) to students demonstrating upstanding morals and outstanding scholastic ability. NCIC has also donated 100,000 yuan (¥1.3 million) to help with campus renovations and offered equipment donations in the form of three basketball hoops and six image projectors. PT. Nissan Motor Indonesia donated a Frontier pick-up truck to help transport people and goods out of danger after the eruption of Indonesia’s Mount Merapi in October 2010. Employee volunteers visited the evacuation center near Yogyakarta and helped to distribute food and daily necessities. Messages from Our Stakeholders Visit the Habitat for Humanity website for more information on the group's activities. http://www.habitat.org/ Fred Brewer Director, Corporate Development Nissan Drives Home-Building with Habitat Habitat for Humanity International Nissan helps Habitat to build simple, decent, affordable homes and to transform communities by working alongside partner families and contributing cash and in-kind donations. To date, Nissan has donated 89 Nissan Titans to Habitat affiliates throughout the United States, Canada, Thailand, the Dominican Republic and Haiti. By the end of 2010, Habitat for Humanity had recorded nearly 5 million miles on the donated trucks. Over the past five years, Nissan North America, Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Nissan Korea Co., Ltd. and Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pty. Ltd. have supported Habitat for Humanity International with a combined total of more than 56,000 volunteer hours and the construction of 107 homes. Nissan’s contribution to Habitat for Humanity has totaled more than $5 million in house sponsorships and vehicle donations since 2006. At Habitat, we look forward to continuing our work with Nissan, helping the company to realize its vision, Enriching People’s Lives. 089 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy py NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Environmental Initiatives Philanthropy Environmental Education for Future Generations Nissan supported the Karuizawa Arts Festival, a classical music festival held in August 2010 to celebrate the cultural arts. Inspired by the organizing committee’s aim to host an environmentally conscious event, “An Electric Vehicle in Our Home” which aligns with our environmental philosophy, “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature,” we have can be viewed on the Nissan Zero been a supporter of the event for four consecutive years. In conjunction with the festival, an exhibition of Emission website. http://www.nissanworks entered in the Nissan Children’s Storybook and Picture Book Grand Prix was held at the Karuizawa zeroemission.com/EN/KIDS/ Picturebook Museum. Other interesting programs, including a collaborative event involving a saxophone quartet performance at a children’s book reading, were also presented. Also, in connection with a sales campaign for the Nissan LEAF electric vehicle, we launched a comprehensive educational program for children, entitled “An Electric Vehicle in Our Home,” on our Nissan Zero Emission website to educate elementary school students about Nissan’s vision for a zero-emission, sustainable society. Utilizing a simple storyline featuring unique, engaging characters and interactive quiz games, the program explains the reality of environmental problems we face today and the merits of zeroemission EVs in an easy-to-understand way. Our Foundation Activities Striving “to create solutions for social progress” and advance Japan’s culture and scientific progress, the Nissan Science Foundation has provided grants to productive science research, specifically in the fields of environmental studies, cognitive science and education in the sciences, technology and the environment. As of March 2011, the foundation had provided cumulative assistance of ¥6.7 billion to approximately 2,400 projects. In April 2011, the foundation was authorized under Japan’s new public interest corporation system and renamed as the Nissan Global Foundation. It will be expanded worldwide and serve as an educational support program for fostering human resources in vital scientific fields. The foundation’s Science and Environmental Education Fund provides children with a better understanding and awareness of science, technology and environmental issues. Through this program, we provided grants to 23 schools in Kanagawa, Tochigi and Fukuoka Prefectures in fiscal 2010. 090 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy py NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Educational Activities Philanthropy Educational Outreach Programs Nissan continued to carry out three different school-visit programs for children in the upper grades of elementary school during fiscal 2010: the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan, Nissan Design Waku-Waku Studio and Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School. The Nissan Monozukuri Caravan is an original program designed to provide children with the opportunity to experience the enjoyment of monozukuri (crafting things), based on Nissan’s experience and know-how as a manufacturer. The Nissan Design Waku-Waku Studio is a unique work-experience class developed by Nissan in line with the objectives of the career education program promoted by Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. In this class, professional designers working at Nissan explain the vehicle-production process as well as their jobs as product designers. Developed in cooperation with the nonprofit organization Weather Caster Network, the Nissan WakuWaku Eco School aims to increase environmental awareness among children, the leaders of tomorrow. Over 21,000 students participated in these three programs in fiscal 2010. Sharing the Joy of Reading Nissan partners with the International Institute for Children’s Literature, Osaka, to organize the Nissan Children’s Storybook and Picture Book Grand Prix. Established with the aim of introducing children to richly imaginative storybooks and picture books, this writing and drawing competition seeks to encourage the production of creative literature for children by amateur authors. Each year’s prizewinning works are published and Nissan donates copies through its dealerships to about 3,300 public libraries and 700 kindergartens across Japan. Provisions were made in fiscal 2010 to start donating copies of the prizewinning works to Japanese Schools for children of Japanese citizens living abroad in countries where Nissan operates. To date, we have donated upwards of 176,000 books. A total of 2,941 works were submitted in fiscal 2010 for the 27th Grand Prix. Nissan hosted special events featuring the prizewinning works in the gallery of its global headquarters in May 2010 and March 2011. The aim was to encourage parents to read to their children by letting them experience the positive effects that this activity brings to them and their children. Copies of the prizewinning works were available for purchase during the event, with all proceeds going to the Shanti Volunteer Association. Each year during spring break Nissan co-hosts the Joyful Storybook and Picture Book Exhibition with the National Children’s Castle (Foundation for Child Well-being). The event features exhibits related to the picture books, as well as crafts workshops on the same theme. These workshops give children the chance to use recycled car parts and other materials while Nissan employees and student volunteers share with them the joy of monozukuri. Nissan North America (NNA) supports the Governor’s Books from Birth Foundation literacy program, which provides free books to children prior to their entry into grade school. Established in Tennessee, where NNA is headquartered, the foundation seeks to encourage reading and education in the home. In fiscal 2010, NNA donated $100,000, funding the distribution of more than 300,000 picture books. 091 KEY CSR AREAS Philanthropy py NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Contributing to Local Communities Philanthropy Community Contribution Activities in Japan On the 23rd of each month, a date that can be pronounced ni-san in Japanese, our facilities in Kanagawa Prefecture celebrate “Nissan Day,” and our employees take part in community clean-up activities. Our people at Nissan’s global headquarters in Yokohama, Kanagawa, have been actively involved in this cleaning since November 2009—just three months after its move to the city—as a part of our community contributions and a way to enhance environmental awareness among our employees. Nissan, in cooperation with local community groups, hosted the 11th national Nissan Cup Oppama Championship 2010, a wheelchair marathon, at its Oppama Plant in December 2010. This national competition seeks to invigorate the local community, foster awareness of sports for the disabled and help competitors improve their abilities. The 2010 competition welcomed the participation of Wakako Tsuchida, a participant in the Beijing 2008 Paralympic Games, along with roughly 200 other athletes, providing a platform for participants to put their skills and endurance to the test. Approximately 500 volunteers, including Nissan employees and local citizens, worked together as route marshals and water-station staff for the event. Various organizations supporting athletics for the disabled received contributions from the Taiyo Fund, a donation program set up by Nissan employees especially for this event. The Nissan Technical Center in Atsugi City contributes to the local community by promoting “Nice Wave” activities, which include neighborhood clean-ups and flower-planting activities. Community Contribution Activities Abroad From July 2009 to July 2010, Nissan Korea Co., Ltd. worked with the Seoul city government on the Green Gift campaign, providing scholarships to 37 students with disabilities. Nissan Korea actively participates in various community activities, including distribution of traffic safety picture books for children and a fundraising photography event in support of UNICEF, while also offering financial aid for university scholarship programs. For its promotion of community contribution activities, Nissan Korea received the City of Seoul CSR Award in September 2010. The award is presented to companies doing business in Korea that have made continuous efforts to demonstrate corporate social responsibility and carry out corporate citizenship activities. In fiscal 2009, PT. Nissan Motor Indonesia launched a new educational support program titled “Nissan Sahabat Anak Indonesia” (Nissan together with Indonesia). Employees in Indonesia visit primary schools, donating writing and teaching materials, computers and other needed items. Nissan South Africa (Pty.) Ltd. (NSA) is undertaking a similar program. Employees there are donating teaching materials and textbooks on math and science—as well as school bags made from recycled Nissan billboards—to students at primary educational institutions. At secondary schools, meanwhile, we are making use of our strengths as an automaker by providing engines for use in laboratory classes. Also in South Africa, the NSA-sponsored Mobile Eye Clinic continues its activities. This fully outfitted Nissan van contributes to the health of children in rural areas. Area Leaders’ Messages 092 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Philanthropy Yuushi Komota Continuous Support Manager, CSR Department for the Disaster Relief Effort Global Communications and CSR Division Employees of Nissan and its affiliates throughout the world have been involved in the relief effort following the unparalleled natural disaster that struck Japan in March 2011. Ever since the earthquake and tsunami, the CSR Department has been at the core of Nissan’s direct and indirect provision of relief to the stricken areas. The generous contributions received from Nissan employees worldwide for the relief effort totaled more than ¥100 million as of the end of May. Nissan employees have also participated in volunteer activities, particularly around the site of the company’s plant in Iwaki, one affected area of Fukushima Prefecture. To sustain these contributions, Nissan is considering future cooperation with NGOs to provide appropriate ongoing assistance where it is needed, with the CSR Department playing a leading role. 093 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 KEY CSR AREAS Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Maintaining Trust Through Transparency It is essential for Nissan to enhance its corporate governance policies as it fulfills its corporate social responsibilities. We strive to maintain a high level of management transparency by disclosing to stakeholders our business goals and guidelines that clearly indicate management responsibility, and by sharing information on our progress toward these goals as promptly as possible. As a company we will work to continue earning the trust of our stakeholders. Nissan’s approach to corporate governance is founded on three cornerstones: compliance built on the high ethical standards of all employees, efforts to bolster information security and an effective and appropriate risk management system. Our offices and factories around the world work together to support educational activities, ensuring that all employees are properly trained and understand the issues involved. Three Cornerstones of Nissan’s Corporate Governance 1. Compliance Compliance built on the high ethical standards of all employees is integral to promoting CSR. To foster compliance awareness throughout the company, Nissan has established specialized departments and placed officers in charge of promoting compliance policy in each region where it operates. Compliance 2. Risk Management At Nissan, we define risk as anything that might prevent us from achieving our business goals. By detecting risk as early as possible, examining it, planning the necessary measures to address it and implementing those measures, we work to minimize the materialization of risk and the impact of damage caused should it arise. 3. Information Security Risk Management Information Security Nissan shares its Information Security Policy with group companies worldwide and implements necessary measures through the Information Security Committee, bolstering its capability to prevent information leaks and other such incidents. Furthermore, we carry out various in-house programs every year to thoroughly educate and motivate employees to uphold their responsibilities in this regard. Corporate Governance & 094 KEY CSR AREAS Internal Control NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Internal Control Systems and Compliance Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Internal Control Systems for Fair, Transparent Business Nissan places high value on transparency, both internally and externally, in its corporate management. We focus consistently on the implementation of efficient management for the purpose of achieving clear and quantifiable commitments. In line with this principle, and in accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and its related regulations, the Board of Directors has decided on the Internal Control Systems to pursue these goals and on its own basic policy. The board continually monitors the implementation status of these systems and the policy, making adjustments and improvements as necessary. One board member has also been assigned to oversee the Internal Control Systems as a whole. Nissan has adopted a system under which the Board of Statutory Auditors oversees the Board of Directors. The Statutory Auditors attend board and other key meetings, and also carry out interviews with board members to audit their activities. The Statutory Auditors regularly receive reports on the results of inspections and plans for future audits from independent accounting auditors, as well as exchange information to confirm these reports. The Statutory Auditors also receive regular reports from the Global Internal Audit Office, making use of this information for their own audits. Nissan’s Internal Governance System Shareholders appointment/ appointment/ appointment/ dismissal dismissal dismissal Internal Control Committee Board of Statutory Auditors audit (incl. outside statutory auditors) Board of Directors (incl. outside directors) Compliance Committee cooperation Information Security Committee report Executive Committee Global Internal Audit Office Risk Management Function audit Operations Committee Crisis Management Committee direction/ report supervision/ Independent Auditors approval report/ CSR Steering Committee proposal training/education/ Management Committees implementation Each Function Group Companies Legal Compliance Framework Nissan’s CSR approach is founded on compliance with a strong sense of ethics held by each and every 095 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Corporate Governance & employee. We produced the Nissan Global Code of Conduct in 2001, outlining a set of guidelines for Internal Controls all employees of the Nissan Group worldwide to put steadily into practice. Under the oversight of our Global Compliance Committee, we have established three regional compliance committees to form a system for preventing illegal and unethical behavior worldwide. To enhance legal and ethical compliance, we are working with coordination among all regions and bases of operation to ensure full awareness of compliance issues and engage in prevention of illegal activities. FY2011 Global Compliance Committee Organization NML Board of Directors Operations Committee Global Compliance Committee Global Compliance Officer Japan, Asia Pacific Americas Africa, Middle East, India, Europe Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee Japan, Asia Pacific Americas Africa, Middle East, India, Europe Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Compliance Committee A compliance committee has been established in each region under the governance of the global compliance officer. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. The committees are responsible for discovering compliance Affiliated Companies Compliance Committee Divisional Compliance violations at an early stage through internal auditing or reports, Committee for solving problems, and for maintaining and improving internal Dealers Compliance Committee awareness of the Code of Conduct. Security-Related Export Controls Nissan thoroughly complies with the laws and regulations of Japan and the other countries where it does business, giving full consideration to the requirements of the international community. Part of this effort includes the company’s initiatives aimed at contributing to global peace and security. Nissan has established export control rules to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, conventional weapons and any products or technologies used for their development. In line with these rules, Nissan implements export controls under an independent system headed by the company’s chief operating officer. Affiliated companies also strictly adhere to the same export control rules, thereby enhancing the entire Nissan Group’s level of compliance. Global Export Control Policy Framework Chief Operating Officer Export Control Secretariat (within the Global Headquarters in Japan) Functions Regions Marketing and sales, R&D, Japan/Asia Pacific, supply chain management, Americas, IT, production, etc. Africa/Middle East/India/Europe Global Educational Activities to Promote Compliance To foster compliance awareness throughout the company, Nissan has established groups and placed 096 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Corporate Governance & officers in charge of promoting compliance policy in each region where it operates. We focus particularly Internal Controls on education to give all employees a correct understanding of the Code of Conduct so that they make fair, transparent judgments in the course of their duties. To ensure full understanding of the code in Japan, all employees, including executives, take an e-learning or video training course based on the Japanese version of the Nissan Code of Conduct—“Our Promises,” revised most recently in October 2010—after which they sign an agreement to abide by it. In this way we seek to ensure across-the-board understanding, making all our people more deeply aware of compliance issues. A range of education programs to promote compliance are held regularly for employees in North America, and a set of universal guidelines has been drawn up for each country in Europe. We are also carrying out compliance-related training in other regions based on guidelines that take into account conditions in each country. Moreover, all group-affiliated companies have introduced their own codes based on the Nissan Code of Conduct. Additionally, we have created sets of internal regulations covering the global prevention of insider trading and the management of personal information, as well as an information security policy. With these regulations in place, Nissan is working to prevent compliance infractions. Global Code of Conduct for Nissan Group We also publish the Global Code Principle of Conduct on our website. The following standards apply to all employees in Nissan Group companies (collectively herein referred http://www.nissan-global.com/ EN/COMPANY/CSR/ to as “Nissan” or “Company”). Each member of the Company is charged with responsibility to uphold CORPORATE_GOVERNANCE/ index.html and extend this code of conduct. Global Code of Conduct 1. Comply with All Laws and Rules Nissan employees will abide by all laws of the country, and all regulations of the Company, in which they work. 2. Avoid Conflict of Interest The best interests of Nissan are expected to be foremost in the minds of employees. It is prohibited to behave, act or use information in a way conflicting with Company interests. 3. Preserve Company Assets Nissan employees are personally accountable for preserving and safeguarding Company assets. Unauthorized use or diversion of Company assets, including funds, information and intellectual property, is prohibited. 4. Be Impartial and Fair Nissan employees must maintain impartial and fair relationships with business partners, including dealers, parts suppliers and other third parties. 5. Be Transparent and Accountable Nissan employees shall make fair, transparent, timely and appropriate disclosure of the Company’s business activities to our stakeholders, including stockholders, customers, other employees and local communities. 6. Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity We value and respect the diversity of our employees, suppliers, customers and communities. Discrimination or harassment, in any form or degree, will not be tolerated. 7. Be Environmentally Responsible Nissan employees shall strive, within the business objectives of Nissan, to consider environmental protection when developing products and services, to promote recycling and to conserve materials and energy. 8. Be Active; Report Violations Nissan employees are expected to carry out their work in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who suspect that a violation of the Code of Conduct has occurred are obligated to report it as soon as possible, and such employees shall be protected from retaliation. Our Stance Against Discrimination and Harassment Item 6 of Nissan’s Global Code of Conduct, “Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity,” is our 097 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Corporate Governance & requirement to accept, value and respect the diversity to be found among our employees, business Internal Controls partners, customers and communities where we do business, and to reject discrimination and harassment in all their forms, no matter how minor they may be. Nissan executives and employees must respect the human rights of others, and may not discriminate against nor harass others based on race, nationality, gender, religion, physical capability, age, place of origin or other reason; nor may they allow such a situation to go unchecked if discovered. We also work to ensure that all employees, both male and female, can work in an environment free from sexual and other forms of harassment. Internal Reporting System for Corporate Soundness To promote thorough understanding of compliance among all employees worldwide and to facilitate sound business practices, Nissan employs a variety of internal reporting mechanisms. These allow employees to submit opinions, questions or requests to the company, thereby improving workplaces and operations as well as fostering a compliance-oriented corporate culture. In Japan our Easy Voice System, which offers full protection to any persons offering information in accordance with Japan’s Whistleblower Protection Act of April 2006, has become an integral part of operations in all Nissan Group companies in the country. Independent Internal Audits Nissan has established a global internal audit unit, an independent department under the direct control of the Chief Operating Officer, to handle internal auditing tasks. Under the control of the Chief Internal Audit Officer, audit teams set up in each region carry out efficient, effective auditing of Nissan’s activities on a groupwide and global basis. Corporate Governance & 098 KEY CSR AREAS Internal Control NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Risk Management Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Principles for and Approach to Corporate Risk Management For Nissan, the term risk refers to any factor that may prevent the Nissan Group from achieving its business objectives. By detecting risk as early as possible, examining it, planning the necessary measures to address it and implementing those measures, we work to minimize the materialization of risk and the impact of damage caused should it arise. Risk management must be a real-world activity closely linked at all times with concrete measures. Based on its Global Risk Management Policy, Nissan carries out activities on a comprehensive, groupwide basis. In order to respond swiftly to changes in its business environment, Nissan has set up a department in charge of risk management, which carries out annual interviews of corporate officers, carefully investigating various potential risks and revising the company’s “risk map” in line with impact, frequency and control level. An executive-level committee makes decisions on risk issues that must be handled at the corporate level and designates “risk owners” to manage the risks. Under the leadership of these owners, the company designs appropriate countermeasures. Finally, the board member in charge of internal controls (currently the chief operating officer) regularly reports to the Board of Directors on progress being made. With respect to individual business risks, each division is responsible for taking the preventive measures necessary to minimize the frequency of risk issues and their impact when they do arise as part of its ordinary business activities. The divisions also prepare emergency measures to put in place when risk factors do materialize. Nissan Group companies in Japan and overseas are strengthening communication in order to share basic processes and tools for risk management, as well as related information, throughout the group. In 2009 we established a website as part of WIN, our corporate intranet system, addressing companywide risk management issues. We also share information on risk management with partner companies in Japan, Europe and the Americas, as well as other markets. Nissan continuously carries out measures including antiseismic reinforcement of facilities, improvement of its business continuity plan (BCP) and simulation training. These measures helped us minimize physical damage to our facilities and smoothly start up the Global Disaster Control Headquarters following the March 11, 2011, earthquake in Japan. We constantly shared up-to-date information through the headquarters, conducting consistent actions throughout the company, thus helping the effective recovery of our value chain from suppliers to dealers. Furthermore, we are addressing the issue of how to manage the electricity shortages expected this summer and we aim to achieve both power saving and business continuity. The Current State of Nissan’s Risk Management Below we present some of our efforts to address Nissan’s corporate risks. 1. Risks Related to Financial Markets A. Liquidity Liquidity is one of the fundamental risks affecting companies. The financial crisis of 2008 emphasized the importance of careful management of this risk. Nissan established a liquidity risk management policy and clear, objective guidelines for the level and type of funding needed for its business operations. Based on these, we have diversified risk in this area through a combination of well diversified funding sources and limited reliance on short-term debt. We maintain our liquidity in line with the liquidity risk management policy. B. Financial markets In financial markets, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuating commodity costs, foreign exchange rates and interest rates. As a long-term measure to address foreign exchange risk, Nissan is promoting the production of vehicles in markets where they are used and the geographic optimization of its parts procurement. With respect to material costs, we are engaged in research to reduce the amount of rare metals used, among other steps. In the shorter term we may hedge against risk within certain ranges prescribed by internal regulations. We are also addressing interest rate risk by striking an appropriate balance between fixed and variable-rate financing. C. Sales finance In its sales financing operations, Nissan is exposed to interest rate fluctuations, the risk that financial receivables may 099 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Corporate Governance & not be recovered from customers or sales companies (credit risk), and risk in the form of fluctuating residual values for Internal Controls leased vehicles. With respect to interest rates, we calculate risk with statistical methods, controlling the interest rate maturities of both assets and liabilities to maintain the risks within acceptable levels. To address credit risk we gauge the creditworthiness of counterparties through careful assessments, implement appropriate measures for account receivable protection and maintain allowance as needed. For residual value risk, we work to define objective values in lease contracts and to maintain the value of our used vehicles, in addition to setting aside sufficient allowance to cover residual value losses. D. Financial institutions, pension liability Nissan maintains a certain level of assets with multiple financial institutions. To protect these assets, we have set up our own system for assessing creditworthiness, strengthening our position against the counterparties’ credit risk. We have established a pension committee consisting of members of senior management to oversee pension assets related to our retirement benefit systems. In its regular meetings, the committee makes decisions on asset management, discusses assessment of asset-managing institutions and their track records and addresses other issues. 2. Risks Related to Corporate Strategy, Competitiveness A. Product strategies Nissan’s plans for future product lineups form the core of its future profitability and potential for sustainable growth. As part of our strategic product-planning process, we monitor a number of risk scenarios, including future shifts in global markets and demand levels, assessing their potential impact on the profitability of our entire lineup. We review these plans as necessary in order to help ensure profitable business and sustainable growth into the future. B. Quality of products and service Nissan is making companywide efforts to achieve Quality Leadership, the goal of becoming a recognized leader in quality areas by fiscal 2012. To this end, we constantly monitor our progress in quality improvement activities in each market. However, because an automobile is a very complicated, sophisticated engineering product, unexpected issues do sometimes occur and cannot be completely prevented. If a quality issue does arise once a model is in the market, we seek to understand it through analysis and take appropriate actions as necessary. We then move to thoroughly analyze the nature of the issue to avoid its occurrence in vehicles under development or in production. In addition to rigorous quality assurance and field quality monitoring activities, Nissan has also established a framework for broad quality risk management. To ensure that our efforts being carried out today will continue into the future, we take a broad overview of the situation, revealing potential risks, assessing risk levels and designating officers to follow them up as called for. A Quality Risk Management Committee chaired by an executive vice president meets twice a year to discuss related issues. C. Environment, climate change The automotive industry is affected on a global basis by various regulations related to the environment and safety, such as those covering exhaust emissions, CO2 and fuel efficiency, noise, recycling, etc., and related regulations are getting more stringent year by year. In this environment, one effective solution from a long-term perspective is widespread use of zero-emission vehicles. Nissan started sales of its 100% electric vehicle (EV), the Nissan LEAF, in December 2010 in the United States and Japan and in March 2011 in Europe. Based on its commitment to becoming a zero-emission leader, the Renault-Nissan Alliance has been promoting zero-emission vehicles and building infrastructure, as well as forming partnerships with national and local governments and other industries. Regarding the use of water resources, careful attention is necessary to the issues of resource depletion in certain geographical areas and further depletion in the future. Nissan recognizes the deep importance of this issue and is working to preserve water resources, such as by reducing water use and reusing water in our production processes and elsewhere. In order to promote these environmental management approaches on a global basis, the Global Environment Management Committee (G-EMC) chaired by the chief operating officer (COO) makes decisions on general directions and presents proposals to the Executive Committee. The Global Environmental Planning Office decides concrete actions for each function and conducts effective activities to follow up on the progress based on the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) management cycle. D. Compliance-related reputation Nissan makes a range of efforts to foster a compliance-oriented mindset and to prevent compliance issues among its employees. We also work to put internal regulations in place on a global scale to prevent insider trading and securely manage personal information, among other goals. By engaging in employee education programs and training activities on the importance of observing these internal rules and important public laws, we seek to counter risks to the company’s reputation. 3. Risks Affecting Business Continuity A. Large-scale disasters 100 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Corporate Governance & Nissan places top priority on protecting human life. When an earthquake measuring 5 or higher on the Japanese seismic Internal Controls intensity scale strikes one of our business locations in Japan, including suppliers and dealers, a first-response team made up of key members of the Global Disaster Control Headquarters moves swiftly to collect information. The team then calls the Global Disaster Headquarters or a Regional Disaster Headquarters at the affected site, to confirm employees’ safety, ascertain disaster conditions and take needed steps to keep operations running. We are also working in advance of major disasters to identify priority operations for each department in our entire organization to pursue in an emergency as part of our business continuity plan (BCP). Our suppliers join us in efforts to implement this BCP on a broad basis. The Global Disaster Headquarters and Regional Disaster Headquarters carry out drills simulating a major earthquake to make sure that all parties are able to function and take appropriate actions when the time comes. We stay prepared by revising our plans in response to issues clarified through these drills. In the aftermath of the March 11, 2011, disaster, our periodic simulation training helped to ensure the smooth launch of actions by our Global Disaster Control Headquarters. This supported the quick recovery of our business through consistent, companywide actions, as well as by updating and sharing information on a daily basis. B. New influenza strains In response to the outbreak of H1N1-type influenza in April 2009, Nissan created a global framework to address disease issues, produced a number of response manuals, built up stocks of medicine and sanitation equipment, and created an influenza-specific BCP. We will remain prepared against outbreaks of highly virulent flu by keeping our BCP up to date, as well as by keeping employees informed about ways to prevent infection on an ongoing basis. Additionally, as systems for facilitating working at home were already in place as one of our pandemic response measures, we were able to achieve quicker solutions to commuting problems due to train stoppages and gasoline shortages following the March 11 disaster. C. Interruptions in production continuity In order to minimize the impact of disaster on its production, Nissan has continuously carried out earthquake preparedness measures for its physical infrastructure (quakeproofing and reinforcement of buildings and other facilities) and has created recovery manuals and implemented BCP simulation training aimed at reducing the recovery time following a disaster. We also focus on quality issues that may affect this continuity. To address quality risk relating to the increasing amounts of parts procured in emerging countries, we audit prospective suppliers thoroughly prior to selection and offer them support to improve their quality after we choose them. At the mass-production stage, we also carry out quality checks to prevent leakage of unsatisfactory products at key points in the manufacturing and logistics processes. Due to reinforcement measures ongoing since 2003, physical damage to Nissan facilities was minimized in the March 11 disaster. Recovery support teams outfitted appropriately for the situation were quickly dispatched to damaged plants, helping them to recover in a short time with additional support from our business partners. D. Interruptions in supply continuity In addition to auditing the financial health of suppliers and managing our relations with them via our Supplier Risk Management Committee, we are responding to credit risks among suppliers by issuing monthly reports on risk conditions and projected expenditures that would be needed to address risk. When unforeseen conditions arise, we are prepared to launch cross-functional committees capable of swift response, and we have prepared rules governing their authority to allow them to make needed decisions quickly. Following the March 11 disaster, we provided relief supplies to our suppliers in the stricken region. We also carried out active aid efforts for suppliers based on their requests in order to help restore the supply chain more quickly. We are currently preparing measures with suppliers to address expected power shortages. E. Risk financing and loss prevention Nissan treats hazard risk with risk financing techniques that combine high self-retentions with external risk transfer via insurance. In order to optimize the cost of risk, Nissan has introduced a risk management policy to retain risks up to an acceptable level on a consolidated basis. Risks whose financial impact may exceed the self-retention are transferred outside the company via insurance. Generally, risks with low impact and high frequency are predictable, and therefore retained by the company, while unpredictable risks with low frequency and high impact or shock value are covered by outside insurers. For the purpose of more efficient self-retention on a consolidated basis, a captive insurance company is utilized. The captive insurance company helps to reduce total cost of hazard risk and to manage risks that occur on a global and sometimes interdependent basis. Global insurance programs have been established for fixed property damage/business interruption and marine transportation. In addition to minimizing the cost of hazard risks, Nissan has implemented global loss prevention and loss mitigation initiatives, including investments aimed at improving employee safety and reducing accidents. Corporate Governance & 101 KEY CSR AREAS Internal Control NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Information Security Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Protecting Personal Data and Reinforcing Information Security Nissan recognizes its social responsibility to properly handle customers’ personal information, in full compliance with Japan’s Personal Information Protection Act. We have set up internal systems, rules and Please see our website for procedures for handling personal data. All group companies in Japan are fully enforcing these processes. additional details on Nissan’s Moreover, Nissan shares with group companies worldwide its Information Security Policy as its basis measures to protect privacy. http://www.nissan-global.com/ to reinforce overall information security. Our Information Security Committee implements measures as EN/SITE_INFO/PRIVACY/ necessary to further strengthen information security in order to prevent information leaks and other such incidents. To thoroughly educate and motivate employees to uphold their responsibilities in this regard, we institute regular in-house educational programs every year. Area Leaders’ Messages Hideaki Kubo Proactively Disclosing Chief Internal Audit Officer Risk Management Information Global Internal Audit Office Corporate risk management is a key pillar of our corporate governance and internal controls. At Nissan, we believe that part of our social responsibility as a corporation is to proactively disclose information on the status of our risk management activities as we carry them out. We see one outcome of this policy in the form of the positive evaluations received from third-party organizations. Moreover, the preparations we have carried out for some time now for earthquakes and other disasters, such as antiseismic reinforcements and crafting our business continuity plan, have proven their effectiveness in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11 this year, allowing us to quickly resume normal operations. New risks are on the horizon, so we need to aim for further improvements while reviewing our activities to date. 102 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 CSR DATA 103 Nissan CSR Scorecard 108 Fiscal 2010 Financial Review 109 Performance Data 110 Environmental Indices, Human Resources, etc. CSR DATA Nissan CSR Scorecard 103 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 The CSR Steering Committee uses our CSR scorecard as a tool to manage, review and validate our progress in each of eight key areas we have defined for CSR activities. The table below shows some of the values behind Nissan’s present activities in these areas and the indices used in the scorecard to gauge our performance. FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Scope of Indicators of Eight Key Areas Major Activity or Value FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Target) FY2010 (Result) FY2011 (Target) Long-Term Vision Application Progress Corporate Establishment/ Compliance/ Consolidated Establishment/ Established a global Introduced internal Establish • Clarified key tasks in each • Construct a system for A fully functioning Governance & effective Code of companies global evaluation system for reporting systems in mechanisms for region and formulated clarifying framework Internal Control management Conduct development of prevention of each region prevention of action plans to advance compliance-related risks (process) for the of internal compliance noncompliance and a noncompliance; activities to prevent and for priority management prevention of control system promoting mediumto long-term improve noncompliance • Enhance problem-solving conduct violations Nissan aims to organizations and action plan mechanisms by • Disclosed Nissan’s global and follow-up capabilities by conduct fair, impartial codes of conduct implementing code of conduct to outside strengthening PDCA cycle and efficient business PDCA cycles parties worldwide (craft medium-term plan in activities, having a each region for high degree of FY2011–13) transparency and consistency by adhering to the Risk Establishment/ • Implemented quakeproof • Dealt with outbreak • Enhance global • Promoted common • Review our response to the Contribute to applicable laws and Management global construction/ of H1N1 influenza coordination with understanding among Great East Japan raising corporate corporate rules. development of earthquake drills; and formulated BCP respect to Global Headquarters and Earthquake and reflect value with a global an effective risk established BCP for to prepare for higher adoption of regional headquarters in the results in the BCP risk management management primary products/ absence ratio common risk Americas and Europe • Continue and enhance system; obtain system manufacturing • Recognized new risks management regarding fundamental disclosure of information on better external processes emerging from recent process processes of risk our risk-management understanding • To prepare for new flu financial crisis as • Enhance management; exchanged activities through pandemic, corporate risk; disclosure of risk related information with • Continue and enhance appropriate created/distributed appointed risk management Renault benchmarking activities information pamphlets and manuals owners to investigate • Explained risk management together with Renault disclosure for employees including management initiatives in the Annual at overseas facilities; methods and Report and Sustainability stockpiled emergency strengthen controls Report equipment • Established a risk management website on the intranet Information Addressing • Completed principal • Continuously Maintain/raise level • Continually monitored Maintain/raise level of Contribute to Security personal data reinforcement measures monitored and of information compliance with policies to information security pursuing stable protection issues on personal data improved status of security safeguard personal management corporate activities and protection from Nissan compliance with management information at Nissan Motor and social establishment of to dealers respectively measures to protect Co. and its sales companies; responsibility by stable • Deployed information personal data at verified levels had been globally information security policy and Nissan Motor Co. and maintained or improved implementing security reinforced management sales companies • Globally implemented an PDCA cycles on at primary affiliates • Produced annual plan annual plan for information information and implemented security management and security PDCA cycle for confirmed its progress; information security verified levels had been management at each maintained or improved major affiliate 104 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 Nissan CSR Scorecard FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Scope of Indicators of Eight Key Areas Major Activity or Value FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Target) FY2010 (Result) FY2011 (Target) Long-Term Vision Application Progress Economic Suspension of Nissan GT 2012, Consolidated Consolidated net ¥8.4370 trillion Attained positive free ¥8.2 trillion ¥8.7731 trillion To be updated Achieve growth with Contribution Nissan's medium-term business companies sales cash flow (¥375.5 sustained profitability; plan, to concentrate on billion); continued continue providing Nissan aims for ameliorating performance implementing recovery long-term value to all sustainable, profitable plan stakeholders, including growth, contributing to customers, shareholders, economic Dividend ¥11/share ¥0/share ¥10/share ¥10/share To be updated employees, business development for all of partners and regional society. communities Score of external indicator that is Global [North America] Target achieved for Achieved nearly all Improve rankings of Achieved nearly all Improve rankings in Achieve top-level quality in Quality most influential to customers Consumer Report FY2008 FY2009 targets respective KPIs FY2010 targets respective KPIs all areas through quality improvements in products, Nissan provides services, brand and [Europe] U.K.: What Italy: Quattroruote gave U.K.: Qashqai and Note • U.K.: Qashqai and management top-level quality in its Car? Qashqai high marks, earned high marks in Note earned high products and services Germany: ADAC placed it in top three What Car? marks in What Car? around the world. Italy: Quattroruote picks Italy: Qashqai earned • Italy: Qashqai earned high marks in high marks in Quattroruote Quattroruote Germany: Qashqai and • Germany: Qashqai Note earned reputation and Note earned for high reliability in reputation for high ADAC reliability in ADAC [Other] China: J.D. China JDP IQS: Teana China JDP/IQS: 4 China JDP/IQS: 3 Power Initial Quality No.1 in 2007 and models earned top 3 models earned top 3 Study 2008 (Upper Premium rankings rankings South Africa: Pied Midsize Segment), South Africa PSI: 4 Piper Prospect Tiida 2nd, Livina 3rd models in top ranking Satisfaction Index Brazil: Quatro Rodas Achievement of Sales and Service Global Customer Top-level achievements Maintained position in Continue Sales and Improvements carried Continue Sales and Quality objectives, resulting in the satisfaction survey maintained in countries all countries where Top Service Quality out according to plan Service Quality highest levels of customer loyalty results relating to where Nissan was Level Quality had improvement through toward achievement of improvement through and service retention Sales and Service leading; new previously been achievement of Top-Level Quality achievement of Quality in focus achievement of achieved; continued to Top-Level Quality objectives Top-Level Quality countries (Nissan Top-Level Quality in improve position in all objectives in focus objectives in focus and Infiniti) Canada (sales quality, other countries in the countries countries vs. major competitors) focus group through initiatives, activities aimed at milestones for Top Level Sales and Service Quality 105 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 Nissan CSR Scorecard FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Scope of Indicators of FY2010 Goals Eight Key Areas Major Activity or Value FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Result) Long-Term Vision Application Progress (NGP2010) Implementation and Reduction of CO2 Global Releasing new Released the clean diesel Launched the Nissan ECO Launched all-electric 7% reduction (global Reduce environmental Environment promotion of Nissan emissions models with low CO2 X-TRAIL 20GT in Japan; Series of environmentally Nissan LEAF (Japan, US, per-unit CO2 emissions, impact and dependence to Green Program output Livina capable of running conscious cars Europe), Fuga Hybrid compared with FY2005) within the Earth's natural Nissan aims to lead a 2010 (NGP2010) on E100 fuel marketed in (Japan), Infiniti M Hybrid ability to absorb social transformation Brazil (US, Europe) aimed at bringing about a sustainable Global CO2 reduction from Achieved 10% reduction Achieved 10% reduction Achieved 18.6% reduction 7% reduction (global mobility society by all Nissan plants per-unit CO2 emissions, reducing vehicles' (FY2005 = 0, global compared with FY2005) environmental impact per-vehicle CO2 throughout their life emissions) cycle and expanding the lineup of effective Achievement of Nissan Motor VOC emissions 1.0% increase in volume of 13% decrease in volume of 17.1% decrease in volume 10% reduction from green products and clean emissions (to Co., Ltd. reduction in painting VOC emissions in Japan VOC emissions in Japan of VOC emissions in Japan FY2005 (per unit, body + technologies. preserve air, water process in plants bumper) and soil quality) (FY2005 = 0) Recycling of Nissan Motor Resource recovery Achieved 100% recovery Achieved 100% recovery Achieved 100% recovery Achieve resource recovery resources Co., Ltd. and rate rate at five Nissan plants rate at five Nissan plants rate at five Nissan plants rate of 100% (promotion of the consolidated and one business office and one business office and two business offices 3Rs) companies and at three affiliate and at five affiliate factories and at five affiliate factories (based on factories (Japan) (Japan) (Japan) Nissan calculation standard) Nissan Motor ELV (end-of-life Achieved 95.7% recovery Achieved 96.6% recovery Achieved 97.0% recovery Achieve ELV recovery rate Co., Ltd. vehicle) recovery rate (Japan) rate (Japan) rate (Japan) of 95% (5 years ahead of rate 2015 regulation) Note: Please see the detailed information on the NGP2010 activities on pp. 17-18. FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Major Activity Scope of Eight Key Areas Indicators of Progress FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Target) FY2010 (Result) FY2011 (Target) Long-Term Vision or Value Application Establishment of Japan, U.S., Reduction from 1995 levels in Japan: 49.6% Japan: 53% Develop and boost use Figures to be Develop and boost use Aim for ultimate goal of zero Safety quantitative Europe, other Nissan-related traffic deaths and U.S.: 42% U.S.: 48% of safety-related calculated once data is of safety-related fatalities and serious injuries reduction targets for key regions injuries (Figures are available U.K.: 57% U.K.: 56% technologies based on released technologies based on involving Nissan vehicles Nissan develops Nissan-related traffic approx. one year later due to Nissan Safety Shield Nissan Safety Shield innovative technology deaths, etc., calculation based on publicly approach to reduce approach to reduce and plays an active real-world analysis of released data) fatal and serious fatal and serious role in safety accidents to build injuries from previous injuries from previous promotion, making the safer cars and FY, progressing toward FY, progressing toward automobile society implementation of ultimate goal ultimate goal safer for all. driver-education programs 106 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 Nissan CSR Scorecard FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Major Activity Scope of Indicators of Eight Key Areas FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Target) FY2010 (Result) FY2011 (Target) Long-Term Vision or Value Application Progress Build a Nissan Motor Trainee satisfaction: Based on 4.2 or higher 4.5 or higher Implement education 4.5 Implement education Create a learning-oriented Employees learning-oriented Co., Ltd. surveys of employees undergoing programs to enhance programs to enhance corporate culture and a corporate culture annual training courses. Scores competency. competency; setup allowing individual Nissan aims to form (on a scale of 1 to 5) are the Maintain/upgrade maintain/increase employees to achieve an attractive lowest of the averages for each satisfaction degree of satisfaction of personal growth organization where course attendees attendees diverse human resources can achieve Enhance Global Improved scores for management Quality of Surveys not Promote activities to Quality of Promote activities to Improve quality of personal growth management quality, quality, employee motivation; share Management: 46% implemented in enhance quality of management: 50% enhance quality of management and create an through experience in employee motivation of positive responses to questions Employee Motivation: FY2009 management and Employee motivation: management and organization that inspires global business. based on employee in employee attitude surveys 54% revise corporate 57% revise corporate and enhances employee attitude surveys culture based on culture based on engagement employee attitude employee attitude surveys. Raise scores surveys; raise scores on quality of on quality of management/ management/ employee motivation employee motivation Support for Nissan Motor Number of successful applicants 83 (Open Entry and 94 (Open Entry and Further advance 103 (Open Entry and Further advance Provide support for career self-initiated career Co., Ltd. under Open Entry (employees can Shift Career Systems) Shift Career Systems) assignment of Shift Career Systems) assignment of development that development apply for advertised position employees to relevant employees to relevant emphasizes employees’ openings) and Shift Career positions based on positions via Open self-initiative (employees can apply to the Open Entry/Shift Entry/Shift Career department or occupation of their Career Systems Systems choice, regardless of availability) Systems Creating safe and Nissan Motor Frequency of labor accidents 0.19 and no serious 0.37 0.20 0.43 0.27 Build and maintain safe, worry-free Co., Ltd. (injuries or deaths per 1 million accidents worry-free workplaces workplaces worker-hours) Intensity of labor accidents 0.003 0 No serious accidents 0 No serious accidents (Intensity=total working hours lost/total working hours x 1,000) Promotion of Global Share of women in middle Japan (Nissan Motor): Japan (Nissan Motor): Maintain/increase Japan (Nissan Motor): Japan (Nissan Motor): Provide greater value to diversity through management and management 5% 5% share of women in 6% 6% customers through diversity active development, positions North America: 10% North America: 10% middle management North America: 12% North America: 13% engagement with Europe: 12% Europe: 13% and management Europe: 14% Europe: 15% women positions Other: 11% Other: 12% Employee survey score on Global 46% Surveys not Maintain/upgrade Global 50% Maintain/upgrade diversity implemented in scores scores FY2009 Promotion of Nissan Motor Share of non-Japanese 1% 1% Maintain/increase 1.0% (as of April Maintain/upgrade diversity through Co., Ltd. employees share of non-Japanese 2010) share of non-Japanese cross-cultural employees employees recruitment 107 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 Nissan CSR Scorecard FY2010 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Major Activity Scope of Indicators of Eight Key Areas FY2008 (Result) FY2009 (Result) FY2010 (Target) FY2010 (Result) FY2011 (Target) Long-Term Vision or Value Application Progress Reduce the All primary Extent to which values and • Held suppliers’ meeting Created “CSR Guidelines • Together with • Worked with Renault Boost CSR understanding Continually support Value Chain environmental suppliers to codes of conduct are on Nissan GT 2012 for Suppliers” with Renault Renault, spread “CSR to distribute “CSR and approaches among suppliers’ efforts to impact of products Renault-Nissan shared with suppliers (May 2008) in line with the CSR Guidelines for Guidelines for suppliers by continued enhance their systems Nissan promotes through green Purchasing • Held suppliers’ meetings procurement activities of Suppliers” from Suppliers” from video and other for CSR activities ethical, procurement Organization on sales, production the Japan Automobile overseas site purchasing presentations on Nissan environmentally sound activities (RNPO; plans for FY2009 Manufacturers purchasing departments at CSR activities at suppliers' actions in all stages of responsible for (March, May 2009) Association, and prepared departments to operational sites to meetings, etc. the supply chain. 100% of total • Held monthly meetings to send them out suppliers suppliers (from June) Renault-Nissan to explain production • Start MPA revisions • Carried out MPA procurement plans, share information that incorporate revisions by value, April on rapidly changing penalties for incorporating 2009) environment with compliance penalties for suppliers in a timely way infractions compliance infractions (from July) Reduce the All primary Ascertaining compliance Began deployment of Held meetings with Thai Initiate deployment of Globally published Give suppliers explanation Reduce Nissan’s environmental suppliers with Japan’s green “Nissan Green Purchasing suppliers to explain “Nissan Green “Nissan Green of ways to improve environmental impact impact of products around the procurement guideline for Guidelines” in Europe “Nissan Green Purchasing Purchasing Guidelines” Purchasing Guidelines” activities to reduce their throughout the life cycle through green world environmentGuidelines” in North America on the website; environmental impact by establishing procurement impacting substances in initiated their structures for suppliers; activities purchased parts, and deployment in North enhance management promotion of such activities America scope by extending with regard to global activities to the whole guideline value chain Promotion of CSR Sales Share values and support General Affairs and HR Started introduction of a Revise content of Further enhanced Continue implementing Assist sales companies’ activities at sales Companies voluntary activities department managers compliance self-assessment awareness of self-assessment program; autonomous efforts companies (Japan) meeting (November self-assessment program program to improve its compliance through hold regular events to 2008) at sales companies in effectiveness; work to implementation of exchange information (e.g. Japan; at meetings of spread use of program companywide meetings between sales company executives at sales companies self-assessment supplier representatives) in September 2009 and program March 2010, shared information on latest compliance developments, offering support for sales company efforts Clarification of Global Clarification of Nissan’s Launched “The Science of Continued to investigate Begin consideration, Launched joint projects • Enhance the 3 regional Continually implement Philanthropy Nissan’s philanthropy policy and Survival,” Nissan’s first global programs, but did partial implementation with Habitat for systems (Asia, AMIE, unique philanthropic philanthropy policy, establishment of an global environmental not implement in FY2009. of social contribution Humanity, beginning in Americas) and programs centered on Nissan carries out reinforcement of in-house promotion program; started “The Science of Survival” programs to respond to March 2010 in India strengthen management “support for education,” social contribution in-house organization exhibitions in London was discontinued in June societal needs through and in March 2011 in • Develop new programs “environmental activities as a organization and (April 2008) and New 2009 due to organizer’s globally consistent Indonesia and Thailand to assist “base of awareness” and corporate citizen, enhancement of Jersey (October 2008); reasons activities pyramid” “humanitarian relief,” focusing on education, philanthropic succeeded in • Engage in dialogue with balancing global environmental activities communicating a stakeholders twice per perspectives with the awareness and consistent message year as part of most appropriate humanitarian relief. globally philanthropic activities activities for each region CSR DATA Fiscal 2010 Financial Review 108 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 For fiscal 2010, Nissan’s financial results on a consolidated basis were as follows: net Fiscal 2010 Financial Performance (billion yen) revenues were ¥8.7731 trillion, operating profit was ¥537.5 billion and net income was FY2009 FY2010 Change ¥319.2 billion. Nissan had positive automotive free cash flow of ¥459.3 billion, and net debt for the auto business was eliminated completely, leaving the company with a net cash position Consolidated net revenue 7,517.3 8,773.1 1,255.8 of ¥293.3 billion at the close of the fiscal year. Consolidated operating profit 311.6 537.5 225.9 Global sales for fiscal 2010 were at their highest level ever, climbing 19.1% from Non-operating loss/profit –103.9 0.3 — 3,515,000 units in fiscal 2009 to reach 4,185,000 units. Nissan’s overall global market share stood at 5.8%. In the Chinese market, Nissan sold 1,024,000 units, up 35.5% from fiscal Ordinary profit 207.7 537.8 330.1 Net extraordinary loss –66.1 –57.7 — 2009. In the United States sales were up 17.3% to 966,000 units, securing Nissan an 8% share of the market, its highest ever. Sales were up 20.2% in Mexico, giving Nissan an Net income 42.4 319.2 276.8 industry-leading 23.1% share of the Mexican market. Sales in Europe climbed 19.3% year on CAPEX 273.6 312.0 — year to reach 607,000 units, representing 3.3% of the market. Our performance was also strong in other markets. In Latin America, we sold 169,000 units, R＆D 385.5 399.3 — up 65.7% from fiscal 2009; in Russia, sales roughly doubled to 102,500 units; and in Depreciation 363.3 372.1 — Thailand, sales were up 87.6% to 64,900 units. Indonesia also saw strong growth for Nissan, with sales up 65.4% to 42,600 units. Middle East sales increased slightly to 180,000 units. FOREX for FY2010: ¥85.7/$ ¥113.1/€ Following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that struck eastern Japan, Nissan has made steady, solid progress toward the restoration of its operations. We are well-positioned in all regions of the world for profitable growth over the long term. CSR DATA Performance Data 109 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Global Network (Numbers/locations as of June 2011) No. of employees (consolidated) 175,766 169,298 155,099 R&D: 12 countries/areas (Japan, USA, U.K., Taiwan, China, Thailand, India, South No. of individual investors 317,000 273,000 264,940 Africa, Mexico, Brazil, Spain, Vietnam) Corporate tax ¥90.2 billion –¥26.5 billion ¥140.7 billion Design: R&D expenditures (% of sales) ¥455.5 billion (5.4%) ¥385.5 billion (5.1%) ¥399.3 billion (4.6%) 4 countries (Japan, USA, U.K., China; total of 5 design centers) Capital investment (% of sales) ¥383.6 billion (4.5%) ¥273.6 billion (3.6%) ¥312.0 billion (3.6%) Automobile Production Plants: Donations for disaster relief ¥30.0 million ¥12.0 million Over ¥430 million 20 countries/areas (Japan, USA, U.K., Spain, Taiwan, China, Thailand, Philippines, (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., Malaysia, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Iran, South Africa, Kenya, Egypt, Pakistan, for China’s Sichuan for 2010 Chile Nissan North America, Russia, Vietnam, India) Earthquake, etc.) earthquake, etc.) Nissan Europe S.A.S., etc. AU$50,000; 100 vehicles $117,000 for Great East Japan Earthquake) (by Nissan Motor Co. (by Nissan North America, Inc. About ¥6.8 million Sales by Model (Top 5) [Australia] Pty. Ltd. for 2010 Haiti earthquake, etc.) (by Nissan [China] Investment Co., Ltd. for Australian wildfires; for Yushu earthquake) Japan (units) vehicles leased at no cost) $100,000 FY2010 Model (Apr. 2010—Mar. 2011) 10 Qashqais (by Nissan North America (by Dongfeng Motor Co., Ltd. for 2010 Haiti earthquake) Note 55,629 for China’s Sichuan Earthquake; March 51,880 vehicles donated) Cube 43,473 Nissan Motor No. of employees 30,718 30,277 28,403 Co., Ltd. data Tiida 36,213 Average age (years) 41.6 41.8 42.4 Juke 31,494 Note Average service (years) 19.9 20.1 20.7 Average annual salary* ¥7,280,776 ¥6,271,632 ¥6,847,796 U.S. (units) Disabled employment ratio approx. 2.1% approx. 2.1% TBA FY2010 Model (Apr. 2010—Mar. 2011) No. of employees taking parental leave 111 161 TBA No. of employees taking nursing care leave 4 9 TBA Altima 239,331 No. of unionized employees 27,822 27,271 26,790 Rogue 114,518 * Average annual salary for employees not in managerial positions; includes bonuses and overtime pay. Sentra 110,049 Versa (Tiida in Japan) 98,706 Infiniti G (sedan and coupe) 61,578 Altima No. of Employees (as of end of March 2011) Union Information Europe (units) Japan 72,876 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.’s employees are affiliated with the All Nissan Motor Workers’ Union, for which the governing FY2010 body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions, and the Japanese Trade Union Confederation (Rengo) Model (Apr. 2010—Mar. 2011) North America 23,411 through the Confederation of Japan Automobile Workers’ Unions. The labor-management relations of the Qashqai 198,823 Europe 13,891 company are stable, and the number of union workers was 26,790 as of March 31, 2011. In addition, the Nissan Motor branch of the All Japan Metal and Information Machinery Workers Union (JMIU), another trade union, had Juke 51,797 Asia 42,718 one affiliated employee as of the same date. Qashqai+2 50,234 GOM 2,203 At most domestic group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions on a company Note 49,652 Total (consolidated)* 155,099 basis, and the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions. At foreign group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions. In Mexico, for example, Micra 49,276 Qashqai * Includes 27,816 nonpermanent workers. workers are affiliated with a domestic trade union for which the governing body is the Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM) or independent trade unions, whereas most employees in the United Kingdom are affiliated with the Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical Union (AEEU). Local employees of other group companies are affiliated with different types of trade unions according to the labor environment in each country. CSR DATA Environmental Indices, Human Resources, etc. 110 NISSAN Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental Indices Human Resources, etc. Energy input* Board of Directors No. of board directors 9 Direct usage 15,568 (1,000 GJ) No. of representative board members 2 Indirect usage 16,769 (1,000 GJ) No. of female directors 0 Water input* 25,851 km3 No. of outside directors 1 CO2 emissions Auditors No. of auditors 4 Production 2,486 kton No. of outside auditors 3 Logistics 1,586 kton Shareholders No. of shares 4,520,715,112 Offices and dealers 371 kton No. of shareholders 267,600 Vehicle use 90,000 kton Ratio of stable shares 61.3% Water discharge* 19,784 km3 Ratio of floating shares 4.6% Waste generated — Major shareholders Government organs (0.0%) Financial institutions (18.02%) Environmental Reduction of global per-vehicle CO2 emissions 18.6% Financial instrument traders (1.01%) impact indices in production (from FY2005 level) Japanese companies (1.86%) Reduction of VOC emissions 17.1% Foreign companies, etc. (69.59%) in production (painting) (from FY2005 level) Individuals, etc. (9.52%) Resource recovery rate (Japan) 100% Disabled Employment No. of disabled employees — Recovery rate 97% Employment ratio — Certifications, etc. ISO 14001 certification ratio (global) 100% Employees No. of employees (nonconsolidated) 28,403 ISO 9001 certification ratio (global) 100% No. of employees (consolidated) 155,099 * The figures are for the Nissan Group worldwide including 71 consolidated companies. No. of temporary employees 27,816 Average age (years) 42.4 Average service (years) 20.7 Graduate Employment No. of male college graduates — No. of female college graduates — Female Employment Ratio of female managers 6% Ratio of female general or higher-ranking managers 3% Ratio of female executives 2% Occupational Accidents Total accident frequency ratio 0.43 111 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Business and Other Risks Information on risks involved in business operations has been disclosed in the Yukashoken-Hokokusho for the year ended March 31, 2010, as follows. Any future forecasts included in the following descriptions are based on the estimates or judgment of Nissan as of June 30, 2010. 1. Rapid changes in the global economy and economic climate (1) Economic factors The demand for products and services provided by the Group is strongly affected by the economic conditions in each country or market in which they are offered for sale. Although the Group strives to predict change in economic climate and demands precisely and to take necessary measures in the major markets like Japan, the Americas, Europe and Asia, in case of greater-than-anticipated downturn such as global economic crisis it could have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and business performance. (2) Situation regarding resources and energy The demand for products and services provided by the Group largely varies depending on rapid changes in the situation surrounding various resources and energy as represented by the hike of crude oil prices. Any greater-than-anticipated fluctuations in such resources or the energy situation could have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and results of operations due to a deterioration in operating performance and/or opportunity loss. 2. Rapid changes and moves in the automotive market The automobile industry is currently experiencing intensified market competition worldwide. To win given such intense competition, the Group maximizes its efforts in all aspects of technology development, product development and marketing strategy to timely provide products that address customer needs. Nevertheless, the failure to timely address customer needs or improper responses to environmental and/or market changes could have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and business performance. For example, any specific issues related to resources, energy or environment could cause a sharp decline in demand or an unbalanced preference for certain products. Moreover, demand might decrease or change due to the progress of negative factors such as a decline in population, the aging society and a dwindling birthrate in a mature market, whereas demand might considerably increase in emerging markets. These changes or trends might generate favorable results for the Group with a rise in business opportunities but could result in an adverse effect on the Group’s financial position and results of operations due to an excessive dependency on certain products and/or regions unless appropriate forward-looking steps are undertaken. 3. Risks related to the financial market (1) Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates The Group’s products, finished cars, are produced in 18 countries and regions, and are sold in more than 160 countries. Along with the extended production and sales activities, the Group’s procurement activities for raw materials, parts/components and services are conducted in many countries. As the consolidated financial statements of the Group are calculated and presented in Japanese yen, the appreciation of the yen against other currencies adversely affects the Group’s financial results of operations, in general. In contrast, the depreciation of the yen against other currencies favorably affects the Group’s financial results of operations. Any sharp appreciation of the currencies of countries where the Group manufactures vehicles against the yen could lead to increases in both procurement and production costs that would adversely affect the Group’s competitiveness. (2) Hedging of currency and interest rate risks The rise in market interest rates and/or in the cost of capital procurement due to the Company’s decreased rating by credit rating agencies could have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and business performance. The Group may utilize derivative transactions for the purpose of hedging its exposure to risks such as fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates of its receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, the interest rates of interest-bearing debt and fluctuations in commodity prices. Although the Group can hedge against these risks by using derivatives transactions, the Group might miss potential gains that could result from seizing the market opportunities to profit from such fluctuation in exchange rates and interest rates. In addition, the Group manages its exposure to credit risk by limiting its counterparties to financial institutions with high credit ratings. However, a default by any one of these counterparties could have an adverse effect on the Group’s financial position and business performance. (3) Liquidity risk The Company endeavors to raise funds from appropriate sources with measures such as an accumulation of net cash, the conclusion of loan commitment agreements and the diversification of funding sources and geographies for fund-raising by formulating relevant internal rules so that the Group can ensure an appropriate level of liquidity even if any environmental change beyond expectations occurs in the financial market. However, this factor could entail a greaterthan-anticipated level of risk that might hinder the smooth execution of the initially planned financing, thereby having a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and business performance. (4) Sales financing business risk Sales financing is an integral part of the Group’s business. The Global Sales Financing Business Unit was established at the Company. This dedicated internal department provides strong support to automotive sales while maintaining high profitability and a sound and stable financial condition through strict risk management policies. However, sales financing companies inevitably have high exposure to interest-rate risk, residual value risk and credit risk. Accordingly, these risk factors could entail a greater-than-anticipated level of risk, which could adversely affect the Group’s financial position and business performance. (5) Counterparty credit risk The Group does business with a variety of local counterparties including suppliers and sales companies in different regions around the world. The Group manages its own counterparty credit risk by conducting a comprehensive annual assessment of suppliers’ financial condition based on their financial information. Nonetheless, should unprecedented conditions such as bankruptcies be triggered by a global economic crisis, the resulting production interruption and/or troubles in any other production activity at the procurement side and any significant default by a counterparty at the sales side would adversely affect the Group’s financial position and business performance. (6) Employee retirement benefit expenses and obligations The amounts of retirement benefit obligation and related expenses of the Group, which are provided for retirement benefits of employees of the Group companies, are calculated using various actuarial assumptions including the discount rate applied, the projected rate of return on plan assets and other factors. If the Group’s actual results differ from those assumptions or if any of the assumptions change, the resulting effects will be accumulated and recognized systematically over future periods. The cumulative effect could adversely affect the recognition of expenses and liabilities recorded in future periods. 4. Risks related to business strategies and maintenance of competitive edge (1) Risks involved in international activities and overseas expansion The Group’s products, finished cars, are produced in 18 countries and regions, and are sold in more than 160 countries. The Group studies the extension of its 112 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Business and Other Risks global manufacturing and marketing activities in other countries and regions. The Group forecasts and sufficiently evaluates a wide variety of risks inherent in conducting business in overseas markets including the factors noted below. Nevertheless, each of these factors could entail a greater-than-anticipated level of risk at any place in our overseas presence without achieving the planned rate of capacity utilization and/or profitability, which could have significant effects on the Group’s financial position and business performance. • Unfavorable political or economic factors • Legal or regulatory changes • Changes in corporate income tax, customs duties and/or other tax system • Labor disputes including strikes • Difficulties in recruiting and retaining talented human resources • Social turmoil due to terrorism, war, coup, epidemic disease or other destabilizing factors (2) Research and development The Group’s technology must be useful, pragmatic and user friendly. To this end, the Group anticipates the nature and scope of the market demand and then prioritizes and invests in the development of new technologies. However, any sudden and greater-than-anticipated changes in its business environment or in customer preferences could impact negatively on customer acceptance of these new technologies, which could have a significant effect on the Group’s business performance. (3) Collaboration with other corporations The Group may collaborate with other corporations that have excellent technologies to effectively acquire higher competitiveness within the short term. However, the anticipated results might not be achieved depending on the market environment of the business field concerned and/or changes in technological trends, which could adversely affect the Group’s business performance. (4) Quality of products and services To provide products and services of superior quality, the Group endeavors to ensure and enhance maximum quality through detailed management systems from the standpoint of research and development, manufacturing and services. However, the adoption of new technology to propose higher added value might cause unexpected quality issues after sales of a product start even if it has been repeatedly tested prior to its launch with maximum care. Although the Group has insurance policies to assure the source of funding product liability claims, this does not necessarily mean that all damages are fully covered. If the Group were to implement significant recalls in volume and amount for the benefit of customers’ safety, the Group would incur significant additional expenses that could adversely affect its financial position and business performance. (5) Environmental and safety-related restrictions and corporate social responsibility (CSR) The automobile industry worldwide is influenced by a broad spectrum of regulations governing the emission levels of exhaust fumes, fuel economy guidelines, noise level limitations, recycling-related restrictions and safety standards. These regulations have become increasingly stringent. Indeed, compliance with such regulations is obvious to industrial corporations, and it is becoming common to comply with autonomous guidelines and stricter objectives are required in an increasing number of fields as part of CSR. The burden of ongoing development and investments has been increasing to ensure and/or maintain an advantageous position against competitors. As a consequence, a further rise in these costs could have an impact on the Group’s financial position and business performance. (6) Critical lawsuits and claims It is possible that the Group could encounter claims or lawsuits with counterparties and/or third parties in the course of conducting business. With respect to various lawsuits and claims that the Company and the Group might encounter, the possibility exists that the Company’s opinions will not be accepted and that the outcome may be significantly different from that anticipated. As a result, any such judgment verdict or settlement could adversely affect the Group’s financial position and business performance. (7) Intellectual property rights The Group owns a wide variety of proprietary technologies and has the expertise to differentiate the Group’s products, making them unique from those of its competitors. These assets have proven their value in the growth of the Group’s business and will continue to be of value in the future. The Group strives to protect its intellectual property assets. However, in certain markets, the Group may encounter difficulty in fully protecting the proprietary rights to its own technologies. The Company established the Intellectual Property Rights Management Department to protect intellectual property rights in such markets, strengthen activities to protect Nissan’s intellectual property rights, accumulate new intellectual property rights and perform various activities to protect and create the brands. However, cases may arise where the Group finds itself unable to prohibit others from abusing or infringing on its intellectual property rights by imitating and manufacturing similar vehicles. (8) Recruitment and retaining of talented human resources The Company considers human resources to be the most important corporate assets. The Company therefore focuses its efforts on enhancing the development of human resources and implementing fairer and more transparent performance evaluation systems. However, industrial competition to secure talented people is intense. Should appropriate recruitment and/or retaining of such desirable human resources not go according to plan, such an unsuccessful personnel development strategy could adversely affect and reduce the competitiveness of the Group on a long-term basis. (9) Compliance and reputation The Group always takes appropriate preventive measures and conducts regular audits with regard to compliance of laws and regulations including necessary information security measures for the protection of personal and confidential information. Furthermore, the Group has strived to streamline the relevant systems to rapidly cope with any possible detection of compliance-related incidents to prevent their adverse effects on trust in and/or the reputation of the Company. Nevertheless, in view of increasing expectations relative to CSR in contemporary society, delayed, insufficient and/or improper responses to compliance-related issues could adversely affect the confidence and/or reputation of the Group, thereby adversely affecting the Group’s results of operations through, for example, a possible decline in sales resulting from a damaged reputation. 5. Continuation of business (1) Large-scale natural disasters The Group’s corporate headquarters and many of its manufacturing facilities are located in Japan, where the statistically proven probability of earthquakes is 113 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Business and Other Risks higher than in many other countries. The Group has developed risk management guidelines relating to earthquake damage, and has organized a global task force (headed by the COO) to direct disaster prevention and recovery activities. In addition, the Group has been strengthening its manufacturing facilities with anti-seismic reinforcement. However, if a severe earthquake were to hit one of the Group’s key facilities causing a halt in production, this would adversely affect the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Group addresses preventive measures and the improvement of emergency response systems to prepare for risks other than earthquakes, including fires, typhoons and epidemics of new types of influenza. Nevertheless, if any of these risk factors occurs or spreads on an unprecedented scale, such risk could adversely affect the Group’s financial position and business performance. (2) Purchase of raw materials and parts The Group purchases raw materials, parts/components and services from many suppliers by reason of its business structure. In recent years, the use of rare metals, of which production volume is extremely small and production mines are limited to several restricted areas of a few countries, has been increasing, in association with the implementation of new technologies. The unpredictable fluctuation of market conditions resulting from a drastic change in the supply-demand balance or a radical change in the political situation of a production country could entail a greater-than-anticipated level of risk in the stable procurement of necessary raw materials, parts/components or services on an ongoing basis, which could adversely affect the Group’s financial position and business performance. (3) Dependency on specific suppliers If procurement of higher technology or higher quality is pursued at more competitive pricing, actual orders might sometimes concentrate on only one or a small limited number of suppliers. In such cases, a possible suspension of supply due to any unforeseen accident or any other reason could lead to the forced suspension of the Nissan Group’s production plants, thereby adversely affecting the Group’s financial position and business performance. (4) Computer information system Almost all the Group’s business activities are supported by computerized information systems. As information systems have become increasingly complicated and sophisticated, the Group takes a variety of measures to ensure security and improve their reliability. However, any possible shutdown of overall systems due to the occurrence of any greater-than-anticipated disaster or by the intrusion of a wrongful computer virus would make it difficult for the Company to continue operations, thereby adversely affecting the Group’s financial position and business performance. 114 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Third-Party Evaluation A company’s sustainability report should go beyond simply providing information on its undertakings in the area of corporate social responsibility. It should also be a means of expressing the company’s commitment to realizing its corporate vision. It is from this perspective that I offer my evaluation of Nissan’s Sustainability Report. Positive aspects of the report Nissan is to be commended for clearly stating the goals it aims to achieve, for the emphasis it places on making CSR concepts a part of its management, and for pursuing CSR activities worldwide. In his interview, CEO Carlos Ghosn notes that “CSR is foremost in the minds of the leaders of the company.” Nissan’s decision to reorganize its management of CSR issues has sent a clear signal throughout the company and to external observers, and is a demonstration of its leaders’ commitment in this area. One Akiyama Nissan is pursuing CSR-related measures by defining eight key areas of focus based on its overall CSR President Integrex Inc. policy. Within each of these areas it sets goals and carries out activities to achieve them. With its CSR scorecard, a tool for managing progress in each area, the company tracks and evaluates its own actions, posting them for review alongside its targets for the next fiscal year and its long-term vision. It is clear that Nissan is successfully adhering to the PDCA (plan, do, check and act) cycle in taking a coherent approach to all its CSR areas. This report contains messages from the “owners” of each key area of focus. These provide fascinating insight into the direction Nissan takes in its efforts, as well as the aspirations of its employees for the future. With respect to environmental issues, Nissan is not just developing and manufacturing zero-emission vehicles. It is also working together with national and local governments, as well as with other firms, to create the infrastructure needed to promote wider use of these vehicles. In the area of safety, the report is noteworthy for its presentation of Nissan’s “triple-layered approach” that addresses vehicles, individuals and society, as well as its development of technologies aimed at the realization of “collision-free cars.” In the “employees” section of this report, Nissan makes the clear case that it positions diversity as a key business strategy and as a direct contributing factor to the company’s competitiveness. The various activities undertaken in this connection are characteristic of Nissan. Finally, the message from the chief of Nissan’s Global Disaster Control Headquarters and the accompanying information on what the entire Nissan Group has done to respond swiftly to the Great East Japan Earthquake—both its relief activities in the stricken regions and its efforts to get affected production sites back online—were impressive examples of the company’s CSR approach. Issues to address in future editions In order to further promote CSR activities in all eight areas of focus on a global scale, Nissan will need all its employees—the people who actually carry out these activities—to share an understanding of the company’s vision and CSR direction. It will not be easy to ensure that this information reaches every single one of these workers, who number 150,000 on a consolidated worldwide basis. While Nissan works on educational activities in this area, it will need also to carry out regular checks to gauge how deeply and broadly its CSR consciousness is penetrating the organization. Ideally, reports on the progress made in this area will be paired with more extensive coverage of the faces and views of Nissan’s employees all around the world. In regions other than Japan, Nissan will need to carry out activities attuned to the conditions in each area—an approach that will benefit the company in terms of risk management as well. Ideally, this report will contain information on the issues faced and measures implemented in these countries and regions. In particular, I hope to see reporting on activities in China, where Nissan sold more than 1 million units in fiscal 2010, making it the company’s largest market in the world. With respect to the environment, the company is to be commended for implementing its Nissan Green Program 2010 according to plan. At the same time, it is to be hoped that Nissan will put together a 115 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Third-Party Evaluation concrete plan to cover the next five or 10 years and continue its environmental activities on an ongoing basis. Looking toward the future The Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11 this year has given even more importance to the ties between corporations and society and to companies as social actors. It is now vital that companies come together with other entities in society—individuals, communities and other companies—pooling their abilities and working alongside one another. I believe this is the very essence of ichien yugo, a concept proposed by the Japanese philosopher Ninomiya Sontoku (1787–1856), who stated: “It is only when all beings work together as one that they can achieve true results.” The rapid global growth of the automobile society brings with it serious issues in terms of energy and the environment. We are now at a historic juncture when we must achieve a state of ichien yugo among nature, people and corporations. It is my hope that Nissan, as a company with the vision of Enriching People’s Lives, will do everything it can to enrich the lives of the people of tomorrow’s society. 116 NISSAN Susta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 1 Nissan and Socially Responsible Investment Today investors are paying more attention than ever to the concept of socially responsible investment (SRI), evaluating corporations from environmental and social perspectives in addition to financial fundamentals. Nissan is proud to be listed as part of the FTSE4Good Index Series, Morningstar SRI index, DJSI Asia/Pacific and Global 100 (as of June 2011). FTSE4Good Index Series This SRI index is managed by the FTSE Group, an independent company co-owned by the Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, the world’s first global SRI tracking tools, were developed by Dow Jones & Co., Inc. and Sustainable Asset Management. The DJSI Asia/Pacific is a new index launched in January 2009, monitoring leading companies in the Asia-Pacific region. Morningstar SRI The MS-SRI (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index) is managed by financial information services firm Morningstar Japan K.K. Global 100 Conducted since 2005 by the Canadian publisher Corporate Knights Inc., Global 100 is a corporate evaluation scheme focusing on sustainability. The survey reviews some 3,500 major firms in various industries, selecting 100 of them as the “most sustainable corporations in the world” based on their environmental, social and governance initiatives. Scope of the Report Referenced Reporting Guidelines The focus of this report is on introducing Nissan’s global policies and our This report uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability approach to and activities toward sustainable development. Where we are Reporting Guidelines (2002 version and G3) and the Environmental describing regional efforts, we refer to the specific region name in the text; Reporting Guidelines (2003 version) of Japan’s Ministry of the when no specific region is identified, the descriptions of Nissan’s activities Environment as references. We also report on a number of other actions and practices pertain to Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. in Japan. that are not covered by the guidelines. Period Covered Forward-Looking Statements The report covers fiscal 2010 (April 2010–March 2011); content that This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements on describes efforts before or after this time period is indicated in the Nissan’s future plans and targets and related operating investment, respective section. product planning and production targets. Please note that there can be no assurance that these targets and plans will actually be achieved. Achieving Third-Party Certificates them will depend on many factors, including not only Nissan’s activities and No globally accepted method for third-party certification of sustainability development, but also the dynamics of the automobile industry worldwide, reports has yet been established. Considering this situation, in which a the global economy and changes in the global environment. review would not necessarily lead to the intended assurance of credibility, we have decided not to seek third-party certification. Mistakes and Typographical Errors All errors discovered after the report is published will be corrected and displayed at the URL below. http://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/CSR/ For further information, please contact: Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Global Communications and CSR Division CSR Department 1-1, Takashima 1-chome, Nishi-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 220-8686, Japan phone: +81(0)45-523-5548 fax: +81(0)45-523-5771 E-mail: NISSAN_SR@mail.nissan.co.jp Publication date: June 29, 2011
