Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 Labour Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Environment Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Corruption, bribery Principle 10 Dear stakeholder Bossard joined the UN Global Compact in 2008, thus demonstrating its commitment to the ten principles in the area of human rights, labour, environment environment, and anticorruption. We are proud to be signatories to the Global Compact and express our on on-going going support to the ten principles. We will continue to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, business processes, culture and day-to-day day day operations of our company. company. We will engage and the development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Thereby we assume transparency and fairness throughout the business operation. Bossard’s ambition is to deliver superior value to our customers and shareholders, be an employer of choice and act as a respected member of the community. In order to achieve this, integrity and professionalism is fundamental. Success in our business depends on maintaining the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders: clients, employees, suppliers, shareholders, government authorities as well as society as a whole. The basis of our business operations is a sstrict trict adherence to Swiss law and international standards. As a multicultural and diverse group of companies working globally, we recognize the importance of achieving agreement at the highest levels of management on what constitutes ethical business practice. practi With the declaration of our commitment to the universally accepted principles of responsible business through participation in the UN Global compact, we promised to report on the Communication on achieved progress and demonstrate our commitment. With this first Communication Progress, we do not only restate our commitment, but also report on progress made since joining the Global Compact. We remain as firmly committed as ever to good business ethics and to targeting social and environmental issues affecting Bossard and our stakeholders. David Dean, CEO of the Bossard Group Bossard commits itself to the protection of all human rights in different policies and company commitments. We respect human rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in such a way as to make us an exemplary employer. We aim to be the preferred employer in our industry, with a respectful common culture, and support for our employees’ wellbeing: • Embedding a common culture • Promoting health and safety Bossard is an interdisciplinary international team employing people from different cultures and religions for which respect, fairness and equality of opportunity are highly esteemed values. We strive towards a non-discriminatory company culture based upon responsibility and respect, which builds on the talents of our global workforce. Chapter 2 (General principles), chapter 3 (Employment practices): Since 2007, Bossard has had an internal Code of Conduct which states clearly that the company undertakes everything to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the stakeholders with whom we deal. It sets the framework and defines the basic legal and ethical compliance principles and policies we apply globally. We respect the human rights, dignity, privacy and personal rights of every individual. It further sets out how all employees should react when they observe a possible breach of the principles of the code. To conduct business as a responsible corporate member of society at large, and in the communities in which we operate, and carry out the commitments we make to adhere to international conventions or codes. In our Code of Conduct we commit ourselves to ensure a safe and healthy working environment. Bossard's core values serve as a guideline for our entrepreneurial actions. Integrity, Sense of responsibility, Fairness, Compliance and Transparency are highly esteemed. The handbook was developed to describe some of the expectations of our employees and to outline the policies, programs, and benefits available to all employees. Furthermore it is stated how employees have to proceed if they observe a breach of principles. Safety at work: Bossard ensures safety at work and actively strengthens the overall health awareness of our staff. Bossard analyses every year the accidents at work, the accidents off work, and illness of the personnel in Switzerland. As a fair partner, Bossard Complies with local, national and international laws, directives and standards. As a Swiss company we have to comply with the Swiss legal system that is well known for its strict rule concerning quality, environment and health/safety. Is an international occupational health and safety management system. We see it as our job to support and protect a safe and healthy workplace by preventing injury, preventing ill health and reducing hazards. At Bossard safety at work is warranted. But we also go one step further and try to actively promote our employees’ good health and health consciousness with campaigns such as: bike-towork and the bicycle helmet campaign. We ensure the health and safety of our employees. We continuously check our incoming goods for dangerous substances to protect our employees’ health and the health of our customers or any other stakeholder. If we should find an indication of a contaminated product we will inform our customers immediately and provide the required information. Bossard Switzerland founded the employee representatives in 1976. If an employee has a problem or discovers abuse the representatives can be contacted and called upon at any time. They are bound on professional discretion. One of the employee representatives’ central aims is to create and preserve a positive working environment with the focus on employees. Due to the support of Bossard a primary school in Togo was reconstructed. With a donation from Bossard 1’000 children in Nepal retrieved good eyesight. With a donation from Bossard the process of rebuilding shelters in the aftermath of the tsunami in the year 2004, could get started. The commitment to the local institutions is very important for Bossard. Where appropriate, we support organisations and institutions dedicated to social, charitable, educational, humanitarian and cultural causes in our region. Organisations that benefit from our dedication are; workshop for the handicapped in Schwyz and prison in Affoltern am Albis and local charity foundation “Maihof”. Furthermore Bossard helps to re-integrate people with a disability into the labour market by hiring and supporting them. Interested employees meet each other regularly for a bike tour. According to the results of the Labour and Health report Bossard started different initiatives to improve the work environment for the employees. E.g. water dispenser in the company building, fit@work menu in the staff restaurant, handing out apples and a discount for adjusting the binding on skies. Accidents on the job are rare. In total there were only eight accidents in the last year and just three that made it necessary for the concerning person to leave the work place for more than three days. This is a decline in comparison to the preceding year. We support our employees financially for the purchase of protective equipment. There was an increase of accidents off work. Unfortunately 62 misadventures happened. Bossard Switzerland received the certificate in March 2010. LPS Bossard PTV.LTD. India received the certificate in April 2005. No dangerous substance was discovered. Bossard donated to a school building project in Togo. A new building for three primary school grades was constructed. One disabled person started to work at Bossard. In order to support the re-integration into the labour market Bossard assisted this process with flexible working time and adjusted assignments. We successfully worked together in this matter with the foundation “Profil Arbeit & Handicap” and the SUVA. Furthermore we handled assignments, where appropriate, over to social institutions. Such as the workshops for the handicapped or houses of correction. The accidents on the job were very different. We cannot make out any pattern. Therefore specific actions are not possible. However we continue to sensitise our employees to the dangers on the workplace. Realisation of a bicycle helmet campaign for Bossard employees to avoid injuries. Bossard will develop Leadership principles. Chapter 2 (General principles), Chapter 4 (Responsibility of Employees): For Bossard it is also very important to assure that also the suppliers work according to our internal Code of Conduct. Our suppliers shall respect the rights of their workers, as set forth in local laws. States how to proceed if an employee discovers grievances at our supplier’s site. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. We also expect our suppliers to work according to the rules. Chapter 3 (Supply Market Research), chapter 4 (Selection), chapter 11 (Ecology): Policies for suppliers is intended to ensure that Bossard’s suppliers act in accordance with internal (Bossard Code of Conduct) and external guidelines such as internationally recognized standards concerning human rights. For supplier audits Bossard already has requirements that are being checked before assigning someone. Good working conditions regarding health and safety are already stipulated of our suppliers. Environmental condition and the state of production are also important criteria’s to be evaluated when selecting suppliers. In return the Bossard Group gives its suppliers fair contractual terms and reasonable valuable consideration. A manufacturer can just become a Bossard supplier by passing the standardised group selection procedures and if he complies with our quality standards. Bossard also visits all of its suppliers before hiring them. A visit is crucial for a balanced manufacturer assessment. Bossard is working on a Supplier Code of Conduct which goes one step further than the current requirements. It will be in place until the end of 2013. We are going to integrate our revised Supplier Code of Conduct into new supply contracts. We promote our Code of Conduct for our suppliers and expect them to comply with it. We buy directly from the manufacturer. Thus we have clear view on our Supply Chain. If we have to buy exceptionally from a distributer we actively strive to know the distributers source of the product. Bossard did not receive any report of human right abuse at our supplier’s site. We want to continue the absence of any report about human right abuses. Bossard commits itself to being a fair employer and adhering to the principles on labour as stated by the UN Global Compact. We provide a friendly and stimulating work environment to our employees and partners and respect their rights. Furthermore we provide flexible working structures, offering all employees the chance to find their own life balance. Therefore we gave our staff members the possibility to opt for flexible working time or part-time. In its Code of Conduct, Bossard fixed that we offer and promote our employees continuous support for their further education: language courses, training afternoons and support in the individual professional formation. We organise regular social events for our employees: after work reunions, the traditional yearly ski day, special events at Christmas and tickets at local sporting events. Bossard believes that the work conditions, wages, and benefits we offers to our employees are competitive with those offered by other employers in this area and in this industry. If employees have concerns about work conditions or compensation, they are strongly encouraged to voice these concerns openly and directly to their supervisors. Our experience has shown that when employees deal openly and directly with supervisors, the work environment can be excellent, communications can be clear, and attitudes can be positive. We believe that Bossard amply demonstrates its commitment to employees by responding effectively to employee concerns. We also occupy different certifications that proof our aspiration to prove our quality. For example we hold the ISO 9001 certificate. The parent company Bossard Switzerland was awarded this certification as early as 1986. This was in terms of the ISO draft standard which was in use at the time. Then in 1989 the company was the first commercial enterprise in the fastening technology sector to be awarded certification to ISO 9001. This opportunity arose at such an early date thanks to the company's thriving engineering activities and the development of new fastening elements and methods. Furthermore, we respect the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in accordance with national laws and customs. This is evidenced by the following policies and commitments: Bossard believes in constructive dialogue between employer and employees and support the principle of freedom of association. In adherence to ILO core labour standards, employees are completely free to join labour unions associations and similar organizations. We support an open-door policy. Bossard recognises that each employee has the right to choose whether to join a trade union or employee association. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. The employee representatives are an association of Bossard Switzerland consisting of employees. Every four years our employees elect seven representatives. The Bossard Group maintains a constructive dialogue with the employee representatives. They ensure a dialogue between Bossard management and the employees about key issues. 100% of employees in Switzerland are represented by the employee representatives. They initiated different projects to improve the working conditions. Our employee representatives will continue to represent the employees. We attempt to pursue internal communication on them (the aspiration is that all employees are informed about their activities). We conclude employment contracts with all our employees, which are voluntary and contain clauses for terminating the contract. We oppose all forms of forced labour. Chapter 2 (General principles), Chapter 3 (Employment Practices): Bossard commits to protect human rights. We are an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the stakeholders with whom we deal. All our employees work by choice for us. We pay fair wages which are competitive with the ones in our industry. We are strongly committed to non-discriminatory and fair labour standards. Therefore we categorically reject the use of forced and compulsory labour. Regulates details about the terms of employment. It states that the termination of a contract is possible at any time and that the process of dismissal needs to be fair and responsible. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. As stated in our Purchasing Policy, Bossard expects from its suppliers to not use forced bonded or indentured labour as well. Monitor adherence to labour standards within our operations. Monitor adherence to labour standards within our supply chain Bossard is working on a Supplier Code of Conduct which goes one step further than the current requirements. It will be in place unit the end of 2013. We are going to integrate our revised Supplier Code of Conduct into new supply contracts. Conditions of employment at the suppliers’ site are crucial for Bossard. We will not accept suppliers who allow forced or compulsory labour. No forced and no compulsory labour found inside Bossard Group or at its suppliers. The systematic reporting shows that all Bossard Units comply with this. Continue to monitor human rights compliance within our operations and supply chain. We oppose all forms of child labour. Chapter 2 (General principles), Chapter 3 (Employment Practices): Bossard commits to protect human rights. We are an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the stakeholders with whom we deal. Our social citizenship is an important element of our business operations, for that we strongly oppose child labour. States our position and our social values and makes a claim that we convict any form of child labour. Furthermore it explains how to proceed if an employee discovers grievances. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. As stated in the Code of Conduct, Bossard expects from its suppliers that they respect the prohibition of child labour as well. Monitor adherence to labour standards within our operations. Monitor adherence to labour standards within our supply chain Bossard is working on a Supplier Code of Conduct which goes one step further than the current requirements. It will be in place until the end of 2013. We are going to integrate our revised Supplier Code of Conduct into new supply contracts. Conditions of employment at the suppliers’ site are crucial for Bossard. We will not accept suppliers who allow child labour. No associates were found below 18 who were not part of regulated training scheme. Continue to monitor human rights compliance within our operations and supply chain. In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to all individuals, employment decisions at Bossard will be based on merit, qualifications, and abilities. Bossard does not discriminate in employment opportunities or practices on the basis of age, ancestry, gender, race, colour, citizenship status, creed, religion, national origin, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political affiliation, use of lawful products outside of work, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. Building an inclusive corporate culture that appreciates and encourages diversity of thought is the key to Bossard’s success. Chapter 2 (General principles), Chapter 3 (Employment Practices): Diversity is regarded as crucial factor for Bossard. We believe that diverse teams perform better. We also have strong provisions in place to penalise any infringing behaviour. Our Code of Conduct clearly states that discrimination in the workplace against any employee or job applicant is not tolerated under any circumstances. We will not tolerate discrimination or harassment in any form. States how to proceed if an employee discovers grievances. Equality of opportunity: We foster equality of opportunity for all our employees, irrespective of gender, position, situation in life, nationality or age. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. A Code of Conduct for suppliers is intended to ensure that Bossard’s suppliers act in accordance with internal (Bossard Code of Conduct) and external guidelines such as internationally recognized standards concerning human rights. We also expect them to have a non-discriminatory business. Protection of the personal integrity on the work place is guaranteed. Strong provisions are in place to penalise any infringement. Every second year an independent position runs an employee survey at Bossard. We deduce measures related to these results. The survey allows us to benchmark our company against other companies in a comparable industry. The representatives can be contacted and called on any time. They are bound on professional discretion. The office buildings are easily accessible for people with a disability. No case of discrimination was reported to the Human resources management or to the employee representatives. 78% of the personnel took part at the survey. Interesting results helped us to improve the working conditions at our company. Bossard continues our high level business commitment to diversity. Our goal is that we will not have any case of discrimination inside the Bossard Group. Implement the derived actions from the employee survey. That way Bossard can improve its image as an attractive employer and fulfil the requirements of the employees. One action Bossard deduced from the Employee Survey is the development of Leadership principles. They improve the teamwork between our employees and should cherish values such as appreciation, team and entrepreneurship. Bossard strives to be a company that cares for the environment and the communities it lives and works in. We recognize that our transport and logistics activities have an impact on the environment. We aspire to follow a responsible and sustainable corporate culture. Therefore we are constantly minimising our business' impact on the environment. We focus on the reduction of electric power, water, thermal energy, power fuel and the disposal of waste. Our objective is to protect the environment and the climate by being more efficient and using ecofriendly materials and substances. Chapter 2 (General principles): Bossard conducts business as responsible corporate member of society at large and in the communities in which we operate. Environmental protection is an important mission and, as such, is embodied in our Code of Conduct. We are committed to protect the environment and to ensure the health and safety of our employees. Chapter 802 (Recycling): The handbook outlines the policies, programs, and benefits concerning the environment. Environmental awareness by encouraging recycling and waste management is very important to our company. Every year, Bossard analyses the consumption of resources such as electric power, water, thermal energy, power fuel and waste in Zug, Switzerland. All important factors are determined and revised. This assures a continuous improvement and allows an economical handling of the resources. With different activities Bossard tries to sensitise its employees for that matter. Bossard is subject to numerous environmental protection laws and regulations in Switzerland, the EU and individual countries. Strong rules for the waste management are in place. Under the ISO 14001 certification procedure, our Environmental Management System is audited annually by the independent Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems SQS. It is assured that we maintain the legal requirements. With a systematic method we guarantee that changes in this regard are being considered in our processes. Environmental protection is playing a more and more important role in every organisation. The number and complexity of environmental problems and the public debate on them show there is a need for action. This standard provides worldwide valid criteria for the management of the environment. The certification of its compliance with this standard has helped Bossard AG (Switzerland) win the trust of customers, suppliers, public authorities and of society in general. We give priority to business partners, suppliers and contractors who share our social and environmental values, and we support their efforts to promote these values through their business activities. Chromium (VI) is highly toxic, corrosive and carcinogenic and is very devastating for water. We adapt our assortment and whenever it is technically possible Bossard exchanges Chromium (VI) coatings with Chromium (VI)-free coatings that are conform to REACH, RoHS and WEEE. Bossard applies the precautionary approach wherever a significant threshold of plausibility for a potential risk is reached. When an activity or a product poses a threat of serious or irreversible damage to the environment, precautionary measures are considered. The precautionary approach is applied in all operations to minimise environmental impacts. We attempt to manage risks proactively by implementing appropriate preventive and contingency measures. We continuously check our incoming goods for dangerous substances to protect the environment and health. The bigger part of Bossard’s printing assignments is placed at a print shop, which just prints carbon neutral. The CO2 is compensated and the money is used to build a wind park in India. Our offices have bright and light-filled rooms, therefore only little artificial light is being used. We print less and therefore use less electricity and paper, as we have all our documents and procedures manuals saved on an internal online platform which is accessible for all employees through a login. Bossard’s employees separate the waste according to a manual: paper, carton, toner/cartouche, batteries, CDs, metal, PET, glass, Styrofoam and plastic. The recycled items are stored in specific recycling containers which then are collected by the proper recycling companies. Our sales activities and the increasingly international structure of our Group make business travel essential. Wherever possible, however, we try to reduce our travel or to switch to more eco-friendly modes of transport. Bossard wants its employees to use public transportation. Thus we reduce our impact on the environment. To avoid business travel, increasing use is made of videoconferences in place of physical meetings. In all our Business Units are multiple conference rooms with the necessary infrastructure available that allow video conferences. Bossard monitors the operations to ensure that employees strictly observe the laws and regulations and comply with internal environmental standards. Bossard has completely switched the way of heating the office building and the warehouse from fuel oil to thermal energy. Cr6+ is only one element of many different substances Bossard tries to avoid. We have a number of directives we follow closely in order to be compliant. We are conform to the REACH, RoHS and WEEE. Bossard reduced the consumption by 30%. Bossard kept the consumption of thermal energy at the same level as in the preceding year. The consumption of water could be reduced due to short time work. Bossard acquired more energy efficient motor vehicles and could cut the consumption of diesel and fuel. Reduction of the waste, due to a decline in sales. We do not use fuel oil anymore. Whenever the directives are updated/changed Bossard investigates whether we are in compliance or not. If we are not we take actions to become compliant. Further awareness rising of the employees to keep the consumption of electric power at the same level as this year. Adjust the temperature of the heating installation to the optimal demand. Installation of more isolation material and vegetation on the roof. So we can decrease the usage of thermal energy. Reduce the wastage of water the consumption per head. Bossard will raise the awareness of the employees to optimise the handling of fresh water. We will include the cleaning company too. Replacement of the rest of the vehicles. Efficiency optimization within our fleet. No measures necessary. Chapter 2 (General principles): Bossard conducts business as responsible corporate member of society at large and in the communities in which we operates. Environment is crucial in this context. We are strongly committed to protect the environment to ensure the health and safety of our employees. Chapter 802 (Recycling): The handbook outlines the policies, programs, and benefits concerning the environment. Environmental awareness by encouraging recycling and waste management is very important. Bossard analyses every year the consumption of resources such as electric power, water, thermal energy, power fuel and waste in Zug, Switzerland. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. Strong rules for the waste management. Under the ISO 14001 certification procedure, our Environmental Management System is audited annually by the independent Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems SQS. Mobilization of the employees to cover their duty stroke with the bike or with human power. As a reward the participants can win prices. Precautionary approach applied in all operations to minimise environmental impacts. Bossard Switzerland’s CEO gave advice for the reduction of power consumption. Most of the employees checked their electronics with a wattmeter and like got an idea about the energy consumption of their devices. We encourage our staff to use public transportation to access their work areas, supporting them with an additional bonus to purchase monthly transportation tickets. The employee representatives and the executive board officially invoiced for suggestions how to reduce costs e.g. paper demand, electricity. The best propositions were awarded. Since 2005, Bossard Switzerland has a combined group certificate for quality and environment in accordance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Our Business Units in Denmark, Sweden, France, the Czech Republic, Korea, India, and China are also certified with ISO 14001. Furthermore all of our Business Units are now uniformly certified with ISO 9001. We also expect our suppliers to be conforming to that standard. 44 participants at Bossard. Together they cycled 6023 km. And for the future they plan to use their bicycle more often. After the appeal of our CEO the power consumption could be drastically reduced by 20 kW per day. The employee representatives could accept numerous propositions for reducing our environmental impact. We will continue to carry out the event in the next year. Continue to use and implement the propositions of the Cost Contest to further reduce our impact on the environment. Chapter 2 (General principles): Bossard conducts business as responsible corporate member of society at large and in the communities in which we operates. We strive to make efficient use of the natural resources and minimise the environmental impacts of our activities. Encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies is part of that. Chapter 802 (Recycling): The handbook outlines the policies, programs, and benefits concerning the environment. Environmental awareness by encouraging recycling and waste management is very important. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. Under the ISO 14001 certification procedure, our Environmental Management System is audited annually by the independent Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems SQS. Bossard helps to make the installation of solar cells much easier and more user-friendly. We boost a consistent advancement of our logistics solution “SmartBin”, “2bin” and “Bossard Code”. A lot of research and effort is behind our products. We are a member of the Swiss professional association “Swissolar”. Swissolar represents the solar industry and promotes this environmental friendly way of energy generation. Because of the user-friendliness of our solar cells solution more people decided to install photovoltaic cells on their roofs. Because of our innovative logistics solutions, that optimises transport and the stockkeeping, our impact due to transport and logistics activities can be minimised. The development of fastening elements will be pushed further. The pushing of the development of even more efficient logistics solution will be very important for our company. At Bossard, we do not tolerate corruption and are committed to compliance with international anti-bribery standards, as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Bossard’s commitment to perform with integrity is instilled in every employee as a nonnegotiable expectation of behaviour. This expectation is guided by our Code of Conduct. We always comply with existing laws and internal guidelines. Our accounting department is audited yearly by an external audit company. In our continuous efforts to create greater value for our stakeholder, we do not just think about today, but also about tomorrow and beyond. Chapter 4 (Responsibility of Employees), Chapter 6 (Reporting of Violation): Our most valuable asset is our reputation for integrity and fair dealing. Employees are responsible for raising questions and objecting if concerned that a standard of conduct is not met. It is our policy that our employees report violations of laws, rules, regulation of the Code of Conduct internally, so that such matters can be properly addressed. We encourage reporting to be done directly to the relevant supervisors and the appropriate members of Group management or, where appropriate, directly to the Group Chief Executive Officer. Reports may be made on a confidential anonymous basis. In the case of violations by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, such reports should be made directly to the Chairman of the Group. We prohibit retaliation against any employee for such reports made in good faith. Chapter 108 (Conflicts of Interest), Chapter 109 (Whistle-blower protections): Corruption and bribery is prohibited and Bossard installed a protection mechanism for whistle-blowers. The types of activities and relationships our employees must avoid include, but are not limited to: o Accepting, agreeing to accept, or soliciting money or other tangible or intangible benefit in exchange for favourable decisions or actions in the performance of your job or that might appear to influence your decision-making or professional conduct; o Accepting a kickback, bribe, gift, or special consideration as a result of any transaction or business dealings involving Bossard. Employees must obtain the approval of their supervisor or the Human Resources Manager prior to accepting any gift of more than $25.00 in value. However, employees may be permitted to accept meals from of reasonable value without advance approval from their supervisor or Human Resources Manager. Chapter 1 (personal policy): An open door principle is in place. As a fair partner, Bossard recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards, and complies with them. Employees who report violations of any of the rules in good faith are protected against retaliation. If an employee discovers grievances the representatives can be contacted and called on any time. They are bound on professional discretion. No case of corruption and bribery inside Bossard was reported No case of corruption, bribery inside Bossard
