Avon Metals “Our 20/20 Vision” 2010 Sustainability Report CONTENTS INTRODUCTION PAGES 3 4 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 1 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES PAGES 5 9 SDI 2 REDUCTION IN ELECTRICAL ENERGY PAGE 10 SDI 3 TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PAGE 10 SDI 4 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PAGE 11 SDI 5 IMPLIMENTATION OF REACH REGULATION PAGE 11 SDI 6 SOURCING OF SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS PAGE 12 SDI 7 NOISE REDUCTION PAGE 12 SDI 8 REDUCTION IN THE AMOUNT OF PACKAGING WASTE GOING TO LANDFILL PAGE 13 SDI 9 DEVELOPING A RECYLING STRATEGY (INCLUDING SAFE DISPOSAL OR RE-USE PAGE 14 OF WASTE PRODUCTS) SDI 10 PROTECTION OF LOCAL WILDLIFE & PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY PAGE 15 SDI 11 REDUCTION OF FRESHWATER CONSUMPTION PER TONNE OF ALUMINIUM PAGES 16 22 PRODUCED & RAINWATER CAPTURE (INCLUDING UNITED NATIONS WATER COP) SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 12 HEALTH 7 SAFETY – REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES PAGES 23 – 27 SDI 13 STAFF TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT PAGES 28 – 30 SDI 14 IMPROVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS PAGES 31 – 33 SDI 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY PAGES 34 – 38 SDI 16 HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING DEVELOPING AN ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI PAGES 39 – 42 CORRUPTION INITIATIVE) ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 17 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP (INCLUDING PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT) PAGES 43 46 SDI 18 FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY PAGE 47 SDI 19 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PAGE 48 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE PAGES 49 70 MANAGEMENT & LEADERSHIP PAGE 71 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – BRIDGING THE GAP PAGES 7274 KEY FACTS & FIGURES PAGE 75 AWARDS & ACCREDITATIONS PAGE 76 ORGANISATIONAL CHART PAGE 77 CONTACT DETAILS PAGE 78 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK STATEMENT PAGE 79 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 2 OUR 20/20 VISION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Avon Metals is a metals recycling company whose main activity is the production of 10,000 metric tonnes per annum of primary and secondary (scrap) based aluminium alloys in ingot form. These ingots are used by producers of aluminium products to ultimately make a wide range of everyday products. These include; beverage cans; pie case foil; car engines & wheels; aircraft engines and landing gear; building products such as door and window frame extrusions and curtain walling. The Company is also an important physical trader of various other primary, secondary (scrap) and specialty minor metals (including titanium and tungsten). Following a major restructuring and an increase in international trade, the company has prospered into a dynamic, forward thinking business that has been recognised in local and national business awards, including a Queen’s Award for Enterprise in Sustainable Development in 2009, and 2 Major Commendations in the 2010 BCE Environmental Leadership Awards & EEF Future Manufacturing Awards. Avon Metals has demonstrated that a pragmatic approach to investing in our people, and protecting the environment through sustainable development, can be commercially viable. Our 20/20 Vision Sustainability Report aims to deepen our Stakeholders’ understanding about Avon Metals Corporate Social Responsibility Activities. MISSION STATEMENT “Our mission is to be recognised as the best metal recycling company in the world. We strive to provide consistently attractive returns to our shareholders through best available techniques, sustainable development and good corporate citizenship.” AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 3 OUR 20/20 VISION INTRODUCTION TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY PHILOSOPHY Sustainability, or sustainable development, is often defined as acting in a manner that meets the needs of today without hindering future generations. Back in 2006, Avon Metals made a conscious decision to embark on a pioneering journey towards implementing, measuring and reporting sustainability. Sustainability is more than just an initiative for Avon Metals it is a philosophy that permeates right through the company influencing every single activity and decision. Avon Metals is committed to this philosophy and to continuous improvement on our road towards total sustainability. We seek to create a world class brand that will motivate customers, employees, suppliers and communities to partner with us for mutual long term benefit. To achieve this, Avon has developed an all-encompassing, innovative Management and Leadership System entitled Our 20/20 Vision . This initiative is based around 20 voluntary, quantitative Sustainable Development Indicators (SDI), covering the company’s key performance in all three pillars of sustainable development – social well-being, economic prosperity and environmental stewardship to be systematically measured and transparently reported to our stakeholders. In its pursuits to achieve sustainability, Avon has cultivated new markets and forged new partnerships in a diverse array of market sectors ranging from aerospace and automotive, to alternative renewable energy sources and commercial applications for our process residues. Progress is benchmarked against realistic internal and external business targets. Reliable measurement is essential to guarantee continued monitoring, careful evaluation, committed implementation and tangible results. These are the cornerstone principles behind Avon Metals SDI reporting and we are determined to grow in ways that ensure a sustainable future for generations to come. Continuous improvement is our aim, and to this end we have adopted a Kaizen philosophy. Input from stakeholders & shareholders alike will be actively sought and encouraged to ensure that we continue to implement best practices. We strive to exceed stakeholder expectations and improve the quality of life through our products and actions, and we will communicate transparently our vision, objectives and performance. Steven Munnoch,, Managing Director January 2011 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 4 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATOR (SDI) 1 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES Avon Metals has invested over £500k in plant and equipment to protect the environment. A state-of-the-art fume arrestment plant has made significant reductions to carbon emissions. It is our aim to become Carbon Neutral by 2020 and the company is working with the Carbon Neutral Company to achieve this. Whenever Company representatives travel overseas, we select to offset our carbon emissions when booking flights. The Company is an active member of the Climate Change Levy scheme operated by the DTI. Through investment in new, more energy efficient plant and equipment we have reduced our CO² emissions by an estimated 93% our Carbon Monoxide emissions by 39% in the reporting period 2006-2010. Our other Air Emission levels are well below the statutory levels imposed under our Permit to Operate. The table below details our Gas Emission Levels. Direct Greenhouse Gas 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 / Indirect Gas Emission Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Greenhouse Gas (mg/m3) (mg/m3) (mg/m3) (mg/m3) (mg/m3) / Other Air Emission Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Direct 31 15.8 2.38 2.38 2.38 Methane Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) Direct Avon Metals is not a significant generator of these Direct Greenhouse Gases Petrofluorocarbons (PFCs) Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6) Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Direct 31 <5 2.28 2.28 2.28 Data collection Sulphur Dioxide (SOx) Direct 4.1 2.9 2.9 2.9 started in 2007 Data collection Carbon Monoxide (MO) Indirect 3.9 2.38 2.38 2.38 started in 2007 Non-methane volatile organic compounds Indirect Avon Metals is not a significant generator of these Indirect Greenhouse Gases (NMVOCs) Data collection Cadmium and its compounds Other 0.007 0.015 0.015 0.015 started in 2007 Lead and its compounds – permissible max. 0.10 Other 0.018 0.010 0.010 0.010 limit = 1 mg/m3 Chloride (as HCl) – permissible max. limit = 5 Other 2.19 1.08 1.38 1.38 1.38 mg/m3 Fluoride (as HF) – permissible max. limit = 5 Other 0.23 0.14 0.430 0.430 0.430 mg/m3 Total particulate matter – permissible max. Other 9.47 2.62 3.605 3.605 3.605 limit 20 mg/m3 Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) Other Avon Metals is not a significant generator of these other ozone depleting substances. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 5 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 2 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES CONTINUED... Avon Metals Corporate Carbon Neutral Strategy Avon Metals is a forward thinking, environmentally conscious company, and we have made a pledge to reduce our carbon footprint an ultimate target of becoming “carbon neutral”. Following the recent economic downturn, our carbon neutral target has been revised to 2020. A planned power correction upgrade at a cost of £130k plus installation costs has been rescheduled for 2012, and will save in excess of 1000 tonnes per annum of CO² emissions alone. Being carbon neutral involves calculating the total climate-damaging carbon emissions, reducing them where possible, and then balancing the remaining emissions, often by purchasing a carbon offset e.g. paying to plant new trees or investing in “green” technologies such as solar and wind power. Our strategy therefore involves the implementation of three basic steps – Measure, Reduce, Offset. 1 MEASURE Measure Avon’s footprint by inventorying the greenhouse gas emissions we generate Avon Metals uses the post-Kyoto agreement Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) accounting framework to understand, quantify, and manage our emissions to the environment. In 2006-2009, Avon Metals average annual carbon footprint was calculated at 5,070.64 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide per annum, broken down as follows: • Electricity 3,222 tonnes CO² • Gas 1,632 tonnes CO² • Heating Oil 120.63 tonnes CO² • Company Owned Vehicles 31.82 tonnes CO² • Business Travel 15.96 tonnes CO² • Commuting 6.94 tonnes CO² AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 6 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 1 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES CONTINUED... 2 REDUCE Develop targeted goals and strategies for Reducing those emissions. Setting the boundaries for measurement There are three categories of emissions generated in the course of conducting business. These delineations referred to in the GHG Protocol were developed in order to avoid future double counting. Scope 1 (Direct Emissions) Those emissions that are generated from on-site production or direct combustion of fossil fuels through Avon-owned facilities, vehicles and equipment. Scope 2 (Indirect Emissions – electricity consumption) Those emissions that are generated through the consumption of electricity (kWh) to light and power offices and operations. Scope 3 (Other Indirect Emissions) Includes all the other activities that move products or services to market or the community. This list of indirect emissions includes business travel, employee commuting, outsourced activities (shipping, printing) and third party produced materials used such as paper and equipment. A survey conducted by the Carbon Trust highlighted areas of improvements to reduce our Carbon Footprint and the Avon Metals has already implemented many of the recommendations made (see table to the left). This survey has helped us prioritise known savings as well as identifying new opportunities. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 7 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 1 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES CONTINUED... AVON METALS CARBON BALANCE Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO2 Totals Electricity 3222 Gas 1632 Oil (heating and plant) 120 Waste 41 Business travel 16 Company Vehicles 32 Commuting 7 Total Current Carbon Footprint 5070 Actions Implemented to reduce above Raw material savings 50% as some indirect 1416 Burner Efficiency 300 Monitoring and efficiency of energy use 234 Switch off lights 3 Replacing floodlights 4 Repaired air leaks 15 Passive IR light controls 2 Idle casting tracks 14 Extractor fan variable speed drives 52 Local sourcing 5 Consolidated transport fleet 5 Environmental/energy bonuses 1 Office and works recycling 1 Aluminium pallets to replace wooden 56 Flight offsetting 6 Tree Planting work through Alupro 10 Total current Carbon Reductions 2124 Future Plans Power correction 1000 Conference calls 2 Car sharing 1 WWT carbon sink 500 Installing Energy Star Equipment 130 Biomass boiler 150 Glos wildlife and other Biodiversity actions 100 Carbon Trust extra savings 200 Projected Future Carbon Savings 2083 Nett Carbon to Offset 863 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 8 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 1 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GASES CONTINUED... 3 – OFFSET Net to zero the remaining annual emissions generated by purchasing Offsets, when there is no other viable way of reducing. Offsetting provides a mechanism to reduce GHG emissions in the most cost-effective and economically-efficient manner. Offsetting plays a vital role in combating climate change, but it is not alone, the solution. Avon Metals belief is that climate change will only be addressed if each and every one of us takes responsible steps to REDUCE our CO2 emissions as much as possible and offset the remaining unavoidable emissions. We will mitigate our surplus carbon dioxide emissions by investing in projects that avoid or absorb an equivalent amount of greenhouse gases from entering the atmosphere. There are three types of carbon offset projects: • Renewable energy Projects (wind, solar, geothermal, small hydro and biomass) that avoid future carbon emissions by displacing fossil fuels. • Energy efficiency Projects that reduce demand through low energy lighting, retrofits, green buildings and industrial energy efficiencies. • Carbon Sequestration Projects – which protect or increase capacity of forest ecosystems by avoiding deforestation, restoration and reforestation. Avon Metals may choose to take a “portfolio” approach: invest in one or all of these projects. We will continue to partner with Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust on various projects aimed at protecting and nurturing Wetland areas which act as a natural “carbon sink” and help to offset our carbon emissions; reed beds naturally detoxify sewage water before it enters local river systems, wetlands help combat flooding –the risk being demonstrated by the 2007 Gloucestershire floods; many other “ecosystem services” and anthropocentric benefits that are often not readily visible, including: -natural regulation of air quality, pollination and biological pest control. When we have completed our plans and feel that we can do no more – then, and only then – will we resort to buying carbon credits to offset the remainder. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 9 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 2 REDUCTION IN ELECTRICAL ENERGY The commissioning of a new gas fired reverberatory furnace that uses organic material, such as paint and plastic backing, as a catalyst to fuel the melting process, has helped reduce our total energy consumption by 0.08 Mwh per tonne of finished product a 5% overall decrease within the application period. Every year Avon Metals trades a large amount of Silicon metal into the photovoltaics industry for the production of silicon wafers for solar panels a renewable energy source, and one which we intend to fully exploit. Future plans also include looking at the possibility of harnessing the heat generated by our furnace chimney stack via a turbine system to power the heating system in our office block. SDI 3 TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT Avon delivers finished ingots to UK customers and operates a skip collection service for industrial generators of aluminium scrap. These movements have always required the use of three vehicles – a curtain-side lorry and two skip wagons. By investing in a new truck with an innovative, versatile loading system that can incorporate both finished product and loose scrap, we have been able to consolidate our transport from 3 vehicles into 1. Not only does this reduce our internal transport costs per tonne, it also makes for more effective route planning by maximising payloads and therefore reduces our Carbon Footprint through conserved fuel and lower emissions. Unfortunately, the recent hike in fuel prices has meant that this positive initiative on our behalf has been somewhat negated. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 10 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 4 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Company is accredited to the Environmental Management System (EMS) ISO 14001. The following is controlled under this Standard:  Monitoring emissions to the atmosphere from chimney stacks.  Monitoring noise levels – to neighbouring businesses, residential areas and also to our workforce.  Recycling of aluminium packaging waste.  Waste minimisation and appropriate disposal for recycling/reprocessing and reprocessing of waste by products such as dross, wood, building materials, toner cartridges, mobile phones, paper, cardboard & plastics.  Safe management and disposal of effluents. SDI 5 IMPLIMENTATION OF REACH REGULATION We support REACH, the pan-European legislation for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals. The aim of REACH is to protect people’s health and the environment through a risk assessment of chemicals produced in the European Community. We see REACH not as a threat but as a business opportunity and we have pre-registered all eligible substances we handle . We are a Gold Member of Reach Ready – a wholly owned subsidiary of the Chemicals Industries Association AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 11 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 6 SOURCING OF SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS A large proportion of the aluminium alloys that Avon manufactures involve the use of high purity (99.5% min) aluminium. This has predominantly been achieved by remelting virgin aluminium ingots produced from alumina (bauxite). Through extensive overseas travel, Avon identified new sources of scrap with similar chemistry to primary ingots, but with an associated cost advantage to us. One good example of this type of scrap is heat shields that are normally destined for car engines. Material has been successfully bought on long term contracts from South Africa, Spain and the Antipodes. In 2006 -2010, we replaced over 2500 metric tonnes per annum of primary ingot with new production scrap, reducing the need to buy material mined directly from ore and saving 95% of the energy required to refine the ore into primary ingots. The associated cost saving to the business over these two years is estimated at £430k. Our overall recycling input materials rate increased from 70% to 76% in the period of reporting. SDI 7 NOISE REDUCTION During the period of application, Avon installed louvered windows at high level in the foundry to cut down on noise emissions from plant and equipment. Noisy oxygen enrichment equipment was de-commissioned and replaced with quieter burner systems. The height of our boundary tree screening was also increased to further dampen noise pollution and to promote the nesting of birds and other important wildlife. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 12 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 8 REDUCTION IN THE AMOUNT OF PACKAGING WASTE GOING TO LANDFILL Aluminium packaging waste is sourced on a local and national scale. Recent investment in plant and equipment through revenue gained from the sale of Packaging Recovery Notes (PRN) has enabled the Company to widen the range of aluminium scrap it handles and the amount of packaging waste it reprocesses. Two 1.5 tonne induction furnaces, which were commissioned at the start of 2006, have made it possible for Avon to take in, melt and recycle a more diverse range of raw materials, including foils. The company has also invested in a fume extraction plant for the melting of decorated and lacquered aluminium toothpaste tubes, for example – which emit more smoke due to the organic content. In 2006 we received an award from the Compliance Scheme Valpak for Best Investment of PRN Revenue In the period 2006-2010 we recycled 3237 tonnes of aluminium packaging waste into new useful products, that would otherwise have gone down the landfill or incineration routes. Our corporate membership of Alupro (the non-profit Aluminium Packaging Recycling Organisation) encourages charity groups based in and around Gloucestershire to sort aluminium foil from waste streams and bring to Avon for remelting. These groups (such as the Fairtide Centre in Lydney, the Cheltenham Integrated Recycling Project and the Oakley Adult Opportunity Centre in Whaddon) provide meaningful voluntary work for severely disabled people who sort the foil. These schemes help disabled people build self-esteem and realise their true potential. As a result, the community is challenged to change their perceptions about disabled people. Income generated from the sale of the foil to is reinvested into the project which has full involvement of Alupro and support from Vision 21 (Cheltenham) and Cheltenham Centre for Change. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 13 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 9 DEVELOPING A RECYLING STRATEGY (INCLUDING SAFE DISPOSAL OR RE-USE OF WASTE PRODUCTS) Avon Metals is ultimately an aluminium recycling company. Aluminium can, with just cause, be described as the “green” metal. Aluminium meets the complex ecological and technological requirements of our environmentally conscious society, and is a considerable ally in the fight against waste, energy consumption and environmental damage. The aluminium economy is a circular economy. For most aluminium products, the metal is not actually consumed during the product's lifetime, but simply used with the potential to be used again through recycling. Aluminium can be recycled again and again without any loss of its inherent properties, since its atomic structure is not altered during melting. Therefore, the life cycle of an aluminium product is not the traditional cradle-to-grave sequence, but rather a renewable cradle-to-cradle . In all of its activities Avon Metals, and indeed the aluminium industry per se, aims towards a position of sustainability in environmental and social terms. The high value of aluminium scrap is a key incentive and major economic impetus for recycling, independent of any legislative or political initiatives to encourage recycling. Aluminium scrap has considerable market value because most of the energy required for the production of primary aluminium is embodied in the metal itself and, consequently, in the scrap. Therefore, the energy needed to melt aluminium scrap is only a fraction of that required for primary aluminium production. Recycling of aluminium products needs only 5% of the energy needed for primary aluminium production. Avon Metals promotes other forms of recycling on site and has segregated collection points for the following office consumables:  Printer & toner cartridges Plastic vending cups / bottles  Redundant mobile / office telephones  Paper & Cardboard  Aluminium & steel beverage cans  Glass bottles  Electrical & electronic equipment  Newspaper & magazines AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 14 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 10 PROTECTION OF LOCAL WILDLIFE & PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust is the county's leading conservation charity dedicated to wildlife and Avon Metals is proud to be an active Corporate Sponsor, extending our commitment to our environment and helping to save some of the last remaining habitats for wildlife in our County. Partnership is available to companies committed to reducing their environmental impact. We feel honoured to help play a direct part in looking after Gloucestershire's natural heritage. Avon is also a Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust Corporate Partner. With over 60 years experience of wetland conservation, WWT create and restore wetlands to help reverse the loss of these important areas throughout the world. In the UK, 2,000 hectares of wetland wildlife reserves provide winter refuge for more than 150,000 waterbirds. The work Slimbridge carries out compliments Avon Metals’ present and future business plan to become totally sustainable. Conservation of UK wetlands helps sustainability in several ways:  Wetlands act as a natural “carbon sink” and help to offset our carbon emissions.  Reed beds naturally detoxify sewage water before it enters local river systems.  Wetlands help combat flooding – the risk being demonstrated by the 2007 Gloucestershire floods.  Many other “ecosystem services” and anthropocentric benefits that are often not readily visible, including: natural regulation of air quality, pollination and biological pest control. Slimbridge is home to an astounding array of wildlife including the world's largest collection of swans, geese, and ducks amongst others. In 2008 Avon Metals funded a “dragonfly pond” project at Slimbridge to encourage dragonflies to the site. Additionally, this will promote other pond wildlife such as frogs, newts and toads. In 2009 Avon sponsored a schools competition by in conjunction with WWT, Alupro and Gloucester City Council for all Gloucestershire schools to design and make a dragonfly sculpture (as an homage to the pond) out of recycled aluminium foil and drinks cans. This amalgamated several important themes for us – recycling, carbon reduction, education, nature, art, & biodiversity. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 15 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 REDUCTION OF FRESHWATER CONSUMPTION PER TONNE OF ALUMINIUM PRODUCED & RAINWATER CAPTURE (INCLUDING WATER COP) As part of our 20/20 Vision initiative, Avon Metals has made strides to reduce our water use. We have set ourselves a target to reduce our water use by 5% per annum. Our policy includes:  Carrying out a survey to locate all areas of water use on site  Identifying areas to reduce water waste.  Installation of meters to regularly monitor water use  Implementing a water saving campaign  Staff training to ensure awareness of products can be washed down the drain.  Checking the integrity of on site containers  Avoiding leakages and spills  Fitting of flow restrictors and automatic cut-off devices Avon Metals has purchased approved water saving devices on the Water Technology List (WTL), including flow restrictors and automatic shut-off devices. Avon Metals is registered with the Envirowise Rippleffect a 3 stage initiative involving data collection, development and implementation an action plan and measuring savings. Data has been collected using the Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council of Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In the year July 2007 June 2008 we reduced our water consumption by 0.02 cubic metres per tonne of finished product, representing a 4% decrease. The roofs of our factory buildings make good collectors of rainwater. Avon Metals intends to capture the runoff rainwater in storage tanks, filter particles through a mesh and then re-use this water to cool our ingots. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 16 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED – WATER COP THE CEO WATER MANDATE On July 5th, 2007, the chief executive officers of bottled water giants Coca Cola and Nestlé joined four other multinational corporations, including water privateers Suez and Läckeby Water Group, to announce a new “water mandate” within the United Nations Global Compact. The CEO Water Mandate is an initiative developed in partnership between the United Nations Global Compact, the Government of Sweden and a group of committed companies and specialized organizations dealing with the problems of water scarcity and sanitation. It is designed as a private-public initiative with a focus on developing strategies and solutions to contribute positively to the emerging global water crisis. The CEO Water Mandate seeks to engage a critical mass of companies from around the world, willing to undertake serious efforts, in partnership with other stakeholders, to address this challenge. Whenever possible, this initiative will coordinate efforts and work with existing water programs -both global and local -in order to maximize impact. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Avon Metals’ CEO, Steven Munnoch, has endorsed the CEO Water Mandate. As estimated by the UNGC, more than 1 billion people do not have access to clean water, while 2.6 billion people lack access to adequate sanitation. Water scarcity is linked to poor education, poverty, disease, and increasingly, conflict. Companies have a role to play in advancing water management. MISSION STATEMENT The CEO Water Mandate seeks to make a positive impact with respect to the emerging global water crisis by mobilizing a critical mass of business leaders to advance water sustainability solutions – in partnership with the United Nations, civil society organizations, governments, and other stakeholders. As a special initiative of the UN Secretary-General, The CEO Water Mandate offers a unique action platform to share best and emerging practices and to forge multistakeholder partnerships to address the problems of access to water and sanitation. The CEO Water Mandate covers six areas: Direct Operations; Supply Chain and Watershed Management; Collective Action; Public Policy; Community Engagement; and Transparency. Endorsers of The CEO Water Mandate recognize that through individual and collective action they can contribute to the vision of the UN Global Compact and the realization of the Millennium Development Goals. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 17 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED – WATER COP STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S CEO WATER MANDATE Water is essential for sustaining life. However, this valuable resource is distributed unevenly throughout the world and is also often used wastefully and polluted. This is resulting in severe ecological damage, disease, food shortages and violent conflicts. By developing and promoting solutions to support efficient and responsible consumption of water, Bayer is committed to conserving one of the most crucial of all raw materials. A commitment to protecting water quality and reducing water consumption has long been part of Bayer company policy.” Drinking water is a resource in scarce supply. A mere 2.5 percent of all the water on Earth is freshwater – and most of that is either contained in ice, or is present as groundwater and therefore difficult to access. According to estimates by the United Nations, water shortages will assume critical levels in numerous regions over the course of the next few decades. Today, over a billion people already have no access to clean water. As the world’s population continues to grow and consumption habits change, the amount of drinking water needed, and the volume required for sanitary and hygienic purposes and especially for food production, will continue to increase. Increased urbanization is intensifying the pressure on local water resources and, particularly in the emerging countries, water pollution is on the increase. In some areas, climate change will exacerbate the situation still further due to decreased precipitation and rising sea levels. Efficient water usage and water pollution control are key issues when it comes to sustainable development. Agriculture has a crucial role to play in this respect, as the majority of the water consumed in the world (around 70 percent) is used in the cultivation of foodstuffs. As an active UNGC signatory, Avon Metals are also part of the CEO Water Mandate which focuses on achieving more sustainable consumption of this essential resource. By joining the CEO Water Mandate, Avon Metals commits to setting meaningful water reduction targets and tracking and reporting water usage, and has indicated its commitment to adhere to a comprehensive approach to water management. The Mandate is broken into six key areas: direct operations; supply chain and watershed management; collective action; public policy; community engagement; and transparency. Each key area concludes with a pledge for signers to commit to a number of related actions. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 18 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED COP Description of policies and practical actions that Avon Metals have taken to implement the CEO Water Mandate elements. Our policies include:  Carrying out a survey to locate all areas of water use on site  Identifying areas to reduce water waste.  Installation of meters to regularly monitor water use  Implementing a water saving campaign  Staff training to ensure they are aware if what products can be washed down the drain.  Checking the integrity of on site containers  Avoiding leakages and spills  Fitting of flow restrictors and automatic cut-off devices 1. Direct Operations Avon Metals understands our water use and have integrated robust water management processes. We have used the GEMI Water Sustainability Tool to build awareness about the plant’s relationship to water and have purchased approved water saving devices on the Water Technology List (WTL), including flow restrictors and automatic shut-off devices. 2. Supply Chain and Watershed Management Avon Metals does have supplier guidelines but we are not yet working with suppliers to build capacity and reduce their water footprint. In the future we intend to encourage our suppliers to improve their water conservation, quality monitoring, waste-water treatment, and recycling practices by: -Building capacities to analyze and respond to watershed risk.; Encouraging and facilitating suppliers in conducting assessments of water usage and impacts.; Sharing water sustainability practices – established and emerging –with suppliers.; Encourage major suppliers to report regularly on progress achieved related to goals. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 19 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED – WATER COP 3. Collective Action Avon Metals fosters a partnership approach with a variety of organisations, including suppliers and local businesses at a regional and local level. In addition, we are members of, or work in partnership with, a range of organisations, including the United Nations and GRI. 4. Public Policy Avon Metals are committed to making a positive contribution on water through our business activities, and as part of the CEO Water Mandate we are working alongside members on water-related supply chain issues; collective action; public policy; and community engagement . We believe that we can play a powerful role in helping to advance key public policy issues related to our business by using our corporate voice. 5. Community Engagement Avon Metals is a Corporate Partner of Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust, promoting bio-diversity in the region. WWT create and restore wetlands to help reverse the loss of these important areas throughout the world. In the UK, 2,000 hectares of wetland wildlife reserves provide winter refuge for more than 150,000 waterbirds. The work Slimbridge carries out compliments Avon Metals’ present and future business plan to become totally sustainable. Conservation of UK wetlands helps sustainability in several ways; wetlands act as a natural “carbon sink” and help to offset our carbon emissions; reed beds naturally detoxify sewage water before it enters local river systems, wetlands help combat flooding –the risk being demonstrated by the 2007 Gloucestershire floods; many other “ecosystem services” and anthropocentric benefits that are often not readily visible, including: natural regulation of air quality, pollination and biological pest control. Slimbridge is home to an astounding array of wildlife including the world's largest collection of swans, geese, and ducks. Other important wildlife includes kingfisher, flamingos, water voles, beavers, redshank, brown hares, dragonflies, wild otters, grass snakes and wild orchids.In2008 Avon Metals funded an environmental ecosystem project at Slimbridge to encourage dragonflies to the site. Additionally, this will promote other pond wildlife such as frogs, newts and toads. We plan to follow up on our successful 2007/2008 schools competition by running an event in 2009 in conjunction with WWT, Alupro and Gloucester City Council for all Gloucestershire schools to design and make a dragonfly sculpture out of recycled aluminium foil and drinks cans. Slimbridge have kindly agreed to exhibit the winning entries. This will tie in several important themes for us –recycling, carbon reduction, education, nature, art, & biodiversity AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 20 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED – WATER COP 6. Transparency Avon Metals openly publish our targets, results and activities in accordance with the GRI (G3) guidelines and report on progress against our commitments such as the CEO Water Mandate. This information is made public through our Sustainability Report published on our corporate website www.avonmetals.com, the UN Global Compact site www. globalcompact.org, and also www.corporateregister.com–a leading CSR information portal. Avon Metals is also a member of the World Economic Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption (PACI) initiative, galvanising our commitment to transparency and fair play. Measurement of Outcomes Avon Metals uses the GRI G3 Guidelines to measure qualitative/quantitative outcomes, or future expected outcomes, related to the CEO Water Mandate elements. We spotlight our direct water consumption in “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report, and to understand water and other environmental issues in our supply chain, we conduct annual engagement surveys with key suppliers. Data has been collected using the Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council of Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Outcomes are reported in “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. GRI G3 guidelines currently reported: EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source of Withdrawn Water M³ M³ M³ M³ M³ Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A oceans Ground water N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Rainwater collected directly and stored by the reporting N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A organisation Waste water from another N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A organization Municipal water supplies or other 3747 4907 4755 4130 5321 water utilities TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL 3747 4907 4755 4130 5321 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 21 ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 11 CONTINUED – WATER COP EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. The roofs of our factory buildings make good collectors of rainwater. Avon Metals intends to capture the runoff rainwater in storage tanks, filter particles through a mesh and then re-use this water to cool our ingots. The roofs of our factory buildings make good collectors of rainwater. Avon Metals intends to capture the runoff rainwater in storage tanks, filter particles through a mesh and then re-use this water to cool our ingots. This initiative has been started and completion is aimed for 2012. When considering the average rainfall figures published by the Met Office, our runoff co-efficient and the size of our roof area, we anticipate capturing 250,000 litres per annum of renewable water. EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Avon Metals is dedicated to implementing innovative ways to conserve water, including rainwater capture, and identifying by-product synergy opportunities to reuse the water for beneficial purposes. A large proportion (70%) of the water we use on site is for cooling down molten metal and this water evaporates into the atmosphere. The remaining 30% passes through our interceptor tanks to remove any solid matter or oils before being discharged into the foul sewers. Severn Trent Water have assessed our site and have confirmed that the water we discharge is 100% safe to return to the water course and we receive a 90% reduction on our sewage levy as an incentive to maintain this process. Water Discharges (estimated) Water exiting Avon Metals’ site 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 M³ M³ M³ M³ M³ Water evaporated through molten metal 2631 3181 3527 2891 3725 cooling process Water passing through interceptors and 1127 1363 1512 1239 1596 into foul sewer Freshwater consumption M³/t of finished 0.39 0.48 0.46 0.45 0.44 product GRI G3guidelines that we intend to report on in the future: EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by water EN 25 Identity, size , protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of A V O N M Ewater T A Land S runoff. 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 22 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 12 HEALTH & SAFETY REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES The Directors of Avon Metals recognise that Health & Safety is of paramount importance to us and is taken into account in every management decision we make and every process we carry out. Avon Metals has started the process to attain the Occupational Health & Safety standard OHSAS 18001. This will be in place by 2012 and will integrate seamlessly with our existing ISO 9001 Quality and ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems. An aluminium foundry and non-ferrous scrap yard can be a dangerous place with many potential hazards – heat, airborne dust contaminants, dust and fumes from molten metal, vibration, noise, manual handling and plant operation. Our entire workforce – from senior management to shop floor – has a focus on fundamental safety systems and are made aware such hazards and of their responsibility within their own area. We promote good practice on a day-to day basis and have a 3 stage HSE strategy, in line with the Health & Safety At Work Act 1974: 1) Identification of hazards & potential risks 2) Take action to prevent & control risks 3) Keep control measures under regular review assessment. Avon Metals is involved in several industry specific Health & Safety Initiatives including The Cast Metals Federation SHIFT (Safety & Health Foundry Targets Initiative), designed to share best practice through quarterly meetings at the National Metalforming Centre which generally focus on specific areas, such as Hand/Arm vibration, Manual Handling or Workplace Transport; and through the Aluminium Federations’ AIMS (Aluminium Industry Made Safer) initiative, whose target is to achieve a 10% reduction in Lost Time Incident (LTI) rate over a 3 year period. We pride ourselves on our “zero fatalities rate” throughout the history of the company much lower than our industry norm. Our Lost Time Incident Rates and Total Recordable Incident Rates are slightly higher than average for our industry. Our “Target Zero” aim is to reduce this rate in 2011 and beyond. The rate of RIDDOR reportable accidents amongst SHIFT group members has reduced from 4,214 / 100,000 employees in 2002 to 1,777 / 100,000 in 2007 a 58% reduction. In 2010, Avon Metals only had 1 RIDDOR reportable accident. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 23 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 12 CONTINUED…. HEALTH & SAFETY REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES The company conducts annual health screenings, including monitoring of hearing levels, lung function, bi-annual personal air monitoring and night workers assessment. An independent H & S consultant visits on a monthly basis to carry out “completely independent” risk assessment surveys. A written report stating action required is produced. Listed in this Sustainability Report are some of the daily Health & Safety issues we face and how we tackle them effectively: HEAT The furnaces and molten metal in a foundry create a hot working environment. Dehydration, heat cramps, heat exhaustion and heat stroke are some of the health effects foundry workers can experience from exposure to excessive heat. We combat this by using fans and flues to reduce the air temperature, giving regular work breaks in cool areas, job sharing and rotation, and using personal protective equipment such as eye wear, heat reflective clothing, gloves and footwear DUST & FUMES Foundry operations create dusty conditions exposing workers to various health risks. Foundry workers may be exposed to various types of dust, including nuisance dust, wood dust, metal dust and airborne RSC (Respirable Crystalline Silica) dust. Specific illnesses have been linked with exposure to certain types of dust. Fumes generated from melting of molten metal may irritate the lungs. We deal with dust and fumes in various ways – extraction canopy hoods over the furnaces, DISA Airmaster state-of-the-art dust extraction plant, training in safe work practices and use and maintenance of personal protective equipment (PPE) and respiratory protective equipment (RPE), respirators with organic vapour filters for organic vapours. When relining furnaces, operatives use air fed RPE with an assigned protection factor (APF) of minimum 40 and we use a permit-towork system for access. When cleaning up metal dust we use a type H vacuum cleaner fitted with a HEPA filter, instead of a brush. Dross is sent for reprocessing almost as quickly as it is generated, reducing the chance of it getting wet and emitting gases. We ensure that workers shower and change after every work session and use a contract laundry company to wash work clothing. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 24 SDI 12 CONTINUED…. HEALTH & SAFETY REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES SOCIAL DIMENSION MOLTEN METAL Serious burns may result from splashes of molten metal and radiant heat at any time in the melting and pouring areas. Sparks from molten metal may also damage the eyes. Exposure to infrared and ultraviolet radiation may result in eye damage including cataracts. There are many practices which may increase the risk of hot metal splashes: charging a furnace with contaminated or moist scrap metal and alloys; using moist tools, moulds or other material when contacting molten metal. Our control methods for molten metal include: maintaining a safe working distance, ensuring that all raw material ladles and other equipment that may come in contact with molten metal must are completely dry; restricting unauthorised access to the furnace area by barriers and signage, restricting visitors and workers from wearing synthetic clothing, including undergarments when entering the furnace and pouring areas; keeping the melting and pouring areas free of combustible material and volatile liquids; provide training in safe work practices and the use and maintenance of personal protective equipment including full faceguards. Fire extinguishers of all types are close to hand throughout the facility. HAND ARM VIBRATION (HAV) Although a very low risk, at times our foundry workers may be exposed to wholebody vibration and hand-arm vibration from hammering ingots and cleaning furnaces with pneumatic drills. The health effects of vibration can include blood pressure and heart problems, nervous disorders, and blanching and numbness in the fingers. Our control measures for vibration include: using tools with vibration dampers, monitoring and limiting the use of vibrating equipment, providing protective gloves. NOISE Avon employees are subjected to a variety of noise sources, such as induction furnaces, casting track hammers; fettling and scrap handling are capable of causing damage to hearing. Where high levels of noise are present, workers wear personal hearing protectors. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 25 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 12 CONTINUED…. HEALTH & SAFETY REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES To control noise we have installed a new improved ingot mould design to aid ingot discharge and minimise the need for fettling on most of our casting tracks that has drastically reduced the amount of excess metal to be removed after casting. This in turn removes or reduces the need for fettling. PLANT & MACHINERY Avon Metals uses a wide range of metal processing equipment Including fork lift trucks, balers, shears, croppers, and furnaces. Burns, cuts and lacerations and amputations are some of the injuries that can result from poor maintenance, repair and guarding and use of such plant and machinery. We deal with such risks by: enclosing or guarding dangerous machines; neutralising potential energy sources during maintenance and repairs, full operator training and provision of personal protective equipment. Visitors and workers with medical implants, joints, plates or similar objects are kept away from our induction furnaces as the magnetic fields involved in the melting process can induce a charge in the metallic implant. Personnel with cardiac pace makers are particularly at risk and are restricted from approaching the induction equipment. COSHH All laboratory substances (including acids) and paints for identifying finished product are controlled under COSHH (Control of Substances Hazardous to Health) regulations and are kept in secure, fire-proof cabinets. MANUAL HANDLING Workers in most areas within Avon are required to perform manual tasks including lifting, driving vehicles, tool use, drossing off, ingot stacking, which could lead to musculoskeletal or repetitive strain disorders. We have reduced manual handling risks by redesigning equipment or work practices. A good example of this is ingot stacking. We have invested in spring loaded tables which maintain a constant, comfortable working height for the operative, thus avoiding the need to bend over all the time and strain the back. Wherever possible, lifting is mechanically assisted through the use of forklifts, grabs and hoists. . AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 26 SDI 12 CONTINUED…. HEALTH & SAFETY REDUCTION IN WORKPLACE INJURIES SOCIAL DIMENSION WORKPLACE TRANSPORT Every year in UK industry people are killed or seriously injured in workplace transport related accidents. Commonly accidents involve people being hit or run over by vehicles such as forklift trucks, cars, lorries, vans etc. At Avon Metals, we control the risk of this happening by ensuring that: i) the design and layout of the workplace enables us to separate vehicles and pedestrians as much as possible; ii) loading and unloading operations are carried out in areas away from passing traffic and pedestrians; Iii) our vehicles are fitted with horns, lights, reflectors, reversing lights; iv) suitable designated parking areas are provided for work related vehicles (both permanent and visiting); v) there are safe systems of work for activities such as coupling/uncoupling trailers, covering and uncovering vehicle loads and accessing the top of vehicles; vi) we provide traffic control features such as clearly marked pedestrian crossing points, mirrors at blind corners, and pedestrian barriers (especially at exits onto traffic routes) vii) provision of high visibility vests for staff and visitors – be seen, be safe. SLIP TRIPS We promote good housekeeping to ensure that loose lumpy or granular metals are kept in proper storage and that any spills of metal or liquids are cleaned up quickly. Skin creams are available to help prevent dermatitis. FIRST AID Several Avon managers and foreman are fully trained First Aiders and first aid kits are readily available throughout our factory and office complexes. Avon Metals 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Aluminium Health & Safety Industry Statistics Average Lost Time Incident 4.8 5.6 6.5 14.65 4.96 13.84 5.6 (LTI) Rate Total Recordable 15.5 10.31 20.8 29.3 27.3 16.92 12.1 Incident (TRI) Rate Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 LTI Number of Lost Time Incidents TRI Number of Recordable Incidents RATE = Number of Employee Hrs Worked RATE = Number of Employee Hrs Worked AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 27 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 13 STAFF TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Avon Metals believes that our people are our most valuable asset and encourages a healthy work-life balance that ensures that the workplace is clean, safe and healthy at all times.. The company operates a no smoking policy. Our staff turnover was affected by unfortunate, but necessary redundancies in 2009 due to the decline in the global economic climate, but since then we have returned to pre-credit crunch staffing levels and our productivity has increased, The Company provides staff with a generous remuneration and incentives programme including death in service benefit, generous annual leave per year, flexible retirement plans and help towards achieving work-related qualifications. When two long serving employees suffered from long-term illness, we were delighted to help them meet their ongoing living costs. The Company operates an employee development review process, which provides an opportunity for all team members to work with their line manager to plan their development for the coming year. This may include formal training, gaining experience in new areas, and/or mentoring. This allows us to identify and create relevant career pathways for our workforce. Wherever possible we endeavour to “promote from within”. Our training courses for employees include: Effective Leader Management; Forklift / heavy plant operation; Health & Safety; First Aid at Work; Business Improvement Techniques; Technical courses; REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Assessment of Chemicals) Avon utilises the skills and assets of a multinational workforce. Avon Metals current language resources include Chinese Mandarin and Polish as a mother tongue and many European languages as a secondary asset. The Company organises regular scheduled ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages) for the foreign workers it employs. Performance reviews are also conducted annually, creating the opportunity to identify specific objectives for each team member, to review progress against previous objectives. It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far possible, be identical with that of other employees. Staff are encouraged to develop their skills, and these will be furthered and honed under our impending Investors In People (IIP) implementation. Wage levels are above average for the industry, and financial incentives are in place for production levels , skill level & night shift work. We also introduced Environmental and Health & Safety related bonuses in 2009-2010. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 28 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 13 STAFF TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT AVON METALS TRAINING DAYS Subject Department Attendees Days Total MAS Lean Mfg Foundry 6 8 48 OHS All departments 55 1 55 HR Administration 2 6 12 First Aid Foundry 6 3 18 Aluminium Applications Administration 2 1 2 BERR Export Docs Administration 1 1 1 Health & Safety Foundry 2 3 6 Totals 142 Total Employees 57 Days per Employee 2.49 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 29 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 13 STAFF TRAINING AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Y/E 31.7.09 Y/E 31.7.10 Total Number of Avon Employees 38 57 Percentage of Full-Time Employees 100 % 100 % Percentage of Part-Time Employees NIL NIL Percentage of Permanent Staff 100 % 100 % Percentage of Temporary Staff NIL NIL Percentage of Staff Employed in Gloucester 100 % 100 % Percentage of Male Employees 93 % 93 % Percentage of Female Employees 7% 7% Percentage of Minority Employees 40 % 49 % Percentage of Non-Minority Employees 60 % 51 % Percentage of Employees aged below 30 28 % 31 % Percentage of Employees aged 30 to 50 34 % 42 % Percentage of Employees aged over 50 38% 27 % Average Male Base Salary Per Annum £21,735 £22,000 Average Female Base Salary Per Annum £17,850 £19,000 Ratio of Male to Female Average Base Salary 1.22 : 1 1.16 : 1 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 30 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 14 IMPROVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS In both 2007 & 2009 Avon Metals, in conjunction with Alupro and Gloucestershire County Council, co-ordinated 2 competitions for Gloucestershire schools. In 2007 over 40 participating schools had to design and build a tree sculpture using recycled aluminium foil and drinks cans. The winning entries received top-of the-range camcorders, and the overall winning tree is proudly displayed in our reception area. Runners up prizes included £100 for second place and £50 for third place. All of the schools who took part in the competition received a native fruit tree of their choice, to plant in their school grounds. 2007 Winning Entry This idea of tree planting is further echoed through our corporate support and membership fees to Alupro. Alupro's Tree Campaign focuses on tackling deforestation in Africa whilst at the same time providing the means and know-how to develop small businesses in rural communities in Malawi. A tree will be grown for every tonne of aluminium cans and foil recycled in the UK. The fruit tree, will provide good food as well as the basis for fruit drying and juicing enterprises, adding value to the crop as the trees mature and promoting biodiversity in the region. In November 2007, Avon Metals won the Book Check Cup for outstanding work in the region at the Gloucestershire Ambassadors Millennium Dinner and Gloucestershire First were involved in the judging of our tree competition for Gloucestershire schools. In 2010, the Directors of Avon were invited by Slimbridge Trust to Buckingham Palace to meet the Duke of Edinburgh, following our collaboration with them on various environmental projects. Avon Metals have a good relationship with the local Police force and we work closely with them in an attempt to eradicate local crime particularly thefts of valuable metals both from other local companies and at our own facility. The funds generated by such crime is often used to fund drug habits. Avon supports our staff in their endeavours and activities outside the workplace and has sponsored the football team of one of our employees – Tuffley Rovers. The Company has also made financial contributions to a successful Gloucester school rugby team, with many players filtering into Gloucester Rugby Club and England Juniors. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 31 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 14 IMPROVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS CONTINUED...... “WASTE TO WILDLIFE” COMPETITION 2009 In 2009, the competition From Waste to Wildlife was jointly organised by Gloucestershire County Council's Waste Unit and WWT Slimbridge, supported by The Aluminum Packaging Recycling Organisation (Alupro) and the British Dragonfly Society. The competition and the creation of the new dragonfly pond at Slimbridge was sponsored by Avon Metals Ltd Gloucester, who donated a £400 first prize. The official launch of the competition took place on Tuesday 24 February at the Slimbridge Wetland Centre and pupils from Slimbridge Primary School took part in workshops on recycling and the lifecycle of dragonflies. Veronica Morriss, centre manager at WWT Slimbridge, said: This is a fantastic opportunity for Slimbridge to work with Avon Metals and Gloucestershire County Council to promote both wildlife and recycling in a fun and creative competition. This is an imaginative competition and one in which we can celebrate both the numerous species of dragonfly we have here and our new dragonfly pond, kindly funded by Avon Metals. We look forward to seeing some inspired creations from our local schools and are honoured to be hosting what will be a wonderful exhibition.“ Hannah Gray, Waste Education Officer for Gloucestershire County Council said: I think the competition will capture children's imagination, and I am looking forward to seeing the end results. I also believe that youngsters will learn about the importance of the 3RsReduce, Reuse and Recycle. This competition should help them make the link between protecting our environment and throwing away less materials. All 350 schools in Gloucestershire . were invited to create a sculpture of a dragonfly (or swarm of dragonflies) made out of aluminum foil and many entries were suspended from the ceiling in Slimbridge visitors centre in a magical aerial display AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 32 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 14 IMPROVEMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS CONTINUED.... Second Life Metals In 2010 Avon Metals will partner with the Association of Private Cemeteries & Crematoria (APPC) to recover metals from privately owned crematoria in the UK. New Government legislation means that metals left over from the cremation process are not allowed to be buried in the ground . Avon was approached by APCC in 2009 to see if we could assist. Metals recycled will include Cobalt Chrome alloys, Titanium (orthopedic joints) & Steel (coffin nails). Avon will provide this sensitive service to private crematoria throughout the UK, and the money that is generated from the recovery of these valuable metals will be used to fund bereavement charities nominated by APCC. It is a poignant thought to know that metals that would otherwise have gone to landfill can now find a second life and be respectfully recycled in to new products, saving the environment and helping provide a new income stream to support worthwhile charities. www.apcandc.co.uk AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 33 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY Avon Metals is a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. Launched by Kofi Annan in 1999, the Global Compact initiative is a network of UN agencies, corporations, NGOs, labour, and academic institutions that endorse a set of principles on human rights (derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights), labour, the environment and anti-corruption. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 34 Ban Ki Moon, Un Secretary General SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Avon Metals has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2007, and we continue to align our operations and strategies with its ten principles in the four key areas of Human Rights, Labour Environment and Anti-corruption. Signing the Global Compact affirms our long-standing commitment to strive to conduct business responsibly, and where possible, we actively encourage our business partners and other key stakeholders to join the initiative. Our Communication on Progress (COP) is made available to stakeholders through the UN Global Compact website (www.unglobalcompact.org) and our own corporate internet site (www.avonmetals.com). In 2008/2009 – 10th December 2008 CEO Statement 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, CEO Water Mandate, Caring for Climate, Seal the Deal. MEASURES AND PRACTICLE ACTIONS PRINCIPLES 1 & 2 Avon Metals works with suppliers who share our commitment to human rights. Avon Metals Supplier Code of Conduct, required of all third party suppliers, encourages engagement with key human rights issues such as child labour, discrimination and working conductions throughout the Supply Chain. OHSAS 18001 Standard & Investors In People Standards are in progress PRINCIPLES 3,4,5 & 6 All employees made aware of our zero tolerance stance towards discrimination of any kind. Developed Employee Code of Conduct Manual English lessons provided for speakers of other languages AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 35 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 7,8 & 9 Avon Metals certified to ISO 14001 Standard Corporate sponsor of 2 wildlife organisations Reduction of carbon dioxide and other Greenhouse Gas emissions Reduction in water consumption Set 2020 target to become Carbon Neutral PRINCIPLES 10 Anti-Corruption Policy developed and rolled out within the company Member of the World Economic Forum’s partnership Against Corruption Initiative FUTURE PLANS Engage in Global Compact Local Network events Attain OHSAS 18001 & Investors In People standards In contracts with Chinese suppliers, Avon metals will make reference to our membership of the Un Global Compact and we will analyse our suppliers policies on human rights and labour issues.  Compliance with new UK Bribery Act AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 36 SDI 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SIGNATORY SOCIAL DIMENSION STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ↓ UN Advert posted in the Financial Times December 10th 2008 showing Avon Managing Director, Steven Munnoch, as a signatory. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 37 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 15 CONTINUED... STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT CARING FOR CLIMATE “Caring for Climate is a voluntary and complementary action platform for UN Global Compact participants who seek to demonstrate leadership on the issue of climate change. CEOs who support the statement are prepared to set goals, develop and expand strategies and practices, and to publicly disclose emissions as part of their existing disclosure commitment within the UN Global Compact framework, that is, the Communication on Progress. Caring for Climate is a unique initiative – a commitment to action by business and a call to governments, incorporating transparency. It offers an interface for business and governments at the global level, with the potential of rapidly becoming the leading platform for pragmatic business solutions -transcending national interests and responding to the global nature of the issue at stake. Moreover, the broad geographical spread of its supporters, involving both leading actors from developed and emerging economies, reinforces the novel nature of this engagement platform SEAL THE DEAL Seal the Deal! was a UN campaign calling for a fair, balanced and effective postKyoto climate agreement at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP 15), held from 7-18 December 2009 in Copenhagen. In support of Seal the Deal!, The Global Compact is reached out to its participants to galvanize global business support for the campaign. Avon Metals was proud to endorse “Seal the Deal” with the following CEO statement: Climate Change is of paramount importance to Avon Metals. Changes in the climate over recent years, and those predicted over the next 100 years, are considered to be largely a result of modern human life, rather than Mother Nature following her course. The impacts of Climate Change will affect every living organism on the planet. To this end, we applaud the United Nation’s Seal the Deal! Campaign calling for a fair, balanced and effective post-Kyoto climate agreement. As a recycling company, Avon Metals’ mission is to become a totally sustainable company and our raison d'être to help preserve our precious environment for future generations. We are constantly pushing the envelope and challenging ourselves to investigate new technologies and renewable energy sources to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and neutralise our carbon footprint. We look forward to standing shoulder to shoulder with the UN and tackling Climate Change head on together. Steven Munnoch, Managing Director, Avon Metals Ltd. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 38 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 16 HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING DEVELOPING AN ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI CORRUPTION INITIATIVE) HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT “Avon Metals prides itself on its reputation as a fair and ethically run business. We aim to earn the trust and respect of the businesses and people within our sphere of influence (see diagram), through our core values of transparency, accountability, integrity, solidarity, courage, justice & democracy.” Our Human Rights Policy and Human Rights Statement reflect internationally recognised principles including the United Nations Global Compact and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work to promote and protect human rights in the workplace. We abhor human right abuses and child labour and have a “zero tolerance” attitude to these issues. OUR CORE VALUES • Transparency • Accountability • Integrity • Solidarity • Courage • Justice • Democracy EMPLOYEES We treat our employees with fairness, respect and dignity. We adhere to all applicable domestic & international laws, include prohibiting child labour, forced labour, and discriminatory behavior (racial, age, gender, religion or other) as well as recognising and acknowledging the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We prefer business partners that treat their employees similarly. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 39 SDI 16 CONTINUED..... HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING DEVELOPING AN ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI CORRUPTION INITIATIVE) SOCIAL DIMENSION SUPPLIERS We endeavour to conduct our daily business in an ethical and responsible manner and select and engage business partners who share our good Corporate Social Responsibility values. We have developed an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy in line with principles laid down by the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. Any company wishing to engage with Metals must satisfy the following human rights selection criteria: 1) It does not employ engage or otherwise use any child labour in circumstances such that the tasks performed by any such child labour could reasonably be foreseen to cause either physical or emotional impairment to the development of such child; 2) It does not use forced labour in any form (prison, indentured, bonded or otherwise) and its employees are not required to lodge papers or deposits on starting work; 3) It provides a safe and healthy workplace, presenting no immediate hazards to its employees. Any housing provided by the Supplier to its employees is safe for habitation. The Supplier provides access to clean water, food, and emergency healthcare to its employees in the event of accidents or incidents at the Supplier's workplace; 4) It does not discriminate against any employees on any ground (including race, religion, disability or gender). it does not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse and does not use cruel or abusive disciplinary practices in the workplace; 5) It pays each employee at least the minimum wage, or a fair representation of the prevailing industry wage, (whichever is the higher) and provides each employee with all legally mandated benefits; 6) It complies with the laws on working hours and employment rights in the countries in which it operates; 7) It is respectful of its employees right to join and form independent trade unions and freedom of association. 8) It is responsible for controlling its own supply chain and that it shall encourage compliance with ethical standards and human rights by any subsequent supplier of goods and services that are used by Supplier when performing its obligations to Avon Metals. LOCAL COMMUNITY We consult actively with a diverse range of knowledgeable stakeholders to build upon our understanding of the human rights issues present in our operating environments. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 40 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 16 CONTINUED..... HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING DEVELOPING AN ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI CORRUPTION INITIATIVE) AVON METALS ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY STATEMENT “The company has a no tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption. This policy extends to all the company’s business dealings and transactions in all countries in which it or its subsidiaries and associates operate. This policy is given force in a detailed anti-bribery Programme which is constantly revised to capture changes in law, reputational demands and changes in the business. All employees are required to comply with this policy.” In an effort to combat global corruption, the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) was formally launched by CEOs from the Engineering & Construction, Energy and Metals and Mining industries in January 2004. The PACI brings together companies in multiple industries from all over the world, regardless of the size of their company. By signing the PACI Principles, signatory companies like Avon Metals commit to having a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and to developing and implementing an anti-corruption programme to guide the behaviour of our employees. The PACI's mission is to develop multi-industry principles a and practices that will result in a competitive level playing field, based on integrity, fairness and ethical conduct. Avon Metals has developed its Anti-Bribery Programme in conjunction with PACI, the International Business Leaders Forum, and a 6-step implementation plan laid down by Transparency International – see page 42. July 2011 sees the introduction of the new UK Bribery Act. To ensure we have adequate anti-bribery polices and procedures in place, Avon Metals has incorporated the following six principles laid down by the Ministry of Justice: Proportionality: The action you take should be proportionate to the risks you face and to the size of your business. Top level commitment: Those at the top of an organisation are in the best position to ensure their organisation conducts business without bribery. Risk assessment: Think about the bribery risks you might face. Due diligence: Knowing exactly who you are dealing with can help to protect your organisation from taking on people who might be less than trustworthy. Communication: Communicating your policies and procedures to staff and to others who will perform services for you enhances awareness and helps to deter bribery by making clear the basis on which your organisation does business. Monitoring and review: The risks you face and the effectiveness of your procedures may change over time. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 41 SDI 16 CONTINUED..... HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING DEVELOPING AN ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI CORRUPTION INITIATIVE) SOCIAL DIMENSION AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 42 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 17 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP(INCLUDING PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT) Avon Metals plays a vital role in developing and providing beneficial products, combating environmental degradation, conserving natural resources and ensuring safe workplaces. Sustainable recycling is the company's raison d'être and our alloy products are used in a wide array of aluminium products in the automotive, architectural, packaging sectors. Aluminium offers lightweight solutions to design problems, allowing for products that use less raw material and energy. In 2007 Avon won The Cast Metals Industry Awards supplier of the year awards. The Award is made for the foundry that has taken both itself and the castings industry forward during the past 12 months, through a combination of innovation, expansion, new technology & investment. Some tangible examples of using our products are: PACKAGING Lightweight drinks cans require about half the amount of fuel for transportation compared with returnable glass bottles. Avon Metals has designed and manufactured an aluminium pallet as an ecofriendly substitute for conventional timber pallets. Aluminium alloys in the form of ingots are stacked on the pallets making for a totally recyclable & sustainable packaging form the pallet can either be re-used time and again, or if required it can become sacrificial as its composition is exactly the same as the customers bulk raw material feed. Recycling aluminum requires only 5% of the energy it takes to make new aluminum – and produces only 5% of the CO2 emissions. This route saves a massive 90% in energy costs, creating a huge positive knock on effect to the environment. Since invention, Avon has supplied over 6000 of its aluminium pallets into the industry. Their wooden counterparts would have required valuable natural raw materials and the appropriate disposal through landfill or incineration. Avon recycles hundreds of tonnes of aluminium foil scrap every year that would otherwise end up in landfill. Product Life Cycle analysis has shown that as much as 90% of the aluminium we have ever recycled is still in existence in some useful form.. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 43 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 17 CONTINUED…. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP (INCLUDING PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT) TRANSPORT The reduction in weight of a medium size car by 100 kgs through substituting steel with aluminium parts that contain Avon alloys would result in a saving of 900 litres of petrol during the vehicle’s lifespan. This would also reduce emission of carbon dioxide by approximately 2 tonnes. There is also immense potential for replacing steel with aluminium in trains. BUILDING Aluminium building products, such as window frames and cladding, have good insulation properties and conserve heating energy. A large amount of waste building materials go to landfill, whereas Avon again recycles hundreds of tonnes per annum back into new products. Avon Metals production of aluminium master alloys that use these elements therefore contributes to the sustainable use of silicon, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, zinc and other elements. This effectively means that, at today’s recycling rate of 4 million tonnes, 200,000 tonnes of alloying elements are simultaneously conserved by the aluminium industry in Europe every year. MINOR METALS Many of the minor metals that Avon trades in have applications that benefit the environment. Two good examples being 1) Rhenium – used at 3-6% in aircraft alloys in turbine engines to assist in leaner burning of fuel. Without Rhenium aircraft such as the Airbus A380 and Boeing Dreamliner would simply not be possible; 2) Silicon metal used in new photovoltaic and solar applications to develop sustainable greener energy resources. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 44 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 17 CONTINUED…. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP (INCLUDING PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT) LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a comprehensive scientific examination of both the positive and the negative environmental, social and economic effects of a product at every stage of its existence, from production to disposal, and beyond. It looks at the impacts of the 'product system', including: the mining/extraction of raw materials; fabrication; transportation; use; recycling/ disposal; energy and ancillary material supplies. LCA of aluminium products may need to consider the production processes of bauxite mining (the first stage in aluminium production); production of alumina (where aluminium oxide is refined from bauxite) and the production of primary aluminium (using electrolysis). Other steps in the aluminium product life cycle include: several semi-fabrication processes for the production of rolled products, extrusions, wire, tubes, forgings and castings; and concludes with the end-of-life operations (including the recycling of scrap materials and final treatment and disposal of waste and by-products). Designing aluminium products with efficient production and recycling in mind helps to reduce their impact throughout their life cycle. LCA is used by the aluminium industry to assess and stimulate environmental improvement in production processes and product development, and this in turn can also lead to improvements in the production processes themselves. For recyclable products such as aluminum, a “cradle-to-cradle” life cycle can be modeled, where recycled material can substitute primary material. Only the material that is lost at the various stages of the life cycle needs to be replaced by primary material as per the illustration. The use of recycled aluminium further decreases energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, when compared to primary aluminium production. This adds further value to the basic reductions already achieved by using aluminium per se such as in transportation applications. A typical LCA consists of four main phases: goal and scope; life cycle inventory; life cycle impact assessment; and interpretation of results and recommendations. the community at large. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 45 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 17 CONTINUED…. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP (INCLUDING PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT) Avon Metals uses its diligent approach to Product Stewardship to address and analyse all these activities with regard to risks, opportunities, and value creation in order to give a holistic overarching view and to find the best overall solutions. The process involves engaging internal decision-makers from R&D, production, marketing, or management, as well as external stakeholders such as suppliers, retailers, customers, consumers, and the general public. Life cycle product stewardship encompasses a range of issues including best materials and process selection, safe consumer use of our products (Material Safety Data Sheets & REACH) and planning for the recovery or safe disposal of materials. LCA enables Avon to implement positive sustainability initiatives that can bring about real tangible benefits from its products, such as the design and production of our unique “Alipallet” that replaces its wooden alternatives. These Avon initiatives contribute to our long-term profitability, protection and enhancement of the natural environment, and well-being of the community at large. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 46 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 18 FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY Thousands of pounds worth of scrap metal is bought and recycled on a weekly basis from a wide array of local suppliers including plumbers, fabrication shops, small metal merchants etc. We estimate that each year our door-trade ploughs £3 million pounds back into the Gloucestershire economy. Our door-trade operations are regulated and audited by the Local Council under our Permit to Operate, and have a separate accounting schedule designated to business generated within the local community, and reflects our contribution to the local economy. Wherever possible Avon Metals endeavours to support the local economy and employ the services of Gloucestershire based companies including haulage contractors, IT specialists, plant maintenance engineers & printers amongst others. Avon Metals is a Corporate Partner of Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust , promoting bio-diversity in the region. In addition to sponsoring Gloucester Rugby team at corporate events, the Company has made financial contributions to St. Peter’s School Rugby Club and Tuffley Rovers Football Club. In the past 5 years, St Peter's has supplied numerous players to the Gloucester Rugby Club Academy, from which Marcel Garvey and Adam Eustace have gone on to be part of a regular Gloucester first team. The company is a member of the Gloucestershire First Ambassadors programme and promotes the county at every available opportunity. AVON INPUT INTO 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 GLOUCESTERSHIRE ECONOMY £ 000’s 1890 2987 2761 1000 1647 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 47 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 19 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Through our research and development activities, we are continuing to develop products which provide social and environmental benefits to our customers and society as a whole. A recent survey conducted by the Carbon Trust highlighted areas of improvements to reduce our Carbon Footprint and the Company has implemented many of the recommendations made (see table below). Capital expenditure projects require full ROI (Return on Investment) analysis and associated positive and negative impacts on the environment. The Company is also an active member of the Climate Change Levy scheme operated by the DTI. Avon Metals works closely with academic groups to develop new innovative aluminium alloys. Several technical papers have been produced and published in major trade related journals and have been meet with global critical acclaim. The company has recently made improvements to the burner systems on its furnaces to ensure maximum yield recovery from raw material and improve fuel consumption. Improvements made as a result Rationale Co2 Energy Cost of the Carbon Trust survey. savings savings Savings (Tonnes (kWh per (£ per per annum) annum) annum) Constructed an action plan Potential energy savings at the site were highlighted through the creation 234.3 806,370 £22,120 Formed an Energy Committee of a formal framework, increased awareness and improved the monitoring Conducted Regular Reviews of the areas and levels of energy consumption. Improved Staff Awareness Began an active poster campaign Began a lighting management There were many instances when lights were being left on in offices and 3.0 6,928 £424 awareness campaign factory when no personnel were present. Switching of lights when not in use has helped reduce our power consumption. Repaired compressed air leeks Power from compressed air costs around 10 times the cost of the 15.2 35,476 £2,,170 around the site electricity from which it was made. Leaks found were tagged and repaired as part of our maintenance schedule. Fitted Passive Infra Red (PIR) Lighting office areas where there is sufficient daylight or when personnel 1.7 3,905 £239 controllers to turn lighting off are not present is wasteful. Fitting a controller that only allows light when when no personnel are present personnel are present and daylight is insufficient has minimised our lighting costs. Replaced halogen floodlights Incandescent filament lamps such as halogen floodlights are much less 3.8 8,938 £500 with HP SON lamps in the ingots energy efficient for a given light output than sodium vapour discharge store lamps. Investigated turning off casting Eliminating wasteful operations is a worthwhile saving 14.3 46,175 £1,847 tracks when not in use Fitted Variable Speed Drives to Variable speed drives allow motors to operate at less than full speed and 51.5 119,700 £7,326 main extractor fan motors save energy. If a motor can operate at a 10% reduction, then savings of 25% can be made. TOTAL SAVINGS MADE 323.8 1,027,492 £34,626 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 48 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Avon Metals is a voluntary participant in the Global Reporting Initiative the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. The G3 Guidelines (incorporating a Metals and Mining specific supplement developed by the International Council for Metals and Mining) have become the de facto global standard for reporting, and include financial, environmental and social dimensions relating to the company's activities, products and services. GRI collaborates with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and the United Nations Global Compact . Our Index Reporting is made available to stakeholders through our corporate website and hardcopy Annual Sustainability Report. In 2008, Avon Metals became an Organisational Stakeholder of the GRI, reinforcing our commitment to change. “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report 2010 was developed with reference to the performance indicators listed as core elements in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (October 2006) and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement (Pilot Version 1.0, 2005). Here we have provided a summary index for our Sustainability against each of the GRI guidelines. We have self-declared our report as meeting the criteria for Application Level A and GRI have checked and agreed Level A status. GRI APPLICATION LEVEL This Sustainability Report was prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative 2002 Guidelines. NOTE: NC indicates a non-core indicator. MM indicates Mining and Metals sector indicator. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 49 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION GRI GRI Description ICMM Location Section Principle Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior 2 Page 4 of “Our 20/20 Vision” decision-maker of the Sustainability Report. organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, 4 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities risks, and opportunities. Key impacts on sustainability Positives: Strong progression in developing recycling rates with Alupro and other associations. Major reduction in volumes to land fill and/ or incineration Negatives: Emissions to air, noise pollution, increase in energy costs, reprocessing of by –products, investment required Approach – Priorities The need to continue to maximise stakeholder investment, continue working with other groups to insure progression in overall recycling rates, investment required in energy efficient processing and production burner equipment, although already very low – improve reusable/ recycling of industrial waste Conclusions on progress Need to lobby stakeholders for more investment but balance against returns. Continue efficiency initiatives underpinned by on-going training by lean manufacturing specialists. Reasons for underperformance – capital expenditure, new legislation eg. REACH, Controls/ monitoring Under new systems developed through lean manufacturing techniques, the mapping of critical issues are monitored, recorded and constantly worked on to drive a continuous improvement programme. In the medium to long term there is an opportunity to make more meaningful reductions in overall energy usage and improvements in efficiencies but this will require more commitment from stakeholders to allow the investment necessary. Risks & Opportunities arising from sustainability trends Risks – Rising energy costs. Rising transport costs. Increasing environmental controls and monitoring, increasing overheads and lowering profitability. Opportunities Development of Grant Funding AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 50 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 10 Avon Metals Ltd 2.2 Primary brands, products, 10 Aluminium ingots – brand “AVON”, nonand/or services. ferrous scrap metal and specialty minor metals. 2.3 Operational structure of the 10 Avon Metals is 100% privately owned by organization, including main The Remet Company and the Reid divisions, operating Family. See Page 77 of our “Our 20/20 companies, subsidiaries, and Vision” Sustainability Report. joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s 10 Avon Metals Ltd, Ashville Road, Gloucester, GL2 5DA headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where 10 1 – United Kingdom the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal 10 Privately owned by The Remet Company form. Ltd and the Reid Family. Established in 2001. 2.7 Markets served. 10 Aluminium casting companies, aluminium rolling mills and extruders, titanium producers, copper alloy producers, superalloy producers, steel and stainless steel producers, electronics industry, silicones industry, powder metallurgy 2.8 Scale of the reporting 10 Scale of reporting organisation as at organization. 30.6.10: Number of employees = 42 Net sales = £40,664,000 Total capitalisation Debt = £4,955,000 Equity = £40,664,000 Quantity of products provided Manufactured product – 11,268 tonnes Traded products = 6,540 tonnes 2.9 Significant changes during 10 None. the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the 10 Page 76 of “Our 20/20 Vision” reporting period. Sustainability Report AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 51 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period. 10 Avon Metals’ sustainability reporting is on a continuous basis. The Avon Sustainability Report highlights our 2006-2010 performance. 3.2 Date of most recent previous 10 2009 report. 3.3 Reporting cycle. 10 Avon Metal’s sustainability reporting is on a continuous basis. The Avon Sustainability Report covers our annual performance. 3.4 Contact point for questions 10 Steven Munnoch, Managing Director regarding the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10 “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report includes data from financial years 20062010 .Many factors were considered in determining the contents of this report, including Avon’s main sustainability impacts and opportunities, reporting activity within our own industry, and external guidelines such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our stakeholders are the key groups of people who influence the success and development of our business and are detailed on pages 74-75 of our CSR Report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 Data contained in this reporting is for Avon Metals’ facility. 3.7 State any specific limitations on 10 The reporting is for Avon Metals’ facility. the scope or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint 10 There are no joint ventures, subsidiaries, ventures, subsidiaries, leased leased facilities, outsourced operations, and facilities, outsourced operations, other entities that can significantly affect and other entities that can comparability from period to period and/or significantly affect comparability between organizations. from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and 10 Avon uses a variety of internal standards the bases of calculations, including and data collection systems, as well as a assumptions and techniques rigorous internal and external audit process. underlying estimations applied to In addition, we conform to external data the compilation of the Indicators reporting standards, such as British and other information in the Standards, and comply with government report. bodies like the Environment Agency. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re10 Completion date for Carbon Neutral target statements of information provided increased to 2020. in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous 10 No significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, report. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 52 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION 3.12 Table identifying the location of 10 The GRI Content Index can be found on the standard disclosures in the Page 50 of “Our 20/20 Vision” report. Sustainability Report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with 10 “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report regard to seeking external follows the guidelines set out by the GRI. assurance for the report. All information contained has been reviewed at senior levels and by all departmental heads. undertakes a range of audit and assurance on activities including financial (auditors), packaging waste (Environment Agency), environmental & EHS (BSi management), customer performance audits. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the 1 Page 77 “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability organization. Report See flowchart “Corporate Structure” 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the 1 As of 2010, the chairman of the board is highest governance body is also also an executive officer. The Chairman of an executive officer. the board is also an executive officer as he is the owner of the business and chooses to take an active role in the business which he owns and operates. 4.3 For organizations that have a 1 Avon Metals does not have a unitary board unitary board structure, state the structure. number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 1 There are no formal mechanisms in place employees to provide for employees to also provide guidance or recommendations or direction to recommendations to the highest the highest governance body. governance body. All employees and minority shareholders are encouraged to communicate any concerns to Avon Metals’ Board of Directors via the Managing Director, who would confer with the Chairman/Owner. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for 1 See Pages 28-30 of “our 20/20 Vision” members of the highest Sustainability Report. Directors & Managers governance body, senior are a paid bonus based on profitability but managers, and executives changing to reflect instability issues with (including departure regards to the 20/20 Vision. Key personnel arrangements), and the are tied by long notice periods to ensure 4.7 organization’s performance Process for determining the 1 continuity. Pages 28-30 of “Our Vision” Sustainability qualifications andand (including social expertise of the Report. environmental members of theperformance). highest 4.6 Processes inbody governance placefor the highest forguiding the 1 Corporate Governance governance body to ensure organization’s strategy on Governance Guidelines conflicts economic, of environmental, interest are avoided. and Governance and Nominating Committee social topics. Anti-Bribery Policy Whistle blowing Policy AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 53 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION 4.8 Internally developed statements of 1 Mission Statement – Page 3 mission or values, codes of Intro to Sustainability Philosophy – Page 4 conduct, and principles relevant to UN Global Compact Principles – Pages 34-35 economic, environmental, and Human Rights & Core Values– Page 39-40 social performance and the status Anti-Bribery – Page 41 of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest 1 Water Policies – Page 19 governance body for overseeing Global Compact Actions – Pages 35-36 the organization’s identification Employees Rights – Page 40 and management of economic, Anti-Bribery – Page 42 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the 1 Corporate Governance highest governance body’s own Governance Guidelines performance, particularly with Governance and Nominating Committee respect to economic, GRI Verification environmental, and social UN Global Compact performance. PACI Shift Initiative 4.11 Explanation of whether and how 2 Through our extensive management the precautionary approach or systems, we advocate a risk-based principle is addressed by the approach to our operations. At this stage, organization. however, we do not formally address the precautionary principle in our sustainability reporting. 4.12 Externally developed economic, 1 We subscribe to or endorse the following environmental, and social charters, externally developed principles or initiatives: principles, or other initiatives to • UN Global Compact (Page 34-38. which the organization subscribes • World Economic Forum Partnership or endorses. Against Corruption Initiative (Pages 39-42). • International Aluminium Institute Sustainability Principles. • International Council on Mining & Metals Principles 4.13 Memberships in associations (such 1 • Aluminium Federation (ALFED) as industry associations) and/or • British Metals Recycling Association national/international advocacy (BMRA) organizations. • Cast Metals Federation (CMF) • Minor Metals Trade Association (MMTA) • Aluminium Packaging Recycling Organisation (AluPRO) • International Titanium Association (ITA) • Beacon South West • Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust • Gloucestershire Ambassadors • Slimbridge Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 54 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 10 Pages 69-71 of “Our 20/20 Vision” engaged by the organization. Sustainability Report • Customers • Raw material providers • Service providers • Members of staff • Aluminium Federation • Cast Metal Federation • Minor Metals Trade Association • ALUPRO • Beacon South West • Local Police Force • Local companies 4.15 Basis for identification and 10 Avon Metal engages with a wide range of selection of stakeholders with stakeholders . Stakeholders were identified whom to engage. during the planning process for the publication of “Our 20/20 Vision” as those groups that may be significantly impacted, positively of negatively, by Avon Metals’ products, services and activities. see Pages 73-75 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder 10 Pages 73-75 of “Our 20/20 Vision” engagement, including frequency Sustainability Report of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have 10 Pages 69-71 of “Our 20/20 Vision” been raised through stakeholder Sustainability Report engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach – Economic Goals related to the economic aspects are set and Goals & Performance performance measured against company specific indicators tracking impacts to society and stakeholders. Pages 43-48 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Policy Report Organisational Responsibility Our organizational structure is detailed on page 74 of our 20/20 Vision Sustainability Report Training & Awareness Encouraged 4 members of ICME + specific training Monitoring and Follow-up Clear reporting + Regular meetings Additional Information Key successes – doubling of profits year on year, Queens Award for International Trade in 2010, local door trade contributed £1.6 million per annum to Gloucestershire economy Risks – Declining demand for consumer goods in tough economic climate, stiff competition from cheaper aluminium producers such as China, India and eastern Europe. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 55 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Performance Indicators—Economic EC1 Direct economic value 9 Page 47 & 76 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations, and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and 9 Avon Metals’ Senior Management is engaged in the other risks and implications and opportunities related to the issue of opportunities for the climate change. Avon Metals commits to investing a organization’s activities significant portion of its Research and Development due to climate change. budget to support and develop alternative energy and less carbon-intensive raw material sources, including solar photovoltaics. We are examining the way our products are made and constantly seeking opportunities to utilise new process technologies that substantially reduce the carbon consumed as energy inputs or that is released during the manufacture of our products. We have not yet quantified these risks and opportunities in detail, as we believe that the risks and opportunities to our business are currently too small to justify committing valuable management time and resources. EC3 Coverage of the 9 The structure of retirement plans offered to employees organization’s defined are base on “other types of benefit”. A stakeholder benefit plan obligations. retirement scheme has been established providing benefits based upon individual accumulated funds. The employer contributes individually agree amounts to the fund of each member. Employees are entitled to make undefined contributions to their fund, subject to the rules of the scheme. Only a few senior employees are known EC4 Significant financial 9 None to benefit from company contributions. No employees assistance received from contributions are made through the company and it is government. not known if employees are contributing directly to their EC6 Policy, practices, and 9 Wherever possible Avon Metals endeavours to support scheme funds. proportion of spending the local economy and employ the services of on locally-based Gloucestershire based companies including haulage suppliers at significant contractors, IT specialists, plant maintenance engineers locations of operation. & printers amongst others, however we do not have a specific policy in place for preferring locally based suppliers. Our geographic definition of “local” means within 5 miles of our company. Factors that indicate our supplier selection include: cost, reputation, reliability, reduction of carbon footprint by using local companies, convenience, response time. Avon Metals source makes purchases from all over the world , directly from countries where the product is mined/extracted. Therefore, as a percentage of overall spend, our local purchases are minimal and account for less than 1% per annum. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 56 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION EC7 Procedures for local hiring and 9 The company does not have a global policy or proportion of senior management common practices for granting preference to hired from the local community at local residents when hiring in significant locations of significant operation. locations of operation. The proportion of senior management hired from the local community is currently 100%. EC8 Development and impact of 9 Pages 20 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability infrastructure investments and Report . services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. MM1 Identify those sites where the local 9 Pages 73-75 of “Our 20/20 Vision” economic contribution and Sustainability Report development impact is of particular significance and interest to stakeholders and outline policies with respect to assessing this contribution. Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Goals & Performance Avon Metals are committed to minimizing the environmental impact of our operations and our products through the adoption of sustainable practices and continuous improvement in environmental performance. We manage our performance against clear and objective criteria, setting targets for improvement and then monitor, review and report against these targets. Sustainable Development Indicators (SDIs) have been developed with quantifiable targets to improve our regulatory compliance and environmental control procedures, to reduce our CO2 emissions per tonne of aluminium product, to reduce waste landfill and energy and water consumption, to increase recycling rates and to improve the environment within which we operate. Policy Our Environmental Policy is communicated online via our corporate website www.avonmetals.com Organisational Responsibility Our organizational structure is detailed on page 77 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report Training & Awareness Training is carried out within the guidelines and framework of our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. Monitoring and Follow-up Avon Metals’ operates an environmental management system certified to the ISO 14001 standard, with internal and external audits of compliance. Additional Information Key successes – implementation of ISO 14001, reduction in Greenhouse Gases, corporate sponsorship of Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and Slimbridge Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust. Risks – REACH legislation, Climate Change A recent study by the Carbon Trust identified areas for improvement and these are detailed on page 48 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 57 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Performance Indicators—Environmental EN1 Materials used by 6 2010 tonnages:weight or volume. • Primary Aluminium = 1392 tonnes • Aluminium Scrap = 8359 tonnes • Aluminium packaging waste = 437 tonnes • Alloying elements = 1912 tonnes EN2 Percentage of 6 2010 = 76% 2007 = 74% materials used 2009 = 76% that are recycled 2008 = 74% input materials. EN3 Direct energy 6 Direct Non-Renewable Energy Sources consumption by Coal = NIL primary energy Natural Gas = 36,000 Giga Joules per annum source. -------------------------------------------------------------------Direct Renewable Energy Sources Biofuels = NIL Ethanol = NIL Hydrogen = NIL --------------------------------------------------------------------Direct energy sources produced = NIL Direct energy sources sold = NIL Total direct energy consumption = 61,200 GJ per annum Total direct renewable energy consumption = NIL Total direct non-renewable direct energy consumption = 61,200 Gig Joule per annum EN4 Indirect energy 6 Intermediate energy purchased and consumed from nonconsumption by renewable energy sources: primary source. Gigajoules Electricity 25,200 per annum Heating and Cooling NIL Steam NIL Nuclear Energy NIL Other forms of imported energy NIL ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Intermediate energy purchased and consumed from renewable energy sources: Gigajoules Solar NIL Wind NIL Geothermal NIL Hydro energy NIL Biomass -based NIL Hydrogen-based NIL The total amount of indirect energy used by indirect nonrenewable sources and indirect renewable sources in terms of intermediate energy = 25,200 Gigajoules for 2010. From informal discussions with our electricity provider, we estimate that 1 Gigajoule of electrical energy requires 2.5 Gigajoules of primary energy. Therefore approx. 63,000 Gigajoules of primary energy are used to generate the intermediate energy we purchase – this excess is due to grid and efficiency losses when converting and transporting energy. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 58 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION EN5 Energy saved due to 6 Pages 16-22 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report NC conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide 6 Pages 16-22 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report NC energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce 6 See EN6 NC NC indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. EN8 Total water withdrawal 6 Pages 21 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report by source. EN10 Percentage and total 6 Pages 16-22 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report NC volume of water recycled and reused. EN11 Location and size of land 7 The company operations are not located in or near owned, leased, managed protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. in, or adjacent to, However, the company is keen to promote biodiversity protected areas and and conservation of wildlife on a regional level and to areas of high biodiversity this end we are corporate partners and sponsors of value outside protected Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust and areas. Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust. The work we engage in with these valued business partners is detailed in Page 15 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. EN12 Description of significant 7 The company is not aware of events in the period of impacts of activities, reporting causing significant negative impacts on products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity in protected biodiversity value. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or 7 Page 15 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. NC restored. Avon helps to protect and restore local habitats through our corporate membership of Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust. EN14 Strategies, current 7 Page 15 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. NC actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 59 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION EN15 Number of IUCN Red List 7 None. NC species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect 6 Page 5 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Carbon Dioxide (CO2): • 2010 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2009 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2008 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2007 = 15.8 mg/m3 • 2006 = 31 mg/m3 In the period of reporting we have reduced our Carbon Dioxide emissions by 92%. Avon Metals is not a significant generator of the direct Greenhouse gases Methane, Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG)emissions Carbon Monoxide (CO): • 2010 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2009 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2008 = 2.38 mg/m3 • 2007 = 3.9 mg/m3 In the period of reporting we have reduced our Carbon Monoxide emissions by 39%. EN17 Other relevant indirect 6 Page 5 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. greenhouse gas Sulphur Oxide and Nitrogen Oxide data is detailed in emissions by weight. EN20. Carbon Monoxide data is detailed in EN16. Avon Metals is not a significant generator of other indirect greenhouse gases such as Non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs). EN19 Emissions of ozone6 Page 5 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. depleting substances by Avon Metals is not a significant generator of ozone weight. depleting CFC (chlorofluorocarbon) gases. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 60 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION EN20 NO, SO, and 6 Page 5 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. In the period of reporting 2006 – 2009 Avon Metals have reduced other Nitrogen Oxide emissions by 93% and Sulphur Oxide emissions by significant air 29%. Nitrogen Oxide Emissions (NOx): emissions by • 2010 = 2.28 mg/m3 2006 = 31 mg/m3 type and • 2009 = 2.28 mg/m3 weight. • 2008 = 2.28 mg/m3 • 2007 = <5 mg/m3 Sulphur Oxide Emissions (SOx): • 2010 = 2.9 mg/m3 2007 = 4.1 mg/m3 • 2009 = 2.9 mg/m3 • 2008 = 2.9 mg/m3 In addition since we also report on the following other significant air emissions: Cadmium and its compounds • 2010 = 0.015 mg/m3 2007 = 0.007 mg/m3 • 2009 = 0.015 mg/m3 • 2008 = 0.015 mg/m3 Lead and its compounds – permissible max. limit = 1 mg/m3 • 2010 = 0.010 mg/m3 2006 = 0.10 mg/m3 • 2009 = 0.010 mg/m3 • 2008 = 0.010 mg/m3 • 2007 = 0.018 mg/m3 Chloride (as HCl) – permissible max. limit = 5 mg/m3 • 2009 = 1.38 mg/m3 • 2008 = 1.38 mg/m3 • 2007 = 1.08 mg/m3 • 2006 = 2.19 mg/m3 Fluoride (as HF) – permissible max. limit = 5 mg/m3 • 2010 = 0.430 mg/m3 2006 – 0.23 mg/m3 • 2009 = 0.430 mg/m3 • 2008 = 0.430 mg/m3 • 2007 = 0.14 mg/m3 Total particulate matter – permissible max. limit = 209mg/m3 • 2010 = 3.605 mg/m3 2006 = 9.47 mg/m3 • 2009 = 3.605 mg/m3 • 2008 = 3.605 mg/m3 • 2007 = 2.62 mg/m3 In most cases improvements have been made and our emissions our well below the statutory levels imposed under our Permit to Operate. EN21 Total water 6 Avon Metals is dedicated to implementing innovative ways to discharge by conserve water, including rainwater capture, and identifying byquality and product synergy opportunities to reuse the water for beneficial destination. purposes. A large proportion (70%) of the water we use on site is for cooling down molten metal and this water evaporates into the atmosphere. The remaining 30% passes through our interceptor tanks to remove any solid matter or oils before being discharged into the foul sewers. Severn Trent Water have assessed our site and have confirmed that the water we discharge is 100% safe to return to the water course and we receive a 90% reduction on our sewage levy as an incentive to maintain this process. Water Discharges (estimated) Evaporated water from cooling molten metal: • 2010 = 3725 m3 2006 = 2631 m3 • 2009 = 2891 m3 • 2008 = 3527 m3 • 2007 = 3180 m3 Water discharged into the foul sewer: • 2010 = 1596 m3 2006 = 1127 m3 • 2009 = 1239 m3 • 2008 = 1512 m3 • 2007 = 1364 m3 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 61 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION EN22 Total weight of waste by type and 6 Total weight of waste by type and disposal disposal method. method for 2010. All the waste that Avon Metals generates is non hazardous. The method of disposal has been determined from information provided to us by our waste disposal contractor. Material Weight (kgs) Disposal Dross 828,000 100% recycled Concrete 32,940 100% recycled Hardcore (rubble) 159,820 100% recycled Road Dig 305,240 100% recycled A Grade Packing Wood 99,940 100% recycled Cardboard 2,070 100% recycled General Waste 163,500 85% recycled EN23 Total number and volume of 6 No significant spills occurred within the reporting significant spills. period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, 6 Avon Metals adheres to the strictest NC exported, or treated waste deemed environmental standards and laws for the hazardous under the terms of the transport of hazardous waste. Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, In the period of reporting we did not and VIII, and percentage of import/export any hazardous waste. transported waste shipped internationally. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate 8 Pages 11, 42-45 of “Our 20/20 Vision” environmental impacts of products Sustainability Report and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and 8 Data on the percentage of products sold and their packaging materials reclaimed by category their packaging materials that are is not available on a global level due to the reclaimed by category. varying availability of recycling programs and facilities in the countries in which we sell our products. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines 6 Avon Metals’ goal is 100% compliance with all and total number of non-monetary environmental laws and regulations. sanctions for noncompliance with There were no fines in the reporting period. environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection 6 DISA Airmaster to control stack emissions £100k. NC expenditures and investments by New furnaces to improve recycling recovery rates type. £500k AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 62 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION MM3 The number/percentage of sites 7 We do not have a specific biodiversity identified as requiring biodiversity management plan. Biodiversity is controlled management plans, and the under our ISO 14001 Environmental number/percentage of sites with Management System and our co-ordination with plans in place. Also include criteria Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and Slimbridge for deciding that a biodiversity Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust. management plan is required and the key components of a plan. MM4 Percentage of product(s) derived 8 2010 = 76% 2007 = 74% from secondary materials. 2009 = 76% 2008 = 74% MM5 Describe policies for assessing the 8 Page 43-46 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability eco-efficiency and sustainability Report attributes of products. MM6 Describe approach to management 7 The dross or skimming’s that are created in our of overburden, rock, tailings, and smelting process are sent away for refining at a sludges/residues. specialist plant in Shropshire, where any useful metal content is extracted and machined in remeltable metallic balls and the leftover salt cake is sold into the refractory and brickwork industries to make useful building and ceramic based products, due to the organic content. Page 8 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report Goals & Performance Avon Metals wants to be a challenging work place based on trust, respect, inclusion, and with a healthy and safe working environment. Policy Our Health & Safety policy forms part of our statutory information given to all employees as part of their Employee Handbook and Terms & Conditions of Employment. United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (core conventions) Organisational Responsibility Our organizational structure is detailed on page 77 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report Training & Awareness Training is carried out in line with OHSAS 18001 protocol including: • Work-life balance and lifelong learning • Individual development plans for all • Diversity in the workplace • Continuous focus on Occupational Health and Safety Publishing of 20/20 Vision to stakeholders. Monitoring and Follow-up Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventative actions are carried out in line with OHSAS 18001 standard, to which we intend to be accredited to by British Standards in 2011 and will be audited accordingly. Additional Information Key successes – UN Global Compact signatory, Zero Fatality Rate. Risks – retaining competent staff. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 63 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Disclosure on Management Approach – Labour practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators—Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by 3 Page 30 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. employment type, Total Avon Workforce: employment contract, and 52 employees at July 2010 region. Breakdown by Employment Type: 100% of all Avon employees are full time. Breakdown by Employment Contract: 100% of Avon employees are permanently contracted. Region: 100% employed in Gloucester, UK. LA2 Total number and rate of 3 Avon Metals believes that its people are its most valuable employee turnover by age asset and aims to create safe and sustainable group, gender, and employment conditions. Staff turnover is much lower than region. the local average at less than 5% per annum during the four year period of reporting. Avon does not release employee turnover data by age group, gender or region for proprietary and competitive reasons. LA4 Percentage of employees 3 Nil. covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) 3 Our practice is to give notice as early as possible and regarding operational cooperate with the employee representatives. We have no changes, including collective agreements in place. whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce 5 Avon Metals has several trained health and NC represented in formal joint safety representatives who participate in management–worker health and deployment of the location’s proactive safety safety committees that help efforts. monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational 5 Page 27 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability diseases, lost days, and Report. absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by region. The occupational disease rate (ODR) for the period of reporting was zero. Absenteeism rate (AR) = the number of days of absence from work (excluding leaves for vacations, family reasons, study, and maternity or paternity) , which was 130 in 2010, compared to the total number of days worked, 14,250 and multiplied by 100 = 0.91%. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 64 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION LA8 Education, training, counseling, 5 Pages 23-29 of “Our 20/20 Vision” prevention, and risk-control Sustainability Report programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in 2 Avon Metals has several trained health and NC formal agreements with trade safety representatives who participate in unions. deployment of the location’s proactive safety efforts. LA10 Average hours of training per year 2 Training and education varies by job role per employee by employee and responsibilities. On average, there are category. approximately 50 hours of training per employee. Avon Metals has extensive training programs for employees involved in every job category. See Pages 28 and 29 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. LA11 Programs for skills management 2 Pages 28-29 of “Our 20/20 Vision” NC and lifelong learning that support Sustainability Report the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 3 100%. Page 14 of “Our 20/20 Vision” NC regular performance and career Sustainability Report. development reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies 3 Page 30 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. Our company structure may be and breakdown of employees per found on page74 of “Our 20/20 Vision” category according to gender, age Sustainability Report. Avon Metals’ aims to create a diverse multi-national, multi-skilled group, minority group workforce. Our workforce is displayed below membership, and other indicators by Diversity Indicators (gender,, minority, of diversity. age): The following provides diversity indicators for the main employee population. By gender: • Male 93 % • Female 7 % By minority (ethnicity, disability etc): • Minority 49 % • Non-minority 51 % By age: • Less than 30: 31 % • 30 to 50: 42 % • Older than 50: 27 % The following provides diversity indicators for the individuals within the organization’s governance body: By gender: • Male 100 % • Female 0 % By minority (ethnicity, disability etc): • Minority 0 % • Non-minority 100 % By age: • Less than 30: 0 % • 30 to 50: 40 % • Older than 50: 60 % LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to 3 Page 14 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. women by employee category. The average base salary by gender: • Male £22,000 per annum • Female £19,000 per annum The ratio of male to female average base salary in 2010 was 1.16 : 1 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 65 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Disclosure on Management Approach – Human Rights Goals & Performance Avon Metals prides itself on its reputation as a fair and ethically run business. We aim to earn the trust and respect of the businesses and people within our sphere of influence, through our core values of transparency, accountability, integrity, solidarity, courage, justice & democracy Policy Our Human Rights Policy and Human Rights Statement reflect internationally recognized principles – including the United Nations Global Compact and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work – to promote and protect human rights in the workplace. We abhor human right abuses and child labour and have a “zero tolerance” attitude to these issues. Organisational Responsibility Our organizational structure is detailed on page 77 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. Training & Awareness Training is given in line with guidelines laid down by the United Nations Global Compact and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Monitoring & Follow-up See United Nations Global Compact Additional Information Key successes -Avon Metals is a signatory to the World Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Risks – future suppliers in regions such as China may not have equivalent Human Rights standards. Performance Indicators—Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of 3 Human rights screening is a part of our significant investment agreements environmental and social impact that include human rights clauses or assessments, which are conducted in the that have undergone human rights early phase of all major projects. During the screening. period of reporting, there were no large investment agreements that included human rights clauses or that have required human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers 3 100%. No actions were required to be taken. and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and Pages 39-42 of “Our 20/20 Vision” actions taken. Sustainability Report. HR4 Total number of incidents of 3 There were no incidents of discrimination discrimination and actions taken. during the reporting period. HR5 Operations identified in which the 3 Page 40 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability right to exercise freedom of Report. association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 66 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION HR6 Operations identified as having 3 We have identified that our operation is not at significant risk for incidents of child risk of employing child labour. labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having 3 Our single site operation has been identified as significant risk for incidents of forced having zero significant risk for incidents of or compulsory labor, and measures to forced or compulsory labour. contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Disclosure on Management Approach Social Goals & Performance Avon Metals are committed to conducting our business in a way that ensures health and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and any person affected by our activities. We do not tolerate corrupt or fraudulent practices and expect transparency, integrity and honesty in all aspects of our business, from our employees, contractors and other business counterparts. We aim to play a positive role in the communities and societies within which we operate, promoting and encouraging economic, environmental, social and educational development where possible. Avon Metals wants to be a responsible corporate neighbour in the communities in which we operate. We strive to integrate this objective in the way we work, through all our business processes and our products. We operate on the basis of high business integrity standards and have clear guidelines for donations and influencing public policy. Policy Our Anti Bribery & Corruption Policy is detailed on pages 3942 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report and follows guidelines laid down by the World Economic Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption Initiative. UN Global Compact Whistleblowing Policy Harassment & Bullying Policy Organisational Responsibility Our organizational structure is detailed on page 74 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. Training & Awareness Avon Metals' training & awareness measures have not been devised to correct bad behavior, but instead to further galvanise our values of accountability, responsibility and openness and honesty. As a means of ensuring effective implementation, we have developed training material and continue to train selected employee groups. Furthermore, all employees have access to guidance and a means to raise concern about possible breaches of our integrity principles anonymously. Monitoring and Follow-up Confidential mechanisms for employees to report issues of concern are in place. A formal investigative process is in place to respond to reports of corruption. Managed by the Managing Director, the Chairman and a senior representative from the relevant department. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 67 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Additional Information Key successes – becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact and PACI Initiatives. Introduction of Whistleblowing & Harassment & Bullying Policies. Risks our governing policies and procedures relating to the social issues covered in this section provide us with assurances to minimise risks in these areas. Performance Indicators—Society SO1 Percentage of operations with 2, 4 Total number of operations = 1. Environmental implemented local community impact assessments and ongoing monitoring are engagement, impact assessments, an carried out in line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 development programmes. standards. See pages 31-33 Improvement of Community Relations and pages 72-74 Stakeholder Engagement. We believe in giving something back to the many communities we work in: building links with local businesses, supporting our people in their own neighbourhoods and reinforcing our reputation as a responsible company. We give our skills and our time, as well as money to supporting people volunteering and fundraising projects. See pages 95 & 30-32 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report SO2 Percentage and total number of 1 100% . Our Anti Bribery and Corruption policy has business units analysed for risks related been developed and disseminated in accordance with to corruption. the World Economic Partnership’s PACI Initiative. See pages 39-42. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 1 100% of our 52 employees (5 management and 47 organisation’s anti-corruption policies non-management employees) have received antiand procedures. corruption training during the reporting period. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents 1 There were no incidents of anti-corruption within the of anti-corruption. reporting period, and therefore no action was required to be taken in response. There were no incidents when contracts with business partners were not renewed due to violations related to corruption. There were no legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the company or its employees during the reporting period. SO5 Public policy positions and participation 1 Avon Metals’ senior Management has developed in public policy development and relationships with key government stakeholders, lobbying. policy influencers, NGOs and trade and business associations who impact Avon’s interests and business concerns. We have therefore been indirectly involved in lobbying on topics such as Climate Change, REACH legislation through our membership of trade associations such as the Aluminium Federation and the Minor Metals Trade Association. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind 1 Zero contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti1 Zero competitive behaviour and anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and 1 Zero total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations, AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 68 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Describe program in which the reporting 9 N/A. There is no artisanal or small scale organization has been involved that mining conducted within our area of addressed artisanal and small-scale operation. mining (ASM) within company areas of operation. Describe resettlement policies and 3 N/A activities. MM10 Number or percentage of 2 N/A operations with closure plans, covering social—including labor transition—environmental and economic aspects. Describe company policy, stakeholder engagement processes, frequency of plan review, and amount and type of financial provisions for closure. MM11 Describe process for identifying 3 During 2006-2010 inclusive there were no local communities’ land and reports of violations involving rights of customary rights, including those indigenous people received in relation to of indigenous peoples, and Avon Metals’ operations. grievance mechanisms used to resolve any disputes. MM12 Describe approach to identifying, 4 Emergency management is part of our preparing for, and responding to management systems that require all emergency situations affecting operations to have emergency response employees, communities, or the plans, and to conduct ongoing skills training environment. and exercises to assess their workers' readiness to respond to actual emergencies. The primary response techniques and training are for such things as molten metal splashes, handling hazardous materials, firefighting and providing agreed-upon local aid. MM13 Number of new cases of 5 Avon Metals believes that our employees occupational disease by type. are our most valuable asset and we aim to Describe programs to prevent create clean, safe and sustainable working occupational disease. conditions. There were no reports of occupational disease in the reporting period. The Company promotes a healthy work-life balance and annual health screenings are conducted including monitoring of hearing levels, lung function and night workers assessment. The company operates a no smoking policy. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 69 SDI 20 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ECONOMIC DIMENSION Disclosure on Management Approach – Product Responsibility Goals & Performance Our goal is to make successful value added metal products in a sustainable manner, without harming anyone or the environment. Policy ISO 9001 Quality Management System ISO 14001 Environmental Management System OHSAS 18001 Health & Safety system – process started Organisational Responsibility Our organisational structure is detailed on page 73 of “Our 20/20 Vision” Sustainability Report. Training & Awareness All training is carried out in line with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. Monitoring and Follow-up Audits are carried out in line with our Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Standard systems. Additional Information Key successes – Cast Metals Federation Supplier of the Year 2007 Risks – REACH legislation, Climate change Performance Indicators—Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health 8 Pages 43-46 of “Our 20/20 Vision” and safety impacts of products and Sustainability Report. services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR3 Type of product and service 8 Adequate information is given to customers. information required by Avon Metals does not produce endprocedures, percentage of consumer products. Material Safety Data significant products and services Sheets are supplied with all our products. subject to such information requirements. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 1 Avon Metals is not targeting end-consumers standards, and voluntary codes in our marketing. related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non1 Zero. NC compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines 1 No significant fines for noncompliance with for noncompliance with laws and laws and regulations concerning the regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. provision and use of products and services. Some GRI descriptions are edited for length. For the complete Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, please visit www.globalreporting.org. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 70 MANAGEMENT & LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT Avon Metals’ Directors and Management inspire our people and control resources in line with our established Quality, H&S and Environmental standards. The Management is responsible for planning what products to sell and make in the future, organising the materials and resources necessary to carry out these plans, motivating others to play an effective part in achieving these plans and monitoring the progress of these plans to ensure they have been implemented correctly. The Management Team has a combined industry experience of over a century, and works closely with our local Business Link and makes full use of their corporate services such as the Bridge Process a strategic management programme designed to ensure that as a management group there is involvement, clarity, visibility and agreement in the direction that the business is travelling. The company is either accredited or working towards Management Systems for Quality (ISO 9001), Environment (ISO 14001) and Health & Safety (OHSAS 18001) and is currently conducting a feasibility study on the potential integration of LEAN and Six Sigma techniques into our manufacturing processes. LEADERSHIP Avon Metals’ mantra is “leadership through performance and accountability”. The direction and vision of the company is spearheaded by the Managing Director, Steven Munnoch. In 2007 he was made a Director and Chairman of the Contracts Committee of the MMTA (Minor Metals Trade Association) and he won the Young Business Person of the Year at the 2007 Citizen & Echo Gloucestershire Business Awards. Our rules for leadership:  Have an open mind a love for travel Good leaders listen as much as they talk  Good leaders have a positive attitude and inspire people  Good leaders invest in their mind and body  A good leader is a student for life  A good leader respects and values people at all levels  A good leader builds the entire team  Good leaders know how to have fun AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 71 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – BRIDGING THE GAP Avon Metals acknowledges our responsibility to contribute to sustainable development. This requires the company to have a clear understanding of relevant opportunities where it can make a positive contribution. Where appropriate, this includes contribution through assuming a sense of leadership. Our stakeholder engagement works in tandem with our consultation with local communities and considers the wider, not just neighbouring, communities with which we interact. In particular, the issues which our stakeholders indicate to be of greatest importance are:  Occupational health and safety  Economic and social sustainability  Environmental and product stewardship  Governance and ethics  Climate change HOW WE ENGAGE OUR STAKEHOLDERS In the period of reporting, Avon Metals has continued to communicate with a wide range of stakeholders – we believe that active civil society engagement is fundamental to the success of our business. Working in partnership with others in civil society means we can tackle problems and seek solutions acceptable to all parties. Skills and resources can be pooled to achieve outcomes none of us could achieve on our own. We play an active role within the Minor Metals Trade Association (MMTA) and hold positions on the Executive Committee. We have also continued to play a leading advisory role through participation in a number of sector trade associations and government bodies, including the Aluminium Federation (AlFed); The Institute of Materials, Minerals & Mining; International Titanium Association; Aluminium Packaging Recycling Organisation (AluPRO); Cast Metals Federation (CMF); the British Metals Recycling Association; Gloucester City Council; Gloucester County Council; Beacon South West and the South West Manufacturing Network. Avon Metals sponsors the Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and Slimbridge Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust on bio-diversity and wildlife projects. The company is involved in a number of sustainability and corporate governance initiatives including the UN Global Compact; Global Reporting Initiative & the World Economic Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption Initiative. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 72 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – BRIDGING THE GAP CONTINUED…. We engage our stakeholders through:  One to one dialogue (meeting stakeholders individually)  Open exchange (round tables with other Beacon companies)  Open doors (site visits to customer sites)  Partnerships Stakeholder engagement at Avon Metals is carried out throughout the year and is integrated into business decision making processes. Complementing our stakeholder meetings, Avon Metals’ Directors also meet regularly with our major shareholders regularly. At these meetings we discuss matters relating to corporate social responsibility and sustainability, together with the performance and development of the business. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 73 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – BRIDGING THE GAP CONTINUED…. Stakeholder Engagement Engagement Key topics Response Reporting Group method frequency and concerns method Customers Verbal Daily Quality Regular One to one Electronic Environmental updates Face to face Legislation Questionnaire Commercial s Raw material Verbal Daily Commercial Quality claims One to one suppliers Electronic Environmental Contracts Mentoring Sustainability Service Partnership As required Stability Improvement Report to providers Ad hoc in service Directors dialogue Trade Partnership As required Legislation Compliance Update Associations Open Ad hoc Membership reports exchange dialogue Minutes Open doors Open days Lobbying Police Partnership Weekly Stolen Goods Robust Direct Crime Systems prevention Report Suspicions Initiatives Partnership Quarterly PACI Continuous Update Open Global monitoring reports exchange Compact Minutes Open doors Reach Shareholders Verbal Weekly Profit & loss Assistance Weekly Cap-Ex where management Finance required meetings Environment Email Monthly Emissions Compliance Open site Agency Verbal Packaging with Site visits waste legislation Workforce Open Forum Daily H&S Continuous Published Works Council Training improvement actions Feedback Welfare Cascade logs communicatio n Management Review Daily Raw materials Continuous Minutes meeting Future sales improvement Trading Production Operations Finance AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 74 KEY FACTS & FIGURES KEY FACTS & FIGURES ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION SDI 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TARGET Reduction of Carbon Dioxide (mg/m³) SDI 1 31 15.8 2.38 2.38 2.38 <2 Reduction of Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) SDI 1 31 <5 2.28 2.28 2.28 <2 Reduction of Sulphur Oxide mg/m³) SDI 1 N/A 4.1 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.5 Energy consumption Mwh/t of finished product SDI 2 1.61 1.59 1.53 1.48 1.47 < 1.45 Transport cost per tonne delivered product £/t SDI 3 25 27 32 38 37 < 30 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System SDI 4 No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Implementation of REACH regulation SDI 5 N/A N/A Yes Yes Yes Yes Noise Reduction SDI 6 See page 7 for our noise reduction initiatives Amount of raw material input that is recycled material SDI 7 70% 75% 74% 76% 76% 75% Amount of packaging waste recycled (Tonnes) SDI 8 905 666 743 488 435 800 Amount of dross recycled (tonnes) SDI 9 942 1030 1172 654 828 1000 Corporate Partner of Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust & SDI 10 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Slimbridge Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust Freshwater consumption M³/t of finished product SDI 11 0.39 0.48 0.46 0.45 0.71 0.40 SOCIAL DIMENSION SDI 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TARGET OHSAS 18001 Standard commenced SDI 12 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Number of fatalities SDI 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 Investors In People process started SDI 13 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Staff Turnover SDI 13 12% 7% 4% 19% 21% < 10% Employee costs and benefits £ ‘000s SDI 13 1469 1517 1700 1644 2145 2200 Gloucestershire Ambassadors SDI 14 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Beacon South West member SDI 14 No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes AluPRO member SDI 14 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Sponsorship of local sports teams SDI 14 No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Global Compact Signatory SDI 15 No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Partnership Against Corruption Signatory SDI 16 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes ECONOMIC DIMENSION SDI 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TARGET Defects (products that require re-working) SDI 17 1.80% 1.60% 0.80% 0.78% 0.76% 0.50% ISO 9001 Quality Management System SDI 17 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Financial contribution to the local economy £ ‘000s SDI 18 1890 2987 2761 1000 1647 3000 Research & Development SDI 19 See page 23 for savings made through R & D. Global Reporting Initiative Signatory SDI 20 No No Yes Yes Yes Yes MANAGEMENT & LEADERSHIP DIMENSION SDI 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TARGET Awards & Accreditations Received M&L 1 7 2 8 3 3 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 75 AWARDS & ACCREDITATIONS AWARDS & ACCREDITATIONS Avon Metals is an entrepreneurial forward thinking company, and as such we rarely get chance to reflect on the past. However, it is always nice to have success acknowledged by our peers and over the past few years we have received a plethora of prestigious environmental, social & economical awards in recognition of our achievements. 2010 Major Commendation: BCE Environmental Leadership Awards Highly Commended: Environmental Efficiency , EEF Future Manufacturing Awards Runner-up: Innovative People Practices, EEF Future Manufacturing Awards 2009 Winner: The Queen’s Awards for Enterprise: Sustainable Development Finalist : ITV / Price Waterhouse Coopers West of England Business Awards Finalist : Business of the Year, Gloucestershire Business Awards Finalist : Corporate Social Responsibility, Gloucestershire Business Awards Finalist : SME Manufacturer of the Year, The Manufacturer Awards Finalist : Sustainable Manufacturing, The Manufacturer Awards Finalist : Business Growth Award, EEF Future Manufacturing Awards Finalist : Environmental Achievement Award, EEF Future Manufacturing Awards 2008 Finalist : Best SME in “The Manufacturer Awards” – winner announced October 2008 Finalist : Best Company in the Gloucestershire Business Awards Finalist : ITV / Price Waterhouse Coopers West of England Business Awards 2007 Winner : The Queen’s Award for Enterprise: International Trade. Winner : International Trade Award in the Gloucestershire Business Awards Winner : Steven Munnoch, Young Business Person of the Year in the Gloucestershire Business Awards Winner : Cast Metals Federation Supplier of the Year Winner : Gloucestershire Ambassador’s Book Check Cup for outstanding contribution to the region Accredited : ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Accredited : Beacon South West Status 2006 Runner Up : Valpak Awards, Best Investment of PRN Revenue Avon Metals is also proud to have featured in the top half of the Top 100 companies in Gloucestershire in 2007 & 2008. AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 76 O R GA N I S A T I O N A L S T R U C T U R E ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Avon Metals believes that every single one of our employees is central to the delivery of our sustainability strategy. Chairman Managing Operations Director Director Commercial Executive Financial Commercial Controller Co-ordinators X2 BookRaw Materials Admin x 1 Keeper Buyer Raw Production Laboratory Engineering Logistics Materials Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager Shift Lab Supervisors x Technicians x Fitter Goods In x 4 Admin Drivers x 2 2 2 Foundry men Yard x 3 Packing x 5 x 13 Warehouse x Dispatch 2 AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 77 CONTACT US CONTACT US MAILING ADDRESS Avon Metals Ltd Ashville Works Ashville Road Gloucester GL2 5DA England TELEPHONE + 44 (0) 1452 529696 FACSIMILE + 44 (0) 1452 300624 E-MAIL sustainability@avonmetals.com Thank you for sharing in “Our 20/20 Vision.”. Stakeholder feedback is very important to us, and we welcome comments, questions and suggestions to be sent to us via the above contact details. www.avonmetals.com AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 78 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK AVON METALS 20/20 VISION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 PAGE 79
