RMA Group UN Global Compact Communication in Progress Define August 2011 UN Global Compact & RMA Group: Ideals The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. RMA Group is a premier infrastructure solutions provider As a worldwide employer, RMA supports the to the frontier and post-conflict rights of individuals and cares for them as markets. Our goal is to become a neighbors. We subscribe to the concept of equal dependable partner to the opportunity, to creating a positive work markets by providing reliable, environment, and offering people the kind of ethical, and accountability with our training that will help them realize their full products and services. potential. Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; • Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6 -the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption • Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA Timeline Progression on UN Global Compact 2009 2010 2011 COMMIT ASSESS DEFINE Kevin Whitcraft, RMA RMA assess the impact Group CEO, officially of the Global Compact Internal organizations commits to the UN on the organization and defines strategic and Global Compact in an works with key implementation ideas to official statement to the departments to address support RMA’s Honorable Ban Ki-Moon the concerning areas commitment to the adhering to the 10 and how to meet the Global Compact principles. goals. RMA Timeline Progression on UN Global Compact 2009 2010 2011 RMA defines the RMA assess the impact RMA Group commits to the internal policies and of the Global Compact UN Global Compact Initiative strategic targets in across key issue areas order to meet the GP. Kevin Whitcraft, RMA RMA assess the impact Group CEO, officially of the Global Compact Internal organizations commits to the UN on the organization and defines strategic and Global Compact in an works with key implementation ideas to official statement to the departments to address support RMA’s Honorable Ban Ki-Moon the concerning areas commitment to the adhering to the 10 and how to meet the Global Compact principles. goals. Principle: Human Rights Principle 1, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2, make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. RMA’s Commitment: Human Rights Actions towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Human Rights Education is a basic human right. The wider dissemination of knowledge leads to greater equality and wide spread social development. Education • RMA will establish a scholarship and award 1,000 dollar to students with goals to improve their community. • Basic requirements: need based, academic performance, and social/business awareness. • Internship with RMA group/subsidiary for subsequent summer break. Supplier due diligence is a part of RMA’s commitment to finding fair labor and ethically sound partners. Ethical Sourcing As part of the due diligence background checks of suppliers are done to ensure no forced labor or child labor was used to the manufacturing of products supplied to RMA. RMA performs background checks on all employees hired to ensure they of outstanding character and do not participate Outstanding in actions deemed questionable to human rights abuse. Character People All employees are required to adhere to a code of ethics which encompasses protection of human rights. Principles: Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RMA’s Commitment: Labour Actions towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Labour RMA employs over 4,000 worldwide from all cultures, background, and nationalities. We employ approximately 40 different nationalities from all continents. They represent a wide range of religious, cultural, political, ethnic and linguistic backgrounds. Due to some of our key geographical locations and the intensive Diversity manual nature of some of the work, male employees represent over 70% of the workforce currently. However, in some locations female employees represent 40-50% of the workforce , including professional and managerial roles. Fair treatment of employees is a fundamental concept and RMA recognises employees’ rights both under the laws of the countries in which we operate and through working with employee representative bodies and Fair Treatment trade unions. We actively work with such representatives, both proactively as means to establishing fair employment conditions and where issues and disputes require management and staff working together to find solutions. Most Labor issues overlap with human right concerns. Therefore, RMA commitments in Human Rights are stated with Human Rights Labor issues in mind. In consideration of forced and child labor, RMA will work on implementing in house supplier checks Labour and by all measurable methods practice fair labor employment. RMA’s Commitment: Labour HR VISION Find, grow, and keep the ‘best people’ to drive RMA growth Talent & Resourcing Performance Mgt. Comp. & Benefits Org. Dev & Training ER & Change Mgt. Organization Design Proactively identify Establish a high Implement a Introduce Manage organization Implement an scarce/strategic performance culture compensation and development based on growth and change organization model, capabilities for RMA focused on consistent benefits program building an internal ensuring employees based on accepted and its businesses and performance coaching designed to attract, talent pipeline – are engaged – improve design principles , that ensure ‘best’ talent is and feedback retain and motivate leaders and managers employee relations, facilitates $USD 1b developed, recruited talent to drive ensuring leadership is growth target on Objective and retained sustainable growth viewed as credible and global product lines HR is a trusted advisor and in difficult and Performance driven variable compensation unique countries/mkts Smart HR – Policy, process, practices, information and capability Develop and implement HR structure, policies, processes and capabilities for effective service delivery and business partnership Outputs Enhanced individual and Staff engagement Aligned and productive staff organizational performance 10 RMA’s Commitment: Labour HR VISION Find, grow, and keep the ‘best people’ to drive sustainable RMA growth People understand RMA’s vision, direction & goals People have clear objectives, PEOPLE EXPERIENCE People accountabilities, understand responsibilities People have how their role opportunities helps to achieve to develop RMA’s vision and progress and goals People have People are valued & feedback, coaching consistently recognised on performance & for their People are People are progress contribution to People work treated in a encouraged to in a safe and RMA’s consistent and put forward healthy success transparent ideas & to environment manner innovate 11 Principles: Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RMA’s Commitment: Environment Actions towards meeting the UN Global Compact on Environment RMA is committed to adopting and pushing new environmentally friendly technology and processes. This includes researching and test phasing different approaches that improve the quality of the environment before implementation. •Oil Recycling: The customary removal of used engine oil in the Afghan army was simple. Dump it. RMA introduced an easy-toNew Technology manage solution that saved money and introduced the concept of reduced waste management. The oil was filtered and recycled several times, saving money and the environment. •CNG Vehicles: Alternative fuel sources has increasingly become most cost effective alternatives to petrol vehicles. RMA has partnered with some of the largest car manufacturers in the world to test and develop Compressed Natural Gas vehicles. RMA is involved in a range or charitable institution and programme, the most significant of which is In 2008, RM Asia and Ford launched the “2008 Conservation and Environmental Grants” program in Cambodia and Laos. The following examples demonstrate how we have employed the grants; 1) Provided an ambulance (Ford) to the Lao Association for the Poor, 2) A donation of US$ 6,000 to the Lao Association for the Poor to purchase rice following a drought in the South of Laos, 3) a US$ 10,000 donation to build a school in Prea Smach village in Cambodia, 4) RMA paid for the materials and the staff of RMA volunteered their time to renovate a children’s library in Cambodia, 5) Together with Ford, RMA provided and planted 2500 trees and plants in Kampong Speu Province and Siem Reap, Cambodia to help reduce soil erosion in the area and ‘green’ the environs Grants of the town, 6) Provided 600 helmets to the Cambodian dept. of Transport and Ministry of Public to help promote road safety. 7) Donated 25 0 helmets and US$ 3,000 to the Red Cross in Cambodia to support their road safety programme. 8) Donated over 25 tons of rice, thousands of soy sauce bottles and packets of noodles over the last 3 years as part of the Ford Adventure event. 9) donated boats and food to teams from under privileged backgrounds to allow them to take part in the Cambodian Water Festival. RMA is also a main sponsor of AIESEC Cambodia, a programme to build the human resource capability for Cambodia by empowering it’s youth the develop into youth business leaders. ISO 14001: 2004 Accreditation assures customers and neighbors of RMA’s commitment to minimize its processes in Certified product manufacturing that negatively affect the environment. RMA’s commitment will continuously improve the qualities of air, water and land. Principles & Commitment: Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RMA is developing Anti-Corruption training programs to be rolled out to all our employees. Education is best tool is the Education effects on showing the micro and macro impacts of corruption on a individual and the surrounding communities All business transactions and agreements goes through an internal audit process to check for irregularities. The Internal Audit scrutinization process introduces accountability and ownership of concessions and deals made. This is RMA’s effort in pushing for greater transparency. Management Executive Buy-In is critical to any goal an organization looks to implement. Directors at RMA will regularly communicate Buy In the challenges and hurdles of corruption to their teams. RMA Business Ethics Policy • RMA Group of Companies view themselves as modern companies in tune with the demands of a market in which buyers are increasingly concerned about the impact their own actions might have in terms of the environment and human rights. As such, RMA Group has introduced its own Ethical Business Policy, with the aim of satisfying these customer concerns. Through it, we hope to ensure that we source our materials and services from companies, whose own practices are governed by similar principles. Our new policy shall be applied to suppliers of materials, spare parts and vehicle options, as well as our service providers (freight forwarders, etc). The aim is to ensure that due care for the environment has been taken during the manufacturing processes and that the goods and services are produced and provided in a manner which ensures that employees and communities have not been exploited. RMA Business Ethics Policy RMA Ethical Business Policy – shall strive to follow as outlined below: • To maintain the highest standard of integrity in all business relationships. • To reject any business practice that might reasonably be deemed improper. • To foster the highest standards of professional competence amongst those responsible for procurement and supply. • To enhance the proficiency and stature of those responsible for procurement and supply by acquiring and applying knowledge in the most appropriate way. • To optimise the use of resources for the benefit of the organisation as a whole. • To comply with both the letter and intent of: • The laws of the countries being dealt with; • Agreed contractual obligations; • and Professional practice. • Goods and services should be purchased that: • Are produced and delivered under conditions that do not involve the abuse or exploitation of any persons. • Not to engage with suppliers that sell or manufacture anti-personnel mines or components utilised in the manufacture of antipersonnel mines. • Not to abuse position of authority for personal gain. • Declare any personal interest which may affect, or be seen by other to affect, impartiality or decision making. • Not to accept inducements or gifts other than items of low value. • To always declare the offer or acceptance of hospitality and never allow hospitality to influence a business decision. • To ensure that the information given is accurate. • To respect the confidentiality of information received and not to use it for personal gain. • To strive for genuine, fair and transparent competition. • To remain impartial in all business dealings and not to be influenced by those with vested interests. RMA Business Ethics Policy Our mission is to create sustained value for our stakeholders: our customers, our employees, and the communities and societies which we operate. RMA & the Law • Committed to following all laws and regulations wherever we conduct our business activities, employees should perform their duties with uncompromising honesty and integrity with full accordance to the law. RMA Employees • Employees are obligated to act at all times in the best interests of the Company, disclosure of potential conflicts of personal interest. • Employees are not to use Company assets for improper use such as using company information for personal gain, and personal use of Company technology. • Employees must keep Company information confidential. RMA & Third parties. • Our suppliers are valued partners in success. Suppliers are selected based on competitive basis based on total value including quality, service, technology, price, corporate citizenship. • RMA requires strict observance of laws and regulation which govern the acquisition of goods and services by Governmental entities. • Commercial bribery is illegal and restricted by RMA employees are to adhere to law regarding bribery as well as Company policy. RMA prohibits improper payments to government official. UNGC & RMA Moving Forward • Move to implement the strategies defined across all division and value chain of the organization • Continue to communicate and instill the UNGC values into corporate culture and employees. • Provide internal case studies which reflect the UNGC examples on the RMA website.
