A focus on people SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Reporting framework Miele pursues the goal of reporting transparseparate „Facts & Figures“ document and are ently on spheres of activity and strategies in available both as a hard-copy version and as a relevant areas of its corporate responsibility. download. We self-declare our report to be GRI application This information is available to the public in its level A. entirety. Spatial and temporal coordination Owing to the changeover of reporting from This report conforms to the guidelines of the calendar year to financial year, the reporting Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI G3 ). It reflects period encompasses the three financial years A company has many different kinds of stakeholders, the material topics and challenges of sustain2007/08, 2008/09 and 2009/10. The latter including customers, emable development for the company and takes ends on 30/06/2010. Unless otherwise speciployees, business partners, non-governmental organisaextensive account of stakeholder requirements. fied, the information relates to Miele & Cie. KG tions, politics and the local To identify the relevant report topics, Miele along with its affiliated company imperial community. carried out a materiality analysis. The results Werke oHG. Included in this are all German of an environmental analysis ( stakeholder plant and administration locations. The report survey ) and the internal strategic perspectives also includes information on the international of the departments, which evaluated all topics production sites in Austria ( Bürmoos ), the according to their significance, were incorCzech Republic ( Uničov ), China ( Dongguan ) porated. Consequently, the report contains and for the first time Romania ( Braşov ). The latinformation on solution approaches and initiater commenced operations in autumn 2009, so tives to improve the company‘s sustainability isolated initial figures for 2009/10 are published performance in the areas of economy, product in this report. A complete record of the figures responsibility, employees and society. As in is planned from the next sustainability report. the previous report, the activities in the area of environmental protection, whether at a site, in The initiatives of 45 international subsidiaries product design or in production, are included are reported on for the first time by means of in the chapter on product responsibility. The various examples. The newly founded subactivities of the Miele Professional ( commercial sidiary in India is not included as quantitative machines ) business area are reported on information is not yet available for this subsidifor the first time. ary. Plans are in place to set up data collection in the future. This hard-copy version of the report cannot include all the information about Miele‘s susThe fifth sustainability report replaces the report tainability activities, but rather concentrates on from 2008. achievements and innovations in the reporting www } Identification of the report period. The website (www.miele-sustainability. The report is published in German and English. topics com) contains information on the manageResuming the biennial report cycle, the next ment approaches to the topics addressed in Miele sustainability report will be published the report, practical examples and concrete in 2013. The press date of this report was www } globalreporting.org figures. These are also summarised in the 31/01/2011. Strong brand – Miele in 2009/10 The family company Miele is active in two strategic business fields: It produces and markets domestic appliances and commercial machines. Having come through the global economic crisis, the principal economic challenges for Miele currently consist in consolidating growth and gaining further momentum. The strategy of the family company is built on three pillars: Growth through expansion by means of setting up subsidiaries throughout the world; marketing concepts that are tailored to the requirements of the individual markets; and innovative, resource-conserving product designs – always oriented around customers and their national consumption habits. Achievements European countries have not yet recovered Miele at home and abroad from the consequences of the financial and Despite the global effects of the financial and economic crisis. economic crisis, the company remained economically successful in the reporting period. In the 2009/10 financial year, the Miele ProfesFollowing a recession-induced drop in sales in sional business area generated a worldwide the 2008/09 financial year, in 2009/10 Miele turnover of EUR 294 million, which represents achieved a turnover of EUR 2.83 billion, repregrowth of 2.7 percent compared to the previsenting an increase of 2.2 percent. ous year. This means that industrial products contribute 10.4 percent of total turnover. The positive development on the domestic German market, which accounted for around Investments in the future 30 percent of total sales, made a substantial In the 2009/10 financial year, Miele invested contribution to this success. Abroad Miele EUR 137 million worldwide. This figure is just achieved the second-highest turnover in its under 27 percent less than the previous year, history. However, development continues to be when Miele strongly pushed the expansion uneven. Miele made strong gains in important of its international sales presence. Investments customer countries such as Italy, Belgium and in production sites, on the other hand, above all Austria. The same goes for longremained at a constantly high level. In Braşov established overseas markets such as Ausin Romania, a new electronics plant was tralia, USA, Canada and Asia, in the latter case completed to build up urgently required particularly in China and Singapore. In contrast, additional capacities for Miele’s own electronic the markets in some southern and eastern components. To strengthen sales, nine new subsidiaries picked Miele as the most trusted brand in the were founded or opened in the reporting period domestic appliance sector for the tenth time. – including in Kazakhstan, Latvia, India and Malaysia. In addition to the German subsidiary, Outlook and objectives Miele currently has subsidiaries in 46 countries. The primary objective of the company is continued survival and growth in the face of Sustainable products all economic fluctuations. In this regard, Miele Miele’s product policy is constantly guided continues to pursue its strategy of healthy by the values of quality, innovation and sustaingrowth through its own strength and with ability. Its declared goal is to develop efficient its own resources. This involves reinforcing and durable products whose production, international sales and moving into “blank consumption and disposal have as little impact spots” on the world map in order to strengthen as possible on the environment. The manufacand support Miele as an international brand. turer attested to this in the reporting period by Consequently, Miele is investing in new marvirtue of its new product developments. They kets and pressing ahead with the expansion of included the world’s first dishwasher with a subsidiaries. The company continues to focus water consumption of just eight litres per cycle on the development and market launch of and the new Miele heat-pump tumble dryer. new products and innovative technologies that This appliance consumes almost 50 percent conserve natural resources and are friendly to less power than tumble dryers with conventhe environment. tional technology. Launched in 2009, the washing machines with Eco Feedback enable the user to keep an eye on water and electricity consumption at all times and to select the programme with the lowest consumption levels. www In addition, the appliances have special eco} miele.com } domestic appliances programmes that deliver energy savings } miele-professional.com of up to 50 percent. } miele.com } The Miele company } Locations Trust in the brand } miele.com } The Miele Consumers again showed a lot of trust in the company } Miele past and present } Awards company and the brand in the 2009/10 finan} miele-presse.de } Facts cial year. In the Most Trusted Brands internaand Figures } Business report tional consumer study, Europe’s consumers Contents Preface by the executive board 2 For the purposes of simplification, this Company profile report avoids the use of he/she etc. and uses just the male form. Miele: a brief profile 5 Principles and values 6 In previous reports, the site name Hong Da was used for the production site in China. For the purposes of standardisation, the place name is used in this report, as it is for the other sites. Sustainability management For the Chinese production site, this is Integrated management system 9 Dongguan. Sustainability in the supply chain 10 Dialogue with the stakeholders 12 Product responsibility Product design 15 Production 17 Transport and logistics 20 Usage phase 22 Disposal 24 Employees Personnel policy and corporate culture 27 Employee benefits 29 Youth development programme 31 Personnel development and further training 32 Occupational safety and health protection 34 www Unless stated otherwise, this symbol refers to the website www.mielesustainability.com Society For the purposes of simplification, only the root path is provided and the subCommitment to the region 37 chapter is simply given as a keyword as the chapter structure is mirrored in the online version. GRI Index 38 www Global Compact progress report Link to external websites. Imprint MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 1 Preface by the executive board Dear readers, In front of you, you have the fifth and to date The certification of our production sites most extensive sustainability report from Miele. according to the SA8000 international social In producing this report, we have invested standard in 2008 represents confirmation from a considerable amount of time and effort to independent experts of our aspiration to be a provide our stakeholders with better and more responsible employer that consistently respects up-to-date information about Miele’s sustainkey employee rights. This standard also forms ability activities. the basis of our requirements for suppliers. Responsibility and sustainability have always been fundamental parts of the corporate culture at Miele. We have implemented these components into our business strategy. Taking into account the precautionary principle, we have integrated sustainability aspects into core company processes such as product design and production. It is only by doing this that a company stay fit for the future. Of course, sustainable behaviour cannot simply be ordered; it must be lived with conviction by the people in the company. Our employees put this into practice day by day in line with Olaf Bartsch Dr. Reto Bazzi Managing Director Managing Director our corporate philosophy of “Forever Better”. Finance and Controlling, Marketing and Sales At Miele the focus is on people. This includes Central Administration until 31 March 2011 both customers, for whom we provide energyefficient, high-quality domestic appliances and commercial machines and also employees, suppliers and other business partners with whom As a member of the United Nations Global we maintain a responsible relationship. Our susCompact, we are fully committed to the tainable actions are centred around efficient use its principles in the areas of human rights, of energy and reduction of CO2 emissions. By working standards, environmental protection focusing on these issues, we are actively counand anti-corruption. This report shows how tering climate change. Another focal point is the we are working to ensure compliance with conservation of natural resources throughout these principles, both at Miele itself and the life cycle of our products and in production. at our suppliers. 2 A comprehensive sustainability strategy also conservation of natural resources and climate presents challenges arising from higher-level protection at all production sites. To this end, environmental and social trends. Having surwe are working on various projects such as vived the economic crisis, we consider it more that to draw up the company’s carbon footimportant than ever to view sustainable ecoprint. We are continuously striving to make our nomic management as a responsibility and an appliances even more energy efficient. We are opportunity. This is a challenge that demands a also increasingly focusing on initiatives in both Dr. Markus Miele Dr. Heiner Olbrich Dr. Eduard Sailer Dr. Reinhard Zinkann Executive Partner Managing Director Managing Director Executive Partner Marketing and Sales Technology since 1 January, 2011 consistent, values-orientated business strategy product and personnel policy aimed at meeting to secure business success, production sites the challenges of demographic change. In this and jobs over the long term. We are meeting way, we hope to be sustainably “forever better” this challenge head on. in order to realise our vision of a company that continues to make its contribution to ecological We also have lots planned for the future. Our and social responsibility in this new century. most important challenge and at the same time our declared strategy is to press ahead with We wish you an interesting read! MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 3 Company profile Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Miele: a brief profile 1899 Miele was founded by Carl Miele 47 subsidiaries represent Miele worldwide and Reinhard Zinkann. To this day, the ownerin just as many countries. The size of the indimanaged company is 100 percent owned by vidual subsidiaries varies widely, ranging from the two families. Its legal form is a limited partan initial five employees in the recently formed nership ( Kommanditgesellschaft, or KG ) with Indian subsidiary to over 400 persons in the its head office at the parent site in Gütersloh, established USA subsidiary. Miele is continuGermany. The company motto Forever Better ously expanding its worldwide network of deriving from its founding period is valid to this subsidiaries in order to open up new markets. day and Miele employees live it in their day-toThis secures sales, service and spare parts day work. procurement on an international basis. Exemplifying the international expansion of the company’s sales and service presence is the 2.83 billion euro was the company’s turnoopening of Miele subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, ver in the 2009/10 financial year. After a slight Latvia and India, where operational business recession-induced drop in sales of 1.3 percent commenced in autumn 2009. in the previous year, the company achieved a record turnover in 2009/10 with an increase of 2.2 percent. 81.9 percent of the turnover was 23 is the number of product groups in the generated in Europe. product range. Miele offers durable premium domestic appliances in the product areas of cooking, baking, steaming, refrigerating and 16,561 people worldwide were emfreezing, coffee-making, dishwashing, launployed by Miele in 2009/10, of which more than dry care and floor care. These are joined by 60 percent in Germany. The employees outside dishwashers, washing machines and tumble Germany largely work in sales and customer dryers for commercial use, as well as cleaning, service ( over 80 percent ). disinfection and sterilisation devices for medical facilities and laboratories under the name Miele Professional. Since autumn 2009, this range 12 is the number of Miele’s production sites. has also included container and transport The company predominantly manufactures trolley washers. The domestic appliances in Germany, where eight plants are located. business area makes up the bulk of turnover: Miele also manufactures its products and the In the 2009 /10 financial year, the share of corresponding components in plants in Austria turnover accounted for by domestic appliances ( Bürmoos ), the Czech Republic ( Uničov ), was 77.8 percent. A total of almost 5 million China ( Dongguan ) and, since autumn 2009, domestic appliances were sold, along with www } Product groups Romania ( Braşov ). around 85,000 commercial machines. Showroom in Vianen, the Netherlands. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 5 Principles and values The principle of corporate responsibility is firmly anchored in the Miele business strategy and serves as a maxim for management in their day-to-day activities. Miele takes a holistic view of its responsibility in this regard. The company sees itself as having responsibilities towards customers, employees, suppliers, society and the environment. This is laid down in Miele’s corporate philosophy, which is put into practice company-wide every day. In order to ensure this ideal is realised, Miele, as a commercial enterprise, has a constant obligation to grow and be commercially successful. Climate change and scarcity of resources are In order to fulfil its responsibility, Miele must currently the dominant issues that companies maintain its profitability as a company and are having to face. Miele is meeting the global achieve healthy growth both today and in the challenges with long-practised corporate prinfuture. To date, it has managed this through its ciples based on the precautionary principle and own strength and independently of borrowed by observing international guidelines. These capital. include the ten UN Global Compact principles, to which Miele has pledged itself since 2004, Topic areas of the corporate philosophy and the Code of Practice of the CECED, the Product responsibility European domestic appliance manufacturers’ The companys’ main focus is its responsibility association, which Miele signed in 2005. towards the people who use Miele products These principles constantly serve as a guide in their personal or professional environments. and basis for both internal and external corpoTheir needs and rights give direction to the rate policy. company’s activities. This is the source of the company’s drive to provide resource-conserving Presiding over all activities is the maxim devised products with high functional value and optimum by the company founders of “Forever Better”. functionality. In this regard it is vital to continuFollowing this maxim, Miele strives to constantally develop innovations. Only in this way is it ly develop innovative and resource-conserving possible to produce long-lasting and environproducts, considerably reduce environmental mentally compatible domestic and commercial impact and bring added value to society. machines of high quality. Miele views transparency and openness as Environmental protection necessary conditions of a credible strategy. The topics of climate and protection of reThe company therefore regularly reports on its sources go hand in hand with that of product achievements relating to the market, environresponsibility. On the product side of things, ment and society, as well as on its measures Miele is pursuing concrete strategies to fulfil for avoiding and reducing possible environmenclimate protection goals and thus make an tal effects. To this end, Miele regularly maintains active contribution to environmental protection. open dialogue with its stakeholders. At a production level, the company uses the 6 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Quality and consumer protection are the top priorities. Miele products withstand even tough tests. best available environmentally friendly technoloImplementation gies and ensures efficient use of raw materials, The corporate philosophy and international energy and water. guidelines are anchored in the integrated management system to ensure that they are inResponsible treatment of employees corporated into day-to-day activities. This enaPeople are at the heart of our concerns – and bles their observance to be regularly reviewed. this also applies to our employees. From the } See chapter on sustainability management founding of the company to this day, Miele has always respected its employees. It goes withThe guidelines of the corporate philosophy out saying that human rights and social justice apply company-wide for all employees, are observed at all sites. Miele understands who are kept regularly informed about its that a company is borne by its employees. All contents and initiatives. This encourages each employees are thus encouraged to constantly individual to take corporate responsibility into further develop themselves and their skills, and account in their actions. The certification of the this also advances the company. The basis for production sites according to the social standthis is a mutually appreciative relationship. ard SA8000 provides confirmation from an independent source that Miele meets the high Social and environmental standards in requirements for workplace conditions. the supply chain Miele has set itself the goal of ensuring that – This report explains in detail the implementation beyond its own direct sphere of influence – its of the corporate philosophy within the individual high social and environmental standards are topic areas. www also implemented by its suppliers. In this way, } Corporate philosophy ( download ) the company aims to ensure that environmental protection is also promoted and the workforce www treated fairly in the supply chain. Miele supports } ceced.org its suppliers by means of a responsible relation} unglobalcompact.org ship founded on partnership. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 7 Sustainability management Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Integrated sustainability management Thanks to the established Miele corporate philosophy, which has been lived out for over 110 years, sustainability is firmly rooted in the thoughts and actions of all employees. Sustainability management takes place via integrated and networked systems. Advancing climate change, increasing scarcity fied according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and of resources and demographic change ( parSA8000. Preparatory measures for setting up You can find information on ticularly evident in industrial nations ) present an environmental management system and for the status of the certifications, including a detailed account of considerable challenges to which Miele will rise certification according to SA8000 are being objectives and their achieboth now and in the future. The past few years adopted at the Chinese site Dongguan. vement, on the sustainability website. have seen global risks having greater effects on Miele’s business activity. Miele has been buildThe relevant areas of the Gütersloh and ing up a comprehensive management system Bielefeld sites and, since March 2010, the since 1992 to systematically identify and handle Bürmoos production site also meet the requirethese risks and the opportunities they present. ments of the ISO 13485 standard for the quality management of medical devices. Occupational Sustainability is anchored in the integrated safety and health protection is organised management system, which applies across based on OHSAS 18001. Miele has decided to all departments, both in relation to content forego external certification in this area. and organisation. Since 2005, this system has been expanded and refined through suppleCompliance management ments and specifications to form the Miele The Miele code of conduct for the prevention of Success System. In all areas of this system, corruption was established in 2008. The code Miele’s sustainability management in close of conduct is binding for all employees worldconjunction with comprehensive risk managewide and obliges them not only to observe laws ment and compliance structures acts to ensure and refrain from dubious dealings, but also to www that laws are observed. } For more information adopt an ethically aware basic attitude. Miele } External and internal on the Miele Success System, visit the sustainhas provided its employees with comprehenauditing ability website. sive information to raise awareness of this issue } Organisation and and to foster a keen sense of right and wrong responsibilities Integrated management system in them. There have been no serious infringe} Risk management } Compliance management As part of the management system, the conments during the reporting period. Summer of } Targets and objectives tents of the certified standard systems and 2010 saw the appointment of an ombudsman the contents of the standards, the following of to receive information from employees or exwhich is maintained or targeted, is monitored ternal persons in relation to corruption or other www } sa-intl.org and controlled. All European sites are certiunlawful business practices. Annette Venjacob and Torsten Spließ performing quality control. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 9 Sustainability in the supply chain At Miele, responsibility begins with the selection and procurement of raw materials. This approach is reflected in the sustainable structure of the company supply chain. This entails the observance of environmental and social standards by suppliers as well as responsible interaction with business partners. Miele aims to ensure that all its suppliers meet tally friendly technologies and substitutes and to high quality and economic standards in addiensure environmentally friendly recycling of indition to fulfilling social and ecological standards. vidual components. They are also contractually The 170 employees of the procurement departobliged to ensure that their own suppliers, the ment meet this challenging task by means of subsuppliers, observe social and environmental structured identification, strategic selection and standards. management of suppliers. Recruitment of new suppliers Miele collaborates with over 2,300 suppliers of The SA8000 social standard has been used production materials. About 95 percent of the as a basis for each individual supplier selection total purchasing volume comes from European process since 2004. Amongst other things, it suppliers. Miele places value on fair, long-term encompasses the prohibition of child labour and business relationships based on partnership forced labour, the right to freedom of associaand systematically integrates suppliers into prodtion as well as adequate wages for employees. ­uct creation processes with a focus on dialogue. All potential business partners must confirm their adherence to SA8000 in writing before they Social and environmental standards are awarded a contract. If they fail to provide Within the framework of supplier management, this confirmation, the proposed collaboration is the top priority of the buyers at Miele is to rejected. In this way, Miele ensures that human ensure that they only select and use suppliers rights considerations are taken into account in who comply with applicable environmental and every contract decision, regardless of a potential social standards. business partner’s sphere of activity and place of business. Sustainability criteria are deeply rooted in Miele’s conditions of purchase. They are aligned with Monitoring existing suppliers the social standard SA8000, which is based A general risk classification of every supplier among other things on the ILO core labour has taken place since 2004. Three risk levels standard, as well as the UN Global Compact are defined, depending on the supplier’s counprinciples on the protection of human rights try of origin and industrial sector: low, medium and the environment. Miele secures ecologiand high. This classification determines how cal standards by requiring suppliers to have a intensively suppliers are monitored during the www certified environmental management system collaboration. Suppliers classified as medium to } ilo.org in place that complies with the ISO 14001 high risk are visited by members of the procure} sa-intl.org standard or comparable standards. Suppliers ment department to examine their adherence to } unglobalcompact.org are contractually obliged to use environmenSA8000 criteria. 10 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Since 2008, a standardised questionnaire from the German Association of the Automotive Industry has been used to monitor adherence to social standards based on SA8000 as well as qualitative and ecological requirements. If Important production material: stainless steel this questionnaire is filled out inadequately or a supplier is suspected of violating social standand these considerations were further integrated ards, an escalation process begins, which can into supplier evaluation and assessment. As culminate in the supplier being struck off the list well as incorporating social aspects into quality and being barred for the future. It has not been processes, sustainability criteria have been emnecessary to bar any suppliers to date thanks bedded into the scoring system ( a points system to careful preselection. for evaluating potential suppliers ) and integrated into Miele’s risk management concept. Contravention of child labour standards, for example, results in unconditional and immediate In 2009/10, 629 new suppliers confirmed their exclusion. In other cases, suppliers can conadherence to SA8000 by means of a checklist. tinue to collaborate with Miele depending on Miele rejected a total of 14 applicants due to their capacity for improvement — provided that inadequate validation. they draw up a plan of action in co-operation with Procurement and Quality Management at Outlook and objectives Miele and thereby fully remedy the problems. A supplier management system was launched in 2009. It is estimated that the system will be comAchievements pleted in 2012. This new system is intended to In the reporting period, there was a boost in make both operational and strategic procurement the priority given to sustainability considerations targets more effective and efficient. Purchasing volume by region Suppliers who had contracts rejected due to non-confirin % mation of compliance with social standards number in % 5% Overseas 2.8 71 % Germany 2.4 2.23% 24 % Europe 2.0 1.89% 1.6 1.37% 1.2 1.22% 0.8 0.4 2009 / 10 2006 / 07 2007 / 08 2008 / 09 2009 /10 MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 11 Dialogue with the stakeholders Transparency and communication are integral parts of Miele’s company philosophy. Miele uses stakeholder dialogue to provide information concerning the impact of its own actions on people and the environment, as well as to identify risks and opportunities, in addition to trends and expectations, at an early stage. This approach enables Miele to respond appropriately to new developments and shape the future in collaboration with the stakeholders. The company primarily enters into constructive From November 2009 until January 2010, Miele CECED = the European dialogue with its international stakeholders via carried out a survey on its sustainability website domestic appliance manufacturers’ association its membership of national and European asaimed at ascertaining customers’ requirements. sociations such as the German Central AssoAround 1,900 Miele end customers took part ciation of the Electrical and Electronics Industry worldwide. ( ZVEI ) and the CECED. Its collaboration with interest groups such as environmental protecAt the same time, 29 employees of subsidiaries tion organisations, politicians, customers and from across the world took part in a written science is characterised by long-standing comsurvey aimed at examining the value placed mitment and active participation. } “Disposal” locally on sustainability and, in particular, the level of interest amongst end customers. The A key focus of this collaboration is the developmain focus of these surveys was to evaluate ment of labelling systems showing performance the 2008 sustainability report and assess how and consumption data that enables useful difMiele’s sustainability activities are perceived ferentiation of the appliances available on by the customer. The sustainability trends the market. Recycling of old appliances and and issues relevant to Miele as seen from the product safety issues also play an important customers’ point of view were then used to role. supplement the results of the 2008 stakeholder www survey. } Initiatives and memberOften there is direct dialogue between a Miele ships specialist department and an interest group. More than 70 percent of both end customAt an international level, the collaboration is ers and subsidiaries rate Miele’s sustainability www managed by the subsidiary managers in close activities as “good” or “excellent”. Stakehold} ceced.org consultation with the executive board and in line ers would like to see more attention paid to } zvei.de with the respective local political structures. the issues of resource-efficient products and ecological production and they requested that Achievements the company identify its carbon footprint. Stakeholder survey Miele carried out its first stakeholder survey The results have been incorporated into the in 2008. 32 representatives of political and current sustainability report and they funcscientific stakeholder groups of relevance to tion as a guide for future company decisions, the company, as well as NGOs and employees such as for ascertaining the company's carbon were interviewed via telephone. footprint. 12 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society the revision of the European energy efficiency label. Miele supports the endeavours to make energy-efficient appliances easily recognisable to customers without causing confusion during the changeover to the new label. Miele welcomes the fact that consumption data for domestic washing machines will include more Open and available for direct dialogue. commonly used programmes and standby consumption from 2011. Noise levels will also Workforce sustainability survey be declared. It is the company’s opinion that How do you rate Miele’s sustainability activithe new label will make it easier to disclose ties? Where do you see a need for improvetechnological advances and additional energy ment? Miele put questions like these to efficiency classifications ( A+, A++, A+++ ). department representatives from the company headquarters and the German and Austrian Outlook and objectives plants during an event in 2009. All 28 particiMiele has already acted on the requests pants answered the questions and most were identified in these dialogues, such as appliance found to want more information concerning recyclability and ecological production and the supply chain and the topic of commercial will continue in its efforts. } “Production” machines. The results of this survey have also Dialogue with the stakeholders will be continbeen integrated into the current sustainability ued in the future. report. Dialogue concerning the new Energy Label Miele has been, and continues to be, intensely involved in political discussions connected to Relevant topics on the issue of sustainability for Miele ( customer survey ) 3.9% Social responsibility 58.9 % Product responsibility Main topics: Product responsibility: energy-efficient products, use of 7.0% Supply chain secondary raw materials, quality, recyclability, return and disposal systems 15.1% Employees Operational environmental protection: environmental protection in production, climate protection 15.1% Operational Employees: fair treatment of employees, occupational environmental safety and health protection protection Supply chain: environmental and social standards in the supply chain Social responsibility: social commitment, donations 2009 / 10 MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 13 Product responsibility Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Product design Miele aspires to manufacture the best products. Domestic appliances and commercial machines that win over their users with their functionality, quality and durability and that are designed to conserve natural resources over their entire life cycle. Product design is tasked with making these aspirations a reality. When designing new appliances and technoloand recyclable content. Their aim is to evaluate gies, Miele pursues a overall product life cycle potential, with promising technologies being approach. The focus in all this is to continusystematically transferred to series developously optimise domestic appliances and comment. The Miele environmental checklist plays mercial machines – both in terms of customer a role even at this stage. Throughout the entire benefits and in terms of environmental protecdesign process, this checklist is the prerequition and conservation of resources. site for moving on to the next stage. The foundations are laid in the design phase, Integration of stakeholder interests for example regarding the avoidance of critical In order to identify the various developments substances in production, the use of secondearly on, the requirements of the stakeholders ary raw materials in the products, guaranteeare systematically integrated into the product ing product safety in the usage phase and the creation process. With the increasing internarecyclability of appliances when it comes to tionalisation of the commercial machines disposal. Miele also implements the concept business area, the trend for custom design is of universal design, among other things to growing. Standard products are unable to sattake into account changed user requirements, isfy the requirements of customers worldwide. for example as a result of the ageing of the population. Achievements Domestic Appliances Organisation Miele has managed to continuously reduce All relevant topics in the field of operational the consumption values of its domestic apand product-related environmental protection pliances, while maintaining or even improving are discussed in the environmental steering performance. The washing machines for the committee, which oversees the entire deEuropean market even boast an energy consign process. This committee, chaired by the sumption that is over ten percent better than executive board, manages product-related the limit value of the Energy Label’s best energy and operational environmental protection in efficiency class, class A – measured in terms the operational business and handles strategic of the average fleet consumption of all appliobjectives. ances. Miele has therefore exceeded its objective of reducing power consumption to www Research and Pre-Development analyse potenbelow 0.17 kWh/kg of dry laundry by 2009, } Organisation tial technologies and appliance improvements with the current figure standing at 0.16 kWh/ } Customer requirements analyses across all product groups with a focus on kg. Thanks to the introduction of automatic } Design phase environmental protection, energy consumption detergent dispensing for liquid detergents, Hiltrud Rohde, responsible for process validation, checks a soiled strip in the wash laboratory. This strip is used to measure detergency in accordance with the EN 60456 standard. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 15 it is now possible to wash with almost 30 Commercial machines percent less detergent based on average The combination of two methods for conservconsumption. This was confirmed by Gering energy and natural resources opens up many’s Öko-Institut in a study commissioned enormous saving potential for washing maby Miele. chines used in laundries. The water recycling system enables special detergents and baths In 2009, all European domestic dishwashers to be used multiple times. At the same time, were awarded the AAA rating. This means they the weighing system automatically determines received top Energy Label values for energy the weight of the respective load and adjusts consumption as well as cleaning and drying the energy and water consumption accordingly. efficiency. Moreover, the new heat-pump tumThe combination of the two systems means ble dryer uses 50 percent less energy than that the appliances use up to 45 percent a conventional condenser tumble dryer. In less water and more than 10 percent less 2009, over 75 percent of all refrigerators/ energy than a conventional machine of the freezers sold by Miele met the highest criteria same type. of the two best energy efficiency classes ( A+ and A++ ); in 2010, this figure rose to Outlook and objectives 85.4 percent. The Eco Line vacuum cleaner Objectives and projects are designed with www ( 1,400 watt) uses up to 40 percent less energy saving energy and conserving natural resources } Outlook and objectives than 2,200 watt models – without compromisin mind. Achieving further energy savings ing on cleaning efficiency. across all appliances and in all modes remains www a top priority for Miele. Miele aims to ensure } test.de that its domestic appliances and commercial } ecotopten.de machines are the most efficient on the market. Measures to reduce the environmental impact Product design in every life cycle phase of a product – Compliance with legislation and guidelines ( incl. Eco Design Requirements for ErP ) – Integrated product policy – Consideration of stakeholder requirements Disposal – Material selection focused on using secondary raw – Compliance with legislation ( WEEE, RoHS ) materials and ensuring a high level of recyclability – Commitment to optimising recycling processes/increasing the recycling rate Production – Environmental and energy management Usage phase – Use of best technology available – Low consumption values – Avoidance of critical substances – Long service life – Trained maintenance and repair service Transport and logistics – Distances kept to a minimum – Transport bundling – Efficient utilisation of freight space – Use of low-emission means of transport 16 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Production Ensuring that production is environmentally friendly throughout the company is a top priority for Miele. The company’s focus in this area is on the efficient use of energy, avoidance of environmentally relevant emissions and conservation of natural resources. In taking such action, Miele is tackling the key issues of our times: climate change and increasing scarcity of resources. Environmental management to the energy flows of the principal systems With a vertical range of manufacture of almost and equipment and will be rolled out gradually 50 percent, a percentage unusually high for across all sites. the sector, Miele is able to ensure that environmentally friendly methods are used for a large Achievements proportion of the value added. A strategy of Use of energy and emissions avoidance, reduction and recycling is employed In 2008, the executive board organised the first right from the planning of systems and proever energy workshop in Gütersloh. Representcesses. Environmentally relevant systems and atives from the production sites came together processes are largely developed by Miele itself to look at ways in which existing energy-saving and continuously optimised. measures could be pooled and successful concepts rolled out to all German sites. In light The suppliers of raw materials and components of the success of the workshop, this event will are also required to prove their adherence to now take place at least once yearly. high environmental standards. } “Sustainability in the supply chain” In addition, investments were made in energysaving initiatives and thus climate protection. Operational environmental protection at the For example, 2010 saw the continuation of the Miele production sites is governed and project to renovate older buildings in Gütersloh, organised by the } “integrated management with a particular focus on climate protection system”. This system has been environmental aspects. Other measures implemented include management certified according to ISO the complete changeover of heat supply in 14001 at all European sites since July 2010. Gütersloh to environmentally friendly longThe exception among the Miele sites is the distance energy and the resulting shutdown Dongguan location in China. Preparatory of the boiler plant there. The savings achieved measures for setting up an environmental from this amount to 2,500 MWh per year, management system are planned at the site. which corresponds to 515 tonnes of CO2, i.e. six percent of the emissions previously When developing energy efficiency initiatives generated there. as a key means of climate protection, Miele works in Gütersloh and in some parts of In 2009/10, CO2 emissions came to 55,025 Bielefeld, Oelde and Bünde with an energy tonnes, 1.3 percent more than in 2008/09. management system based on DIN EN 16001. This rise can partly be attributed to the comThis system ensures transparency in relation missioning of the new production site in Braşov. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 17 form of iron and non-ferrous metals, steel and its alloys. Metal is the main component of almost all Miele appliances and a decisive factor in their quality and durability. The raw material plastic currently makes up 7 percent of total raw material use. Modern Climate protection project for the region: A photovoltaic system plastics manufacturing is so precise that the was fitted on the roof of a production hall in Gütersloh in cooperation with the public services. Over the next two decades, use of the material is extremely resourceit will generate over eight million kWh of solar electricity, which conserving. } “Disposal” from a present-day perspective corresponds to CO2 savings of approximately 4,200 t. With an average yield of over 400,000 kWh per year, the system will generate enough energy Miele appliances have a high metal content in to supply roughly 150 households with solar electricity. order to fulfil quality requirements and enable a long service life. Metals used include grey cast However, a variety of endeavours has seen Miele iron, for example in bearing crosses and mass achieve an overall CO2 reduction of 13.9 percent balance weights – or counterweights as they are since 2007. In relation to production output, in often known – for washing machines. The heavi­the 2009/10 financial year 315 kg of CO2 was ness of the products leads to high acceleraemitted per tonne of product, which represents tion forces during transport, which also affects a 5.1 percent reduction compared with 2007 the packaging. This means that very stable ( 332 kg of CO2 ). packaging is necessary. Across all appliances manufactured by Miele, the proportion of packRaising awareness among employees aging weight is 8.1 percent (2009/10). In 2000, Sensible use of energy requires awareness this figure was 8.8 percent. Miele is striving to of the issues involved. As a result, a number further reduce this percentage without impairing of programmes have been introduced in the the protective function of the packaging. For inplants to encourage all employees to save enstance, at the Lehrte production site the wooden ergy. Gütersloh, Oelde, Lehrte and Warendorf frame has been dispensed with thanks to the were the pioneers. Even before the programme development of a new film wrapping, which led started, an analysis in a representative office to a considerable 54.7 percent reduction in the area showed that energy requirements can be materials and weight of the packaging. reduced by about 20 percent by raising awareness among employees. With regard to waste management at the prod­­uction sites, the systematic avoidance Materials and waste strategy is bearing fruit: Total waste has fallen The increasing scarcity of natural resources to approximately 28,900 metric tonnes, a drop of demands efficient use of materials as well as a nearly 11 percent compared to 2007/08. Of this, search for substitutes and the use of secondary 88.8 percent was sent for recycling and processraw materials. ing, whereas only 1.2 percent went to landfill. In 2009/10, Miele used 101,893 tonnes of raw Miele actively pursues a separation of materials, of which 93 percent was metal in the waste at the source policy, from the admin18 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Climate protection in the subsidiaries Protecting the environment by means of saving energy is also vital in the subsidiaries: In Belgium, an environmental protection working group carried out a study in the reporting period on identifying potential areas where energy can be saved with a view to introducing suitable measures. In the USA, an environmental committee was established with representatives from different departments. The committee regularly scrutinises the processes and advises the subsidiary management team on potential energy-saving measures. In Sweden, the building is cooled by means of sea water. To reduce CO2 emissions, the building is heated by long-distance energy. Subsidiaries such as those in Australia, France, Italy and Switzerland also rely on energy-saving lighting systems with timers and light sensor technology. Energyistration offices through to the sorting plants saving LED bulbs and daylight-dependent lighting control systems are also used as a priority in the offices. adjacent to production. Outlook and objectives Water and waste water The subsidiary in Portugal is planning to install a photovoltaic system on the roof of a warehouse in 2011. The Norwegian subsidiary is planning to use geothermal Miele is continuously striving to reduce its energy in a new building. The subsidiaries in Greece and the USA are also looking water requirements through systematic water into the possibility of using photovoltaics or geothermal energy. management. Since 2007, it has reduced total water consumption by just under five percent and has even managed to reduce the amount of waste water by 11 percent over the same be further optimised through increased use of period. building control systems and use of state-ofthe-art energy-efficient drives. Employees will This reduction is partly down to initiatives such be involved to a greater extent in climate and as those in Gütersloh, where savings have environmental protection initiatives and the probeen achieved through merging production gramme to raise awareness will be expanded. stages in surface processing and through casMiele aims to develop a method for determincading water flows. ing the company's carbon footprint by 2013, in a bid to make the effects of its business activity Outlook and objectives on the climate measurable. It plans to gradually In the future, Miele is set to pursue further include the CO2 emissions from business trips, investments in energy-efficient production customer service journeys and goods deliverand climate protection. This includes continuies. Alongside climate protection, initiatives to ous improvement of processes and systems. conserve natural resources will also be pursued www } Outlook and objectives Buildings and building installations will also as a matter of priority. Total enery consumption per tonne of product Specific CO2 emissions per tonne of product in kWh in kg kg 332 320 314 315 2,000 , 1,894 400 1,600 320 1,406 1,443 1,348 1,200 240 256 800 160 249 246 243 Indirect CO2 emissions 400 80 75 72 68 72 Direct CO2 emissions 2000 2007 / 08 2008 / 09 2009 / 10 1 ) 2007 2007 / 08 2008 / 09 2009 / 10 4 ) The new production site in Braşov, Romania is included for Figures are rounded. the first time in 2009/10. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 19 Transport and logistics Across the globe, large amounts of materials, parts and appliances are transported for Miele every day, mostly by HGV. Miele’s well-managed distribution logistics ensure that global transportation places as little strain as possible on the environment. In the future, Miele will continue to ensure that all transportation is as efficient as possible and that the impact of transport-related CO2 emissions on climate change is reduced. This is Miele’s declared aim. To further increase the efficiency of the company’s transport network, materials procurement, goods delivery and customer services will be integrated and continually optimised. All HGV transport is carried out by distributors Efficient utilisation of freight space and carriers. Miele endeavours to continually Optimum utilisation of freight space in every improve efficiency in this sector, as far as its HGV, railway wagon and sea container is a influence will allow. Miele has taken a range of further source of logistics leverage. For incommeasures to achieve this aim, including bundling ing goods, this is ensured via a local shipping transport, efficient utilisation of freight space and network. Miele selects suitable means of use of low-emission means of transport. Miele is transport for outgoing goods, such as highalso aiming to reduce the environmental impact volume freight lorries. These feature taller cargo of commuting and business trips. compartments, which allow for 50 percent greater loads than standard vehicles. Today, Transport bundling 70 percent of HGVs delivering for Miele are Miele predominantly produces its products in what are known as “jumbo trucks”. TransportaGermany – a geographically central location in tion via these trucks accounts for 50 percent of Europe. Eight of twelve production sites are the entire volume of freight. Before loading, an situated in North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower exact plan is made of every vehicle using speSaxony alone and can be reached easily and, cialist software to ensure that the freight space most importantly, quickly from the headquarters is used as efficiently as possible. in Gütersloh ( Westphalia ). This concentration of locations allows Miele to apply a central storage Low-emission means of transport concept, with distances kept to a minimum. It Where possible, Miele prefers transport by is also perfect for rapid and effective deliveries railway. Nine percent of the distribution to to the main Miele markets, which are all found subsidiaries is made by railway, 20 percent by in Europe. ship and 71 percent by HGV. All new cars and commercial vehicles purchased for the Miele Before being distributed worldwide, almost all fleet are required to have the best possible products are bundled, sorted and commisemissions classification. Miele has reduced the sioned at the central site in Gütersloh. From environmental impact of the German subhere, Miele products can be efficiently distribsidiary’s customer service department using uted across the world. In this way, Miele keeps a route optimising system and by supplying CO2 emissions to a minimum, right from the customer service technicians with parts on a word go. needs-oriented basis. 20 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Achievements tion of light commercial vehicles with EURO 4 The creation of a local shipping network for classification in the customer service incoming goods, started in 2007, was an department rose from 46 percent ( 2008 ) to important step towards reducing the volume 64 percent ( 2009). of transportation, and with it the volume of CO2 emissions. With this system, shipments Outlook and objectives from various suppliers are first bundled in their The local shipping network is to be expanded respective regions and then sent on to Miele as far as is practical. The logistical capacity plants in HGV transporters filled to capacity. of all suppliers will be considered – current This local shipping network prevents empty suppliers gradually, new suppliers automatically. runs and transforms large numbers of sepaThe possibility of a connection to the site in rate trips into small numbers of high-volume Bürmoos, Austria, is currently being examined. trips. Miele has turned 10,000 separate annual Across the board, Miele is increasing its use shipments into 2,700. The new system controls of service providers who optimise fuel conthe entire flow of goods, from assessment of sumption by using ecological vehicles and demand to transportation to stock receipt. courses in environmentally aware driving. Until 2012 the development of a logistics IT The Miele fleet includes both company cars platform to control and optimise transportaand customer service vehicles and consistently tion will be completed. The aim is to be able to uses low-emission vehicles. The proportion respond to demands and requirements even of cars with EURO 5 classification rose from more effectively. www 0.2 percent ( 2008 ) to 10.4 percent ( 2009 ). } Employee mobility Around 90 percent of all Miele cars now have } Objectives and achieveEURO 4 or EURO 5 classification. The proporments Centralised Miele logistics Bundling in the Gütersloh central warehouse European subsidiaries — Key neighbouring markets Bünde Warendorf Bielefeld Lehrte Gütersloh Oelde Arnsberg Unic̆ov (CZ) Euskirchen Bürmoos (A) MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 21 Usage phase For ecology-minded customers today, the consumption values of appliances such as washing machines or refrigerators are a decisive factor when it comes to choosing which appliance to buy. This makes sense from both economical and ecological points of view. Domestic appliances produce around 90 percent of their total energy expenditure and environmental impact during their usage phase, i.e. during their use in the home. Miele therefore concentrates on developing and producing appliances that save resources and energy. This creates a basis for eco-friendly use of long-life products. Energy, water and chemicals can be saved in the high quality provided by Miele. These innoeveryday usage. Manufacturers cannot directly vations are all possible thanks to the electronic influence user behaviour, of course, but Miele control units in the domestic appliances and enables its customers to further reduce concommercial machines. Miele has invested large sumption on an individual basis. amounts of capital and development work into these control units at the company’s electronics New developments, such as Eco Feedback, site in Gütersloh. which displays current energy and water consumption, open up new pathways to resource The view that it is more ecologically sound to efficiency and contribute to creating customer replace old appliances that still work with more awareness. Having the exact consumption data efficient new appliances cannot be justified right before your eyes makes you see things when dealing with the latest Miele products. in a new light. Many Professional washing This has been confirmed by a study carried out machines can even call up consumption data at the Öko-Institut in Freiburg in 2009. Results from the last 300 programmes. This makes it showed that the emerging trend of longer apeasy to work out which are the most economipliance lifespan is ecologically beneficial. These cal programmes. results are subject to the assumption that there will be no significant increases in efficiency in With all these developments, environmental comparison to the current top appliances. In protection goes hand in hand with user conaddition, the update function of many applivenience. For example, load detection and disances provides an opportunity to exploit further pensing recommendation functions for washing optimisation potential in the development of new machines can help to prevent the common detergents or textiles. Nevertheless, the compaproblem of overuse of detergent and so avoid a ny is of course continually pushing the developnegative environmental impact. ment of more energy-efficient appliances. The benefits of using systems such as these Customer information become even more apparent when the long Miele endeavours to increase the ecological lifespan of Miele appliances is factored in. Miele awareness of its customers through provision appliances are tested for up to 20 years’ opof information and to establish the idea that eration and these benefits are a key aspect of ecologically sustainable behaviour also makes 22 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society the category of best sustainability brands. In the same year, Miele again won the “Most Trusted Brand” award based on the annual international survey carried out by Reader’s Digest. In 2009, German customers voted Miele customer services the best in the industry for the 16 th time, giving them a score of 1.96 ( average score 2.11 ). The survey was carried out With household appliances, the focus is on functional value by the benchmarking initiative Kundenmonitor and enjoyment of use. When it comes to choosing which appliance to buy, efficiency and eco-friendliness are becoming Deutschland ( German customer satisfaction increasingly important. index ). good economical sense. This is achieved The market launch of automatic washing through publications, the Internet and direct machines with Eco Feedback function for discussions. Information about consumption controlling and adjusting electricity and water data and tips on energy-efficient use of apconsumption took place in 2010. pliances are provided in all user manuals and sales brochures for Miele products worldwide. Outlook and objectives Domestic appliances with smart grid technolUntil now, the topic of resource conservation ogy will be introduced in 2011. Smart gridhas been given low priority, particularly when capable appliances will provide the potential for dealing with expensive commercial machines. considerable cost savings in the coming years. Inefficient but lower-priced appliances are often They automatically use the cheapest electricity preferred. Miele sales departments therefore tariff available from the utility company at any individually calculate the lifecycle costs of given time. In Germany, as in other countries commercial machines based on customer such as Switzerland and France, the future requirements and local conditions and prepare electricity market will be increasingly ruled by detailed amortisation schedules. Consumers supply and demand. Since January 2011, the can also gain an independent overview of the utility companies have been required to offer a lifecycle costs of Miele domestic appliances variety of electricity tariffs to German consumers. compared to the competition from efficiency rankings such as the Eco Top Ten Study carried Transparency in relation to the lifecycle costs out by the Öko-Institut. of commercial machines will be further improved for customers with appliances from the www } Customer service Achievements Professional range. Medical technology will High levels of Miele customer satisfaction are be improved through systematic appraisal of confirmed by excellent ratings in recognised customer satisfaction and customer benefit; to www } ecotopten.de competitions. In 2010, Miele achieved the highthis end, Miele carries out customer surveys at } bestbrands.de est rating of any domestic appliances manuleast once a year. Standards will be determined } kundenmonitor.de facturer at the German “best brands” awards in using a balanced score card. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 23 Disposal Miele adopts a forward-looking approach when it comes to the disposal of its appliances. Decisions regarding material selection and product construction made in the product design phase determine to what extent the appliances can be sent for environmentally friendly recycling. Alongside legal requirements, the issue of conservation of natural resources plays a decisive role. Miele therefore strives to achieve a high degree of appliance recyclability and supports continuous improvement of recycling processes. The company has a direct influence on the To facilitate manual disassembly, Miele recyclability of its appliances as early as the keeps the number of material types and material selection phase. However, not every screw varieties low and labels plastic parts material that can be easily recycled satisaccording to the DIN ISO 11469 international fies Miele’s requirements in relation to quality, standard. durability and performance. The challenge here is to strike a harmonious balance between the When it comes to expensive medical products, two perspectives. Miele has successfully risen Miele’s golden rule is that customers should be to this challenge. able to use their existing accessories with the new appliance, such as the baskets used with The high metal content of 85 percent in dothe large-cabinet decontamination units. This mestic washing machines and up to 90 percent significantly reduces the amount of material in commercial machines makes a significant sent for disposal or recycling. contribution not only to quality, but also to efficient recycling. Returns and recycling Optimisation of recycling processes is a source Miele aims to further increase the already of further leverage for environmentally friendly high proportion of secondary raw materials, disposal of old appliances. Here, Miele is particularly in the metal used, while taking into working together with its waste disposal account the criteria set out above. This reprepartners, among other things to increase the sents an important contribution in terms recycling rate. Miele is also supporting the of conservation of natural resources. international expansion of return and recycling systems. The proportion of recycled plastics in Miele appliances remains low. There is a good reason for Through its association and committee work, this: There are virtually no standardised recycled Miele was heavily involved in the drafting of products capable of being used over a prothe EU WEEE Directive (Waste Electrical and longed period while maintaining the same high Electronic Equipment Directive) and in its implequality on the market for sophisticated technical mentation in national law. Miele is also involved applications. However, Miele is closely monitorin various working groups at national and EU ing developments with the objective of using level that are continuing to look into the topics more recycled material as soon as possible. of waste and disposal. 24 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Miele has set up its own return and recycling systems for old appliances or is involved in collective return and recycling systems in a total of 29 European countries. The aim of these systems is to facilitate ecologically compatible and economically sensible recycling of old appliances, either by returning materials into the economic system or by means of alternative recycling processes. In addition to mechanical processing, high-quality plastics can be recyCommercial machines such as these washing machines have a metal content of up to 90 percent. This contributes significantly cled using raw material processes, in which the to their quality and also to efficient recycling. used plastics and elastomers replace fossil raw materials such as heavy oil or coal. handling of ecologically harmful substances. Miele is involved in extensive return systems for The results are used for the continuous imrecyclable product packaging in all EU member provement of recycling facilities. states and in other countries too. The disposal systems in the various countries ensure that Outlook and objectives the recyclable materials from transport and Miele strives to continuously improve recycling sales packaging are returned into the economic processes and attain a high recyclability of its system. appliances. Achievements Comprehensive field tests are currently being Domestic appliances carried out with the involvement of various Domestic washing machines are currently up manufacturers and under the supervision of to 94 percent recyclable. The proportion of certified inspectors in selected recycling facilisecondary raw materials in the metal used is ties for refrigerators. The aim is to determine up to 62 percent. the average quantity of coolant and blowing agent in current old appliances in everyday opwww Refrigerators that are more than 15 years old eration at the recycling facilities by spring 2011. } Return and recycling systems often contain an ecologically harmful coolant This will help to further improve the recycling } Outlook and objectives and insulant ( CFC ), which must be completely processes. recovered during disposal. In Germany, procedures, operators and treatment facilities are subject to strict permits and checks by state regulatory authorities. Regular voluntary audits of the recycling facilities ( up to four audits per facility per year ) have also been arranged at the instigation of manufacturers and with significant involvement from Miele. These audits are performed by certified inspectors and cover treatment facilities, their documentation and MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 25 Employees Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Personnel policy and corporate culture From 1899, company founders Carl Miele and Reinhard Zinkann laid the foundations for the current personnel policy at Miele with their caring approach which was not at all typical by the standards of the time. This has resulted in a personnel policy characterised by social equity and respect. This genuine harmony together with the special corporate culture at Miele is a key factor in the satisfaction and loyalty of the company’s employees. Respecting employee rights is of course part of this. As an employer, Miele offers all its employan employee’s working life, promotion of lifeees appreciation, fairness and opportunity for long learning, flexible working time models dialogue. Employees are given the freedom to and attractive benefits. These topics will be actively participate and take on responsibility. discussed in detail in this chapter and online. In return, Miele expects above-average comThe certification of the Miele sites according mitment. The role of the personnel policy is to the SA8000 social standard underlines the therefore to promote the performance, expercompany’s ambitious desire to be a responsible tise and satisfaction of employees in order to employer that consistently respects the funsecure their long-term commitment to Miele. damental rights of its employees. This applies worldwide. Miele seeks qualified, skilled individuals who are well-trained, creative and enthusiastic. Employee participation Miele’s requirements are high. At the same Miele openly supports employee participatime, the challenges faced by the personnel tion. In the European sites, the interests of policy are increasing as a result of the internaemployees are represented by works councils, tionalisation of the company and global develindependent trade unions or other forms of opments. Miele is growing through its worldemployee representation according to national wide activity, and this entails both an increase regulations. in the number of employees and a resulting international demand for qualified, skilled In Germany and the Czech Republic as well personnel. Demographic change in the as in some subsidiaries such as France, Italy industrial nations is further intensifying the and the Netherlands, elected works councils competition for talent. The requirements are are responsible for representing the interests changing considerably more rapidly than of employees. Employees in Germany are before and the international networking is inrepresented by the IG Metall trade union, while creasing the complexity of the situation. employees in the Czech Republic are represented by the KOVO union. In Dongguan, an Miele is meeting these diverse challenges employee association set up in 2009 meets head on with a forward-looking personnel monthly with the personnel department in order policy oriented towards the needs of employto discuss suggestions and potential points of ees and the company. This includes a variety of conflict along with ways in which these can be opportunities for development throughout addressed. Trainer Maik Ottofrickenstein with apprentices Florian Schacht and Alina Brandt. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 27 The representation of interests of the agency The 263 employees who were honoured in workers who work for Miele is regulated via 2009/10 for 25, 40 or even 50 years of serthe labour agreements of the personnel service vice provide further proof of the high level of providers. In 2007, Miele signed a general works employee loyalty. agreement in which it undertook to exclusively enter into contracts with service providers who National and international awards confirm that have concluded a labour agreement. Miele is also seen as an attractive employer by outsiders. For instance, the subsidiary in the Miele has maintained a close and trusting reUSA was honoured as an outstanding employer lationship with the employee advocacy groups by the New Jersey Business & Industry Assofor decades. In the event of potential change ciation in 2009. processes, the executive board notifies the employee representatives promptly and in detail. Outlook and objectives The workforce will continue to be qualitatively Achievements and quantitatively aligned with the company’s At the end of the 2009/10 financial year, Miele growth strategy. This is currently demonstrated had 16,561 employees worldwide. Over 60 perby the integration of the new production site cent of the total workforce works in Germany. for electronic components in Braşov, Romania. There was no relocation of existing jobs to other countries, for instance for cost-cutting Miele is ensuring high quality standards by purposes, or compulsory redundancies in the setting up a dedicated production facility with www reporting period. Employee turnover is traditionqualified staff at the site. Certification of the } Employee suggestion scheme ally very low at Miele, a sign of employee satChinese production site Dongguan according } Awards for being an isfaction. In 2009/10, employee turnover was to SA8000 is scheduled to be completed by attractive employer 0.68 percent (previous year: 0.78 percent). the end of the 2013 financial year. Employees by production sites in % Gütersloh 46.6 % Bielefeld 17.1 % Oelde 5.8 % Bünde 5.1 % Unicǒv ( CZ ) 5.0 % Dongguan ( CHN ) 4.4 % Lehrte 4.3 % Euskirchen 4.2 % Arnsberg 2.3 % Warendorf 2.2 % Bürmoos ( AU ) 2.1 % Bras˛ ov ( RO ) 0.9 % 2009 / 10 Number of employees in the sites 10,368 28 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Employee benefits Miele employees achieve a lot, often putting above-average commitment, energy and creativity into their work. This makes a significant contribution to the success and identity of the Miele brand. For its part, the company offers ways of maintaining and increasing the satisfaction and performance of its employees, for example by means of performance-related remuneration, comprehensive fringe benefits and flexible working time models. Performance-related remuneration Comprehensive fringe benefits Appropriate remuneration of employees is a Miele supports various pension plan models in matter of course at Miele. Miele wants to be an Germany, such as the employer contribution attractive employer even – and particularly – in plan (“altersvorsorgewirksamen Leistungen”) tough economic times. The company therefore or deferred compensation via the MetallRente aims to maintain its range of benefits across pension scheme. A company pension scheme the board. Remuneration is based on labour for employees exists since 1929. agreement and company rules. The amount of remuneration is determined by the requirements The subsidiaries procure discounted suppleof the job and not by gender. mentary insurance policies for their employees, for example denture insurance. Many subsidiWhen it comes to agency workers, a general aries procure pension, health, invalidity and works agreement signed in 2007 stipulates survivors insurance. that Miele will only work with temping agencies who have concluded a labour agreement with Flexible working time models a trade union that belongs to the Confederation Working time is regulated by labour agreement of German Trade Unions ( DGB ). and company provisions and also complies with the requirements of SA 8000. Miele ofPay-related incentive systems exist for field fers flexible working time models in order to sales employees and the marketing activities enable its employees to have a healthy workof customer service technicians. Here Miele life balance, while at the same time meeting rewards individual performance with an addiproduction requirements. Various part-time and tional bonus. full-time options are possible, such as flexible shift systems or partial retirement for older emAt the Dongguan site in China, Miele comployees. Specific “target group models” do not missioned a study of the minimum wage and exist. The solutions are geared to the profeslocal wage levels. The result was an increase of sional and personal needs of the individual. employees’ salaries to the corresponding “living wage”, which, unlike the minimum wage, covThe subsidiaries offer similar options. In ers the cost of living. Remuneration at the site Norway, for example, the “Senior Programme” in the Czech Republic is also based on the local offers employees over 55 years old special cost of living. working models, such as part-time or working from home options. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 29 Since September 2007, the Austrian subsidiary offers a childcare facility for employees with young children to enable employees to better combine professional and family life. Having the workplace in the same building gives both, the children and their parents the opportunity to be nearby. This creates an organizational advantage and calms the parents down in case their children are not feeling so well. Achievements In 2009/10, the proportion of employees on flexitime in the German sites rose to 45 percent – 2 percentage points higher than in the previous year. 2009 flexible working times for the technical field staff in the sales and service centres have Manuel and Leon having fun in the Miele kindergarten in Austria. also been introduced. The option to take parental leave is actively taken up in the company. In 2009/10, 94 care and nursing services. The first initiative will employees in Germany entered parental leave. be to set up childcare places for children under Men are becoming increasingly interested in the three in a day-care centre close to the plant in option. The number of men staying at home Gütersloh. to provide childcare was 36 in 2008, rising to 46 in 2010. However, men tend to take shorter Miele will also offer advice relating to childcare parental leave of a few weeks or months. and care for the elderly ( nursing services ) and arrange such services, as well as arranging In 2009/10, 277 employees entered partial backup/emergency options for short-term, retirement, increasing the rate to 8.5 percent temporary childcare. Furthermore, Miele will of employees in Germany. standardise and formalise parental leave discussions and offer further training and qualiOutlook and objectives fication measures specifically for parents. In Miele aims to do even more in the future to help addition, special initiatives will be implemented its employees combine family and work. To this to ensure that parents are better integrated into end, the company plans to develop a new prothe company information flow. www gramme for a family-friendly personnel policy. } Performance-related pay The first step in this will be to establish the } Comprehensive fringe demand in order to create a need-based offer. benefits The focus will be on co-operation with external } Family and career service providers to arrange and supply child30 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Youth development programme Miele offers many interesting fields of work, all of which contribute to the success of the company. This requires talented young people. This talent needs to be discovered, nurtured and developed. Targeted youth development therefore plays an important role in the company. The personnel policy’s overarching goal is the national presence, young employees’ placeadaptation of the workforce to Miele’s growth ments abroad have been increased in length strategy. However, the shortage of skilled labour and frequency. – particularly in the technical area – makes it difficult to acquire new talent. A further chalBetween 2008 and 2010, six graduates prolenge is presented by the changes to the gressed through the trainee programme in Gereducation system, for instance as a result of many, which has been in existence for 20 years. the Bologna Process. Miele has already reFive of them subsequently stayed on at Miele. sponded to these changes with suitably adaptMiele is a partner of the National Pact for WomMINT = mathematics, informatics, natural sciences, ed trainee programmes for university graduates. en in MINT Careers initiative run by the German technology To successfully meet these challenges, youth Federal Ministry of Education and Research. The training at Miele is structured in a holistic goal of the project is to utilise women’s potential manner. Three key areas form the basis of for scientific and technical careers in light of the the training: looming shortage of skilled labour. } Systematic and diverse basic education through training As part of the MINT initiative, Miele is sup} Bachelor programme and integrated degree porting regular cross-plant meetings of female programme engineers and in April 2010 participated for the } Direct entry after university via trainee seventh successive time in Germany’s “Girls’ programme Day” to interest schoolgirls in technical occupaMiele aims to position itself as an attractive tions. Ten girls visited Miele in Gütersloh. employer among young people and is therefore pursuing initiatives to increase awareness Outlook and objectives among potential young employees before Miele will maintain the quantitative and qualithey start their apprenticeship or studies. tative level of apprenticeship and integrated degree programme courses. The training will Achievements continue to be qualified and targeted to actively In the reporting period, the proportion of apcounter the shortage of skilled labour. Coprentices in the overall workforce in Germany operation with schools will be intensified from was 4.2 percent. In addition, more women were 2011 in order to drum up and foster enthusiattracted to the technical training programme. asm for technology and science. Pupils from In 2009/10, they made up 11 percent of techniboth primary schools and secondary schools www cal apprentices in Germany ( 2008/09: 9.2 will learn about physics in its practical imple} Training and integrated degree program percent ). All 434 apprentices were subsequently mentation. They will visit the company, or Miele } Entry programmes taken on as employees. In light of Miele’s interemployees will come to their classrooms. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 31 Personnel development and further training Targeted personnel development is a top priority at Miele. It always takes place with the awareness that it is the employees who make the success of the company possible in the first place. Miele offers its employees personnel development and further training that is broad in scope but employed in a targeted manner. The objective is to ensure the performance and employability of a workforce that is on average getting older. Individual skills and personal needs form a particularly focus. Personnel development and further training ing events and courses. This supports lifelong are key components of the personnel policy learning. and support the company’s growth strategy. Alongside internal developments such as the The first step in the personnel development internationalisation of the company, external initiatives is the annual employee appraisal, at factors present personnel development with which employees and managers discuss their difficult challenges. One of the main factors respective requirements and above all their needs is demographic change, which can lead to a and mutual expectations. At these appraisals, shortage of skilled labour and ultimately to opportunities for further training are discussed the loss of valuable expertise. and the desired training path is then co-ordinated with personnel development. To combat this, the personnel policy at Miele sets out the following priorities: Achievements } Systematic qualification and nurturing of In the 2009/10 financial year, Miele invested skilled personnel and managers from its just under EUR 16.7 million in the training and own ranks further training of its employees. Each employee } Continuous expansion of talent management, received an average of 9.38 hours of further particularly at the German sites training. } Targeted personnel development initiatives for specific target groups Programmes for company-wide qualification } Ensuring preservation of internal knowledge and implementation support were developed and employee networking into building blocks of the Miele success system } Standardising company-wide learning in order to constantly further develop the skills and abilities of all employees } “Sustainability Miele ensures that the skills and abilities of all Management”. employees of all ages are constantly developed and expanded through ongoing qualification To promote systematic qualification and nurturmeasures. This occurs through a mix of intering of skilled personnel and managers from nal, external and open further training. In Miele’s own ranks, the company revised and addition, employees are given the opportuexpanded qualification programmes for new nity for personal professional development by managers as blended learning by incorporatmeans of recognised in-service further training modern forms of learning. This involves 32 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society combining face-to-face training with electronic and other supplementary learning options. The main topics studied are “Leading and Management”. On the basis of personal profile analyses, management workshops were run for managers in Gütersloh. Over a period of five years, every manager will be trained here for two days a year. The purpose of these events is to faciliJoachim Faul, Katrin Honold and Tim Oeltjenbruns know that tate the exchange of experience and expertise personal discussions underpin between experienced managers, with a direct system. New talents must be actively sought, personnel development. effect on management practice. systematically recognised, individually developed, and nurtured and trained in a targeted Miele supported targeted development of way. Another relevant target group is experifemale employees for management roles by enced employees – the average age of Miele getting involved in the PePon (“Utilising Peremployees is 45. This requires age-based prosonnel Potential”) mentoring programme. In grammes with a high level of flexibility in terms 2009/10, the proportion of women in manageof further training options. ment positions at Miele in Germany was 8.4 percent. This represents an increase of 2.2 www percentage points compared to 2007/08. } Three pillars of training } Personnel policy The new specialised career path in Miele product management represents a further means of developing employees with business potential. Average number of hours spent on further training Outlook and objectives per employee Miele will continue to invest heavily in personNumber nel development and further training of all employees in order to adapt to the changes in 11 10.92 the company’s working requirements and meet 10 the needs and expectations of employees. In 9.38 9 addition, Miele will introduce targeted initiatives 8.05 8.19 relating to the personnel policy focal areas set 8 out above in order to counteract the shortage 7 of skilled labour and potential loss of expertise. 6 5 Future personnel development activities will continue to focus on nurturing skilled person2007 2007 / 08 2008 / 09 2009 / 10 nel and managers from Miele’s own ranks in the form of a systematic talent management MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 33 Occupational safety and health protection Miele does a lot to promote the health of employees of all ages and ensure that they are able to perform well at work. The company guarantees the greatest possible occupational safety across all sites and assists employees in staying healthy. It goes without saying that Miele fulfils recogand frequently updated by means of approxinised standards and integrates laws and ordimately 450 external further education events a nances (e.g. REACh ), however this requires a year and special training courses held in virtually clearly defined organisational structure. At Miele, all departments. the areas of occupational safety and health protection are managed with the aid of the Miele In the subsidiaries, specialised personnel ensure management system } “Integrated management safe working conditions. In Canada and Belgium, system”, which ensures the implementation of this role is performed by the Health and Safety the continuous improvement process and reguCommittee. In Greece, a safety engineer advises lar analysis of accident trends. The Miele standon safety in the workplace, while in the Czech ards cover the content of OHSAS 18001, but Republic this role is performed by a service techniare not yet certified according to this standard. cian. Various training measures keep the safety personnel up to date and teach employees how Organisation of occupational safety to behave in an emergency. For example, the Safety in the workplace at the German plants is subsidiary in Portugal carries out regular fire and ensured by 22 trained professionals. In addiemergency drills. In Switzerland, evacuation plantion, 189 employees in the production sites and ning is an important component of the fire protecsales and service centres work as safety officers tion concept and therefore the safety concept. alongside their main jobs. The international production sites also have specialised personnel to At a national and international location level, the ensure occupational safety. In the Chinese site, occupational safety committee also meets four for example, this is a safety engineer. times a year. In Germany, alongside the occupational safety professionals, the site managers, Safety meetings and inspections take place functional managers, company doctor, works regularly in the individual departments of all council and safety officers all participate in these sites to ensure that the required measures are meetings. In the international sites, this responsiimplemented conscientiously. Around 20–25 bility is assumed in a comparable way. inspections per year are carried out in Gütersloh alone. All safety officers there attend a training Prevention as a means of promoting health session four times a year. Further training and To promote health among employees, the comdeployment of the safety officers takes place pany health insurance fund at the German sites with the aid of checklists, seminars on occuoffers prevention-based courses such as back pational safety topics (hazardous substances, exercise classes and autogenic training. In addinoise, etc.) and lessons at all sites. The necestion, medical check-ups are offered and actively sary knowledge is conveyed to all employees promoted in the sites. Health promotion meas34 Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society decreased on average from 14.6 (2008) to 12.7 (2009/10). This places Miele well below Protective clothing, such as the gloves shown in this picture, the industry average of 17.2 percent (2008) as is absolutely essential. reported by the occupational trade associations. The number of absent days due to a workplace ures at the subsidiaries range from a fitness accident fell by 22 percent to 2,716 (2009/10). room in Austria to motivational programmes such as “Cycle to Work” in Denmark. In the reporting period, Miele developed a new process for treating industrial floors affected by The company takes special care of its apprenasbestos. This now ensures the greatest postices. Every apprentice in Germany takes part sible protection for employees during renovation, in five compulsory events as part of the “Azubi construction and demolition work. The process fit” programme. Alongside an introduction to was recognised by the trade associations and the topic of health protection and a seminar on the district government and thus legally authormaintaining a healthy back, three subjects must ised. be chosen and completed from the following five: cardiovascular system, nutrition, coping Outlook and objectives with stress, addiction and conflict management. Miele’s primary goal is to ensure the greatest Technical apprentices also take part in training possible occupational safety, so as to further sessions offered by the trade association. reduce the number of workplace accidents and absent days. The company is pursuing this Achievements goal by continuously optimising the occupawww Consistent prevention-based measures for tional safety management system. Among other } Organisation of occupatireducing the rate of injury are bearing fruit. The things, this system checks certification according onal safety } Medical provision number of accidents per million work hours to OHSAS 18001. Reportable workplace accidents and commuting Absent days due to a workplace accident accidents 1 ) (excluding commuting accidents) 1 ) Injury rate per 1 million work hours Number 17.5 3,500 3,482 15.0 14.60 3,000 13.14 2,819 12.67 2,716 12.5 11.84 2,500 10.0 2,000 7.5 1,500 5.0 1,000 2.5 500 2007 2008 20 09 2009 /10 2008 2009 2009 /10 1 ) All accident entailing an absence of three or more work days 1 ) Absent days are scheduled work days that have been are reportable. Incidents entailing an absence of fewer than missed starting from the accident. This figure is collected three work days are classed as accident notification. since 2008. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 35 Society Company profile Sustainability management Product responsibility Employees Society Commitment to the region Miele takes its social responsibility for local people very seriously. As a result, specific projects are mainly based in the areas where Miele has its production or sales locations. This is line with the self-concept of the family company. Miele’s social commitment is characterised the project to build a new theatre in Gütersloh. by long-term projects with a primary focus on The theatre celebrated its opening in March the promotion of youth and youth sport. The 2010. regional hubs of the activities are in the headquarters in Gütersloh and in Bielefeld, the locaThe “Sports Together” (Gemeinsam zum Sport) tion of the second-oldest and second-largest initiative for children with behavioural problems production site. In countries where Miele has as described in the 2008 Sustainability Report its own subsidiaries, the managers of these started very successfully but has since been subsidiaries decide independently about what discontinued thanks to the increasing availabilform the commitment should take. ity of all-day care in schools. In addition to the commitment of the company The Miele Foundation supported the “Integraitself, the charitable Miele Foundation, which tion Ideas 2010” competition. Gütersloh’s has a capital of EUR 2.5 million, supports schools, cultural associations and institutions further projects. The purpose of the foundation were invited to develop and implement ideas is to promote the public welfare of the city of for a successful integration project. Gütersloh where the foundation is based. The current focus is on supporting children and The commitment of the subsidiaries is diverse culture. and is often characterised by long-term partnerships in which the employees also particiAchievements pate. The scope of the commitment depends In 2010, the Miele Foundation and the comon the size and resources of the particular pany supported charitable projects in the subsidiary. Initiatives range from projects for areas mentioned above with donations totalpeople with disabilities in Belgium to cultural ling EUR 252,000. Since 2009, Miele has been sponsorship in Austria and climate protection supporting the “Integration Through Sport” activities in Croatia. Examples of projects can programme. The goal of this new project is be found online. to develop social skills among socially disadvantaged young people who rarely take Outlook and objectives advantage of the usual sports activities offered. 2011 will see the commitment of the company As part of the mobile youth work of the city and the foundation continued at the same level. of Gütersloh, the sports activities are brought Existing projects will continue to receive supdirectly to the young people in their neighbourport. Miele will also be supporting an additional www hoods and meeting places. In the cultural project aimed at developing ideas to integrate } Projects at subsidiary level sphere, the Miele Foundation supported migrants. Bielefeld schoolchildren learn how a vacuum cleaner works at a site visit. MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 37 GRI Index An annotated version of the GRI Index is available online at www.miele-nachhaltigkeit.de Organisational and report profile Degree of References performance 1. 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the board of management  SR pp. 2-3 1.2 Impacts of business activity as well as risks and opportunities  SR pp. 2-3, 6-7, 9, 12-25, 27-28, internet, c 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation  SR front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and services  SR p. 5 2.3 Organisational structure  SR p. 5, internet 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters  SR p. 5 2.5 Countries in which the organisation operates  SR p. 5 F&F pp. 9, 32, internet 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form  SR p. 5, internet, c 2.7 Markets served  SR front cover, p. 5, internet 2.8 Size of the organisation  SR front cover, p. 5, F&F pp. 4-6, 32 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure or ownership circumstances  SR front cover, p. 5 2.10 Awards  SR front cover, pp. 23, 28, internet 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period  SR front cover 3.2 Publication of last report  SR front cover 3.3 Report cycle  SR front cover 3.4 Contact person for questions about the report  SR back cover 3.5 Process of defining the report contents  SR front cover, internet 3.6 Report boundary  SR front cover 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report  SR front cover, c 3.8 Reporting basis  SR front cover 3.9 Methods of data collection and calculation bases  c 3.10 Restatements of information  SR front cover, c 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods  SR front cover, c 3.12 GRI Index  SR pp. 38-40 3.13 External verification of the report  c 4. Corporate governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Government structure of the organisation  pp. 2-3, 5, 9, internet 4.2 Independence of the chairperson of the highest governance body  c 4.3 Number of independent members in the highest governance body  c 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders  SR pp. 27-28, c 4.5 Relationship between remuneration of executive board and the sustainability performance of  c the organisation 4.6 Mechanisms for avoiding conflicts of interest  SR pp. 9, 12-13, 2728, internet 4.7 Qualification and expertise of the members of the highest governance body in economic,  SR p. 9, internet environmental and social matters 4.8 Values mission statements, codes of conduct and principles in relation to sustainability  SR pp. 6-7, 9-11 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing sustainability performance  NHB p. 9, internet, c 4.10 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body as regards sustainability  NHB p. 9, c 4.11 Use of the precautionary principle  SR pp. 2-3, 6-7, 9, 14-25, internet 4.12 Support for external economic, environmental and social activities  SR pp. 2-3, 6-7, 12-13, 37, internet 4.13 Membership of associations and advocacy groups  SR pp. 6-7, 12-13, internet 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged  SR pp. 12-13 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders  SR pp. 12-13, internet 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  SR pp. 12-13, internet 4.17 Stakeholder topics  SR pp. 12-13, F&F p.13 38 Management approach and performance indicators Degree of References performance Economic Management approach  SR front cover, pp. 2-9, F&F pp. 4-9, BR, internet EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  SR front cover, p. 5, F&F pp. 4, 7-8, 38, 42 EC 2 Financial impacts of climate change  SR pp. 2-3, 9, c EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations  SR pp. 29 30, F&F p. 7, internet EC4 Financial assistance received from government  c EC5 Ratio of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage  SR pp. 29-30 EC6 Business policy, practices and proportion of spending on local suppliers  SR pp. 10 -11, F&F p. 11, c EC7 Procedure of local hiring and local senior management  c EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments and services  SR p. 37, F&F S.42, c EC9 Indirect economic impacts  SR pp. 12-13, internet Environmental protection Management approach  SR pp. 9, 17-25, F&F pp. 10-11, internet EN1 Materials used by weight and volume  F&F pp. 18-20 EN2 Proportion of recycled materials  SR pp. 24-25, F&F p.19 EN3 Direct energy consumption  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 21-22 EN4 Indirect energy consumption  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 21-22 EN5 Energy savings  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 21-22, internet EN6 Energy-efficient products and services  SR pp. 15-16, 22-23, F&F pp. 14-15, internet EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption  SR pp. 17-21, F&F p. 30, c EN8 Water consumption  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 26-27 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water  c EN10 Water recycled and reused for domestic use  c EN11 Production sites in protected areas  c EN12 Significant impact of products and services on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity  c EN13 Protected or restored habitats  c EN14 Strategies and management of impact on biodiversity  c EN15 Endangered species at places of business activity  c EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 22-23, 30, c EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions  SR pp. 20-21, F&F pp. 30-31, internet, c EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gases and reductions achieved  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 23, 31, internet EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  c EN20 NOx, SO 2 and other significant emissions  F&F p. 23 EN21 Total water discharge  SR pp. 17-19, F&F p. 27, internet EN22 Quantity of waste by type and disposal method  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 24-26 EN23 Significant spills of pollutants  c EN24 Transported, imported, exported and treated hazardous waste  c EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation's discharges of water and run off  c EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products  SR pp. 15-25, F&F pp. 15-18, internet EN27 Proportion of products for which packaging materials were returned  internet, c EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws  c and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impact of transporting products, materials and employees  SR pp. 20-21, F&F pp. 30-31, internet, c EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investments  SR pp. 17-19, F&F pp. 28-29 Employees Management approach  SR pp. 26-35, internet LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region  SR pp. 5, 27-28, F&F pp. 32-33, 36 MIELE Sustainability Report 2011 39 GRI Index Management approach and performance indicators Degree of References performance LA2 Employee turnover  SR pp. 27-28, F&F p. 33 LA3 Benefits only provided to full-time employees  SR pp. 29-30, c LA4 Proportion of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  SR pp. 27-28, internet, c LA5 Notice periods regarding significant operational changes  SR pp. 27-28, c LA6 Proportion of workforce represented in health and safety committees  SR pp. 34-35, internet LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, absent rate and total work-related fatalities  SR pp. 34-35, F&F pp. 39-40, c LA8 Preventative health care, counselling and training  F&F p. 41, c LA9 Occupational safety agreements with trade unions  c LA10 Training and further training initiatives  SR pp. 32-33, F&F p. 38 LA11 Knowledge management and lifelong learning  SR pp. 32-33, F&F p. 36, internet LA12 Performance assessment and career development planning  SR pp. 32-33, internet LA13 Diversity in senior management and employee structure  SR pp. 27-28, 32-33, F&F pp. 34, 38 LA14 Salary ratio of men and women  SR pp. 29-30 Human rights Management approach  SR pp. 9-11, internet HR1 Human rights aspects in investment agreements  SR pp. 10-11 HR2 Screening of key suppliers for observance of human rights  SR pp. 10-11, F&F pp. 11-12 HR3 Employee training on human rights  c HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken  c HR5 Business activities in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective  SR pp. 10-11, 27-28, internet, c bargaining is at risk HR6 Business activities carrying a risk of child labour  SR pp. 10-11, internet, c HR7 Business activities carrying a risk of forced or compulsory labour  SR pp. 10-11, internet, c HR8 Training of security personnel in aspects of human rights that are relevant to the  c business activity HR9 Incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous people  c Society Management approach  SR pp. 9, 37, internet SO1 Impact of business activity on communities or regions  SR p. 37, internet, c SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption  SR p. 9, internet, c SO3 Employee training in relation to anti-corruption  SR p. 9, internet, c SO4 Incidents of corruption and actions taken  c SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying  SR pp. 12-13, internet, c SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties and politicians  c SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour  c SO8 Number of fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations  c Product responsibility Management approach  SR pp. 14-25, internet PR1 Life cycle stages assessed in relation to health and product safety  c PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and product safety  c PR3 Principles and measures related to product and service information and labelling  SR pp. 12-13, 15-16, 22-23, F&F pp. 14-15, internet PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product c information and labelling PR5 Measurement of customer satisfaction  SR pp. 15-16, 22-23, internet PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications  c PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with legal regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing  c communications PR8 Number of substantiated data protection complaints  c PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance of legal regulations concerning the purchase and  c use of products 40 Miele recognises the important role of stakeholders and the importance of including Legende them, and is committed to sustainability. Against the backdrop of these principles,  } Full clarification is provided for this Miele is including all key indicators in its 2011 sustainability report. Additional indicators indicator are used where these are of value as judged by the aforementioned principles. Light grey } Additional indicators This GRI Index is only an abridged version. A complete, commented GRI Index can be SR } 2011 Sustainability Report found at www.miele-sustainability.com F&F } Facts and figures for 2011 BR } 2009/2010 Business Report internet } Links to www.miele-nachhaltigkeit.de and www.miele.de c } There is an annotation in relation to this indicator in the GRI Index, at www.miele-nachhaltigkeit.de UN Global Compact Progress Report for Miele & Cie. KG Principle GRI (G3) Link Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally EC5, LA4, LA6-9, LA13-14, SR pp. 10-11, 27-30, proclaimed human rights HR1-9, SO5, PR1-2, PR8 32-35 F&F pp. 11-12, 34, 38-41, c Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HR1-9, SO5 SR pp. 9 -13, 27-28 F&F pp. 10-12, c Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, SO5 DR pp. 10-13, 27-28 recognition of the right to collective bargaining F&F pp. 11-12, c Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour HR1-3, HR7, SO5 SR pp. 10-13 F&F pp. 11-12, c Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour HR1-3, HR6, SO5 SR pp. 10-13 F&F pp. 11-12, c Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and EC7, LA2, LA13-14, HR1-4, SO5 SR pp. 27-30, 32-33 occupation F&F pp. 33 -34, 38, c Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 SR pp. 2-3, 9, 12-13, challenges 15-25 F&F pp. 15-18, 23, 2829, 31, c Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1-30, SO5, PR3-4 SR pp. 12-13, 15-25 F&F pp. 14-31, c Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, EN5-7, EN10, EN18, SR pp. 12-13, 15-25 technologies EN26-27, EN30, SO5 F&F pp. 14-23, 28-29, 31, c Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2-6 SR pp. 9, 12-13, c extortion and bribery Published by: Miele & Cie. KG Carl-Miele-Straße 29 33332 Gütersloh, Germany Postal box 33325 Gütersloh Phone +49 (0) 52 41/ 89-0 Fax +49 (0) 52 41/ 89-20 90 www.miele.com Contact Person: Ursula Wilms Public Relations Phone +49 (0) 52 41/ 89-19 58 Fax +49 (0) 52 41/ 89-19 50 E-mail: ursula.wilms@miele.de www.miele-presse.de www.miele-sustainability.com The 2011 sustainability report is also available in German. Imprint Publisher: Miele & Cie. KG, Gütersloh Editor: Ursula Wilms, Miele & Cie. KG, Gütersloh Conception: Schlange & Co. GmbH, Hamburg Design: Büro für Grafische Gestaltung | Kerstin Schröder, Bielefeld Photography: Christian Ring, Bielefeld; Miele Printed on FSC ®-certified paper.
