2010 2011 Sustainability Report Table of Contents OUR JOURNEY TO DELIVER SUSTAINABILITY TABLE OF CONTE NTS 01 OUR COMMITMENT 03 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 05 OUR OPERATIONS 06 Doing Business with Integrity 06 Our Products and Services 07 Around the World in Fifty Years 08 ENVIRONMENTAL CITIZENSHIP 10 Energy Conservation 10 Incorporating Energy Efficient Solutions 11 A Case Study: Sea Water Desalination Plant for PEARL Island, Qatar 11 Water Stewardship 13 High Efficiency Solutions: Sewage Treatment Plant at the Greens Community, Dubai – A Case Study 14 Sustainable Recycling/Reusing/Reducing 15 EWaste Management 17 OUR PEOPLE, OUR COMMITMENT 17 Work Environment 18 A Diverse and Inclusive Culture 19 Performance Appraisal 19 Investing In Our People 20 Training Activity 21 Team Building 23 Health & Safety 23 PROSPERITY COMBINED WITH HUMANITY 25 Providing Clean Water Where There Is Thirst 26 Providing Knowledge Where There Is Question 29 Opportunities for The New Generation 30 From Commitment to Immediate Action 30 Humanitarian Support “Blood Donation Camps” 31 2010 2011 Sustainability Report OUR JOURNEY to DELIVER SUSTAINABILITY 1 Our Journey to Deliver Sustainability Founded in 1958, Metito has grown to become a world leader in the design and supply of water, wastewater treatment and water desalination systems and plants. With an approach combining theoretical expertise with the practical experience of an engineering and contracting company, as well as a proven record of strong reliable performance, we have earned a reputation for professional excellence. We will continue to develop our portfolio of operating an efficient streamlined business model by being committed to our vision and with accountability towards society, the environment, our people and shareholders. This is Metito’s sixth Sustainability Report. It provides an overview of our continuous efforts and achievements within the frame of our commitment to sustainable development, and highlights the steady progress we made in further integrating sustainability into our overall business framework, making a real difference in several key areas of our business. 2 2010 2011 Sustainability Report OUR COMMITMENT At Metito, we believe that sustainability drives innovation and growth thus we have built a business strategy focused on sustainability that drives innovation in our company. Over the past fifty years, we continued to offer value-added services to our customers, achieve high return on investment for our shareholders and maintain a professional highly motivated workforce across our regions. We are committed to maintain a World Class reputation in all our business activities, founded on the highest standards of customer ethics and environmental care. We recognize that the route to sustaining our commitment goes through first our people, our relationship with shareholders, local communities and other groups as well as our environmental responsibility. The following diagram demonstrates the priorities to maintain a sustainable business strategy: 3 Our Commitment Sustainability Business Strategy Priorities SHAREHOLDERS SOCIETY Corporate Governance Enhancing the Quality of Life, Individuals, Groups & Communities Quality & Safety of Products Addressing Global Challenges & Building Awareness EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Investing in Our People Initiatives to Improve Occupant Well-being, Environmental Performance & Economic Occupational Health & Safety Returns 4 2010 2011 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO John F. Kennedy once said “Anyone who can solve the problems of water will be worthy of 2 Nobel Prizes – one for peace and one for science”. Kennedy’s statement was true then, is true now and will be valid until someone receives these two prizes simultaneously. His words only emphasize the importance of water for world population and cite lack of it as a cause for conflicts. Metito’s core business is Metito’s responsibility towards its stakeholders to provide water where needed and improve sanitation has never been, and will never be subjected to where required, thereby contributing to the world concessions. We recognize that it is these drive for ensuring maximum access to safe water and stakeholders that eventually contribute to the sanitation. Whilst doing so, we ensure it is carried out success of our business and we owe it to them to in a sustainable manner through the use of more pay back in every way possible. efficient systems, maximized recycling and minimum impact on the environment. Committing ourselves to a most challenging vision, and holding ourselves accountable to measurable As parts of the Middle East are going through turmoil targets is one of the important ways we fulfill the and political unrest, it has become a challenge for each essence of Metito philosophy. We focus on the company in this part of the world to survive and sustain quality of our products that serves millions its growth. The region had barely commenced of people all over the world, and innovation in recovery from the aftermath of the world economic technologies that improves the lives of all crisis that impacted many businesses, when political our stakeholders. With the professionalism, turmoil started taking its toll. Some of the countries in dedication, commitment and support of our question represent prime markets for Metito, hence employees, we will continue to work towards a contingency plans had to be drawn up to alleviate and more sustainable future, and with our global minimize the effects of this situation. network of business associates we will continue to improve the lives of current and future Throughout this, Metito’s social commitments were generations. Our enthusiasm and willingness to do never a target for compromise. The company what is right remain to be inherent to our company sailed ahead with its plans for supporting the local ethics, and this creates an exciting and inspiring communities and providing a better life for people in challenge that will continue to be a prime target for its areas of operation. Activities were in the field of the Metito Group. health which included blood donation campaigns, the field of education encompassing providing university Sincerely, students with engineering books, the field of community health through the drilling of more water wells and providing water treatment plants to water deprived communities, and the field of social Mutaz Ghandour activities by supporting local sports teams. Chief Executive Officer 5 Message From the CEO & Our Operations OUR OPERATIONS Doing Business With Integrity Sustainable development is core to our overall performance as a company and the values we hold; and is achieved through acting with integrity and responsibility. At Metito, we believe that good operational performance is dependent on delivering to our commitments to sustainable development with the focus on building on our strengths and managing our risks effectively. Metito’s portfolio of state-of-the-art water treatment technologies positions the company as a leading international provider of products and services in the water, wastewater and desalination industry that is uniquely positioned to help fulfill the world’s demand for cleaner and more reliable water. From its inception in 1958, Metito has grown to encompass several companies worldwide, having its global headquarters in the United Arab Emirates. The company has installed over 3,000 plants across four continents, and has highly capable and committed employees exceeding 2,000 with a senior management team that has over 400 years of industry experience. Metito operates three business lines: Projects & Services, Concessions and; Strategic Partnership Business with a diverse client base covering various sectors including: municipal, tourism, power, oil, gas and petrochemical industries. 6 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Our Products & Services Metito manufactures a broad range of high quality products for the most important applications in water and waste water treatment. Our applications include: Speciality chemicals 7 Our Operations Around the World In Fifty Years United Arab Emirates China (Shenzhen & Hong Kong) Egypt Indonesia (Jakarta) Where We Operate Global Headquarters Regional Headquarters Areas of Operation 8 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Course of Sustainable Development 2004 ISO 9001:2008 2005 Joined Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) 2006 Signed CEO Water Mandate in partnership with the United Nations Global Compact 2007 Green Building LEED GOLD Award and certificate Water Reuse project of the year award for MBR Palm Jumeirah Implemented Group Code of Business Conduct: The intent of this Code is to discourage any wrongdoing and to promote the conduct of all Company business in accordance with the highest standards of integrity, and ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulatory agencies 2008 Awarded best OEM(original equipment manufacturer) partner by Rockwell automation Abu Dhabi Marine operating Company awards Metito certificate for the best improved HSEMS score in Das Island 2009 Upgrading ISO accreditation to ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 Metito Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Policy Implementation (QHSE) 2010 Environmental award for support and implementation of environmental awareness program at Saadiyat Island project Metito receives award from Alstom in recognition of outstanding safety performance and contribution to 3.6 million safe man hours Metito receives award from DUBAL on safety performance and contribution to 3,600,000 safe man hours without lost time injury on the GTX cogeneration power plant expansion project Metito receives award from Technicas Reunidas (TR) on HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) for the achievement of 1,500,000 man hours without lost time injury on Borouge Ethylene plant Metito receives award from Al Attf Power Project Egypt on safety performance 2011 Metito Engineering Data book third edition published: for practicing engineers in the water, wastewater treatment, pollution control and water reclamation industry Employee Handbook: a guide to employment conditions 9 Environmental Citizenship ENVIRONMENTAL CITIZENSHIP “We are citizens, not just consumers. Our environment requires citizen preferences, not just consumer preferences. As citizens, we need to protect nature, not just buy, sell, and consume it. It has a dignity, not just a price”. Mark Sagoff After decades of rapid economic growth, our environment is now at a tipping point. According to The Living Planet Report, humanity is currently consuming resources at a faster rate of 25% than ecosystems can regenerate, and continue to release more CO2 than ecosystems can absorb. Environmental conservation and sustainable development have been recognized as key objectives in all our operations. At Metito, we believe that each of us is an integral part of a larger ecosystem and that our future depends on each one of us embracing the challenge and acting responsibly and positively toward our environment. Energy Conservation According to the Environmental Protection Agency, over the last century the earth has warmed approximately 1 degree Fahrenheit and the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has risen from 290 ppm (parts per million) in 1900 to nearly 400 ppm. At Metito, we realize the threat of climate change to our planet, and therefore we are committed to our role in helping address the climate change issue. We continue to consider energy efficient measures and monitor, access and manage our carbon emissions, as well as build and provide effective policies to reduce CO2 emissions. Our practices and measures to help reduce CO2 emissions include the following: A Green Building Office design whereby 37% more efficient energy as per ASHRAE 90.1 – 1999 contributes towards sustainability, reduced operating costs and carbon footprint. This is achieved by the selection of passive cooling features such as building orientation, massing, glazing thermal insulation and day lighting, coupled with energy efficient lighting fixtures, energy efficient HVAC (Heating, Ventilating and air conditioning) system and smart controls Ozone protection through HCFC free and HVAC&R (Heating, Ventilating, Air conditioning and Refrigeration) Reduced Site disturbance: Ample vegetated open space encompassing 880 different plants making up an area of 16,096 m2 Indoor Environmental Quality: Selection of low VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) Daylight & Views: Provision of day lighting and views to over 90% of occupants Alternative Transportation: Car pooling program, preferred parking for car pools 10 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Incorporating Energy Efficient Solutions With the increase in population and the subsequent increase in the demand for fresh water, very large scale desalination projects may be needed to meet the world’s future fresh water needs. However, high energy use and consequent high greenhouse gas emissions are the major issue with desalination that need to be addressed. As part of our commitment to promote energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we incorporate Energy Recovery Systems (ERS) that are designed to offer highly efficient and environmentally friendly desalination plants. Such Energy recovery technologies help reduce the amount of energy required in membrane desalination by up to 60%, resulting in more economical production of potable water and a reduced carbon footprint. A Case Study: Sea Water Desalination Plant for PEARL Island, Qatar The Pearl Island Qatar is one of the most prestigious real estate developments of the State of Qatar. The multibillion US dollar man-made island covers 985 acres (400 hectares) of reclaimed land offshore eastern Qatar, immediately east of the West Bay shoreline. It includes beachfront villas, elegant town homes, luxury apartments, exclusive penthouses, 5 star hotels, marinas, schools as well as upscale retail shops and restaurants. The island has been positioned with the greatest consideration for the marine environment and topography. Metito was contracted to construct a sea water reverse osmosis desalination plant to supply water for potable purposes, district cooling (DC) and irrigation with a flow capacity of 35,000 m3/day. Incorporating ERS helped reduce the annual power consumption by approximately 24,000,000 kW/h which translates into a reduction of 15.6 tonnes of carbon foot print. 11 Environmental Impact A. No environmentally sensitive species, (endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List) or protected (under Qatari laws) were detected along any of the Under normal circumstances, the construction and Environmental Citizenship transects. operation of such desalination plant would also result in some interference with the local marine B. There did not appear to be any indication of environment. Therefore, an environmental impact pollutants in the area to be dredged, nor any patterns study was carried out to address the likely interactions linking distribution of sediments to prevailing currents of the desalination plant with the local marine eco or known anthropogenic sources. system. Interactions were likely to be caused by the construction work of the intake and outfall pipes as C. The three species of Seagrass known to occur in well as the discharge of hypersaline water into the the Arabian Gulf were detected and were in a healthy sea. To address the interaction of the hypersaline condition. reject water with the environment, three dimensional (3D) modelling using internationally accepted D. The seawater in the vicinity of the proposed intakes software – TELEMAC-3D developed by Laboratoire and outfall appears from the results of the marine National d’Hydraulique of Electricite de France, was environmental study, to be of good quality. used. E. The water column profiles of temperature, salinity Following the modelling, a marine environmental and dissolved oxygen were normal for the time of year survey (MES) was conducted to provide a description and survey conditions. of the existing marine environment in waters adjacent to the desalination plant and its associated pipelines. Furthurmore, Metito recommended establishing a program for monitoring the salinity concentrations around the outfall discharge area once the The marine baseline assessment study indicated desalination plant became operational. Should these the following: measures be enacted, the potential interactions with the marine environment would be managed to the “As Low As Reasonably Practical” (ALARP) levels. 12 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Water Stewardship According to the UNESCO-WWAP, it was estimated that in 1995 about 1.8 billion people were living in areas experiencing severe water stress; and by 2025, it is estimated that about two-thirds of the world’s population — about 5.5 billion people— will live in areas facing moderate to severe water stress. At Metito, we realize the challenge of water efficiency and focus on our water footprint. Anchored by the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate which was signed in early 2006, we identified our approach to water stewardship and established a water sustainable operation to raise water efficiency in all our business practices. The techniques we implemented in our systems at our group headquarters and factory sites include the following processes and outcomes: 13 Environmental Citizenship Innovative Wastewater Technologies: 100% Water recycling via on‐site black water treatment facility Water Use Reduction: usage of high‐efficiency plumbing and water reuse reduces potable water demand by over 74% Water Efficient Landscaping: greater than 50% water savings, species selection and micro‐climate factors, efficient drip technology and treated water usage Stormwater Management: Reduced run‐off rate and quantity, stormwater treatment High Efficiency Solutions: Sewage Treatment Plant at the Greens Community, Dubai – A case study: 14 2010 2011 Sustainability Report The existing sewage treatment plant at The Greens The plant provided the advantage of minimum residential community in the emirate of Dubai was footprint and maximum utilization of existing subject to a major increase in sewerage flow due to a structures whilst maintaining the overall architectural rapid increase in population. There was therefore a and aesthetic requirements. Technically it utilizes a need to augment the plant treatment capacity without modern up to date process that ensures a consistent interrupting operation from 3000 m3/day to 10,000 quality of treated effluent. m3/day in the shortest possible time. With the combination of technology and innovation, Sustainable Recycling/Reusing/Reducing Metito was able to create a highly efficient treatment system whilst minimizing construction costs. By utilizing the MBR (Membrane-Bio-Reactor) technology to retrofit the wastewater treatment plant, it was possible to achieve the following: An increase of 233% in the plant capacity at an increase of only 76% in plant area A wastewater treatment technique where the total footprint is almost halved High quality treated sewage effluent suitable for usage in unrestricted irrigation and sprinkler applications, or for direct feeding to RO (Reverse Osmosis) units for producing water with potable characteristics Sustainability is not an afterthought at Metito; rather, Easier disposal of excess sludge it is a core value and essential to our overall mission. We believe that operating in an environmentally Flexibility of the system to accept shock loads sustainable manner is not only the right thing to do, but it makes smart business sense. That is why we Minimum operator interference and no chemicals actively encourage and promote environmentally to use sustainable practices with the highest ethical standards, and support the community where our Odor and noise free employees live and work. Paper According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, compared to using virgin wood, paper made with 100% recycled content uses 44% less energy, produces 38% less greenhouse gas emissions, 41% less particulate emissions, 50% less wastewater, 49% less solid waste and of course 100% less wood. Furthermore, recycling 1 short ton of paper saves 17 mature trees, 26 m3 of water, 2.3 m3 of landfill space, 2 barrels of oil and 4,100 kW‐ hours of electricity. At Metito, we realize the effect of 15 industrialized paper on the environment, and Plastic Environmental Citizenship therefore, we continue to expand our recycling, reusing and reducing program. We also continue to handle the proper disposal of plastics, as we do not encourage the use of plastic in our offices. However, all plastic bottles are disposed of in dedicated containers for recycling; while most of the high density Polyethylene (HDPE) plastic containers we utilize in all our chemical production are reused and refilled for the same purpose rather than wasting, The remaining raw material drums of different sizes are resold for reuse elsewhere. Container Size Container Weight Number of Containers Number of Containers Total Weight Reused per year Reused per week of Plastic Reused 25 LTR Drum 1.4 kg 300 drums 14,400 20,160 kg 20 LTR Drum 1.2 kg 400 drums 19,200 23,040 kg 16 2010 2011 Sustainability Report E-Waste Management At Metito we also strive to improve the environment and the well being of our community by offering safe practices to eliminate the harmful effects of land filling electronic waste. In collaboration with the Municipality of Dubai we have managed to control hazardous E-wastes since 2007. From 2010 to 2011 we have donated and managed the proper disposal of a total of 114 E-wastes: 19 at our Pune office, India, 33 in Jakarta, Indonesia. While with in the UAE, 62 used and discarded LCD Monitors, laser printers, PC’s, Network devices and laptops were donated to the appropriate E-waste centers accredited by the Municipality of Dubai for repair and upgrading. Later they are distributed to educational, social and charitable institutions, thus enhancing opportunities to spread IT education in the United Arab Emirates, and at the same time protecting the environment through minimizing the harmful effects from the improper disposal of E-waste. OUR PEOPLE, OUR COMMITMENT OUR PEOPLE, OUR COMMITMENT 17 Our People, Our Commitment Work Environment At Metito, we consider our human element to be the most important asset in our company; hence we strive to ensure that we possess a friendly and understanding work environment. We strongly believe that operating with a sense of responsibility and consistency toward our people supports our mission to operate our business to the highest levels of ethical conduct and transparency. To meet these aims, we have incorporated six principles to help guide our behavior as individuals and how we interact with others: Safety Care and Respect Integrity Accountability Collaboration Innovation 18 2010 2011 Sustainability Report A Diverse & Inclusive Culture Performance Appraisal “Improving performance through people” The Performance Appraisal process forms the basis of our belief that everything people do at work at any level contributes to the overall purpose of the organization. It is therefore concerned with what people do (their work), how they do it (their behavior) and what they achieve (their results). The management policies, attitude and practices revolve around the Human Capital, which is recognized as the most valuable asset in the company. Employees are given an equal opportunity for growth “Diversity is at the heart of everything we do” and progress to help them target the more senior positions in the organization. We recognize that people have different needs and that everybody brings value. The basis of our strategy Our performance appraisal process is an excellent is the recognition that the diversity of our employees is management tool which helps employees enhance fundamental to our success. We are committed to their skills, increase efficiency and effectiveness equality of opportunity, diversity and inclusion in all and give them a better opportunity for career areas of employment, as well as nurturing a culture of advancement. respect regardless of difference. Our employees are encouraged to reach their full potential, regardless of gender, age, disability, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or any other factor. We aim to attract Women Percentage growth and retain a rich mix of people working together in an environment that is inclusive and respects diverse differences. 16 % of office based employees Workforce Diversity Chart 16 % Asian (Indian Continent & Southeast Asia): 51 % European: 3 % 9.9 % 9% 8.6 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Arab Nationals: 46 % 19 Performance Appraisal Process Our People, Our Commitment Launch Appraisal Comms to the Time Line Business Business Schedule Review in Appraisals Entire Process Business Carry Out Appraisals Feedback to Board of Directors Review & Asess Quality & Output 1-2-1 Review Meetings Capture Compile Trainng Needs Analysis & Report Investing in Our People Our belief, is that any training activity entered into should address a training gap identified from analyzing where we are now and where we want to be in the future. Employees are encouraged to perceive training not as an expectation that employees think they are entitled to, but in fact an experience which adds value to the organization, the team and themselves. 20 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Our training courses are designed with the aim of maximum amount of return, and as such many of our courses include both pre and post course activities to encourage self reflection and development. In addition, many of our course offerings take trainees through an experiential learning approach, including activities, discussions, interaction and personal reflection to help enhance the learning experience. There are numerous reasons to embark on our journey of training and learning: Preservation: Training can fundamentally assist individuals in acquiring new knowledge, skills, understanding and behavior to continue to add value to an organization Development: The future is always concerned with developing things, new technology, new processes, new structures and people. It is essential that all of these facets are developed and planned for within the company to secure the organization’s future Growth: As an organization we have grown; as individuals we have grown; we need to continue that growth both in terms of the organization and the people we have in Metito today Training Activity During the last 2 years, there has been a continued increase in the amount of training being rolled out within the company. Furthermore, the implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP system) which involves INFOR tools within 2010 again highly contributed to the training activity. That said, there was also a strong increase in the number of internal soft and business skills courses delivered, equating to 39% of all training being offered within the company. 21 Our People, Our Commitment Year 2009 2010 UAE Headcount 701 664 People who received training 317 263 Number of times training has been attended 457 754 Total training days 405 1033 Total training hours 2386 7234 Average days training per full time employee 0.58 1.56 Average hours training per full time employee 4.05 10.89 Training Activity Chart 2010 Cognos Communication Skills Contract Awareness & Understanding Effective Performance Appraisal Hazardous Chemical Handling HRMS Application Induction Infor ERP LN Integrated Waste Management Plan Professional Project Management (PMI) Project Management SCADA Programming Course SQL Application Time Management Skills VMware (Software) 22 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Team Building Health & Safety Team work success rarely happens without focused team building efforts and activities. At Metito, we encourage and incorporate team building exercises to help develop group members and assist teams in becoming cohesive units of individuals that can effectively work together to complete tasks. We have joined the Basketball League and formed “METITO” basketball team which consists of 12 players since 2008. Ever since, the team grew stronger, won tournaments and achieved 2nd Runner-up position in the 4th tournament. Such activity has helped improve communication, made the work place more enjoyable, motivated our team and helped them learn more about themselves, and as a result improved team productivity. Health & Safety will always remain a key focus within our family, and as such regular training courses are organized to renew existing certifications and increase the number of trained people within our company for such an important area of responsibility. There will also continue to be a focus on embedding our critical safety management processes and procedures, and on the management of high-level risks in order to drive performance improvement. Other training and certifications maintained through the appropriate accredited and awarding bodies include but are not limited to: 23 Our People, Our Commitment Safe Use, Erection, Alteration, Dismantling, Maintenance & Inspection of Supported Scaffolding First Aid Awareness Advanced First Aid Supervision, Inspection & Sign the Scaff Tags during Safe Use, Erection, Alteration, Dismantling Scaffolding Scaffolding Inspector Safe Rigging Operations: Safe use of Lifting Gears and Rigger Responsibilities. Rigging Operations Safety Rigger H2S / Breathing Apparatus 24 2010 2011 Sustainability Report PROSPERITY COMBINED WITH HUMANITY 25 Providing Clean Water Where There Is Water for Shirwal Village, Pune Prosperity Combined with Humanity Thirst ‘We continue to deliver life changing initiatives where they are needed most’ Water for Africa For the second year running, Metito joins efforts with Human Appeal International (HAI) to provide water relief to communities across Africa. In a drive to secure clean drinking water to as many people as possible, we joined forces again with UAEMetito India under auspices of Metito Overseas based HAI to improve living conditions of multiple Limited has supplied a Water Purification Plant in African villages in Senegal, Somalia and Sudan. These Shirwal Village which is located in the Satara district of efforts included drilling wells to secure clean and Maharashtra State near Pune. This plant is the first and uncontaminated drinking water to over 6,000 people. one of a kind project executed in India by Metito; and will provide safe drinking water to the 30,000 people HAI and Metito have been responsible for drilling wells staying in the local community. since 2008, with three wells completed last year in Senegal and two in Nigeria. This year five more were completed with efforts focused in Senegal, Somalia and Sudan. Darfur is in particular need of assistance, as it is one of the poorest areas of Sudan. The lack of rain and food shortages have made living conditions worse this year for the estimated 4.7 million refugees dispersed through conflict, still relying on humanitarian aid. “We have a corporate social responsibility to assist some of the world’s poorest people by providing access to clean drinking water – a basic necessity that most of us take for granted on a daily basis,” Fady Juez, The handing over ceremony of this plant took place managing director at Metito Overseas Ltd. on 3rd May 2011 & was attended by our CEO Mr Mutaz Ghandour and Directors, Mr Rami Ghandour and The wells in Senegal, Somalia and Sudan are delivered Mr Bassem Halabi. in farming villages across the country, where the women in most of these villages travel many kilometers daily to get access to drinking water. 26 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Well 4: Well 3: Well 2: Well 1: Prosperity Combined with Humanity Niger: Modlari village Senegal: Visel Amper village Senegal: Karang village Senegal: Embaki Salom village Population: 2000 Population: 700 Population: 800 population: 600 Well depth: 14m Well depth: 20m Well depth: 9m Well depth: 15 meters Well 10: Well 5: Sudan: Jarf Village, Darfur Niger: Tolojol village Population: 7000 Population: 600, Well depth: 13 meters Well depth: 10m Well 6: Well 7: Well 8: Well 9: Senegal: Fatick city, Ndofongon village Senegal: Tokomak Village Somalia: Beledweyne Village Somalia: Buulobarde Village Population: 300 Population: 376 Population: 2,300 families Population: 700 families Well depth: 10 meters Well depth: 8 meters Well depth: 18 meters Well depth: 15 meters 27 28 201 2010 201 2011 Sustainability Report Providing Knowledge Where There Is Question ‘Our young people are the future of our planet. They are the people who can carry on legacies and implement changes.’ tours and presentations at our Global Headquarters Green Building and various sites by our Civil Department team, where students are given the opportunity to understand the LEED program, Green Building concept and design as well as practices that focus on increasing the efficiency of resource use through waste recycling. Our strategy to become a leader in our industry breaks with the classical view of only minimizing the direct environmental impact of our operation. We recognize and understand that we have an important role to play in raising environmental awareness externally as well. The overwhelming value to educate the public on the importance of our natural resources will definitely have an impact on the environment and human health. Therefore, we are dedicated to continuing to In addition, we contribute articles to local newspapers implement educational activities for schools and and newsletters that highlight global challenge university students mainly in the Engineering, issues to raise consciousness. We also sponsor ecoArchitecture and Business Administration domains, to friendly initiatives in collaboration with the Emirates help encourage greater awareness about what we can Environmental Group to promote positive action and do as a company, and as individuals, to lessen our to encourage individual and collective responsibility impact on the environment and to operate in a more for the preservation and protection of the environment sustainable manner. Such activities include guided in the local community. 29 Prosperity Combined with Humanity Opportunities for The New Generation From Commitment to Immediate Action In January 2011, unprecedented protests against the political and economic issues filled the streets of Cairo, Egypt. Protests leveled and later turned violent with brutal intensification of violence increasing the death toll sharply. This was shortly followed by eruptions in several Libyan cities in February where the situation escalated into armed conflict, leading to civil war. Water systems and supply lines were shut down forcing hundreds of thousands to go without food or water. According to the United Nations, more than one million people were affected in Libya and needed humanitarian assistance, and a large proportion were unable to flee due to fear of violence. Understanding the scope of danger that threatened the lives of people in these countries, Metito’s main concern was how to transport all 58 employees in danger out of Libya and At Metito, we provide the opportunity to help young Egypt; and therefore, immediately sent out a team to men and women gain valuable work experience. This ensure the safety of our employees transporting them is accomplished through offering internships and across the Tunisian border. Metito was in constant training in our Global Headquarters for 10 to 13 contact with all the employees ensuring they received university students per year. Our structured training adequate humanitarian relief and found ways to program provides an overview and understanding transfer their salaries. In addition, to make sure the about our core services, projects and culture as well as suffering of our employees was alleviated, we site orientation visits in a period of four weeks. We relocated all 58 employees to our various offices in strongly encourage such programs and believe it Metito, including Qatar and UAE whilst maintaining will result in great dividends through new young competitive salaries. Employees also had the option to generation employment and contribution to economic choose to relocate from Libya to Egypt if they chose to health. stay close to their hometown. 30 2010 2011 Sustainability Report Humanitarian Support Blood Donation Camp Metito recognizes that the rise and reliance on blood donation is dramatically increasing, and is therefore committed to bring change to society by increasing awareness between employees. Metito pune – in In this modern age, health and safety is not yet collaboration with renowned NGO Art of Living and perceived as top most priority, especially when it Metito Indonesia – in collaboration with RAPI (the comes to developing nations like India. Every year Radio Community Organization) and the Indonesia India as a nation requires about 40 million units of Red Cross participated in blood donation camps blood, out of which only a meagre 4 million units of providing the opportunity for our staff to give blood. blood are available. Whilst in Indonesia, according to Over 105 staff members donated blood this year from the Indonesian Red Cross, the country will need both offices. approximately 4.5 million pouches of blood this year with only 3.5 million pouches available last year. The country has a shortage of about one million pouches of blood every year. 31
