2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report Grow & Grow 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report 사립학교교직원연금공단 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. Introduction Contents In 2010, KTP(The Korea Teachers Pension) took the first step for the sustainability report. Issuing 1st COP (Communication on Progress), KTP deliberated our way to go and tried to seek how to make it. In 2011, in order to enhance the sustainability report, KTP tried to expand the report’s scope by GRI G 3.1 version disclosed in March 2011 and made Grow 1. efforts to gather diverse opinions from stakeholders though customized stakeholder surveys. Report Overview / 02 Stakeholders & Communication / 04 For this 2011 report KTP has examined its business environment from Materialist Test / 05 economic, social, and environmental perspectives and contained contents KTP Highlight / 08 supporting 10 principles of human right, labor, environment, and antiKTP Map In Korea / 09 corruption as a member of UN Global Compact. CEO Message / 10 KTP hereby presents its sustainable business performances. KTP Profile / 12 KTP Sustainable Management & Ethical Management / 13 KTP Board Of Directors / 14 KTP People / 15 Grow 2. Grow & Grow Economy / 18 Report Overview Grow & Grow Society / 24 Reporting Period Ω January 2010 – June 2011 KTP Customer / 25 Applied reporting principle Ω GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) version G3.1 KTP Partner / 30 Reporting standards Ω Calendar year based accounting, at least 3 years of time series presented KTP Employee / 32 (2010 first half was re-stated due to duplication of reporting period) KTP Community / 46 half-year results used for 2011 Korean Won (KRW) was used for currency unit Grow & Grow Environment / 50 Reporting scope Ω Economic, social, environmental performances of KTP head office and all the branches Issue cycle Ω Annual basis Issued COP(Communication On Progress) in September 2010 Grow 3. Enhanced reporting Ω stakeholder survey and Materiality test were enhanced Report review Ω both internally and by third-party experts Third-Party Assurance Report / 58 Additional information Ω KTP Performance Management Team Support for UN Global Compact & the 10 Principles / 60 In charge Young Cho Lee. Jeongeun Lee Membership in associations and Awards / 61 Homepage www.ktpf.or.kr E-mail sustain@ktpf.or.kr GRI G3.1 Index / 62 Tel 82-2-769-4136 GRI G3.1 Guideline Application Level / 66 Fax 82-2-784-8799 Questionnaire / 67 02 03 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● Stakeholders & Communication ● Materiality Test KTP is making efforts to build open communication culture by setting communication path among stake holders based on Materiality Test Process stakeholder definition and collecting opinions from the stakeholders. In order to grasp material issues to KTP that the internal/external stakeholders think of, KTP performed materiality test survey. KTP aims at not unilateral delivery of its own voice but bilateral communication channel with stakeholders. It hears of the Along with general issues related to KTP’s sustainable business management, variety of other issues in economic, social, and stakeholders’ voices through various surveys and interviews and reflects the opinions into the business. environmental areas were presented in the survey. Especially to extract social area issues, the survey items were differentiated by stakeholder type and further scrutinized putting weight on that area. This report mainly covers the issues identified through the KTP Stakeholder Definition materiality test, which are marked with ♣. KTP customers consist of employees KTP employees mean 187 employees of private schools, pension beneficiary, working for KTP who are internal Issue Pool Issue Checking Issue Review Issue Confirm Customers and private school institutions, and are stakeholders. They create value for KTP’ Employees defined as KTP’s core stakeholder. s development. ㆍbenchmarking ㆍmedia research ㆍchecking internal issues ㆍmajor issue assessment ㆍconfirm report contents ㆍreviewing management ㆍchecking external issues ㆍreview by management policy and strategy KTP’s business partners are divided As a public institution, KTP defines into two categories. First one includes government and national assembly Government 2011 Material Issues Business outsourcing companies and vendors of as cooperation stakeholders. Newly / Local Partners goods and services and the other one expanded definition of local community Community High indicates financial institutions for fund includes Naju community and the local [Sustainable Management] [Social Area] management government that will be incorporated ㆍnew business development in as its local community group after KTP [Sustainable Management] diverse areas : School personnel head office’s move to the region. ㆍaccurate performance evaluation ㆍseek ways to sustainable pension ㆍexpand affiliated welfare services ㆍnew organization culture system ㆍeducation for understanding of pension system [Sustainable Management] ㆍexpand sustainability reporting and [Economic Area] KTP Communication Channel the perception [Economic Area] ㆍdevelop investment IT system ㆍnew business development : Partners ㆍstrengthen transaction disclosure ㆍdesign systems and strategies for ㆍincrease of green growth sustainable management ㆍimprove integrated risk investment function management process ㆍestablish common work system Customers Employees [Environmental Area] [Economic Area] : Employees Customer satisfaction survey * Organization management * [Environmental Area] ㆍestablish responding system to ㆍmaximize financial performances climate change ㆍcareer management and Customer Participation satisfaction survey ㆍincrease fund IRR ㆍincrease of recycling products and explore the sorting methods ㆍenhance environmental law and competency development (web site) Future development group ㆍexpand purchase of regulation ㆍreasonable HR system Private School Pension 8+1 Can Meeting External interest environment-friendly products Magazine Young Director Program News letter Labor/management joint [Environmental Area] [Social Area] : Government / Local Community Business activity report conference ㆍuse/replace with energy-saving [Social Area] ㆍinvestment and support for senior ㆍinvestment and support for local Love-Sharing Volunteers welfare community KTP products ㆍPR for brand value enhancement ㆍfamily friendly management ㆍlead adoption of governmental policy ㆍenhance environment-protection ㆍsystematic/diverse social service activities Partners Government / local community : Employees : School Personnel : Partners GROW 1. [Social Area] ㆍincrease permanent hire of entry ㆍincrease student/living expense ㆍestablish communication routes Partners transparency * Management disclosure ㆍeffort to protect human rights of level employee loans evaluation Press release by government stakeholders : Government / Local community ㆍattractive working environments ㆍVOC integrated management Notice Square (web site) National assembly reporting/ ㆍeffort for anti-corruption and ㆍiestablish bilateral communication ㆍwin-win labor/management ㆍimprove consulting quality of call Committees related to fund deliberation better transparency relationship center ㆍvarious suggestions and activities management Conference with controlling Best asset manager award * authorities Transparent contract Public institution advancement program workshop : Employees : Business Partners : School Personnel : Government / Local Community Cyber clean center 1company-1 village giving ㆍbroader application of ㆍreinforce fairness in selecting ㆍincrease members and prevent ㆍeffort proactively for move to Naju Ethical management hands program performance-based salary system business partners fund drain-out ㆍBuild up local community in Naju counsel call Donation for accident/disaster [ * The period of * communication channels is annually and others are frequently or periodically. ] Low Internal interest High 04 05 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. KTP is a newly modified Management System for sustainable development. By refreshing KTP`s culture, KTP is building up sustainable development based on the reinforced tasks of sustainable management in which the keywords are Ethics, Transparency, and Green. Grow 1. GROW 1. KTP Highlight / 08 KTP Map In Korea / 09 CEO Message / 10 KTP Profile / 12 KTP Sustainable Management / Ethical Management / 13 KTP Board Of Directors / 14 KTP People / 15 06 07 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● KTP Highlight ● KTP Map In Korea As of December end, 2010 156 153,120 88.1points Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) 11.71% Achieved above 10% of fund IRR 2 years in a row 8.85 points 11 External Transparency Index 25,876 12 66,965 GROW 1. 8 Organization name Representative Head office _ The Korea Teachers Pension (semi governmental institution) _ Byun, Chang Yull (CEO) _ 27 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeunpo-gu, Seoul 210 h 2577h Phone number _ 02-769-4000 28,242 Number of employees _ 187(currently in service). 187(approved headcount) Asset Under Management _ KRW 11,988 billion Employee Training Hours Social Service Activity Hours Net profit _ KRW 1,033 billion 08 09 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● CEO Message Dear stakeholders, Thank you for your continuous interest and support. Year of the best performance In 2010, KTP implemented the innovation of pension law and sought ways to maintain the pension system in order to address increasing social interests in pension system, lowering birth rate, and aging society issues. To minimize customers’ confusion stemming from the new changes in pension system, KTP performed proactive promotion and visit service and met the customers’ rights to know, which resulted in scoring 88.1 points for 2010 customer satisfaction index, 4.4 points higher than the previous year’s. In addition, KTP has continuously proceeded with management efficiencies to respond to advancement of public institutions. Headcount restructuring and hires of new joiners/young interns refreshed the organization, and establishment of various communication channels helped create advanced labor/management culture. Such diverse efforts from in/outside the organization collectively enabled KTP to accomplish “Grade A” for company and “Sound” for CEO in 2010’s management performance evaluation. Continuing enhancement of fund rate of return As interest rates depreciated across the globe and local stock market got vitalized thanks to the improved performances in 2010, KTP made most of the investment-friendly environments and realized 11.71% of fund IRR through reasonable fund management. KTP achieved above 10% return for 2 consecutive years from 2009 and maintained its No. 1 position in fund management evaluation. In 2010, KTP reinforced limit setting and management of risks including new-type securities and T/E limit, and improved operational transparency by increasing external committee members in order to strengthen risk management for alternative investment. KTP joined UN PRI and enhanced public feature of fund management and social responsibility investment globally as a public pension institution. In 2011, company-wide efforts to set more sophisticated mid-to-long term strategic asset distribution (including re-establishment of fund management system) will be made and on such basis boost of fund return will be sought in systematic and reasonable ways. Effort to build sound society KTP considers social responsibility as a critical issue for sustainable management and endeavors to implement social contribution activities in various areas. KTP employees participated in total 2,577 hours of social services under category of community/national/ global contribution, and are making their best efforts to create warm society through sharing and to realize fair society. Responding to Public Institution GHG(Greenhouse gas) Target Management which is the government’s green growth policy addressing climate changes, KTP set a goal to reduce green house gas emission by 20% until 2015 and currently is proceeding with low-carbon green growth in an organized way. KTP implemented “Green Day” campaign. KTP designed practical guideline that employees can follow in daily life in order to boost employees’ participation, and keeps making efforts for practical and effective GROW 1. environment protection activities. KTP is aiming at sustainable leap based on such results. KTP will explore various ways to figure out future growth engine and to develop new businesses in accordance with mid-to-long term development plan currently in progress, and will draw future blue print for KTP’s continuous growth. 10 11 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● KTP Profile ● KTP Sustainable Management KTP was established to efficiently operate and manage the pension system that was made for economic stability and welfare of private The best advanced school personnel and the families, and is providing welfare services to manage the pension assets in a reasonable way and to promote The highest customer satisfaction The most profitable organization management organization private school personnel’s convenience. ㆍcreative customer-oriented ㆍadvances in fund management ㆍenhancing competitiveness KTP Mission KTP Vision KTP Management Goals management system within trust Enhancing service marketing capability Streamlining asset distribution systems Reinforcing sustainable management The highest customer satisfaction, Improving creative customer service Advances in investment technics by asset group Internalization of trust-based Realizing pension fund’s stabilization Market expansion for higher rate of return organization culture Promote stable living and welfare of The Best pension organization The most profitable organization, Enhancing strategic PR private school personnel leading the future The best advanced management ㆍadvanced service quality ㆍadvances in find management organization Reinforcing CRM systems process ㆍgrowth by creative innovation Improving services at customer contact point Enhancing reliability by transparent fund Maintaining creative financial stability Continuous enhancement of service quality management and capability strengthening HR development based on performances KTP Business Integrated risk management and process Change into strategy focused organization innovation Reasonable performance assessment and KTP is responding to private school personnel’s retirement, death, and job-related disease by establishing and maintaining motivation appropriate benefit system though the Pension Benefit Business. Asset Management Business takes the role of managing the fund accumulated by pension contribution and increasing the real value, so that the fund’s financial stability is being strengthened. For development of its sustainable growth, KTP established TOP 2012 in order to set the goal of business strategy and to KTP is also making efforts to practically improve school personnel’s level of life by providing Welfare Business that includes proactively respond to the changing environments. 18 strategic initiatives were set up under the management goal of ‘The highest consultation for asset management, free legal advice, and other services supporting leisure and culture activities. customer satisfaction, The most profitable organization, The best advanced management organization’ Especially for the initiative of Reinforcing Sustainable Management, KTP keeps performing improvement of ethical management infra, creation of trust by Pension Benefit Business Asset Management Business enhanced managerial transparency, and building green-management infra. Pension Benefit Business is composed of member management, Asset Management Business consists of Fund Management collection of pension contribution, and benefit payment. Benefit investing in traditional financial assets like stocks and bonds and payment is divided into benefit-in-service and post-retirement benefit. Alternative Investment covering SOC, real estate, PEF, commodity, ● KTP Ethical Management The funds required for the benefit payment is financed by contribution etc. Loan business for stable living of private school personnel is of school personnel, school foundations, and the government. also included in this category. With the ethical management goal of Tangible assets / KRW “achievement of trust management through Number of School Institutions / 5,794 Current assets / 128.5 BN Clean Transparent Communication Sharing management management management management Clean KTP 9.9”, KTP has built up corporateKRW 182.8 BN Public fund trust / KRW 65 BN wide ethical management processing system. Number of Pension Beneficiary / Loan assets / KRW KTP joined UN Global Compact to solidify 39,127 2,735.6 BN ethical and transparent management up to the level of global standard. It reported to the stakeholders the results of human right, labor, environment, and anti-corruption activities by issuing COP (Communication On Progress) in 2010. KTP set apart mottos of ethical management by the execution plan – clean management, transparent management, communication management, and sharing management. For clean management, KTP formed “clean supporters” that runs regular monitoring External transparency / 8.85points (AntiNumber of School Marketable corruption and Civil Rights Commission) Personnel / securities/ KRW systems to explore the roadblocks of clean management and to figure out the solutions. GROW 1. 274,385 8,876.6 BN It also rearranged ethical standard and expanded training program for enhanced transparent management which resulted in 48% of increase in hours of employee ethical CEO transparency / 9.10points Management & Control training. In addition, KTP newly introduced “clean mileage” and designed a practical Pension Division Asset Management Division CEO Division compensation system based on review and assessment of clean activities, which Planning & Coordination Council Pension planning team Risk management team reinforces communication management encouraging employee’s voluntary participation General admin team Pension service team Investment strategy team and interest. Hours of social contribution activities/ HR team Customer center Bond management team 2,577h As a part of sharing management, KTP practiced win-win management by supporting Auditor Performance management team IT systems team Stock management team companies of social minority and actively implemented sharing activities as a public Alternative investment 1/2 team Regional HQ(Seoul, Central, Consignment management team organization while enlarging its social contribution scope with social services linked with Hours of transparency training/ HQ move T/F Youngnam, Honam) Audit council 11.2h per employee local community and support of UNICEF’s education program. 12 13 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● KTP Board Of Directors ● KTP People To secure more transparent management system, KTP’s board of directors tries to be an advisor and also a monitor. A pool of Employee mix with diverse background members with diverse background are utilized for solid operation and enhanced expertise, and e-BOD system was improved to allow quick and convenient decision making. Trying to enhance equal-society employment, KTP keeps increasing new hire of the handicapped and persons with distinguished services to the state. As for female recruiting, KTP recorded 20.5% increase in BOD Members and the Enhanced Roles 2010 complying with the government’s policy. It also recruited local Handicapped / 6 Following the Private School Personnel Pension Law, KTP’s BOD consists of a chairman (CEO), 2 executive directors, and 6 nontalents from variety of regions and has been implementing real open executive (outside) directors. Internal conflict prevention system is running by nominating BOD members without any personal recruitment and equal-society employment. Persons with Distinguished Services to the State/ 15 interest with KTP. Compensation for CEO and executive directors is in compliance with internal compensation standard, and nonTo fulfill its social responsibility as an public organization, KTP is actively executive directors are paid upon each meeting attendance at a predetermined rate. Non-executive directors also make lectures participating in job-sharing program for youngsters. KTP hired 26 young Females / 41 sharing their expertise to develop employees’ competency and try to reinforce managerial transparency and expertise through interns (from 2010 to June 2011) to alleviate the unemployment issue various activities including participation in pension Benefit Review Committee. As a top decision making organization, KTP’s BOD is of youngsters, and is providing various training opportunities including making best efforts to help the organization achieve its management goal by providing advices for the business policy. ones for language, OA, and book reading. The interns can get incentives Local Talents / 67 like merits in future official recruiting, which makes the internship CEO Byun, CEO of KTP Recommended by executive nomination committee program practical and effective. (Chairman) Chang Yull (ex) Head of University Support Department, Chairman → Appointed by Minister of Education, Science and Technology Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Park, Executive Director of KTP Executive nomination committee → Reviewed and resolved by public institution Executive Young-Deok (ex) Vice President, GND Wintech Auditor management committee → Appointed by Minister of Strategy and Finance Establishing Vivid Labor-Management Culture Director Baik, Executive Director of KTP (ex) head of planning and coordination Sung-Ki council, KTP Executive Open recruiting or multiple recommendation → appointed by chairman KTP prevents in advance the conflicts between labor and management Labor/ Labor/ Dean of Graduate School of Finance and director management management Han, Accounting, KAIST by building up parallel and open communication routes, and is collecting joint conference / joint meeting / In-Goo (ex) Dean of Techno MBA school, KAIST Non-executive Open recruiting or multiple recommendation → Appointment request by filed-oriented opinions from various communication channels. It 4times 16times Koo, Lawyer, Songbaik Law Firm director chairman → Appointed by minister of Education, Science and Technology Choong-Seo (ex) Judge, Seoul District Court strengthened direct communication channel between CEO and labor 32times union head to adopt practical performance-based salary system and Young Kim, Chairman, Kook-Am foundation 10times Directors/ NonSeung-Je 9times 25times (current) CEO, Ibse Broadcasting 8times 21times to resolve management issues in question. To vitalize communication 3times executive Professor, Kookmin Univ. director Kim, (ex) Head of Planning and PR team, between CEO and individual employees, programs such as 8+1 can Eun-Hong Kookmin Univ. meeting and young director program were applied. Thanks to such Bae, Principal, Sang-Myung High School Yong-Sook (current) Auditor, Korean Association of efforts, community spirit among labor and management is being Private School Principals 8+1 Can Meeting/ Kim, Officer of School Deregulation TF, Ministry of formed, which is a basis of win-win labor-management relationship. 13times [as of 2010 ] Education Service and Technology Kwan-Bok (ex) Head of School Support Team, MEST 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 [as of Sep end, 2011] [number of meetings held] [number of items reviewed] KTP GWP Adoption BOD Operation Internal Assessment Singles Quiz Cross KTP is performing self assessment through surveys on overall BOD operation that BOD members and manager-level employees Day Time Meeting participate in, in order to review the operation and to extract reasonable operating methods. 17 items including BOD job satisfaction level were surveyed targeting BOD members, and manger level employees participated in the survey for other 13 items including GROW 1. activity details of non-executive directors. The survey results were used to figure out and analyze issues in BOD operation. In 2011, Happy Free Overseas Fun Communication KTP the survey item will be expanded so that internal/external opinions regarding green management and ethical management will be Home Friday Institution Culture with similar Communication Day Day Visit Lecture institutions Square analyzed and reported. Issues in each department are reviewed before filing to BOD meeting. Going forward, KTP’s BOD will make best efforts to discuss current issues related to business plan and reflect them in actual management through diversification of reporting items and regular/irregular BOD meetings. Family friendly program Fun Management Program Vitalizing Communication Program 2009 90.2% 2009 100% 2009 94.7% KTP adopted Great Work Place system in order to prevent in advance the conflicts among employees and to create comfortable and joyful work place by fertilizing the enjoyable work culture. Family-friendly and fun management activities such as Happy 2010 91.8% 2010 100% 2010 96.3% Homeday without overtime work on every Wednesday and Overseas Institution Visit for selected employees to visit and benchmark [satisfaction level_Directors] [survey participation_Directors] [survey participation_Employees] overseas exemplary institutions are making the work place pleasant. 14 15 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy GROW 3. KTP looks forward to one thing. KTP would like to have an insight into the future even though KTP chooses the slow way of operating rather than the unconditional fast way which makes it to the top quicker. KTP hopes the smile of children is sustainable... KTP hopes the happiness of teachers is guaranteed... KTP hopes that happiness is consistently guaranteed through clear nature. KTP will try to sustain a beautiful future by utilizing small practices. Grow 2. Grow & Grow Economy KTP Financial status / 19 KTP Asset Distribution / 20 KTP Fund Management / 21 GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy KTP Alternative Investment / SRI Investment / 22 KTP Risk Management / 23 Grow & Grow Society KTP Customer / 25 KTP Partner / 30 KTP Employee / 32 KTP Community / 46 Grow & Grow Environment KTP environment policy / 51 KTP energy saving activities / 52 KTP environment investment / 53 KTP environment investment / 54 16 17 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy GROW 3. ● KTP Financial Status KTP Financial Soundness To enhance financial soundness for sustainable pension system and to better respond to changes in financial environments, KTP designed mid-to-long term strategic asset distribution based on ALM method and is creating sound financial environments. KRW KRW 1,033.4 BN KRW KRW KRW 11,988.5 BN KRW 10,587.6 BN KRW 719.2 BN KRW 9,429.7 BN 657.7 BN 584.9 BN 648.1 BN KRW 336.3 BN 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 [assets] [liabilities] [net profit] KTP’s pension liabilities are composed of rental deposits for real estate and government-trusted funds for student loans. KTP has very stable financial structure with virtually zero real liabilities for borrowing purposes. KTP Fund Management Profitability Private School Pension Fund is being managed with purpose of securing responsible reserves to cover benefit payments for private school personnel, and maintenance of pension systems’ soundness and stabilization of pension finance was set as the goal to fulfill the purpose. 8.13% 6.71% 14.71% 53.8% 11.71% 4.31% 22.58% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 -4.78% -38.08% [fund management rate of return] [stock investment rate of return [bond investment rate of return] GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy [time-weighted rate basis] Grow & Grow Economy KTP recognized the plunges of asset price during the financial crisis as temporary phenomena, and maintained its mid-tolong term strategic asset investment distribution weight based on the mid-to-long term investment principle matching with the pension system’s long term features, which resulted in achievement of better return as the global financial crisis recovered. Such reasonable asset distribution strategy and maintenance of long term investment philosophy allowed KTP to keep its position as vision 2010 Key Performances number 1 pension organization in terms of asset management return for 2 consecutive years. ㆍReasonable asset While keeping the management principle of investing in stable and high-return assets based on mid-to-long term management management policy + + KRW plan, KTP also considers its publicness in managing assets. KTP will keep pursuing process advancement across all fund 1,033.4 BN 11.71% 7.22% ㆍAdvanced asset management management activities including aggressive asset management of expanding risky asset investment for higher fund return, reasonable asset distribution, enhancement of research function, risk hedge through diversification of investment region/asset process class, and improved risk management. KTP will contribute for development of the society and financial market by expanding socialNet profit Fund rate of return Alternative ㆍAdvanced risk management investment rate of responsibility investment and managing assets with transparency as a public pension organization. return 18 19 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy GROW 3. ● KTP Asset Distribution ● KTP Fund Management KTP Mid-to-long Term Asset Distribution KTP Fund Management Systems 23% 44% 21% 22.5% [domestic 39% 19% 18% 18% 18% 17% 19% 35% 31% [loans] 17% Reasonable Asset Advanced asset Advanced risk [domestic stocks] 30% Management Policy management process management stocks] Increasing 5% 6% 7% 7% [alternative 15.5% 16.5% ㆍReasonable and advanced asset ㆍadoption of risk budget system ㆍenhancement of integrated risk pension 3.5% [overseas 4% 5.5% 5.5% 6% 6.5% investment] 14.5% [overseas 13.5% distribution systems ㆍreasonable performance management fund stocks] stocks] 12.5% ㆍVitalizing investment strategy and assessment ㆍenhancement of proactive risk 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 research function management systems In accordance with the changes in financial market environments after 2008’s global crisis, KTP strongly recognized the needs for KTP is proceeding with advancement in fund management process to establish stable increase base of pension fund by enhancing modification of existing mid-to-long term strategic asset management and re-built strategic asset distribution plan based on an fund management rate of return, and set up detailed action plan by each division. outsourced research by third party experts. For reasonable asset management policy, KTP built mid-to-long term strategic asset management system based on ALM (Asset Since the exsiting asset distribution system without considering liabilities was not able to set Funded Ratio and to respond to the Liability Management) and conducted study on adoption of risk budget system for tactical asset distribution and more reasonable demands of ex-post regulations on financial soundness based on the ratio, KTP designed integrated Asset Liability Management “active” management. It also designed stock universe and model portfolio to vitalize research functions and created buy list on strategy considering Funded Ratio through strategic asset distribution based on LDI(Liability Driven Investment) method. bonds. KTP is performing quarterly evaluation analysis and risk asset result review in order to enhance the feedback through result vs target review by asset classes. Evaluation criteria for outsourcing asset manager was improved to enhance transparency of fund management, and selection standard for bond trading institution was also set up and is in operation. Especially for efficient control of each risk, KTP established investment limit by asset classes, integrated risk limit, and risk budget limit, and is strictly managing the limits. Proactive risk management system was also established by implementing Stress Test – Asset Management Direction Setting that performs scenario setting by each risk, loss estimation subject to each scenario, and appropriacy evaluation of the size – and Contingency Plan to recognize risks in early stage and to respond to them. 2011’s asset management direction was set by application of 2011 target investment weight in mid-to-long term strategic asset distribution plan based on ALM method. While increasing investment weight of risky assets – alternative investment (13.7% in 2010 -> 15.4% in 2011) and stocks (19.0% in 2010 -> 21.0% in 2011), KTP decreased the weight of domestic bonds, the relatively safer asset (58.7% in 2010 -> 53.8% in 2011). To actively improve investment returns. In addition, it increased the portion of overseas KTP Fund Management Decision Making Committees stocks and bonds for diversification in investment region and risk hedge by diversified investment. KTP has various advisory/deliberation committees for reasonable decision making in fund management. Committees composed As for investment limit by asset classes, adjustment range of tactical asset distribution is defined in IPS(Investment Policy of suitable internal/external experts subject to the nature are making important decisions on fund management and risk Statement) based on annual asset distribution’s target investment weight determined by strategic asset distribution, in order to management based on financial market analysis, and enhancing operational rationality by performance through regular flexibly address unexpected market circumstances. monitoring. The goal of asset management is to achieve long-term rate of returns exceeding GDP growth rate based on such asset distribution while keeping Shortfall Risk limit in IPS. Pension steering ㆍDeliberation committee for overall pension management committee GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy Chaired by CEO, with 15~20 of internal/external experts 15% 15 Fund management ㆍAdvisory committee for fund management and risk management 10% 7% advisory meeting Chaired by CEO, with 14 of internal/external experts 5 5% 5% Asset management ㆍDeliberation committee on asset management of the pension fund committee Chaired by head of Management & Control Division, with 2 internal member and 7 external members [domestic [overseas [domestic [overseas [alternative bonds] bonds] stocks] stocks] investment] -5 -5% -5% Fund management ㆍAdvisory committee for enhancement of rationality/expertise in fund management and minimization of investment risks -7% sub committee Chaired by head of fund management , with head of each management team and 5 external members -10% -15 -15% Investment ㆍDeliberation/decision making committee for major agenda related with alternative investment [ tactical asset distribution adjustment range] Committee Chaired by head of Management & Control Division, with 3 internal and 3 external members Risk Management ㆍDeliberative committee for major agenda regarding risk management in asset management committee Chaired by head of Management & Control Division, with 2 internal and 2 external members 20 21 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy GROW 3. ● KTP Alternative Investment ♣ ● KTP Risk Management 8.29% 8.66% [SOC] 4,598 3,659 5,172 Integrated Risk Management System 7.22% 3,542 3,682 [Real estate] 3,394 2,973 [PEF] Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk Operation risk [KTP] 2.93% 4.7% 2,936 2,493 [NPS*] 2.73% 339 334 [GEPS**] 1.8% -0.92% [Commodities] 327 Limit -1.4% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 management [alternative investment rate of return by pension funds] [alternative investment status_ unit :KRW hundred million] Market VaR System Credit VaR System Cashflow at Risk Compliance System In contrast to very low returns of alternative investment market due to global economic crisis starting from 2008 second half, KTP has been maintaining positive KTP has built up integrated risk management system and currently is running it in order to achieve stable investment return through rate of return until 2010. 2010 rate of return by each alternative investment asset class systematic risk management. stayed within ± 1%p range of target rate across all classes including SOC, real estate, KTP sets and manages limits by integration of market/credit risk embedded assets according to the nature of each asset, and and PEF, and investment into commodities recorded returns exceeding target rate by monitors compliance status of laws, IPS, regulations, and principles related with fund management through compliance system 2.72%p. on a regular/irregular basis. It also established proactive risk management system based on Stress Test and Contingency Plan KTP plans to expand the weight of alternative investment up to 16.50% out of total management. Risk Budgeting was adopted to prevent asset manager’s excessive use of risks and to use the risks efficiently by assets by continuously increasing the portion until 2015, in accordance with mid-tosetting T/E(Tracking Error) limit per asset group matching with risk budget target of each asset group. Risk management system [Tokyo_Kiriyama Building] long term asset distribution based on ALM method. Especially to diversify investment that allows seamless control of the risks by setting ZONEs (Green, Yellow, Red) subject to the Tracking Error limit is already in place. assets, KTP will invest into overseas assets across US, Europe, and Asia, and will adjust the portfolio to accommodate investment in advanced countries’ core assets Green (Normal) Yellow (Alert) Red (Risky) starting from 2010’s purchase of Kiriyama building and “Ta-A Bruguan” building amounting KRW 38.4 BN. 95% of assigned 98% of assigned KTP has assumed KNOC’s stakes in a JOC (Joint Operating Company) running crude T/E limit T/E limit oil well located in south eastern Vietnam and acquired right to share proceeds from crude oil sales. It will actively participate in such overseas resource development [T·E limit ZONE management range] investment. [New Yokohama_Ta-A Brugwan Building] * The full name of NPS is National Pension Service ** The full name of GEPS is Government Employees Pension Service Crisis Event Responding System In order to reinforce responding capabilities to crisis events, KTP designed Contingency Plan that proactively defines various crisis ● KTP SRI Investment events and devises the step-by-step addressing method for such events, and built up proactive risk management system. Crisis event represents an event that can possibly create negative impact to fund management returns to a significant extent. KTP is carefully managing crisis factors and crisis event judgment indicators and is taking step-by-step responding actions by dividing GROW 2. Grow & Grow Economy KTP, as a public pension organization, is investing into funds for companies conducting social responsibilities. It considers social the crisis events into three steps of need to watch, semi crisis, and crisis. sustainable companies, financial sustainable companies, environmental sustainable companies, and companies with sound In addition, it established P-D-C-A (Plan-Do-Check-Action) system for the Contingency Plan and monitors market indicators (stock governance structure as the investment targets, and determines investment weight subject to combination of environmental(E), price, interest rate, VaR), credit indicators (domestic credit spread, VaR), and early alert indicators (financial market, FX market, Social(S), Corporate Governance(G) and financial factors. In addition, KTP established the fund portfolio combining SRI(Social overseas financial market, real estate and commodity market, macro-economy indicator) in order to proactively manage the risks. Responsibility Investment) assets and underestimated sound assets, using Core-Satellite strategy. KRW 17.3 BN of investment was made in 2009. in 2010, open bid for SRI type asset management company was held with participation of 9 companies, and one asset ㆍCrisis event judgment indicator shows “Crisis”. An event creating negative impact to rate of return management company was chosen for KRW 10 BN of investment. KTP will keep increasing the investment into SRI area. Crisis to a significant extent Satellite Financially sustainable CORE Semi Crisis ㆍhighly possible to progress to Crisis, but still uncertain if further deterioration would take place Social sustainable company Underestimated company SRI asset group ESG and financial sound assets factors Fundamentals and Environmentally sustainable Company of sound 70~80% level of trusted Valuation 20~30% Need to watch ㆍan event that has potential to develop to Crisis company governance structure assets level of trusted assets [crisis event steps] 22 23 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. KTP Customer KTP Customer Definition KTP’s core customers consist of 274,385 of private school personnel and 39,127 of pension beneficiaries. While they are not either ex officio subscriber or discretionary subscriber, general citizens are incorporated in broader definition of external customer as KTP’s potential customers. KTP’s businesses mainly targets the core customers, and affiliated welfare services are in place for them to enjoy various welfare benefits from the very first day of employment. As for job-related disease and accident, accident compensation system was prepared to protect Pension lives of school personnel and the families and to promote the welfare. beneficiary KTP manages pension beneficiaries for their stable pension benefit School receipt after retirement, and makes efforts to establish appropriate personnel pension benefit system by which the beneficiaries can maintain economic External customer stability. Communication with Customer KTP always pays attention to customer’s voice in order to match its management activities with thoughts of the customers, and is operating VOC(Voice of Customer) system. Regular surveys and satisfaction research via on-line media such as the web site and email are being made, and off-line based surveys including kindergarten pension work supporters program and pension work officials conference are also being implemented in order to collect voice of customer in a closer way. KTP keeps trying to further develop other types of channels for gathering diverse VOC. VOC’s selected through operation of VOC self assessment team are actively reflected for improvement of pension system and work process. As implementation of VOC integrated management system was completed in the 1st half of 2011, customer’s voice comes to be reflected in KTP’s management in a systematic way. For the upcoming 2 years, CEM (Customer Experience Management) system will be implemented and stabilized. KTP will keep making efforts to actively adopt customer’s voice by continuous development of VOC system. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society VOC Receipt Status Grow & Grow Society Pension officials / 26% Pension beneficiaries / 2009 10% 15,542times 2010 Core Values 2010 Key Performances ㆍThink customer first others / 3,582times 1% 1,438times 843times ㆍCreate future by challenges + + 1,384times 88.1 points 8.8 points 2,577h 204times School personnel / ㆍNurture the best talents 63% Pension Recommendation others inquiry and suggestion Customer External Social service satisfaction index transparency index activities hours [VOC receipt status by customer_ as of 2010] [VOC receipt status by service_ as of 2010]] 24 25 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● KTP Pension System ♣ KTP Pension System Finance Recalculation Committee KTP pension system was firstly introduced on January 1st in 1975 with purpose of life stabilization and welfare improvement Finance recalculation committee was established to secure transparency in finance calculation process and reinforce external of private school personnel and the families by establishing proper benefit system to address retirement, death, and jobreliability by drawing reasonable estimation results. Finance recalculation committee is divided into finance estimation related disease/injury/disability of private school personnel. Application scope of private school personnel pension law includes sub-committee and finance assessment sub-committee, and extracts conclusions regarding essential issues related with school employees of all private schools from primary school to university, private special school, and other institutions such as recalculation through by-part advisory and discussion. It has 11 members of experts and professors in the relevant filed, and the kindergarten and research institute designated by Minister of Education, science and technology. Government Employee Pension sub-committee is held on a necessity basis to resolve issues in finance recalculation and remedial items together with the experts. System is being applied for equal treatment with national/public school personnel, and school foundations and the government are also participating as the cost contributor. Finance estimation subFinance assessment subKTP support committee committee Finance recalculation ㆍVerify finance estimation model ㆍFinance estimation and ㆍSupport for calculation base Benefit Medical committee ㆍDetermine calculation base rate assessment rate, finance estimation and Condolence for Intreatment + benefit ㆍSensitivity analysis and liability assessment, etc. Service benefit valuation ㆍPrepare reports PostRetirement Retirement Survivor’ Disability retirement benefit + s benefit + benefit + allowance Pension finance long-term estimation benefit benefit Based on article 43 of private school pension law (cost bearing principles), KTP has conducted finance recalculation for every 5 [benefit types] years from 2001 to maintain long-term finance balance between incomes and expenditures. Finance recalculation committee composed of respected experts determines calculation base rate and performs finance calculation works step-by-step. Probability model by homogeneous groups (Cohort) was converted to individual probability model, and the estimation model was made up with modules of headcount estimation, income estimation, expenditure estimation, and finance index estimation. 2010’ Exploring pension system maintenance measures by amendment s finance recalculation showed that finance account’s red-conversion timing was extended from 2017 to 2023 and the fund drainout time from 2024 to 2033 as well. KTP will make efforts not only to secure transparency and rationality of calculation process KTP is making best efforts to secure customer’s pension by establishing sustainable pension system. KTP made suggestion for by systematic finance calculation, but also to maintain sustainable pension finance for long term by improvement accuracy of amendment of pension law to clarify issues including base income monthly rate introduced after 2009’s amendment, problems in pension finance estimation managing discretionary application institutions, and controversial parts in interpreting the law. Total expenditure KTP presented its strong willingness for pension system amendment through series of discussion with MEST and MOSF, and finally suggested to MEST pension law amendment on 10th of October, 2010. When the amendment is made, disputes in Total income application and interpretation of the law can be resolved, and the pension system’s sustainability will be come more concrete by Fund balance improving and remedying current issues in the system operation. KTP will keep making efforts for continuous improvement of the 2010 2035 2060 2080 pension system for the customers to trust KTP. [2010 long term finance estimation] GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society KTP Research on pension finance stabilization measures Pension Prepare pension law File to pension planning Suggest law amendment For sustainable maintenance of pension finance, KTP has been conducting research on finance stabilization measures to amendment management committee team detect operational problems and improve the factors with negative impact to pension fund raising. 2010’s finance recalculation presented the needs for long-term finance stabilization and systematic system development through integrated research on Government Submit policy alternatives. In line with those, KTP performed a research in collaboration with Korea Development Institute to secure the Receive suggestion Cabinet meeting government legislation amendment to research’s objectiveness. Based on the research results and through social consensus building among stakeholders, KTP will try [MEST] review & resolution process national assembly to achieve long-term finance stabilization by extracting systematic system development plans (including pension cost distribution scheme by the contributors to resolve the imbalance of income/expenditure, roles & responsibility amendment measures between the government and pension customers by accumulation of responsible reserves and opportunity cost sharing, etc.) and National Standing committee/ Plenary assembly Receive law Law by gradually improving the pension laws and regulations. Legislation committee session amendment amendment review and resolution resolution Final research report in July 2011 will be a chance to examine again the appropriateness of pension finance’s income/expenditure. KTP will make effort for stable management of pension finance through gradual system improvement. 26 27 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● KTP Customer Service Advances in Customer Service Center Visiting Customer Satisfaction Service ♣ Since its launching of customer service call center in 2009, KTP has been providing the school personnel with prompt, accurate, KTP is performing various face-to-face services to build up communication 906 time and advanced services for private school pension law and regulation, pension system, and overall pension works. KTP systemized place with customers and to maximize the customer convenience CRM (Customer Relationship management) via databased VOC and built sound foundation for proactive service provision through through bilateral communication. KTP held 26 times of conferences and 437 time efficient implantation/operation of the CRM system. On top of that, increase presentations to form solid relationship with pension work officials in schools 88.1 points in number of consultants led to reduced call lead time. To deliver accurate and external institutions and to lead accurate recognition and understanding pension information, 5-week pension work training is being made every year in of pension system. Visit consulting is also being made by moving consulting accordance with new consultant education plan. service system – KTP official’s direct visit to customer for customized services 26 times KTP obtained “very good” grade (85 point or higher) in Korea Communications regarding pension field works upon receiving support request – and pension 83.7 points Commission’s ARS survey for operational status of 279 administrative, public, work supporter (kindergarten) system. and financial institutions. In addition, its score by PCSI(Public-service Customer In addition, a series of workshops to develop and commercialize its own 9 times 81.2 points Satisfaction Index) model – a model that MOSF runs every year to measure salary step management system subject to changes in pension system in public institutions’ service level and customer satisfaction level – has showed 2010 were held with participation of 284 employees across 9 workshops. continuous improvement as well. KTP will try to fulfill the more improved KTP is proving various types of such support activities to enable pension Salary step Conference/ Moving Happy call management presentation consulting service standard for company-wide expansion/settlement of customer work officials to perform their works in a efficient and systematic way. KTP is workshop for pension service 2008 2009 2010 satisfaction management, and serve the customers with customer-oriented exploring diverse ways to minimize customer dissatisfaction and maximize work officials [2010 customer satisfaction _PCSI] management spirit. the satisfaction through many kinds of face-to-face services. [as of 2010] Training to prepare retirement ♣ Affiliated Welfare Service ♣ KTP provides training program to prepare retirement semi-annually on a application basis. Not only the employees to be expected to retire, other 20’s / 58.4 points KTP employees can take the program that is designed to give comforts to Domestic Osaek 30’s / 63.9 points Hanwha Education, accommodation Green Yard employees and to enable them to start pleasant post-retirement life by socialResort / training / and leisure / Hotel / 40’s / 61.9 points 30% 13% adaption training. 36% 12% The program consists of 5 parts – health care, asset management, legal 50’s / 63.9 points advice, social life, and pension system – and especially introduction of pension system regarding how to select pension benefits reduces concerns on [2010 satisfaction survey by age] [2010 welfare service use ratio] the selection. There is a socializing session such as Magic Cat show in the program and training participants can form their own network through group KTP supports wide range of welfare from travel, accommodation, leisure facilities to medical care, funeral, and educational tours to famous sites like Naksan-sa, Seorak-dong, Golgool-sa. Training GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society services to make the customer’s life more prosperous and sound. The most popular service is condominium and hotel service in satisfaction survey shows that more than 80% of the participants were very affiliation with Osaek Green Yard Hotel and Hanwha Resort. On top of domestic regions like Seoul, Kyunggi-Incheon, Chungcheong, satisfied or satisfied. Suggestions gathered from the survey are being applied Youngnam, and Jeju, accommodation service in Japan is also available at reasonable prices thanks to affiliation with Japan Private to constitute better training program. School Promotion Mutual Aid Foundation. Allying with regional established medical institution, KTP arranged medical treatment for the customers, the spouses, and their Very satisfied / 18.75% direct families at a discounted rate., which is a good example of KTP’s efforts for life welfare improvement. Satisfied / 66.05% To figure out the customers’ use status and satisfaction level, a survey on needs for affiliated welfare service with participation of 4,745 customers in 2010, and relatively even level of satisfaction was disclosed across the age from 20’s to 50’s. the survey indicated that Not bad / 12.9% customers preferred more various affiliated welfare service in the area of travel, cultural life, and accommodation, so KTP newly Not satisfied / 1.75% made contracts with other companies such as Lotte JTB, KT Kumho Car Rental, and Kumho resort. Every KTP customer can get discount when using the facilities and services. Very not satisfied / 1.1% KTP is making efforts to provide more various and satisfactory services by expanding welfare services, and will reflect customer’s [2010 satisfaction survey for training to prepare retirement] needs in partner selection and the operation based on affiliated welfare service needs survey by ages. 28 29 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. KTP Partner KTP Partner Definition Purchase of Social Companies’ Products KTP is maintaining close relationship with suppliers of goods & services and To fulfill its social responsibility as a public organization, KTP selects with outsourcing companies taking care of advisory, legal, and education parts. priority and supports social companies that need social protection and aid in KRW 2009 532 MN 2010 Goods & Strategic relationship with financial institutions such as securities companies, transactions with partners, and is practicing win-win management. services asset managers and banks as primary customers of fund management KTP purchases products of the severely disabled and small enterprises, KRW supplier 375 MN division was formed to create synergies for stable management of pension and cooperates with female-run companies for the female entrepreneurs’ Financial Institution fund. growth. In addition, it procures Onnuri vouchers and uses them for reward of KRW KRW 201 MN KRW 15.2 MN KTP puts the first priority to ethical management in dealing with the internal contests/events to vitalize traditional markets and ordinary people’s KRW 139 MN External KRW Outsourcing partners, and carries out transparent contract program, cyber clean center, economy. 95.5 MN partner 53.7 MN compan and partner transparency evaluation in order to make sound society of * Social company represents a company that performs business activities like transparent transactions without corruption. production/sales of goods and services while pursuing social purposes such as female small disabled Onnuri providing social minorities with services or jobs to improve their quality of life. entrepreneurs enterprises voucher Communication with Partners ♣ To activate communication with partners, KTP enlarged management disclosure items and enhanced managerial transparency by customerconference · oriented disclosure. Disclosure items were re-aligned for easy and Clean Contract program ♣ workshop convenient use of management information, and name of KTP officials and the phone number responsible for each page were presented for further KTP is leading transparency management, and is implementing clean comforts of users on customer side. contract program for all contracts for construction, goods (above KRW 3 By regular mailing of news letter and management activity report, KTP million), and services that it orders. The program has been applied to all 65 contracts / 2008 notifies important managerial items to the partners. Especially for investment bidding/private contracts since January 1st of 2008. All bidding participants institutions, off-line based information sharing via workshop and conference are deemed to submit clean contract pledges subject to the article 2.1 of 55 contracts / 2009 is being made in order to create higher fund management returns. clean contract bidding notification letter, and the winner should submit VOC collected through call center is managed separately and additional the pledge with written signature of its CEO. In case of private contract, the News letter · 37 contracts / 2010 Survey Management feedbacks are gathered by service satisfaction survey and stakeholder survey, contractor is supposed to submit the pledge to KTP immediately after its activity report which all represent KTP’s efforts to maintain close strategic partnership via selection. In 2010 total 37 contacts were closed with the clean pledge, and bilateral communication. internal/external transparency was secured through them. Award for Best Asset Management Company and Best Asset Manager GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society KTP has awarded best asset management company and best asset manager every year to motivate contributors to fund balance increase and to further Employee Transparency Evaluation by Partners enhance the rate of return continuously. Institutions with “A” grade per each asset in 2011 first half’s evaluation on KTP evaluated the employees’ transparency by the survey of 37 partner the performance of managed funds were selected as 2010’s best asset companies including vendors, contract counterparts, and financial management companies. The award winners are Say Asset Korea Asset institutions. The survey contained 2 questions for administrative system, 4 for 97.2 points / 2009 Management, Kim, Bum-Seok (domestic bonds), J&J Investment Advisor, Lee, working environment and employee’s attitude, 4 for corruption experience Jae-Hyun (domestic stocks), and Franklin Templeton Investments, Baik Sangand corruption control, 2 for transparency, and 1 for difficulty and suggestion, which resulted in 97.40 points, 0.2% increase from 2009 figure. Objective 97.4 points / 2010 Hoon (overseas bonds) Chairman Joo delivered appreciation to the asset managers for the outperforming results in the conference, and additional capital evaluation for KTP officials’ work processing was available through the survey injection to their funds were executed in the first half. KTP will keep making efforts to maintain productive win-win relationship with . It gave alert for corruption to employees and enabled mutual check and financial institution partners of high performance. balance for consistently transparent work processing 30 31 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. KTP Employee ● Employee Satisfaction KTP Employee Mix Organization Management Satisfaction As of June end 2011, KTP consists of 187 permanent employees and 11 contract employees. There was zero turnover from 2010 to KTP conducts organization management satisfaction survey every year to create more satisfactory work place by analyzing 2011 first half, and satisfaction index for organization management showed 79.5 points, up 14.2% from the previous year. the employees’ satisfaction level for organization culture and overall management. The survey is made on 18 items including organization culture, organization atmosphere, organization structure, and organization general, and 93.6% of high participation was made. Management & Control division for division, 40’s for age, 58 Grade 3 for grade, Planning & Coordination Council, HR team, and Risk 50 Management team for department showed high level of satisfaction. As 65.3 points / 2009 99 42 for appropriateness of organization communication, above 60% of the participants gave positive answers. The survey results will be reflected in 79.5 points / 2010 future organizational restructuring to strengthen employee satisfaction level, 26 44 and KTP will try to make better organization by resolving issues suggested 35 from the survey. [organization management satisfaction] 11 20 4 3 4 executive Grade Grade Grade Grade Privileged Functional Contract 20’s 30’s 40’s 50’s Management & Control 83.6 points 20’s 78.4 points 1~2 3 4 5 position position employee [employee mix by grade_ as of June end 2011] [employee mix by age_ as of June end 2011] Pension Business 74.5 points 30’s 77.9 points Fund Management 78.7 points 40’s 80.6 points Central / 11 Risk management 81.9 points Female / 50 Audit Council 80.2 points 50’s 75.1 points Youngnam / 12 Honam / 8 [satisfaction by division, as of 2010] [satisfaction by age, as of 2010] Seoul HQ / 167 Male / 148 [employee mix by regional HQ_ as of June end 2011] [employee mix by gender_ as of June end 2011] Great Work Place Satisfaction ♣ To make creative and flexible organization by forming joyful work place and dynamic atmosphere, GWP was adopted in 2010 and has been in operation 32.8% GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society with the employees’ passionate support. 79.2% of employees showed KTP’s open recruiting policy is well shown in the various mix of the employees. KTP has been recruiting the disabled and persons positive stance to GWP and 69.9% of them answered that the organization 22.1% with distinguished contribution to the state to take care of social minorities, and implementing equal employment without culture became more pleasant than before. GWP can be divided into limitations by region and gender to provide fair opportunities. 14.5% 3 categories of family friendly, vitalization of communication, and Fun 12.2% management whose detailed sub programs are modified, supplemented, 11.5% 67 65 67 and renewed toward further upgrade after 2011’s satisfaction survey. As a family-friendly program, half-day work system was applied for employee’s 41 Disabled birthday for the employee to spend time with the family. Quiz contest across Overseas happy Quiz time Cross Free Friday 35 34 Person with distinguished contribution departments is held semi-annually and KTP funds team party of the winning institution home day meeting Female visit department, which is an example of renewed fund management. Board for 13 14 15 Local talents 5 5 6 praise were also opened and the most-praised employee can win culture [satisfaction by detailed sub program, as of 2010] (unit: people) voucher amounting KRW 5 thousand. KTP makes efforts to make joyful work 2008 2009 2010 place, happy KTP by vitalizing the communication. 32 33 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● Performance and Compensation Strengthening Link between Performance and Compensation Building Performance-Creating Culture In 2010 KTP made efforts to expand the culture of clear performance appraisal and To build up the culture of consistent performance creation, various compensation routes were made and reinforces employees’ 58 indicators compensation for all employees by improving overall performance management system. By motivation in job execution. Internal evaluation and internal audit selected 4 best departments respectively and awarded KRW 2 integrating internal/external performance appraisal, external appraisal indicator that used million to each departments. Team heads made presentations for their best practices of 2010’s major management activities, and to be linked partially could have 100% matching by department and became an independent best 3 teams were rewarded as well. The presentation session was a good opportunity to revisit the year’s performances and to 40 indicators indicator. In case of performance agreement of division head, organization and CEO evaluation encourage employees’ efforts. were incorporated. For Grade 1 and 2 employees, individual performance appraisal system is Those who made suggestions for reasonable job improvement and efficient job execution got rewarded and were given additional reflecting detailed job evaluation into their salary. points in their job appraisal. Compensation for income increase or expenditure reduction by system improvement was also Variation ranges for performance incentives were also enlarged from ±35% for team head made and linked with systematic compensation system of each organization, in order for the compensation to drive efficient and ±30% for team member in 2009 to ±40% and ±35% in 2010 respectively. Variation achievement of organization goal. KTP pursues improvement in both management performance and individual competency, and in performance salary up to ±35% was newly adopted, and all compensation system was let the organization make strategic growth through compensation. 2009 2010 changed for performance-based compensation. KTP will further develop the reasonable performance & compensation system to motivate the employees and to enhance their job KRW [External Evaluation Index] KRW 25 MN achievement. 23 MN KRW 19 MN KRW 57 MN KRW Reward expenses 24 MN KRW 57 MN Executives, employees KRW 56 MN performance agreement varied payment of Condolence expenses KRW management appraisal 16 MN External management incentives Varied payment of appraisal Internal performance 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Payment of high performer performance salary incentives HR (promotion, appraisal [reward expenses/ condolence expense use status] [average compensation per employee] Internal performance appraisal appointment, suspension) First priority in education Individual appraisal and overseas training [performance-compensation link system map] Employee Satisfaction Up_ Welfare System To secure the employees’ stable life and proper education for their children, KTP operates welfare systems practically helpful for their life. KTP provides housing loan up to KRW 35 million in case an employee who doesn’t own a house builds, purchases, or rents house for residence purpose. The loan’s repayment period is up to 20 years to allow employees to apply with comfort. Implementation of Performance Salary System In addition, student loan for employees and their children is also in operation to cover actual tuition and fee payment. The loan is supposed to be repaid within 2 years (employees), or after 2 year grace period from graduation (children), while 3 and 4 repayment In order to establish proper compensation system based on competency/performance driven appraisal and to reinforce the periods are granted for college and university to prevent missing education opportunities due to financial difficulties. employees’ job fulfillment satisfaction, KTP improved and enhanced performance salary system for manager level employees with Variety of welfare systems are under integrated management by adoption of selective welfare system, and wide range of welfare Grade 2 or higher. Salary structure and base salary system were greatly changed, and the compensation came to vary subject to items drew employees’ satisfaction improved by 6.9% from previous year’s. KTP is making efforts to improve the employees’ GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society the jobs and performances by adopting job-based pay and enlarging salary variation ranges by performance level. Implementation welfare by invigorating welfare system and to increase satisfaction level through diverse options to choose. of performance salary system is expected to help acquire and nurture best talents through stronger motivation and flexible salary management, and eventually to contribute to KTP’s productivity enhancement. 77.1 points Medical check, treatment, Medical Self Language education, Reduce seniority based salary system Enhance sports center care development certificate, cultural lecture Improve Design 5-step performance level Reduce base salary (22%) variation salary (S~D grade) Reduce other allowances (2.8%) subject to structure Accounts for above 20% of total salary Leports, movie, Integrate salary-type welfare allowance performance Culture/ Family Secure Culture, leisure, 70.2 points performance, leisure friendly life sports goods exhibition, travel Variable pay subject to value and Design ± 20% of Pay-Band by grade difficulty of jobs Improve base Adopt job 5 step accumulation-type of varied 6 step job level (G1~G6) Children education, family eat out, salary system based pay salary increase subject to performance Max KRW 9.6 million ~ min. KRW 5.4 2009 2010 flower delivery, theme park million of variation [welfare system satisfaction level] [The items of optional warfare system] 34 35 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● Competency Development ♣ KTP Human Resources Development Introduction of KTP-IDP ♣ KTP plans to design nurturing type career development by active participation of employees and HR team’s career coaching and training Culture, innovation, Vitalize core Common Self Language training, support, and adopted IDP (Individual Development Plan) in order to encourage self-driven training design avoiding organization-driven value sharing legal education certificates, self career CS, OA, Planning, competency development path design training design method. Accounting education Since employees with 10 or more service years have already built career path, IDP operation for 2010 targeted 19 G5 employees with less Establish Nurture self-driven Global training, Strategic thinking, than 5 service years and 12 G4 employees with 5~10 service years. HR team’s regular career consulting will be provided based on career performancecompetency overseas internship, Job Leadership visioning, decision making, creating core development organization management, development plan submitted by the employees, and the results will be used for future job appointment and career nurturing coaching. Costs talents local graduate school, competency competency work improvement, team system overseas MBA work oriented for professional certificate test and the tuitions related with career development are financed within the budget range after screening of job relevance, and special leave for preparation of certificate test can be granted up to 2 times per year. New joiners are supposed to mandatorily Talent nurturing strategy Competency based education operating system set self-nurturing type career path and are supported to enhance the expertise based on bilateral communication with HR team. KTP is nurturing core competencies of employee based on 3 key initiatives and competency based system. Execute self First, KTP puts efforts to achieve KTP vision and to form organization culture by nurturing performance-creating core talents, Prepare self development individual Career management and is trying to innovate organization spirit and to enhance community spirit focused on professional lectures in order to reinforce development plan Execute career passion, challenge, and communication for internalization of core values. development Recommend Career development Second, to nurture performance-creating core talents, systematic organizational support for acquisition of certificates is being mentor Execution coaching /encourage career management plan coaching provided and performance verification system was adopted. KTP arranged the training program for new joiners to quickly adapt Prior support for into the organization and to development basic job skills by teaching them roles and responsibilities as a part of organization, core IDPgeneral work support Use for appointment job training HR team Reflect in education planning /assignment business skills, etc. Career coaching Reflect in mid-toLastly, KTP established self-driven competency development system. Nurturing internal instructors made all employees’ long term HR plan job expertise reinforced and the job competency is also being enhanced through sharing filed experience and job know-how. Especially, KTP introduced Individual Development Plan to strengthened link between education performance and HR, and revisited experience management system for the employees. 2 people / Risk Management team 13 people / Pension Business Division KRW 210h 1.9MN KRW KRW 173h 1.7MN 5 people / Fund Management Division 1.6MN 11 people / Management & Control Division [2010 status by business division] 9.2 times 132h 4.9 times 7.1 times Internal Professional Instructor Verification Program 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Management Pension [number of training per employee] [training hours per employee] [training cost per employee] Nurturing control business recruiting selection training * ’the cost was decreased in 2010 due to cost saving effect of cyber education system Test Instructor Regular Fund [operation process] lecture verification lecture IT·OA Implementation of Cyber Learning System management GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society [nurturing area] KTP considers enhancement of HR competency as a driver of business Education Information DB efficiencies and implemented user-oriented cyber learning systems in order Focusing on experienced employees with more than 1 year of work experience, KTP nurtures internal professional instructors to for various employees to participate in training without limitation recognizing Enrollment Registration systematically extract and share useful knowledge and know-how obtained from their job. Those who wants to be internal instructors importance and urgency of training. It worked especially for customer contact should take nurturing education courses of professional education institutions fitting with each area. Through the courses they can acquire department and regional office employees who used to be less benefited Admin KTP tutoring skills that effectively deliver training contents in accordance with nature of adult education such as job-related professional the training program and resolved education program’s concentration on HR knowledge and experience, subject-oriented features, and mutual learning. Once their appropriateness as regular instructor is accepted by Support Portal Register limited number of employees by overcoming limitations of time and location. Dept test lectures through which improvement based on strength/weakness analysis and integrated evaluation of tutoring capability are made, System site Cyber learning also made budget saving effect and reduced inconveniences they can get verification of internal instructor. and work interruption caused by group training, which resulted in improved Internal instructors get paid KRW 20 thousand per hour for their lecture and have merits of prior application for domestic/overseas training Confirm Take accessibility. KTP will acquire various contents to increase utilization of cyber result an exam programs. In 2010, training programs including field work support lecture for pension work officials, basic job training for new joiners and learning, and make efforts for stable settlement of the system by reflecting interns, and employee training regarding amended laws and regulations were managed by internal instructors. Internal instructor system Education Registeration Information DB the user’s opinion collected from surveys enhances knowledge transfer of core works and the utilization, and enables customized job training by setting KTP ’s own job courses. 36 37 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● Recruiting and Nurturing ● Safety and Health Care KTP Recruiting System Safe KTP To recruit right people matching with its talent features, KTP improved the recruiting KTP has designed accident compensation system to guarantee the employees’ rights to work in safe environments. The system in 2010 and is employing talents who can convert their capabilities into Customer compensation is paid upon job-related disease, injury, disability, and death, and is composed of short-term benefit before performance. KTP prefers self-management type talents who can realize performance oriented retirement to compensate accidents in job service and long-term benefit to compensate the accidents even after retirement. In Person of trust using their capability, not those who just hold the capability. Job related interview 2010, 2 KTP employees were granted job-related medical care leave (1 for injury and 1 for disease) and the actual costs for medical process from BEI perspective was newly introduced to verify the candidate’s capability. treatment during the leave period are covered by accident compensation fund. When an employee is not able to perform regular Performance Change6-month intern program is being utilized to select the most suitable talents for the driven leading work due to disease or injury, or the employee’s disease has potential to infect other employees and to influence their health, the organization, and mentoring program helps new joiners adapt into the organization. Person of Person of employee can take up to 2 months of sick leave on a accumulated expertise creativity 3 people Those who passed final screening should take predetermined trainings such as Good date basis even though the disease/injury is not job-related one. 2 people 2 people Start intensive training and job focused filed training, and their career are nurtured and KTP makes effort to maintain safety in work place in order for the managed by link of IDP. KTP’s talent features employees to work in safe environments and to make satisfactory 2008 2009 2010 company with healthy working life [employee accident status] 1 people / 2009 16 people / 2009 12 people / 2010 15 people / 2010 Health and Child Care Leave 5 people / 2011 5 people / 2011 KTP established health care system and protect female employees in order for them to perform the jobs without inconveniences due to health-related issues. 1 day per month of female health leave is granted for menstruation period and medical check during [new hire status] [intern hire status] pregnancy, and 7 days of leave is available in case of miscarriage or stillbirth. To actively encourage birth, 90 days of maternal leave is provided and up to 3 years of child care leave is also available for employees with child of 6 years old or younger. 4 female employees returned from the maternal leave during January 2010 ~ June 2011 recording 100% of return ratio and were assigned to field works. KTP forms the atmosphere to freely use maternal leave in From recruitment planning stage, headcount demand by required capability is calculated KRW KRW order to minimize female employees’ pressure related to child care. subject to mid term HR management plan, and customized recruiting only for required 32.3 MN 32.3 MN personnel is made. KTP complies with equal employment with the principle of open recruiting regardless of age and educational background. Applications are filed through KRW Sexual Harassment / Prostitution Abolition of Child Labor and Forced Worknet, and designated core competencies of reliability, expertise, and creativeness are 27.1 MN verified by working level/executive interviews Prevention Education Labor Education for prevention of sexual harassment and prostitution is being KTP complies with labor principle of UNGC’s 10 principles Worknet Working made every year to respect characters of employees and build sound and prohibits child labor. While there is no explicit limitation Documentation Aptitude Executive application level 2008 2009 2010 working environments free from sexual harassment or prostitution, and in recruiting, child deficient of working capability can not be screening test interview register interview [initial salary of new joiner] 219 of employees took the education in 2010 for 2 times. KTP prevents employed. [315% of 2010 legal minimum salary] sexual harassment through providing education (more than 2 times a year) In addition, all types of forced labor are prohibited. Holiday work GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society of anti-sexual discrimination standard, work process and action standard allowance is paid in accordance with compensation standard. in case of sexual harassment happening, and consulting/remedial process KTP is making efforts to build liberal working culture to make Implementation of Employee Overseas Training Program for the victims in order to let all employees protect human rights based the work place pleasant. KTP started overseas training for the employees in 2010 in order to acquire global corporate culture and promote global business on sound values. Efforts to prevent prostitution and to form sound sexual mind through experiencing global innovative companies and advanced business infra. Overseas training has 2 big themes which consciousness and culture are also being made by Education for related are “Global CS mind setting” for better customer service and “creative and innovative advanced capabilities” to import global regulations. Department heads in charge of HR/service and chairman companies’ innovation and creative spirit. of Chungah-Hoi which is a female employee community are taking 2 training programs were held in November and December 2010. In the 1st session, 10 employees visited Asahiyama zoo professional training run by external institutions such as Korea Institute of and Sapporo Beer in Hokkaido, Japan and learned cases of creative management. Another 10 employees was able to obtain Gender Equality Promotion & Education, and are supposed to plays a role of consultant in case of sexual harassment. New hires and interns vulnerable For work place of mutual respect field-oriented best practices of CS management by visiting its communication, NTT Docomo, and Tokyu department store in Tokyo. Such trainings are building foundations to create organization structure proactively responding to changes by providing to sexual harassment are taking separate training before the appointment. KTP is making efforts to realize ethical management based company by Prevention of sexual harassment and how to respond opportunities to experience best global companies and to conduct related case study, and are nurturing talents at customer contact points by global CS case study. regular anti-sexual harassment/prostitution training for all employees. [2010 group training for anti-sexual harassment] 38 39 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● Win-win Labor / Management Relationship Key Strategies for Labor / Management Relationship Labor / Management Communication KTP founded a labor union with membership of public transportation federation under Korean Confederation of Trade Union In parallel with the demands of new labor/management relationship, KTP tries to convert in order to reflect the employee’s unified voices in management and to improve working environments, and is putting efforts to existing conflictual relationship based on convention and negotiation into role-oriented Win-win realize “no.1 value-creating labor-management relationship” by reasonable resolution of current issues and creation of win-win and execution-focused win-win relationship. Efforts to settle advanced labor/management relationship management culture. relationship are being made through conversation which aims to share perceptions between labor and management and to build consensus for mutual understanding and ㆍExecute mutually-managing social services cooperation. Vitalize vivid laborㆍVitalize difficulty treatment system RoleExecution management relationship The collective agreement explicitly stipulates that major managerial changes should be ㆍEnhance CEO communication including Can Meeting and Young Director program oriented focused immediately notified to labor union. To establish union-driven discussion window, KTP ㆍIncrease implementation ratio of public institution advancement polic Establish advanced labor/ operates mutual councils and creates various communication routes for balanced public ㆍEstablish labor/management relationship advancement process management relationship process ㆍVitalize direct communication between labor and management ㆍOperate joint organization opinion. [new labor / management paradigm] ㆍAdopt performance salary system ㆍLabor work management capability ㆍOn-line ㆍRepresentative channel Trust-based value creation ㆍAchieve HR efficiency by drawing voluntary retirement Joint conference, collective salary Regular Management KTP communication square, bulletin ㆍConduct labor/management mutual satisfaction survey board for management activities negotiation, joint meeting conversation information ㆍOff-line ㆍWorking level council channel channel Management issue briefing session, Labor/management working level council monthly innovation meeting, cross meeting Labor Union Member Mix ㆍBottom up ㆍOn-line Young Directors, 8+1 Can Meeting, Top-down/ Difficulty Difficulty treatment declaration window, cyber KTP labor union was established on September 20th, 1989 and 70% 131 employees (permanent employees of G3 or lower and Cross Meeting declaration center, union bulleting board ㆍTop down bottom-up treatment ㆍOff-line functional/privileged position employees) are currently enrolled. It belongs to public transportation federation under Korean Committee result notification, channel channel Difficulty treatment committee, career consulting Confederation of Trade Union. 1 union head is designated as a full time officer and 1.2% of base salary is contributed to union fund to management instructions window, sexual harassment treatment committee cover the operating costs. In December 2009, a collective agreement was closed with validity until December 27th, 2011, and compliance with employees’ health and safety is included in the agreement. KTP established reasonable labor-management autonomy standard through enhancing labor-management partnership and mutually exploring ways to advancement of labor/management relationship Labor / Management Joint Conference based on win-win cooperative negotiation culture. KTP operates productive labor/management joint conference in order to create cooperative atmosphere and stabilize the relationship through conversation. The joint conference secures transparency of labor/management relationship, boosts interest 52 people / G3 39 people / female and participation to resolve issues in question by publicizing discussion agenda, and helps overcome obstacles by sufficient 54 people / G4 communication. 4 conferences were held in 2010 with participation of representatives of both sides, and labor’s active participation in management was made by discussions on managerial issues. 22 people / G5 92 people / male 2010 joint conference agenda 2 people / functional position 5 times / 2008 ㆍ1st : improvement of selective welfare system ㆍ2nd : appointment of executive recommendation committee [union member mix by gender 1 people / privileged position [union member mix by grade 5 times / 2009 member _ as of June end 2011] _ as of June end 2011] GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society 4 times / 2010 ㆍ3rd : items related with move the Innovation City ㆍ4th : how to enhance customer satisfaction Labor / Management Relationship Satisfaction Level 8+1 Can Meeting KTP performs labor/management relationship satisfaction survey every year to seek directions of labor/management relationship advancement and to monitor employees’ collective opinions. 166 of G1 or Meeting of 8 employees (G3 or lower) and the CEO is being regularly held in order to vitalize free communication between CEO and lower employees participated in 2010 survey. Which accounts for 97% of employees. Employees’ opinions are shared on a brain storming basis without predetermined agenda. “overseas institution visit” total employees. As for labor/management relationship perception, 66% was adopted in last year’s meeting, and selected employees had chances to experience Japanese innovative companies and the 62% / 2008 answered “cooperative” and more than 50% of the participants answered advanced infra. Can Meeting provides opportunities to build partnership-based community spirit through mutual exploration of “active” for labor/management partnership. Based on the results, KTP KTP’s development direction and consensus building between CEO and employees. KTP will endeavor to expand the cooperative 65.3% / 2009 plans to further develop labor/management mutual programs to build spirit and to create win-win labor/management relationship. trust relationship and continuously implement and expand GWP program 93% / 2010 13 times / 2009 13 times / 2010 to improve organization culture. 40 41 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. ● KTP Employee Ethics Love-sharing Scholarship KTP ethical management represents management activities to practice social ethical standard and corporate social responsibility through clean/transparent/sharing/communication management, and to acquire trust from stakeholders. In order to actively fulfill the social responsibility, KTP labor union raised scholarship fund together with the management and provided the scholarship to private school students in Naju where KTP head office will move to. Naju is an agricultural area where many students of poor/broken family reside, and in need of a lot of financial support. However, companies’ support has been insufficient compared to urban area. To solve the issue, labor union suggested scholarship support to the management Implementation of Employee Ethical Management and funded KRW 7 million. 14 students were selected in collaboration with Naju Innovation City Supporting Group and KRW 500 KTP reviews the core organization’s operational capability to enhance infrastructure for practical execution of employee ethical thousands was provided to each student. The love-sharing practice enhanced KTP’s social responsibility and helped to build management, and aligns its ethical standard accordingly. Ethical management consulting call 4499 and transparency supporters cooperative labor/management relationship. KTP labor union and management will keep mutually proceeding with social service are in operation to regularly collect corruption related report. activities. KTP is trying to spread ethical management spirit across the organization by enhancing trainings and PRs through various media and materials. KTP will adopt new systems for anti-corruption and transparency and make the company more clean and transparent. + Labor union KTP KRW 3.5 KRW 3.5 Enhance + + + million million infrastructure Align ethic Operate/review Enhance for ethical standard regular reporting training and management continuously system PR execution Union social Social services contribution fund expenses Labor Union Education Besides job-related functional training, KTP labor union arranges education Education for Transparency Enhancement programs with various subjects including happy life and hot social issues. Do I own my life? Mr. Hong, Se-Wha KTP is leading transparency enhancement training using diverse methods, Lectures by Mr. Roh, Hoi-Chan and Mr. Hong, Se-Wha provided chances to audience, and contents in order to spread anti-corruption/transparency How to improve ethical management capability revisit our lives and thoughts, and “nuclear energy, still alright as it is?” lecture My life and our lives, Mr. Roh, Hoi-Chan in global 21th century culture and to reinforce employee’s recognition of transparency. External covered issues raised after Japan earthquake and explored how to respond to Nuclear energy, still alright as it is? lecturers were invited to obtain local/overseas trend, and training nuclear power generation going forward. To share with members diverse and Making happy work place based on trust Energy and Climate Policy Institute programs to create happy work place realizing fair society based on ethical broad issues, labor union will keep arranging practical education program. [labor union group education mind were provided. The employees responded to the efforts with above _ as of June end 2011] Direction for transparency enhancement to 90% participation ratio on average. KTP diversified training access types realize fair society GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society – group training, publications, e-poster, cyber training, etc. – to improve convenience, and sought quality improvement by enlarging scope of [2010 external experts lectures] training contents. Cyber training through intranet was made every month Labor Union Culture Event and 1,717 employees (duplicated counting) were participated for the Transparency training for public institution To relieve stresses in work place and have peasant time, KTP labor union year. Audiences for the training were divided into 2 category – managers executives to boost country transparency holds culture event every 2 months. Movies are selected by employees’ (G2 or higher) and new joiners – and customized sessions according to poll and registered employees can watch the movie. After watching, union the job nature and responsibility provided chances to think about antiImportance of internal control and prevention of members get together and discuss current issues and difficulties. corruption and transparency more seriously. With ethical goal of “achieving management risk factors KTP labor union will prepare for various cultural and communication events trust management through clean KTP 9.9”, KTP will make best effort to [2010 manager training] and help the employee’s healthy working life, encouraging their active spread transparency culture in order for the employees to practice the participation. transparency in their routine works. Ethical activity guideline training for new joiners [2011 new joiner training] 42 43 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. Continuous Improvement of Transparency Evaluation Transparency Supporters KTP Transparency Supporters were founded in December 2010 to spread transparency culture across the organization and to fulfill its (unit : point) 8.93 points (unit : point) 8.85 points ethical responsibility as a public institution. Transparency Supporters are headed by KTP’s standing auditor and composed of 2 advisors of external audit deliberation committee, 1 assistant administrator (currently working in Audit Council), and 20 members. Department heads nominate employees who are well-conducted, transparent, and ethical, and the auditor appoints them as members 8.78 points 8.46 9.38 of Transparency Supporters. 8.75 points Sub 8.69 Sub 9.24 indicators indicators Transparency Supporters will actively perform their roles including transparency monitor, transparency supporter, transparency campaign, and selection of “Transparent Employee(Department) of the Year”. KTP, with Transparency Supporters as a main driver to spread transparency culture, will put efforts to obtain trust from customer/partner/local community and enhance its position as a clean 8.27 and transparent institution. 2008 2009 2010 corruption index 2010 responsibility index transparency culture index] [external transparency] transparency index [internal transparency] job transparency index ㆍMonitor to prevent corruption and to secure transparency including employees’ inconvenience and difficulty ㆍmonitor to confirm purpose-suitability of contract process of material businesses Transparency ㆍDetect disorder in accounting and budget-wasting factors monitor Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission conducts transparency evaluation for all public institutions including central/local ㆍMonitor corruption event observed in work process governments, and total transparency index is measured by sum of internal/external transparency indicators. ㆍDiscover best practice of transparency and budget saving KTP obtained 8.87 points of total transparency index with 8.85 of external transparency and 8.93 of internal transparency. Thanks to KTP’s diverse efforts to settle transparency culture, external transparency index shows continuous upward trend. KTP will ㆍPreventing activity for risk factors Transparency ㆍConsulting for employee’s inconvenience and difficulty endeavor to be a public institution armed with anti-corruption and transparency until “Clean KTP 9.9” is accomplished. supporter ㆍSuggestion for system and operation need to be improved ㆍLead enhancement of transparency culture recognition Transparency ㆍSpread transparency culture to daily life campaign ㆍProceed with social services Establish Transparency Compensation System Implement e-audit System selection of “Transparent ㆍDiscover employees/departments who devoted for clean and transparent company Employee and Department of ㆍDiscover employees/departments who contributed to settlement/spread of transparency culture Transparency mileage program is in operation in order KTP completed implementation of e-audit system in October the Year” to motivate the employees’ active participation in anti2010 to respond to changing audit paradigm and to efficiently corruption and transparency policy by adopting incentive process audit works in accordance with its enhanced roles system for anti-corruption and transparency activities. The and responsibilities. Audit Administration System (including compensation system is drawing employees’ voluntary audit work management, external audit management) and interest and participation, and “transparency employee and Real-time Audit System to monitor work activities on realPreparation to introduce Transparency Ombudsmen department of the year” are selected by the mileage score time basis were incorporated in the system and enabled realGROW 2. Grow & Grow Society which are disclosed through web site, company portal, and time/proactive responding system. Efficiency of audit work was As importance and interest of transparency grows in global society, ombudsman system is rapidly spreading among global e-audit system. also secured by building D/B through computerization of audit companies and KTP also started preparation for adopting the system to enhance the company’s transparency and reliability In 2010, Planning and Coordination Council that achieved material. Audit work process will be further developed in order through participation of citizens and external expertise. outstanding performance for transparent management to establish regularized audit standard. Transparency Ombudsmen is a corruption control system that monitors disclosure and Honam regional HQ that outperformed in bidding, contract closing, and the execution process of KTP’s material alliance with local community and sharing practice won the construction, outsourcing, and procurement project. Up to 3 ombudsmen award. According to the revised compensation system of including 1 representative nominated by Anti-corruption and Civil 2011, “transparent employee of the year” will be awarded to Rights Commission or Transparency International Korea will perform the highest mileage scorer and “transparent department of the year” to the team of the highest average score. Cash or independently and suggest rectification of corruption activities observed voucher amounting KRW 200 thousand and 500 thousand in their service. Regular meetings are held semi-annually and on-site will be granted respectively. The mileage score and award due diligence can take place upon Ombudsmen’s request. KTP will keep results are disclosed on portal system and shared with all supporting early stabilization of the system and full-fledged expansion of employees. transparency culture in the organization. 44 45 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. KTP Community KTP Community Definition Social Contribution for Public Benefit As a public institution, KTP is helping development of local community Volunteer Newspaper Donation of + + + + Cities of head through organic relationship with the government and national assembly. Love-Sharing service for office and Love lunch box for remote blood and the KTP deems Seoul, Deajeon, Jeonju, and Busan where its head office and scholarship designated regional HQ schools certificate Government / facilities regional HQs locate as core community and includes Naju where the head national assembly office will move to as potential community while developing in-depth alliance. On top of the aforementioned cities, all areas in Korea is considered as KTP’s Community community by broader definition. Social contribution activities are made from national/global perspectives. Love Lunch Box KTP is raising funds for Love Lunch Box on behalf of children of poor families, in order to help healthy growth of private school students who will lead our future. The program started in 2007, and is getting support from a lot of employees as Communication with Community shown in survey result of 2010 – 86% of the participants wanted extension of the program. School for the support changes every year. In 2011, a private school in Naju area was selected by recommendation of Naju city. Employees can choose Public KTP endeavors to share and resolve issues in local community by forming institution from 1 account(KRW 2,000) to 10 accounts and voluntarily participated in the advancement diverse windows and tries to achieve win-win development through donation. KTP performs its role as an organization of social responsibility by workshop Conference maintaining mutual cooperation system. with sharing love and actively supporting the schools at the same time. controlling KTP is making efforts to be a pioneer in adopting governmental policy and Consultative authorities pursues bilateral communication by establishing various channels such group for public institution as conference with controlling authorities, public institution advancement transfer National workshop, national assembly reporting. assembly KRW 14MN 140h reporting In addition, social contribution activities like 1 company-1 village giving KRW 12.9MN 120h 120h KRW 11.4MN KRW 10.4MN Community-linked hands program and 1 company-1 trail care program are creating natural 35 30 30 social services communication systems. KTP puts efforts to fulfill its social responsibility for people people people local community. 07.9~08.8 08.9-09.8 09.11-10.10 10.11-present Sion-won Ha-Eun Disabled Ever Green Care and Working Tree Welfare Facility Center [Love Lunch Box support status] [Volunteer service for designated facilities_ as of 2010] Community Social Contribution Activities Public Global benefit benefit Newspaper for Remote Schools Volunteer Service for Designated Facilities GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society KTP performs roles as a public organization through sharing with local community, and has been enhancing the execution capability by establishing KTP supports NIE (Newspaper in Education) for students To consistently and systematically maintain participationvarious activity systems for social contribution. living in rural area who have insufficient supports for type services, KTP selected target facilities and made the KTP established social services organization by founding Love-Sharing educational services. NIE program enables students to employees regularly visit the facilities and perform services. Volunteers, and is proceeding with various social contribution projects under improve the capability to analyze/judge various perspectives Employees make visit on every first Wednesday of the category of local community, national, and global contribution. In addition, and opinions, and helps better express their thoughts in month to Sion-won, a child care center, to clean the facility activities such as Love Lunch Box, Love-sharing Scholarship, and Newspaper writings. KTP is sending children newspapers to designated and support required goods. For Ha-Eun Disabled Care for remote schools are in operation as public-benefit social services while schools in affiliation with Korea Times. By adding one school and Working Facility and Ever Green Tree Welfare Center, reinforcing foundation of sustainable management. 2,577 hours of social in 2011, currently 2 schools benefit this program. KTP is employees participate in producing goods with the disabled contribution activities (15.2 hours per employee) were made in 2010. by reviewing continuous operation of the program. on every 2nd/3rd Wednesday of the month respectively. systematic social contribution through continuous planning/implementation, Social service schedule is made based on semi-annual Local National KTP will make the sharing culture settle in the organization. demand survey, to make the activities consistent and community benefit regular. 46 47 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society GROW 3. Country/ Global Social Contribution Local Community Contribution Activities ♣ 1 company Fund for Change for + + + + Community Africa 1 company1 – 1 village Cheon-An Good Sneakers for Red Cross chest Education village giving agricultural Granada Fest warship (Coin South Africa bazaar Drive Support hands product victims collection) purchase Support Activity for Donation and Contribution 1 company1 village Giving Hands KTP donated KRW 11.7 million to the families of victims of Cheon-An warship to share sorrow of the national disaster as a public Honam regional HQ made and 1company – 1 village agreement with Kyeryang institution. The fund was raised by cancellation of a pre-scheduled internal event and the employees’ additional voluntary contribution village in Naju and has been helping hands activities. Through prior discussion was also made. KTP also donated KRW 5 million for community chest to take care of needy neighbors. with NH officials to confirm necessary works , practical support for the activities that the farmers really need is being made. 7 employees in Honam HQ dropped meaningful sweat while helping move rice straw and dig sweet potato in last October. KTP’ will keep performing such giving hands support for agricultural villages Contributions to Global Society Children Support together with UNICEF 1 company – 1 village Agricultural Product Purchase KTP is actively participating in UNICEF’s children support programs to protect health, education, and equal human rights of children who will lead the future growth. KRW 3 million of donation has been made every year, and the fund is used for health, nutrition, drinking water, To protect local farmers and vitalize local economy by purchasing local community’ sanity, education purposes helping children in 150 countries. KTP also participates in the school-building program, one of UNICEF’s s agricultural products with first priority, KTP employees are regularly purchasing KRW 4.3 MN / 2009 educational support programs for Africa, to prevent the children from being excluded from education opportunities agricultural products based on 1 company1 village affiliation with Iseul Village in Naju. 110 items including rice and pear juice were bought through the program KRW 5.4 MN / 2010 and the purchase status by employee is being reviewed during social contribution week, 2 times a year. Such purchase activities are not only promoting demands for UNICEF Change for Good [1 company local products but also having PR effect for environment-friendly products – 1 village agricultural product purchase] UNICEF initiated Change for Good campaign in 1994 with purpose of helping children in developing countries by collecting tourists’ coins and changes in the airplane, and KTP participates in the program from 2011. To encourage active participation, coin boxes were located on all employees’ desks. Visitors to KTP head office or regional HQ can also be part of the program using the coin boxes placed in the lobby. KTP will send the collected coins to UNICEF 2 times a year. Red Cross Bazaar GROW 2. Grow & Grow Society Korean Red Cross holds the “Red Cross Bazaar” every year to raise funds community chests including support for grand parent family, accident rescue activities, and support for North Korean children. KTP also encouraged the employees’ participation in 2010 bazaar, which resulted in KRW 431 thousands of purchase from 20 employees. Sneakers for South Africa KTP participated in a campaign to send sneakers to poor children in South Africa for their safety. Then sneakers were supplied by donation of KTP employees, and the employees also helped the campaign event held in Seoul Square giving hands Granada Fest for event introduction and order maintenance. The event was co-hosted by Love Aid Ever Green Tree Welfare Center, a KTP’s designated service facility, holds every year Granada Fest which is a carnival to share cultures Foundation and Chosun Ilbo, and delivered the message to raise interests in poor among the disabled and normal people. KTP collects goods and donates them for the bazaar event, and supports processing of various children in the country and to support them. events that the disabled and normal people can get together with. This year ’s 7th Granada Fest is composed of cafeteria, bazaar, autumn concert and other events, and KTP has been supporting to make the fest more prosperous. KTP will make efforts to better understand the value of diversity through interchanges with the disabled and to maintain open thoughts for further mutual interchange 48 49 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment GROW 3. ● KTP Environment Policy ♣ Reduce green house gases and execute energy saving target KTP is responding to public sector GHG(Greenhouse gas) Target Management in compliance with low carbon green growth standard law. It has goal of 20% decrease in greenhouse gas emission by 2015 to efficiently implement low-carbon green growth by reducing green house gases. This year’s target is reduction by 593.89t CO2 eq. Yearly implementation plan was made and in systematic operation. Facility improvement and new equipment adoption for energy efficiency are also being considered including review on hybrid vehicles, gradual substitution of LED lamp, and review of energy saving equipment based on analysis of green house gas emission and energy use status. 168.36 8685.91 8368.71 162.11 8284.22 160.48 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 [green house gas emission/ tCo2eq] [energy use/ TJ] [verified by Korea Environment Corporation ] Green day As environment and energy issues subject to serious climate 100% 100% 100% changes are raised across the globe, KTP introduced Green Day to prepare viable responding system to the climate change. 95.1% 95.1% Guidelines for employee’s key practice items were made, and PR 81.4% SMS for Green Day are texted every month to enhance the execution. Posting on to internal portal is also made to encourage employees’ GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun participation. To review the participation level, cars in parking lot on Green Day are checked and the results are disclosed to each [Car-free day participation ratio_ as of 2011] Grow & Grow Environment department. KTP will keep performing activities to reduce influence to environment and comply with UN Global Compact’s environment principle ♣ Goals of Practice 2010 Key Performances ㆍCar-free day of all employees ㆍPracticing green life for ㆍrestrain use of elevator green growth Effect CO2 emission decrease ㆍContinuous implementation equivalent to new planting 500 trees + KRW 60BN + KRW 300MN ㆍnot use disposable paper cups ㆍturn off unnecessary lights by Green Day⋯ Effect equivalent to planting 500 trees of social contribution ㆍsave water in face washing or tooth brushing activities Green day New growth engine Environmentㆍuse personal towel rather than paper towel [102 vehicles participating in Green Day and !1 day-off every week] participation and green growth friendly products [average cruising distance 38.3Km, 64 days of participation] Co2 reduction investment purchase 50 51 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment GROW 3. ● KTP Energy Saving Activities ● KTP Environment Investment KTP Energy Saving by Season Invest in Environment-friendly Industry ♣ KTP contributes to development of environment industry by direct/indirect 13,054 kwh 1,136,588 Nm3 investment into the sector. 3 asset management companies were selected for KRW 30 BN / 2009 25,697 l 3 investment into new growth engine industry and green growth funds, and total KRW 1,049,505 Nm 12,848 kwh 60 million was committed to the companies with KRW 25 billion, 20 billion, and KRW 60 BN / 2010 998,748 Nm3 21,056 l 19,054 l 15billion respectively. Out of KRW 24 billion committed to Venture Investment Union 12,762 kwh in 2010, KRW 12 billion of commitment was made for green area related investment [commitment status for new growth engine / union, to promote technology development for green growth. Funds for new growth green growth fund] 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 engine industry and green growth are divided into green technology industry, [electricity use] [LNG use] [gasoline use] advanced convergence industry, and high value-added services, and help green new KRW 12 BN / 2010 industry grow by investment into renewable energy, new material, nano technology, For sustainable energy use, KTP puts top priority to energy saving and practices it. Utilization hours of air conditioning/heating for and green finance industry. [commitment to green area in venture funds ] all properties are controlled to minimize energy use and prevent unnecessary losses. In summer, regular temperature check by department is made to maintain proper temperature subject to time. KTP ceases heating in energy peak time during winter season in order to overcome contingencies of energy supply shortfall due to high energy Base planning Presentation session Proposal receipt use concentration of the season. The heating system stops working for11am ~ 12pm, and 5 pm ~ 6 pm, 1 hour each and maintains indoor temperature at 18 ℃. KTP will keep pursuing reasonable energy use activities in order to extend the earth’s environmental life time and to use the resources in more sustainable ways, while aggressively implementing energy savings and effective use of energy. On-site due diligence Verbal review Investment committee Final confirmation [PEF investment manager selection process] Company-wide Energy Saving Implementation KTP makes energy saving plans by regional HQ early every year and reviews the use status to execute energy saving systematically. Purchase of Environment-friendly Products Feasibly energy plans are made by each regional HQ, and the plans cover all operational areas including electricity, water, elevator, KTP purchases environment-friendly products with priority in order to lead green boiler, and freezer. consumption and to promote green growth. KRW 136.1 MN / 2008 A group of products including home appliance, furniture, and IT products are being procured and the purchase amount keeps increasing. KRW 283.6 MN / 2009 Light, electric ㆍ Turn off lights during lunch time, use lights in night work only for necessary area To draw purchase promotion, on-line training is provided to procurement officials heating, ㆍ Plug-off after use ㆍ Downward adjustment of peak use level in summerwinter season of each regional HQ. Verified environment-friendly product items and the vendors electricity KRW 310.3 MN / 2010 GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment can be searched through environment-friendly product procurement guideline ㆍManage high power rate maintenance of power part site, which leads to priority of the products in purchasing required office goods and [environment-friendly products Power ㆍAvoid early operation of air conditioner materials, KTP will actively cooperate to achieve low-carbon green growth. procurement status] operation ㆍSeparate operation of air conditioner and FCU by building direction ㆍAvoid heat loss by check/maintenance of steam trap Environment-friendly Renovation of Offices Boiler/ ㆍIncrease efficiency by regular pipe cleaning of hot/cold water machine freezer Seoul regional HQ replaced existing fluorescent lamps with LED lamps in order ㆍOptimized operation (season/time) subject to in/outside temperature for the employees to work in more pleasant office. the change would alleviate the ㆍPR through bulletin board, slogan, and poster ㆍEnergy manager education by employees’ eye fatigue and energy saving effects are also expected. By 2012, 30% Education/ ㆍPut stickers for electricity/water saving external institutions of entire lights will be replaced by LED lamp. The timing of change will be decided PR ㆍPR for avoiding heat loss through internal broadcasting by consideration of price depreciation following technology advance and mass production. Changes into environment-friendly office caring for employees’ health KRW 10 MN / 2011 [2011 common plan by regional HQ] are being made. [LED lamp purchase amount] 52 53 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment GROW 3. ● KTP Environment Protection Activities Beautiful Store Donation + + + + + Yeouido Idle PC/ 1 company1 Energy minus, Beautiful store Eco-drive environment mobile phone This program is to collect used or unnecessary goods find new owners for trail care love plus donation agreement campaign donation them. It can extend life time of goods and reduce wastes, which helps protect the environments. Employees voluntarily donates their goods into collection box located on 776 point / 2009 Yeouido Environment Campaign the 3rd floor of head office building, and 3 donated goods are counted as 1 hour of social service. Variety of goods including clothes, shoes, hats, bags, To strengthen alliance with local community and maintain clean urban environments, KTP is implementing environment campaign in 527 point / 2010 kitchenware, kids products, and books can be donated, and the goods are Yeouido Park and Ecopark close to the head office. The campaign is held 2 times a year in each half to contribute to local community cleaned before going to new owners. as a public institution located in the area that citizen’s resting place and natural eco-place reside in. In 2010 the campaign was KTP will maintain the Beautiful Store Donation program, since sum of conducted during the designated social contribution week and 2011 first half’s event was made as well. By such regular campaign individual small activity of an individual can collectively protect environments [Beautiful Store donation status] activities, KTP’s employees are trying to take care of and protect the environments. and help neighbors. 1 company – 1 trail Care Hanam regional HQ made agreement with Byeonsan National Park in Buan, 2010 4.24 / 9 people Jeonbuk to protect the beautiful natural environments. The park is the 2010 6.2 / 8 people Idle PC / mobile Phone Donation only national park located in peninsular area and includes habitats of rare animals/plants with well-preserved natural eco system. To maintain the As a part of resources recycling, old PCs are collected upon their 2010 10.16 / 7 people environments, activities like natural resources protection and trail care were replacement and donated to PC-share Foundation and Zion-won. Purpose of 130 units / 2010 required. Employees of Honam regional HQ make visits to the park at least this program is to prevent the poor children and disables from being isolated 2010 12.11 / 7 people once a quarter, and 3 visits were made in 2010. from information and to reduce information gaps. [number of participated employees for [Idle PC donation status] As replacement cycle of mobile phone shortens die to the technical 1 company -1trail care_ as of 2010] development, KTP plans to collect and donate dormant mobile phones. Recycling of useful phone parts can protect environments and avoid 15 units / 2010 economic waste. KTP will make efforts to create beautiful society by the Energy Minus, Love Plus resources recycling/donation activities minimizing environmental pollution. [Idle mobile phone donation status] Honam regional HQ is participating in “Energy Minus, Love Plus” which is a energy saving campaign led by Korea Energy Management Corporation. GROW 2. Grow & Grow Environment The campaign is to convert decrease in electricity use in July and August compared to the previous year into money, and buy briquettes for the poor in order to share warm happiness with neighbors. Participating in the campaign, KTP also is performing 5 practices of electricity saving – plug off, Eco Driving Agreement turn off, no-tie, keep indoor temperature guideline, and walk – and seeking participation of other tenants in Honam Tower. 19,745 kwh of electricity was As a part of low-carbon green growth, KTP signed on MOU of social saved during July and August in 2010, and 281 pieces of briquettes were association for practicing eco driving and putting effort to boost the delivered. KTP will participate in the campaign for 2nd half 2011 and maintain employees’ public transportation use. The MOU represented the employees’ keen interest in energy saving willingness of participation, and car-free day is in operation once a month on Green Day to reduce use of vehicles that accounts for 90% of total house gas emission. KTP believes perception changes are important for eco driving, and performs 21,173kwh / decrease in 2009 19,745kwh / decrease in 2010 aggressive PR and education to settle eco-driving culture. 54 55 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. KTP compiled a sustainability report with a beating heart for the green future of KTP`s customers and employees. KTP promises to fulfill next year what if did not achieve this year and we apologize for not completing all our sustainable performances. In order to meet with a better, more complete sustainability report, KTP will continue with our best efforts to do so. GROW 3. Grow 3. Appendix Third-Party Assurance Report / 58 Support for UN Global Compact & the 10 principles / 60 Membership in associations and Awards / 61 GRI G3.1 Index / 62 Statement GRI Application Level Check / 66 Questionnaire / 67 56 57 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● Third-party Assurance Report Dear KTP’s stakeholders, Materiality : selection and reporting of major issues Korea Productivity Center (hereafter ‘Assurer’) was engaged by KTP for independent verification for ‘2011 KTP Sustainability Report’ 사KTP conducted a survey to figure out major issues of stakeholders, selected core issues to be included in the Report through (hereafter ‘Report’) and hereby presents the assurance report. materiality test. Through this process, sustainable management issues were identified by benchmarking, media research, and review on management policy and strategy. Contents of the Report were determined by evaluation of major issues with internal standard, and the top management’s opinions were reflected. While major issues such as “exploring measures for sustainable pension system”, “expansion Responsibility and independence of green growth investment”, “design responding systems to climate change”, and “vitalize family-friendly management” were included 본KTP has full responsibility for information and opinion stipulated in the Report. The Assurer is responsible for assurance opinion in the Report with balance, some issues like “new business development in various areas” and “implement common work system” were regarding the report. As an independent institution, the Assurer did not participate in preparation of the Report and is not involved in any missed or not sufficiently covered. We suggest to systematically manage the identified issues and to state the related core performances business relationship that can possibly weaken the independence. in the report, for balanced reporting of issues. Verification standard Responsiveness : Organization’s response to the issues The verification was conducted following Type 1 verification type and Moderate verification level, based on AA1000AS(2008) standard. 3 KTP set 18 strategic initiatives with management goal of “best in customer satisfaction, fund rate of return, and business efficiencies. principles of AA1000APS(2008) – inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness were applied, and the compliance check of the contents with To execute “enhancement of sustainable management” initiative, KTP is responding with improvement of ethical management, GRI G3.1 guideline was made. enhancement of transparent management, and green management infra building. Such efforts can be confirmed by various results of ethical management, environment policy and others presented in the Report. We confirmed that KTP actively responded to “expansion Limitations of green growth management” and “vitalize family friendly management” by measures like green growth fund, SRI, Great Work Place as described in the Report. We suggest to include comprehensive issues in designing strategies to respond to sustainable management, to This verification does not include reliability check of the data presented in the Report following the above standard. On-site verification was made only for the head office in Seoul, and other regional HQ’s are not included. Therefore, the results could be changed in case further set clear goal and performance, and to disclose mid-to-long term responding strategies for the performance. verification is made. Recommendations We highly value KTP’s various efforts and performances to enhance the sustainability, and recommend the followings for future report Verification method issues and improvement of sustainable management level. The following methods were applied for verification of the Report. Media research and benchmarking analysis were used to review appropriateness of issue selection and described contents. 1. Set systematically strategies and goals and state them in the report, in order to settle sustainable management in the organization and to consistently develop it. By GRI application level B 2. Establish more organized channel for stakeholders’ participation and link them with KTP’s sustainable management Based on GRI G3,1 Guideline, the assurer confirmed if the reports complied with principles of quality and reporting contents. 3. Design and manage various evaluation indicators to measure performances of sustainable management. Managing the performances Appropriateness of the reporting contents and errors in description were reviewed by comparative analysis with other sources. with link of financial performance can improve level of sustainable management On site verification was made for Seoul head office to confirm the basis of major data and information, internal process and the systems. 4. Build integrated system to manage performance indicator of sustainable management and use it for report preparationw Verification results The Assurer confirmed that this report reflected the activities and performances of KTP’s sustainability management sincerely and fairly. The Report is confirmed to meet requirements of GRI application level B as KTP declared. August 2011 Choi, Dong-Kyu, CEO of KDP Inclusivity : participation of stakeholders GROW 3. KTP categorize its stakeholders with employee, customer, partner and government and actively discloses related information through various communication channel. Communication with internal employees is made through difficulty treatment channel, labor/ management joint group, and organization management satisfaction survey. KTP employee transparency evaluation and VOC channel are used to adopt the business partners’ opinion, and support for win-win cooperation is being strengthened. Customers like private school personnel and pension beneficiaries are the core stakeholders KTP defines, and their opinions are collected by call center and briefing Center Head, Kim, Dong-Soo Park, Joo-Mi Hong, Ah-Ram Kang, Hyo-Rim session. KTP led amendment of pension system via active discussion with the government. The Assurer highly values KTP’s such efforts to realize true customer value, and recommends to consistently manage and report stakeholders’ participation and the performance by Sustainable Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is a verification institution with official certification from Accountability and building up more systematic participation channel. is qualified to execute independent verification. The verification team members are experienced professional in advisory and verification of sustainable management and completed related professional trainings. 58 59 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. ● Support for UN Global Compact & the 10 Principles ● Membership in associations & Awards UN PRI KTP has been an active member of UN Global Compact since its joining in September 2009. KTP KTP has joined in UN PI in 2010 to fulfill its responsibility as institutional investor in world finance’ mainstream investment activities. designated the 10 principles of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption as its ethical UN PRI, founded in April 2006 by UN secretary general’s initiative, has led global spread of the recognition that financial institutions standard and is making efforts to support and comply with the principles. All KTP employees share UNGC’ should proactively fulfill their social responsibilities and drew the consensus on responsible investment principles from global s news letter. KTP also participates in various kinds of conversations like forum and seminar to deal with institutional investors. issues of global/ local companies. KTP is actively participating in internal CSR and SRI movement, and shares advanced responsibility investment techniques through the network with UN PRI members. It believe that investment in companies with sound profile in ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE will enhance long-term investment returns considering the nature of pension fund, and such investment will also contribute to development of fair society. KTP, together with CalPERS, NYCERS, ABP and other 900+ global institutional investors, will make effort to build goal cooperation system for green growth and to lead activities emphasizing social responsibility investment. Human Labor Environment Anti-corruption Rights Number of Signatories Asset Owner Signatories Country Asset Owners 236 Korea Teachers Pension South Korea Investment Managers 511 Korea National Pension Service South Korea Professional Service Partners 164 [Korean Asset Owners member of UN PRI _June end, 2011.] Total 911 [source_http://www.unpri.org/signatories/] ㆍ1. KTP should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ㆍ2. KTP should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ㆍ3. KTP should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ㆍ4. KTP should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Awards ㆍ5. KTP should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Name of award by date ㆍ6. KTP should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Care for agriculture – 1company 1 village award 2010.05.30 ㆍ7. KTP should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Best practice for public institution advancement ♣ MEST 2010.11.30 ㆍ8 KTP should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Best in asset management evaluation MOSF 2010.12.31 ㆍ9. KTP should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies CIO of the year (Head of Asset Management Division) Asian Investor 2011.03.16 ㆍ10. KTP should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GROW 3. Honam regional HQ has awarded 1 company – 1 village award KTP won MEST award for its headcount management and for its interchange with local community and contribution to budget saving efforts based on Board of Audit and Inspection’s promotion of Care for Agriculture campaign. inspection on public institution 60 61 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. GRI G3.1 Index ●reported ◐ partly reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable ●reported ◐ partly reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable Indicator NO. Description Page Reporting Status Remarks Indicator NO. Description Page Reporting Status Remarks Strategy and Analysis Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.13 in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * 60, 61 ● 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 11 ● Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 11 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4 ● Organizational Profile 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4 ● 2.1 Name of the organization. 12 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 12 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 4.17 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 joint ventures. 12 ● Economic performance 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 9 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations EC 1. compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital 19 ● 2.5 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. ● no overseas operation providers and governments. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 9 ● EC 2. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 53 ◐ 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 9 ● EC 3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 26 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 9 ● EC 4. Significant financial assistance received from government. ○ data collection not completed 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● no significant changes Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant EC 5. locations of operation. 38 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 61 ● EC 6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. ◎ N/A by the business nature Report Parameters Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 2 ● EC 7. significant locations of operation. ◎ N/A by the business nature 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC 8. through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 22 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 2 ● EC 9. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 32 ◐ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 2 ● Environment performance 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 ● EN 1. Materials used by weight or volume. ◎ N/A by the business nature Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.6 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 2 ● EN 2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. N/A by the business nature State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for EN 3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 51 ◐ 3.7 explanation of scope). 2 ● EN 4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 52 ◐ data collection not completed Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 30 ◐ EN 5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 54 ● Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN 6. 53 ◐ 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 2 ● energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. EN 7. nitiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 53, 54 ◐ Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 2 ● no cases of restatement EN 8. Total water withdrawal by source. ○ data collection not completed Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods EN 9. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ○ data collection not completed 3.11 applied in the report. 2 ● no significant changes EN 10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● data collection not completed 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 62 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN 11. biodiversity value outside protected areas. ◎ N/A by the business nature 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 58 ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN 12. 54 ◐ areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 14 ● EN 13. Habitats protected or restored. 54 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 14 ● EN 14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ● N/A by the business nature Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the EN 15. ● N/A by the business nature 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 14 ● by level of extinction risk. EN 16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 51 ◐ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 governance body. 14 ● EN 17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 51 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and EN 18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 51 ● GROW 3. 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and 14, 34 ● environmental performance). EN 19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ◎ N/A by the business nature 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 14 ● EN 20. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ◎ data collection not completed Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest EN 21. Total water discharge by quality and destination. ◎ N/A by the business nature 4.7 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 14 ● EN 22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 55 ◐ Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 18, 24, 4.8 ● EN 23. Total number and volume of significant spills. ◎ N/A by the business nature economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 50 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN 24. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. ◎ N/A by the business nature 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 14 ● will be proceeded in Q4 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the EN 25. reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. ◎ N/A by the business nature Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. 14 ● will be proceeded in Q4 EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 55 ● 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 5 ● EN 27. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ◎ N/A by the business nature Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 4.12 the organization subscribes or endorses. 60, 61 ● EN 28. environmental laws and regulations. ● not exist 62 63 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report GROW 1. GROW 2. GROW 3. GRI G3.1 Index ●reported ◐ partly reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable ●reported ◐ partly reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable Indicator NO. Description Page Reporting Status Remarks Indicator NO. Description Page Reporting Status Remarks Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Product Responsibility performance EN 29. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 51 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and EN 30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 53 ● PR 1. percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. ◎ N/A by the business nature Labor performance Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR 2. impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ◎ N/A by the business nature LA 1. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 32 ● LA 2. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 32 ● Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR 3. services subject to such information requirements. 26 ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major LA 3. operations. 39 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR 4. service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. ◎ N/A by the business nature LA 4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 40 ● LA 5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective 41 ● PR 5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 28 ● agreements. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor PR 6. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ◎ N/A by the business nature LA 6. and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 40 ◐ Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing LA 7. 39 ● PR 7. communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ◎ N/A by the business nature and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, PR 8. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ◎ not exist LA 8. their families, or community members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. ○ N/A by the business nature Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR 9. ◎ not exist LA 9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 40 ● use of products and services. LA 10. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 36 ◐ Indicators for Stakeholder Engagement Page Reporting Status Remarks Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Sustainable LA 11. assist them in managing career endings. 28 ● New business development in various areas 22 ● Management LA 12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 34 ● Explore measures for sustainable pension system 26 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age Economy New business development in various areas 22 ● LA 13. group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 14, 32 ● Increase in green growth investment 53 ● LA 14. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 35 ● Environment Design systems to respond to climate control 51 ● LA 15. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 39 ● Strengthen environmental laws and regulations 51 ● Society performance Society Investment and support for Senior welfare 28, 29 ● Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO 1. development programs. 46 ● Vitalize family-friendly management 15, 33 ● SO 2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ○ not exist Private School Expansion of affiliated welfare services 29 ● personnel SO 3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 43 ● Education for understanding of pension system 29 ● SO 4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 45 ● Partner Enhanced disclosure for transaction process 30, 31 ● SO 5. Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 61 ◐ Common work system ○ to be supplemented SO 6. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ◎ not exist Employee career management and competency development 36 ● Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO 7. outcomes. ◎ not exist reasonable HR system 37 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Government and SO 8. regulations. ◎ not exist investment and support for local community 49 ● Community SO 9. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ◎ N/A by the business nature proactive adoption of governmental policies 15, 61 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO 10. impacts on local communities. ◎ N/A by the business nature Human Rights performance Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses Introduction of DMA ●reported ◐ partly reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable HR 1. incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 60 ● Indicator NO. Description Page Reporting Status Remarks Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights HR 2. screening, and actions taken. ○ under planning 2010 Key Performances of Economy & future vision / DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 18 ~ 20 ● KTP mid-to-long term asset distribution and Asset Management Direction Setting GROW 3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant HR 3. to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ○ under planning HR 4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. ● not exist DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 50 ~ 55 ◐ Goals of Practice in Environment / 2010 organizational performance Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR 5. bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 41 ◐ human source policy about recruiting, training, and supporting / Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 24 ● the rule of health and safety HR 6. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 39, 60 ● Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR 7. and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 39, 60 ● DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 39 ● the KTP policy for the protection of human right. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR 8. human rights that are relevant to operations. ○ under planning DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 43 ~ 49 ● The policy of community society / the policy of anti-Corruption HR 9. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ◎ N/A by the business nature Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact HR 10. assessments. 39 ◐ DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 4, 12 ~ 13 ◐ The rule of the product HR 11. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formalgrievance mechanisms. 39, 41 ◐ 64 65 We are waiting for stakeholders’ valuable opinions. sustain@ktpf.or.kr You can download this report at KTP’s website. [www.ktpf.or.kr] 66 Grow & Grow 2011 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report From To The Korea Teachers Pension, Performance Management Team 27 Yeouinaru-ro, Youngdengpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea 1 5 0 7 4 2 Fold We would like to hear your valuable opinions. 1. In which stakeholder group you belong to? ① private school personnel ② beneficiary ③ customer ④ employee ⑤ government ⑥ partner ⑦ community ⑧ others [ ] 2. How helpful is this report in understanding KTP’s sustainable management? ① very helpful ② helpful ③ normal ④ not helpful ⑤ very not helpful 3. In which route you came to be aware of this report? ① KTP web site ② KTP employee ③ KTP Pension magazine ④ newspaper/magazine ⑤ internet ⑥ others [ ] 4. Which part of this report is most beneficial to you? ① KTP introduction ② economic performance ③ social performance customer partner employee community ④ environmental performance ⑤ appendix ⑥ other [ ] 5. Which part of this report do you think needs to be supplemented the most? ① KTP introduction ② economic performance ③social performance customer partner employee community ④ environmental performance ⑤ appendix ⑥ other [ ] 6. Please evaluate below items. 1) The contents are clear and reliable. No ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ Yes 2) Issues in interest were sufficiently addressed No ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ Yes 3) The design is good and helpful for understanding of the contents No ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ Yes 7. Please feel free to state your thoughts regarding required improvement or what you expect from the report going forward -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
