Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 003 Management Information Disclosure / Sustainability Report Editorial Policy 005 Hitachi Group Proﬁle 007 TOP COMMITMENT Hiroaki Nakanishi, President, Hitachi, Ltd. 009 TOP DIALOGUE Dialogue with WBCSD President 010 Effect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachi’s Response 015 VISION Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Hitachi Group Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan / Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi Sustainability Report 2011 019 FEATURE Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Urban Planning for Tianjin Eco-City Hitachi Projects Extending around the World 025 Third-Party Expert Opinions 026 Management Report 027 Message Toshiaki Kuzuoka, Senior Vice President and Executive Officer 028 Corporate Governance Strengthening Governance / Internal Control 030 CSR Management CSR Management Structure / The Five-Year CSR Roadmap / CSR Self-Assessment Tool / FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans 034 Risk Management Responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake / Reinforcing the Risk Management System / Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) 036 Compliance Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct / Implementing Corporate Ethics Month / Compliance Reporting System / Preventing Corruption / Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading Representations / Protecting Personal Information and Information Security / Export Control 041 Innovation Management Research and Development Strategy / Research and Development Goals / Enhancing Overseas Research Bases / R&D Plan and Investment / Hitachi Fellow System / Examples of R&D Achievements 044 Intellectual Property (IP) Globalization of Intellectual Property / Building a Strategic Patent Portfolio / Strengthening International Standardization / Business Contributions / Respect for Intellectual Property / Reward System for Employee Inventions / Cultivating Human Capital 046 Brand Management Global Brand Strategy / Improving the Global Brand / Web Management / Internal Brand Management / Evaluating the Effectiveness of Brand Initiatives / Reputation Management / Action against Infringement of the Brand Value 049 Environmental Report 050 Message Shigeru Azuhata, Senior Vice President and Executive Officer 051 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives The Hitachi Environmental Vision / Long-Term Plan Environmental Vision 2025 / Environmental Action Plan 060 Activities to Preserve Ecosystems 063 Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products / Recycling Product Resources / Managing Chemical Substances Contained in Products / Participating in the Development of International Standards Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 001 071 Environmentally Conscious Production Creating Super Eco-Factories and Offices / Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions / Reducing Waste / Water Conservation / Chemical Substance Management / Managing Environmental Risk / Environmental Load Data Generated through Business Operations (FY 2010) 081 Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Management Framework / Environmental Education / Environmental Accounting / Environmental Communication 090 Independent Review 091 Social Report Hitachi Group 092 Message Makoto Ebata, Senior Vice President and Executive Officer; Sustainability Report Naoki Mitarai, Vice President and Executive Officer 2011 093 Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Quality Assurance Activities / Quality and Reliability Education / Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems in China and throughout Asia / Handling Product Accidents / Customer Satisfaction / Universal Design 099 Public Policy Initiatives External Relations Policy / External Relations Structure / Stakeholder Engagement / Partnerships for Combating Global Warming / Global External Relations Initiatives 101 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Policy on Information Disclosure / Proactive IR Approach / General Meeting of Shareholders / Socially Responsible Investment and Sustainable Investment Assessments in Fiscal 2010 / Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers 104 Social Contribution Activities Philosophy and Policy / Education / The Environment / Social Welfare / Hitachi's Foundations / Support for Volunteer Activities / Disaster Relief and Recovery 116 Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Policies / Framework for Promoting Respect for Human Rights / Raising Awareness of Human Rights / Applying Human Rights Worldwide 119 Supply Chain Management Promoting Globalization / Sharing Procurement Policies / Building Partnerships / Helping Create International Guidelines / Sharing CSR Awareness / Green Procurement / Response to Conﬂict Minerals Issue 123 Diversity Management Diversity Development Project / European Diversity Project / Employing People with Disabilities / Model Project for Promoting the Employment of People with Mental Disabilities 130 Global Human Capital Development Aligning Hiring with Global Business / Global Education for Young Employees / Global Manager Training / Training Future Managers / HITACHI BASIS / Training System 132 Employee Health and Safety Health and Safety Programs / Mental Health Care / Basic Attitudes to HIV/AIDS 134 Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines 144 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects 145 Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact 146 Policy, Vision, and Guidelines 147 Major Results Data 149 Inquiries Symbol Marks Used in This Booklet † Technical terms, proper nouns, etc., in the text requiring explanation * Additional explanation of terms, etc., in tables or diagrams WEB Indicates the title and URL of the Web page related to the article. The Environmental Report (pages 049–090) can be downloaded as a file from the Web site below http://www.hitachi.com/environment/data/ Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 002 Management Information Disclosure We disclose non-ﬁnancial information, mainly our activities in ﬁscal 2010, ended March 31, 2011, in the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011. Operating and ﬁnancial information for shareholders and other investors is in the Annual Report 2011. Our Web site provides the latest information on these and other topics. Non-Financial Information Reports WEB Global Community Relations Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 WEB CSR and Activities (Corporate Social Responsibility) (Social Contribution Activities) http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ http://www.hitachi.com/Int-e/skk/ index.html index.html WEB Environmental Activities http://www.hitachi.com/ environment/index.html Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Financial Information Reports WEB Investor Relations http://www.hitachi.com/IR-e/ index.html Note: We also disclose operating and ﬁnancial information on Hitachi, Ltd. in the Form 20-F ﬁlings with the United States Securities and Annual Report 2011 Exchange Commission (see page 102). Sustainability Report Editorial Policy The Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 is a combination of the Hitachi Group Corporate Sustainability Report and the Hitachi Group Environmental Sustainability Report, which we published through ﬁscal 2010. We publish the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Digest (24 pages), a summary of policies, areas of special social interest, and reports on key management issues from the larger Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 (149 pages), which is issued as a PDF. (The Japanese and English versions of this digest are scheduled to be released in September and October, respectively.) Our Web site also reports on detailed activity, as well as news releases and other up-to-date information. Latest information Reports on detailed activities On Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Reports on material issues Web booklet PDF Printed version Hitachi Group CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report Environmental Activities Sustainability Report 2011 Global Community Relations and 2011 Digest Activities (Social Contribution Activities) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 003 Reports on Detailed Activities Reports on Material Issues PDF booklet Hitachi Group Sustainability Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report Digest Hitachi Group Proﬁle Effect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachi’s Response Top Commitment Hitachi Group Proﬁle Effect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachi’s Response Top Commitment Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan / Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi Plan / Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi FEATURE FEATURE Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Third-Party Expert Opinions Caring for the Environment / Respect for Human Rights/ Supply Chain Management / Diversity Management / Public Policy Initiatives Management Report Message from the Executive Officer for Management Audits / Corporate Governance / CSR Management / Risk Management / Compliance / Innovation Management / Intellectual Property / Brand Management Environmental Report Latest information Web Message from the Executive Officer for Environmental Strategy / Corporate Major CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives / Activities to Content on the Web Site Preserve Ecosystems / Environmentally Conscious Products and Services / Environmentally Conscious Production / Environmental Management The CSR Web site has a full PDF version with details on our activities and Framework and Communication the following content. The Environmental Activities Web site reports on environmental protection initiatives. The Social Activities Web site discloses Social Report social contributions. Message from Executive Officer for Procurement / Message from Executive Officer for Human Capital Group / Quality Assurance and Customer Contents Disclosed Solely on the Web Site Satisfaction / Public Policy Initiatives / Communication with Shareholders CSR at HITACHI: Vision and Policies and Investors / Social Contribution Activities / Respect for Human Rights Highlights: Spotlighting 2005 through 2010 / Supply Chain Management / Diversity Management / Global Human Policies on preventing the recurrence of misleading representations Capital Development / Employee Health and Safety Diversity management* Employee safety and health* Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines / Comparative Table with ISO Welfare 26000 Core Subjects / Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact / Supplementary data for Environmental Report* Policy, Vision, and Guidelines / Major Results Data *Expanded version of detailed activities report (PDF) Scope of Reporting Initiatives That We Participate in [Period] We have been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since The main period covered is ﬁscal 2010 (April 1, 2010, to March 31, 2011) February 2009. [Companies] Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies): total 914 companies [Scope of data] Financial data Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting We have been a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable applies) and 164 affiliated companies that use the equity method Development since 1995. Social data Scope of data indicated under each item Environmental data Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies): total 914 companies. However, for environmental load data generated through business operations, companies that cover 90% of the load (based on Hitachi calculations) are included. The data for each External Evaluations ﬁscal year indicates the results according to the scope of data in that ﬁscal We were selected in September 2010 for the Dow Jones Sustainability year. The base ﬁscal year data have been revised in accordance with the World Indexes (DJSI World), one of the world’s leading sustainability scope of data for ﬁscal 2010. investment fund indexes. We were also awarded the Silver Class in the Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Sustainability Yearbook 2011 Guidelines Referred to in Preparing This Report (February 2011 issue). “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” (FY 2007 version), Ministry of the Environment, Japan “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2001—With Focus on Stakeholders,” Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), Global Reporting Initiative This sustainability report is published annually. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 004 Hitachi Group Profile Company Profile (as of March 31, 2011) Corporate Name Hitachi, Ltd. Capital 409,129 million yen Incorporated February 1, 1920 (founded in 1910) Number of employees (unconsolidated basis) 32,926 Head Office 1-6-6 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees (consolidated basis) 361,745 Tokyo 100-8280, Japan Number of consolidated subsidiaries 913 Representative Hiroaki Nakanishi, Representative (Japan: 351, outside Japan: 562) Executive Officer and President Number of equity-method affiliates 164 (Japan: 72, outside Japan: 92) Consolidated Business Overview and Results for Fiscal 2010 Revenues 9,315.8 billion yen Revenues and Operating Income (104% compared with the previous year) Revenues Operating income Operating income 444.5 billion yen (billions of yen) Revenues (billions of yen) Operating income (220% compared with the previous year) 12,000 11,226.7 1,200 Capital investment 556.8 billion yen 10,247.9 10,000.3 10,000 8,968.5 9,315.8 1,000 (102% compared with the previous year) R&D expenditures 395.1 billion yen 8,000 800 (106% compared with the previous year) 6,000 600 Overseas output as a percentage 444.5 4,000 345.5 400 of consolidated net sales 27% 182.5 202.1 2,000 127.1 200 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Sales Revenue by Geographic Region (billions of yen) Revenues by Industry Segment (billions of yen) Other 431.6 (5%) Others Number of companies: 50 767.4 (7%) Information & Number of employees: 5,832 Telecommunication Systems Financial Services 1,652 (16%) 372.9 (4%) Asia 2,073.7 (22%) Digital Media & Consumer Products Number of companies: 291 Power Systems 951.5 (9%) Number of employees: 114,150 813.2 (8%) Total Sales by Industry: Components & Devices 10,500.8 billion yen Net sales 809.8 (8%) Consolidated Net Sales: 9,315.8 billion yen 9,315.8 billion yen Social Infrastructure & Europe 760 (8%) Automotive Systems Industrial Systems Number of companies: 142 737.9 (7%) 1,156.9 (11%) Number of employees: 9,833 High Functional Materials Electronic Systems & Equipment North America 781.1 (8%) & Components 1,079.3 (10%) Japan 5,269.2 (57%) 1,408.1 (13%) Construction Number of companies: 79 Number of companies: 351 Machinery Number of employees: 15,537 Number of employees: 216,393 751.3 (7%) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 005 Major Fields of Business and Products Information & Telecommunication Systems Systems integration, outsourcing services, software, disk array subsystems, servers, mainframes, telecommunications equipment, ATMs Hitachi-Omron Terminal Solutions, Corp., Hitachi Computer Products (America), Inc., Hitachi Computer Products (Europe) S.A.S., Hitachi Electronics Services Co., Ltd., Hitachi Information & Control Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Information Systems, Ltd., Hitachi Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Consulting Corporation, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, Hitachi Information & Telecommunication Systems Global Holding Corporation Enterprise storage platform Power Systems Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems Thermal, nuclear, hydroelectric, and wind Industrial machinery and plants, elevators, power generation systems escalators, railway vehicles and systems Babcock-Hitachi K.K., Hitachi-GE Nuclear Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems Co., Energy, Ltd., Hitachi Engineering & Services Ltd., Co., Ltd., Hitachi Elevator (China) Co., Ltd., Hitachi Hitachi Power Europe GmbH, Hitachi Power Building Systems Co., Ltd., Hitachi Plant Systems America, Ltd. Technologies, Ltd. Ultra supercritical steam turbine Sewage treatment plant built by Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. in Malaysia Electronic Systems & Equipment Construction Machinery Semiconductor and LCDs manufacturing Hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, mining equipment, test and measurement dump trucks equipment, medical electronics equipment, Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. power tools, electronic part processing equipment Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation, Hitachi Koki Co., Ltd., Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc., Hitachi Medical Corporation, Hitachi High-Technologies’ device characterization system Hitachi Construction Machinery’s Hitachi Via Mechanics, Ltd. hydraulic excavator High Functional Materials & Components Automotive Systems Wires and cables, copper products, Engine management systems, electric powertrain systems, drive control semiconductor and display-related systems, car information systems materials, circuit boards and materials, Clarion Co., Ltd., Hitachi Automotive systems, Ltd., Hitachi Automotive Systems specialty steels, magnetic materials Americas, Inc. and components, high-grade casting components and materials Hitachi Cable, Ltd., Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd., Hitachi Metals, Ltd. Hitachi Chemical’s carbon Hitachi Automotive anode materials for lithium-ion Systems’ stereo camera batteries Components & Devices Digital Media & Consumer Products Hard disk drives, LCDs, information storage Optical disk drives, ﬂat-panel TVs, media, batteries LCD projectors, room air conditioners, Hitachi Displays, Ltd., Hitachi Maxell, Ltd., refrigerators, washing machines, airHitachi Display Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., conditioning equipment Viviti Technologies Ltd. Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Hitachi Consumer Electronics Co., Ltd., Hitachi Media Electronics Co., Ltd., Hitachi Consumer Syo-ene No Tatsujin PREMIUM, 2.5-inch hard disk drive Hitachi Appliance’s Air Conditioners by Hitachi Global Storage Products (Thailand), Ltd., Hitachi-LG Data for use in shops and offices Technologies Storage, Inc. Financial Services Others Leasing, loan guarantees Logistics, property management Hitachi Capital Corporation Chuo Shoji, Ltd., Hitachi Life, Ltd., Hitachi Transport System, Ltd., Hitachi America, Ltd., Hitachi Asia Ltd., Hitachi (China) Ltd., Hitachi Europe Ltd. Hitachi Capital’s multifunctional IC card Hitachi Transport System’s Keihin Distribution Center, a distribution center equipped with security systems Major Products & Services Major Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2011) The products marked with an asterisk (*) in the table above are those of Hitachi, Ltd. (Notes.) 1. Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. was formed through a merger between Hitachi Software Engineering Co., and Hitachi Systems & Services, Ltd. as of October 1, 2010. 2. Hitachi Automotive Products (USA), Inc. changed its name to Hitachi Automotive Systems Americas, Inc. as of January 1, 2011. 3. Viviti Technologies Ltd. is a holding company whose operating companies include Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Inc., a company engaged in the manufacture and sale of hard disk drives, and was established on October 5, 2010. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 006 TOP COMMITMENT Creating social and economic value at the same time to contribute to realizing a sustainable society I would like to begin my message by offering the crisis management policies for business continuity deepest condolences of everyone in the Hitachi planning and the entire value chain. Group to the victims of the Great East Japan The earthquake caused temporary shutdowns of Earthquake on March 11. I’m afraid some of electricity, telecommunications, water, and sewage, our customers experienced disruptions due to as well as other parts of the infrastructure that Hitachi’s supply chain in the affected disaster areas. people take for granted. It highlighted many risks Although the earthquake damaged several Hitachi for a secure and reliable infrastructure, including Group plants, we restored most of the affected the possibility of major power shortages. Today, manufacturing operations through concerted as I write this, I feel that this disaster forces us companywide efforts. to reprioritize our commitments for the social Hitachi was established a century ago in Hitachi infrastructure. Accordingly, I now believe that our City, Ibaraki Prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, and mission is to help create safe, secure, and vibrant just south of the accident at the Fukushima Nuclear communities, and that we contribute to building Power Station. Hitachi has since grown within the a social, industrial, and daily life infrastructure community of Ibaraki as well as the region as a that can better withstand disasters. We will whole. We believe that it is our responsibility to give continue striving to create a sustainable society back to the city and the region that nurtured our that conserves resources and energy. We will fulﬁll business, as well as to help eastern Japan recover this mission by focusing on our Social Innovation from the earthquake by rebuilding devastated towns Business. in safer and more sustainable ways. To that end, we are focusing our energies to use our technologies Pursuing Further Growth and expertise in a concerted effort to help deal with and overcome the accidents at the Fukushima Despite the impact of the earthquake, our 2012 MidDaiichi Nuclear Power Station. Term Management Plan has borne fruit in several respects during ﬁscal 2010, the ﬁrst year of the plan. Changing Perceptions of Value For example, while all business segments were Following the Great East Japan proﬁtable, we re-engineered our in-house company Earthquake system and began other internal reforms. I’m ﬁrmly committed to position Hitachi The earthquake damage temporarily halted to lead the drive toward creating a sustainable production at many plants across Japan, while it society, amid economic globalization, by devising deeply affected the global value chain, and has and implementing growth strategies centered cast doubt on the business continuity planning of on Social Innovation Business. We will therefore Japanese manufacturers. As part of Japan’s social concentrate investments in eleven key regions, infrastructure, we are reinforcing our risk and such as the Asian Belt Zone†1 where economic Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 007 growth is remarkable, South America, and Central and Eastern Europe. We will achieve true global and transnational management by positioning Japan as one of the key areas, and by strengthening local leadership. We will recruit globally and employ the right people in the right places. CSR: the Foundation of Global Management I believe that CSR is the foundation of global management and, indeed, any management. The world faces such global problems as climate change and ecosystem destruction, as well as energy depletion, human rights abuse, and other issues. I think that in order to resolve these fundamental social issues in line with Hitachi’s corporate credo, it is important to create value that can be handed down 10 to 20 years in the future by collaborating with partners and stakeholders. We will contribute to building a sustainable society by simultaneously creating social and economic value and by integrating CSR with management and strategy. We aim to become the world’s most trustworthy and reliable enterprise. July 2011 †1 Asian Belt Zone consists of countries and areas, 24 in all, such as China, the ASEAN countries, India, Middle Eastern countries and other countries located within those territories. Hiroaki Nakanishi President, Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 008 TOP DIALOGUE Dialogue with WBCSD President on Sustainable Development and the Role of Firms Björn Stigson, President, WBCSD (left) Hiroaki Nakanishi, President, Hitachi, Ltd. (right) About the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) The WBCSD is a CEO-led, global coalition of some 200 companies advocating for progress on sustainable development. Its mission is to be a catalyst for innovation and sustainable growth in a world where resources are increasingly limited. The Council provides a platform for companies to share experiences and best practices on sustainable development issues and advocate for their implementation, working with governments, non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations. The membership has annual revenues of US$ 7 trillion, spans more than 35 countries and represents 20 major industrial sectors. The Council also benefits from a network of 60 national and regional business councils and partner organizations, a majority of which are based in developing countries. During his May 2011 trip to Japan, WBCSD (World to long-term business environment outlook, Business Council for Sustainable Development) how to handle business in emerging countries, President Björn Stigson visited Hitachi to talk with contributions to ecosystem preservation, and the Hitachi, Ltd. Representative Executive Officer and role of the WBCSD. President Hiroaki Nakanishi. Mr. Stigson lauded Hitachi Group’s Social Hitachi, Ltd. has been a WBCSD member Innovation Business as an innovative societycompany since ﬁscal 2010 and co-chairs the focused strategy that clearly delineates the role WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core Team. This of companies. He noted that a combination of team has been developing ESR*1 and CEV*2 as tools innovation, markets and appropriate regulation for evaluating the ecosystem impact of corporate would be essential in achieving a sustainable society. activities as part of its mission to gauge the impact of corporate activities on ecosystems and to preserve Details of the meeting appear on Hitachi’s environmental Web site. ecosystems. WEB http://www.hitachi.com/environment/dialogue/ At their meeting, Mr. Stigson and Mr. Nakanishi *1 ESR: The Corporate Ecosystem Services Review discussed issues such as the impact of the Great East WEB http://www.wbcsd.org/web/esr.htm (various languages) Japan Earthquake on Japan and Hitachi, the status *2 CEV: The Guide to Corporate Ecosystem Valuation of the recovery from the disaster, the mediumWEB http://www.wbcsd.org/web/cev.htm (various languages) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 009 Effect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachi’s Response We wish to express our deepest condolences to all those affected by the earthquake that occurred off the Paciﬁc coast of northeastern Japan on March 11, 2011 and the subsequent tsunami and aftershocks. We sincerely hope for the fastest possible recovery in all regions. The March disaster heavily impacted the Hitachi Group too, particularly our production plants in prefectures in the Tohoku and Kanto regions. We also lost six of our staff to the tsunami. The disaster brought ﬁscal 2010 sales down by 130 billion yen and operation income fell by 75 billion yen. Given the current economic trends, we expect that ﬁscal 2011 sales will drop by around 350 billion yen and operation income by around 110 billion yen. Our stakeholders too have felt anxiety and have been inconvenienced by the damage to production equipment and disruption to material and resource procurement and logistics. Immediately after the disaster, at our head office we established the Hitachi Group Emergency Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake, headed by Hitachi, Ltd. President Hiroaki Nakanishi, to provide support for affected areas and customers, gather information on losses and damage suffered by employees and their families and our various plants, and to launch emergency measures. On March 23, the role of the Coordination Headquarters was expanded by launching the Hitachi Group Headquarters for Post-earthquake Reconstruction and Redevelopment to accelerate recovery and redevelopment activities. We recognize, however, that the extensive impact of the disaster will require a long-term response. Drawing on our experiences following the March disaster, we will build greater disaster resilience into our corporate structure and lend our weight as a company involved in the Social Infrastructure Business to the recovery of not only Hitachi but also of Japan. 1. Effect of the Disaster on Group Management and Recovery Status (1) Effect on Factories and Recovery Status Our factories in Ibaraki Prefecture in particular suffered damage to buildings and production facilities, but extremely rapid recovery work has seen our main factories now almost fully restored. Hitachi created business continuity plan (BCP) guidelines back in December 2006, and many of our factories have BCPs in place to deal with outbreaks of a novel strain of inﬂuenza and earthquakes. We also conduct yearly tabletop exercises covering the eventuality of a major earthquake, as well as carrying out regular drills and installing emergency facilities, including having satellite phones set up in key factories. As a result, we were able to establish the Hitachi Group Emergency Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake on the same day as the earthquake to centralize information and share it across the Group, and to launch immediate recovery support. Due also to the hard work of our staff, the recovery proceeded much faster than anticipated, despite the enormous damage. Pillar damaged at Mito Works Response room at Hitachi Works Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 010 Actions Taken Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake Timing Action March 11 14:46 Great East Japan Earthquake occurs 15:07 First damage reports received by Risk Management HQ from Group companies 15:10 Hitachi Group Emergency Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake established 15:40 First Group-wide notiﬁcation sent out from Risk Management HQ (earthquake outline, request for damage status reports) March 12 First relief supply delivered (12 loads, mainly to districts in Ibaraki and Sendai), including 50,000 liters of water, 65,000 packages of food, and 11,000 rolls of toilet paper March 13 Meeting of the relevant board members Status update, “people ﬁrst” policy conﬁrmed March 14 Board meeting held Decision to move swiftly on response measures, including gauging the situation, providing relief supplies, and dispatching personnel March 15 Board Chairman Takashi Kawamura visits factories to conﬁrm the damage March 17 Conﬁrmation of one employee death, thought to be due to the tsunami March 23 Hitachi Group Headquarters for Post-earthquake Reconstruction and Redevelopment set up Hitachi Works Recovery Initiative On March 11, 2010 at 14:46, Hitachi, Ltd.’s Hitachi Works was struck by a powerful shock with a strong seismic intensity of a high 6. Violent tremors continued for the next two minutes, causing an unprecedented amount of damage. However, restoration of key infrastructure elements, such as power, gas and water in the Hitachi district, saw commuting return to normal as of March 22, when Hitachi launched a full-scale initiative involving up to 2,000 people to restore production line and design office operations. Thanks to employees laboring day and night—with manufacturers of large processing machinery, tools, and jigs offering unstinting support—Hitachi was able to resume production at the remarkably early date of March 29. A week later, on April 3, a gas turbine was shipped from the Hitachi Port in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture, for the ﬁrst time since the disaster. That ﬁrst gas turbine to ship from Hitachi Port, which was massively damaged in the March disaster, epitomizes the Hitachi Works’ determination to get manufacturing back up and running. Cracked road at Hitachi Works (top left) Toppled air conditioner inside the plant (bottom left) Power generation machinery assembly resumes (top right) First post-disaster gas turbine shipped from Hitachi Port (bottom right) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 011 (2) Impact on Customers and Subsequent Recovery Status Widespread factory damage, rolling power outages, and ongoing problems in procuring materials and resources caused major delays in deliveries of car parts and other items, but that backlog has now been almost cleared. Hitachi’s full and careful response to customers’ radiation concerns also prevented any impact on product shipments. Long-term measures will, however, be needed in areas such as power saving and repairing damage to our reputation. To support customers’ safety and security, Hitachi will gear production to the parts and material inventory on hand and ensure that products are delivered on schedule, as well as enhancing our service information. 2. Support for Affected Regions Up to June 2011, Hitachi Group companies worldwide have together provided support totaling 940 million yen to aid victims of the disaster and to assist in recovery, including the provision, free of charge, of ﬂat-panel TVs, dry cell batteries and Disaster Victim Support Systems for local authorities. Some company housing in Tokyo has also been lent to disaster victims. Hitachi will continue to take swift support action geared to conditions in the affected regions. We have also been sending staff volunteers to the Corporate Volunteer Program Supporting People in Regions Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. This program, organized by the Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities,†1 enables members of the One Percent Club†2 to volunteer for affected regions, in response to local requests. Clearing away the sand piled up on roads by Cleaning and sorting precious photographs the tsunami Photo credits: Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities †1 Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities: A network organization made up of companies, NPOs, social welfare councils, community chests, and other organizations. In normal times, it engages in surveys and research, human resource development, and education related to disaster support. When disaster strikes, a wide range of institutions, organizations, and people work together to provide victim support. †2 Keidanren 1% (One Percent) Club: Established by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in 1990. Members are enterprises and individuals who pledge to contribute one percent or more of their ordinary proﬁts or disposable incomes to social contribution activities. Hitachi is a 1% Club member. 3. Supporting Social Infrastructure Restoration (1) Assistance at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station Hitachi established the 24-hour Emergency Response Center for Nuclear Power immediately after the earthquake struck, and has collaborated with GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy to help improve the situation at the power plant. To date, Hitachi has worked on recovering electricity within the power station, pouring seawater and fresh water, and installing nitrogen injection systems. We will continue to install nuclear fuel cooling systems, water decontamination systems, and nuclear reactor covers. About 2,200 staff members of Hitachi Group have been providing support and assistance, with around 1,200 employees dispatched to the site. We will Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 012 continue to extend our full cooperation in response to requests from the Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) and the government. (2) Assistance Resolving the Power Supply Shortage Immediately after the earthquake, the Emergency Response Center for Thermal Power that included Group companies was established and 140 employees were deployed to provide an immediate response to requests for resumption of operations at the various power companies’ thermal power plants. 400 engineers and other staff have been dispatched to power plants, and we will continue sending them as they are required. Resolving power supply shortages will require the installation of new power sources, and the Hitachi Group is throwing its full weight behind ﬁtting new gas turbines and other power generation facilities as well as expanding existing facilities. We have also begun to supply some of the power outside the company that is produced by Hitachi, Ltd.’s three in-house power generation facilities. (3) Disaster Recovery Support Services To respond quickly to requests from affected customers, Hitachi has set up a dedicated Damage Response Reception Center. We are also providing a wide range of disaster recovery support services for between 3 and 12 months at no charge, including disaster support system creation, email and Web security services, data backup, teleconferencing systems, and small-scale wireless telecommunication systems. Our main focus is on systems and cloud services for local governments and companies. 4. Timing of FY 2012 Recruitment Selection Period and Selection Methods To provide students who have been personally affected or whose families have been affected by the disaster with the same opportunity as all other students for taking examinations, the start of the recruitment selection period at Hitachi, Ltd. was changed from April 1 to June 1. Open recruitment ﬁnal selection was also held not only in Tokyo and Osaka but also in Sendai in the Tohoku Region. 5. Summer Electricity Conservation Activities Based on the Japanese government’s energy conservation action plan, as well as discussions with customers and various industry organizations, Hitachi will reduce power use in regions where power is supplied by TEPCO and the Tohoku Electric Power Company (Tohoku EPCO) by at least 15 percent. In other regions too, we will actively promote various measures, making every possible effort to reduce power consumption at the Group’s activities. (1) Equalization of Summer Weekday Power Use through Rolling Holidays and Dispersed Summer Vacations From July to September in regions where power is supplied by TEPCO and Tohoku EPCO, Hitachi will shift employees’ regular weekly holidays from Saturdays and Sundays to weekdays (Monday to Friday) on a rolling basis to spread these holidays throughout the week (generally excluding hospitals, sales and service divisions). Summer vacations, which in normal years are concentrated around August 15, will be dispersed based on the business group. Other employee vacation days, such as national holidays that were originally scheduled for October onward, will also be rescheduled as substitute holidays to fall within the July–September period, adding approximately ﬁve vacation days. These efforts will help cut maximum power use by at least 15 percent during the summer period from July to August when power consumption peaks. Hitachi will add rolling holidays and spread out summer vacations for a number of programs to assist employees caring for children or nursing care for family members. These Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 013 include a subsidy system for child and nursing care facility and service costs; temporary workplace childcare facilities; and the promotion of working from home and “ﬂextime,” together with child-caring and nursing care leave. (2) Energy Conservation Measures at Each Works In May 2011, we launched the Hitachi Group Summer Energy Conservation Campaign, promoting energy-saving measures such as cutbacks in the use of indoor lighting, adjusting air-conditioning temperatures, suspending the operation of some elevators, and extending the period of time during which employees may come to work without neckties and jackets (based on the Ministry of the Environment’s “Cool Biz” campaign). At our manufacturing bases, we are striving to equalize production and increase efficiency to level out and reduce production line power use. We are also promoting other measures, such as using “Green Curtains,”†1 which help to reduce room temperatures at around 300 production bases, branches, and training facilities, as well as distributing bitter gourd seeds for planting to Hitachi Group employees. (3) Use of real-time electric power monitoring systems Hitachi’s own “smart meters,” which measure power use in real time, have already been installed at most plants for real-time monitoring and data gathering. In regions where electric power is supplied by TEPCO and Tohoku EPCO, these real-time electric power monitoring systems will be further expanded, and we will build cloud computing systems using Hitachi’s EcoAssist-Enterprise, an environmental information management system. These steps will increase the visibility of power use at the Hitachi Group in those regions and encourage more efficient management of power consumption. †1 Green Curtains: When climbing vines are grown in front of windows or on walls, the effects of transpiration and sunlight blocking by the leaves can reduce room temperatures by 3–5ºC. 6. Hitachi’s Position on Nuclear Power Business Nuclear power plants are one of the key elements of the social infrastructure, and nuclear power is a valuable energy source for protecting the global environment, enabling, for example, reduced CO2 emissions. Recognizing that outside Japan too, several countries are planning to introduce nuclear power to meet energy demand, we will continue our nuclear power business while giving full consideration to safety. Nuclear power is an essential element of our core Social Innovation Business, and we will continue to cooperate with those countries around the world that need to generate electricity by nuclear power. We will also reinforce our work on thermal power generation—the current power generation mainstay—and in natural energies for the future, helping to diversify power sources and further stabilize the electric power supply. WEB Material in this section is based on current information as of the end of June 2011. For more details and updates, please refer to the Hitachi Web site: http://www.hitachi.com/New/cnews/index.html (News Release: Corporate) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 014 VISION Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR We have integrated management strategies and CSR as part of our goal to transform into a truly global enterprise that shares society’s values Corporate Credo WEB http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/credo/ Adopted June 1983 Corporate Credo and Management Plan The Hitachi Group formulated a Group Vision to Hitachi Group Vision help resolve fundamental issues facing a global We will contribute to the solution of fundamental global issues, and pursue the society and to pursue a safer, more comfortable realization of a better, more prosperous society in line with the Corporate Credo which global society, in line with Hitachi’s is Hitachi Founding Spirit. We also created the founding spirit, utilizing the Group’s knowledge and technology. Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, which apply to all Adopted November 2006 Hitachi Group employees worldwide. Based on the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, produced in ﬁscal 2010, we deployed management Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct policies to pursue growth through our Social Adopted August 2010 Innovation Business, to solidify our ﬁnancial WEB http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/conduct/ position, and to help resolve global social issues. 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan Management Goals Growth driven by Social Innovation Business We intend to generate revenues of 10 trillion yen Solid financial base and an operating margin of more than 5 percent by Formulated May 2010 ﬁscal 2012. We will drive growth through the Social Innovation Business, which is around 60 percent of revenues. Social Innovation Business Focus We will reinforce our ﬁnancial position by We intend to strengthen our Social Innovation improving operating income while steadily Business by focusing on global, fusion, and increasing net income to consistently secure environmental issues. earnings of around 200 billion yen from ﬁscal 2012. Three Focuses of Social Innovation Business Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2012 targets results Global Leverage the Group’s knowhow, experience, as well as the trust of our Revenues ¥9,315.8 billion ¥10 trillion regional customers and partners, to become a truly global enterprise. Operating income 4.8% Over 5% Fusion Address every nation’s need for Social Innovation Business by Net income Consistently generate integrating our social infrastructure and IT expertise to produce unique attributable to ¥238.8 billion Hitachi, Ltd. at least ¥200 billion value. Environment *Debt-to-equity ratio 1.03 0.8 times or below Draw on a wide range of environmental technologies and accumulated experience to build better environmental systems, Total Hitachi, Ltd. stockholders’ equity 15.7% 20% helping to resolve global environmental issues. ratio * Including the non-controlling interests and liabilities associated with the consolidation of securitized entities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 015 Three Key Management Policies in the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan I. Global Growth Strategies to Harness Hitachi’s Strengths and strengthened the six-part global framework Fiscal close to markets to speed up strategies that use Fiscal 2012 targets 2010 results Outside Japan local leadership. revenue ratio 43% More than 50% The second focus is to collaborate with partners Percentage of employees 33%* 36% for more opportunities, working with government outside Japan agencies and other partners, particularly in fast-growing emerging nations, to increase * Reflecting HDD business transfer opportunities for Social Innovation Business. We will boost revenues from outside Japan to The third focus is to use our strengths to more than 50 percent of net sales, partly through create business, employing our technologies and employing more local people. experience to build environmentally conscious The prime focus of our global growth strategy cities and other next-generation urban areas, is to localize and expand worldwide. Based on our suggesting a new lifestyle as a total solution. New Globalization Plan, we chose 11 key regions II. Focusing Business Resources on the Social Innovation Business From ﬁscal 2010 through 2012, we will invest over Investments from fiscal 2010 to 2012 1,700 billion yen in Social Innovation Business, up 170 billion yen from our target. We intend to Investment ¥1,100 billion generate growth as well as mediumand long-term R&D investment ¥670 billion expansion. From the total, we are allocating 1,100 billion yen to investment, including data center operations and high-efficiency thermal power systems, and 670 billion yen to R&D for smart grids, lithium-ion batteries, and other technologies. III. Strengthening the Business Structure to Secure Proﬁtability We will reinforce our business structure and stabilize earnings by pursuing speedy operational management and by bolstering our financial position 1. Cost-structure reform 3. Global human capital ∙ Transform cost structure to be cost competitive globally ∙ Talent management to realize Hitachi’s targeted value ∙ Conduct companywide project, while strengthening individual ∙ Rebuild the Hitachi Group’s entire human capital platform businesses by promoting the in-house company system 2. Reinforce financial position 4. Value creation and CSR ∙ Reduce total assets and improve asset efficiency ∙ Create both social and economic value at the same time and ∙ Reduce interest-bearing debt by pooling funds contribute to the creation of a sustainable society Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 016 VISION Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Creating a Sustainable Society For us, CSR means making our Corporate engagement to integrate management and CSR, Credo and Group Vision a reality. We address and to become a truly global company. the UN Millennium Development Goals of ending poverty and hunger, universal primary education, combating diseases, and environmental sustainability with our technologies and solutions. We create social and enterprise value with social and management sustainability. Our 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan will help CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group us tackle society’s fundamental problems based on 1. Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) the Social Innovation Business. We will work on 2. Contribution to Society through Our Business 3. Disclosure of Information and Stakeholder Engagement key areas of our main focuses—global, fusion, and 4. Corporate Ethics and Human Rights environment—looking at them from management 5. Environmental Conservation 6. Corporate Citizenship Activities and social perspectives, using dialogues with 7. Working Environment stakeholders, and will reduce risks and improve 8. Responsible Partnership with Business Partners Adopted March 2005 management. Also, we will apply our CSR Policy throughout WEB CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group the Group, drawing on dialogue and stakeholder http://www.hitachi.com/csr/introduction/hitachi-csr/ Hitachi Social Innovation Business Our core competency is Social Innovation supported by materials and key devices. The Business, which draws on intelligent IT to ﬁve major business segments, information and provide an advanced social infrastructure. Social telecommunication systems, power systems, social Innovation Businesses include information and and industrial systems, construction machinery, telecommunication systems, power systems, and high functional materials & components, as well as industrial, transportation and urban together account for around 60 percent of development systems—all combined ﬁelds— consolidated net sales. Industrial, Transportation and Social Innovation Business Urban Development Systems Framework ∙ Eco-cities ∙ Water treatment ∙ Construction machinery ∙ Elevators and escalators Information and ∙ Green mobility Telecommunication ∙ Healthcare Systems Power Systems ∙ Cloud computing ∙ Energy (thermal, nuclear, ∙ Consulting and renewable) ∙ Data centers ∙ Smart grids ∙ Storage Materials and key devices Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 017 VISION Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Material Issues for Hitachi to identify social and environmental issues, conducting assessments and verifications from the Hitachi includes the participation of stakeholders perspectives of stakeholder materiality and the in the decision-making process for CSR activities. impact on management. We report on these key We engage in stakeholder dialogue worldwide issues in the Sustainability Report Digest. 1. Products That Create a Sustainable 4. Respect for Human Rights Society (Sustainable Business) As a global enterprise, we face risks because we operate under Developing innovative technologies and products is vital to growing different national laws, cultures and business practices. We respect our business and realizing a sustainable society. We are developing the laws and ordinances of every country, and we act with respect for products that both lower environmental burden and improve the international norms to prevent human rights violations. quality of life so that we can contribute to a prosperous, safe, and secure society. 5. Supply Chain Management 2. Protecting the Environment Supply chain risks are gradually increasing with the globalization of business, especially for the environment and human rights. We We feel that we can help protect the environment by reducing the openly share our procurement policies with suppliers, and we reduce environmental burden of products throughout their life cycles. We supply chain risk through ongoing surveys of CSR practices with our have created our Environmental Vision with three pillars: prevention suppliers. of global warming, conservation of resources, and preservation of ecosystems. Under this vision, we provide environmentally conscious products and services by reducing the environmental burden from 6. Diversity Management operations and improving their energy efficiency. We believe that diversity is much more than the human rights issue 3. Public Policy Initiatives of gender equality. It is a fundamental challenge for sustainable management, generating synergies beyond the Hitachi Group, Our Social Innovation Business is subject to the policies of national business ﬁelds, and globalization. We therefore have initiated governments, therefore we assess policy trends while engaging worldwide programs that maintain personnel systems while in dialogue with stakeholders who inﬂuence public policy and respecting diversity, by improving workplace environments, and by regulations. As a result, we can propose technologies and solutions cultivating human capital that can accelerate the globalization of that both beneﬁt society and contribute to better policies. Hitachi and contribute to market-based sustainability needs . Material Issues for Hitachi 3. Public policy initiatives 1. Products that deliver 5. Supply chain management sustainable society (Sustainable business) Importance for stakeholders 6. Diversity management 4. Respect for human rights 2. a. Environmental burden 2. b. Making energy-efficient reductions from operations products Inﬂuence on business Selection Process for Material Issues We evaluate and verify issues identiﬁed through stakeholder dialogue with international organizations, and we identify sustainability issues in public policy trends from the standpoints of importance for stakeholders and the inﬂuence on business. The importance for stakeholders includes human rights, international development, the environment, reporting, ethics, and regional and international requirements. The inﬂuence on business includes the global, fusion, and environmental focuses of our 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, as well as the perspectives of innovation, risk, reputation, and cost effectiveness. The digest of this report presents these important issues in the two assessment areas. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 018 F E A T U R E Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi We offer comprehensive solutions combining social infrastructure systems for energy, transportation, and water with Intelligent IT to build nextgeneration cities—safe, convenient, comfortable living spaces that are environmentally conscious and address issues such as an aging society unities Lively comm schools would connect The community rio us to wns and ers in va s ergy and and public cent g lea rning ffice u ral en ources. countries to prov ide life-lon E co-o run o nn a t other res ld and remote lea rnin g. Se ni or cit ize ns e s would ater, and tors wou d d easily go ou t in th eir Offi c h e at, w nd eleva s. Recycle would safely an c le s a u to re c y n e r n s c i o . electric carts. ng nditio lly co tains t i Air co ironmenta Green Cur mu ool sts the be e n v ld fee d o m h ge r wou lly wate a rt c nd sc inal sugcologicar the Sm rk a n term most e oute fo ublic wo formatio st, and rtation r from p tal in sie o se en An st, ea transp choo ls, or r a f e u s u l d o o s o scio le c ar p t con . Peop tion, c jus y da spor t a ad on, fa d ay n g hti ea s tran cles. r t o le nd lig the s ents. ity bic y b sta rta ures a ding t quire mart o m c e o t r re s Th mf mpera y acco style ration co m te ticall d life gene o a n Ro tom er, a next rt. au ath in a mfo we day n co A rts i sta Using information technology to link energy, transportation, and water Energy Transportation New Cities That the World Desires cities that will be comfortable and environmentally Since we entered the 21st century, such issues conscious. These cities would mainly be in as global warming, resource depletion, urban emerging economies that are continuing to invest crowding, economic disparities, and aging heavily in infrastructure. Hitachi designs cities have come to the fore. The common need of all with a vision giving consideration to lifestyles nations is to resolve these issues to ensure social and values. These cities would efficiently and sustainability. In cities around the world, people stably supply electricity and sewage systems as want their cities to overcome all these challenges. well as provide and treat water, enabling balanced demand and supply. They would also deliver safe, Hitachi’s Vision for Next-Generation convenient, and energy-saving transportation, Smart Cities advanced medicine and education, and government In April 2010, Hitachi established the Smart City services. All these services would be part of a Business Management Division for proposing new comprehensive social infrastructure package that Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 019 Parks abund an water and gre t with 24/7 enery Cities would be h ealth green and care Wrist water resources. for their ba care They would purif daily nd monit y .T o water discharged from household acces elemedici rs would c s s ne h and factories, co llecting rainwate Peop to speciali would p eck health Sa shofe an le wo s r and recycling it for park founta r lives. uld e ts at loca ovide njoy ins and healt l hospitals greenery. hy an . pp d w d sec ure CO ing ast che 2 emis c si e -fr and ked a ons fr c o ee t r term ans ordi c m foo i p o n g d red nals rtati to p s wo u o u and ce sh would n me roduc ld be cut oppi che thod tion A wa n c ste g for k refri . Mob s da t th . unn ger ece ato le i Pe y ee ssa rs to ry i th ople nd tem s oth at ca wou of wi er n n us ld r as t h wo th tu so tur a e e m u e r us ld ir f l e r, w toa l a n ar e i be am ne sl r i n s m t ow cha ilies gy e d po rt a . rge . E ffic we om h d a lec ien r a e t n tric tly nd s igh ve , re t, w hic lax he les ing np ow er Data Center Water is linked and managed by safe, high-capacity an innovator of such social infrastructure information and telecommunications systems using systems as energy, transportation, water, and cloud technology and eco-conscious data centers. telecommunications. We believe our mission is to Hitachi’s vision for next-generation smart cities: bring to the world our Corporate Credo: “contribute ensuring comfortable living spaces while reducing to society through the development of superior, the environmental burden. Cities would grow and original technology and products.” develop sustainably and be distinctively attractive We propose solutions that link infrastructural for citizens. components by integrating social infrastructure systems with IT and telecommunications. The Drawing on Our Expertise in Social Hitachi Group contributes to create a sustainable Infrastructure to Build Next-Generation society by building next-generation smart cities Cities that maintain an effective relationship between To support lifestyles, Hitachi has long been people and the earth. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 020 F E A T U R E Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Urban Planning for Tianjin Eco-City Hitachi is helping to construct Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, a joint project between the Chinese and Singaporean governments, by providing smart grid technologies and solutions pond on the outskirts of Tianjin. Hitachi’s Involvement in Tianjin Eco-City The new city will use 26 KPIs to minimize the environmental burden of housing, energy, and · Providing advanced energy and mobility technologies transportation. As well, it will recycle resources, required for eco-conscious cities and supplying information control platform solutions. including renewable energy for 20 percent of total · Helping construct the Eco Central Business District. energy, make all tap water 100 percent drinkable, · Participating in the Eco-City New Electric Vehicle Alliance. and recycle 60 percent of waste. The city will have · Deploying our home energy management systems for high-rise residential buildings under construction. 90 percent green transportation and 100 percent green buildings. Harnessing Our Smart City Business Leveraging Our Expertise from to Participate in an Eco-Conscious Tianjin Eco-City to Contribute to Urban Development that Has Captured Environmentally Conscious Urban Worldwide Attention Planning in China We are capitalizing on our global smart city The project heads of Sino-Singapore Tianjin Ecoexpertise to participate in China’s Sino-Singapore City want energy-saving technologies, new energy Tianjin Eco-City Project, an initiative capturing and storage battery technologies, and information worldwide attention. control platforms from Japanese companies. In Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City is a large May 2010, Hitachi and SSTEC agreed to evaluate model eco-city that is a joint venture between and use Hitachi’s technologies and solutions. We Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City Investment and intend to help develop environmentally conscious Development Co., Ltd. (SSTEC), and the Chinese cities by setting up a smart city R&D center in and Singaporean governments. The goal is to build Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City to create advanced a city of 350,000 with 110,000 houses by around solutions for further progress in this ﬁeld in China. 2020 on a 30-square-kilometer salt evaporation Speciﬁcally, we will help build the Eco Central Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 021 VOICES Solid Collaboration in Low Environmental Beijing Burden Urban Development Tianjin Binhai International Airport Tianjin Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City Bohai Bay Lim Kingboon General Manager, Economic Promotion, Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City Investment and Business District that minimizes CO2 emissions and Development Co., Ltd. enhances worker convenience. Our wide-ranging (SSTEC) business contributions include solar power and SSTEC and Hitachi have cooperated since other new energy technologies and solutions; signing an agreement in May 2010 to develop efficient community, building, and home energy Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City. Hitachi is management systems; and charging systems unique, offering all parts of information for electric vehicles, as part of the Eco-City New control and IT, including products and Energy Vehicle Alliance. We also will collaborate on solutions. This is China’s ﬁrst large urban building data centers and other IT infrastructure. development that cuts environmental burden The smart city business is pivotal to our Social by conserving and recycling. We plan to try Innovation Business. Through our involvement in many new ideas, and believe that Hitachi’s Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, we will contribute expertise will be essential. I look for Hitachi to to lower environmental burden urban development showcase itself at this city, and I hope to build in China, reinforcing the development of our own stronger ties in the years ahead. smart city business. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 022 F E A T U R E Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Hitachi Projects Extending around the World We have undertaken feasibility studies and experiments worldwide for building nextgeneration cities as part of our Social Innovation Business. We have also started projects in health care—essential in an aging Japan. Supplying Charging Management Systems for Rental Electric Vehicles in Japan Providing Infrastructure to Aid in the Spread of Electric Vehicles in Okinawa Yokohama Smart City Project The Advanced Energy Company (AEC) adopted Hitachi’s electric vehicle (EV) charging system as part of Okinawa Prefecture’s plan to install a rapid and medium-speed charger infrastructure for EVs rented to tourists. That program began in February 2011. Hitachi’s solution is a system that processes information and monitors user authentication, fees, and payments for chargers in tourist and commercial areas. AEC plans to install 50 rental EV charging stations on Charger for rental electric vehicles in Okinawa Okinawa’s main island by 2014. The company intends to eventually set up stations throughout the main island so residents can use rental cars once they have ﬁnished service. We will therefore continue to provide our charging management solution. Storage battery from Hitachi Group company Shin-Kobe Kanagawa Prefecture chose our energy management Electric Machinery Co., Ltd., that was adopted for the system for recharging electric vehicles for the Yokohama Yokohama Smart City Project Smart City Project, and we are pushing ahead with other experiments. Contributing to the Development of Verifying Environmentally a Low-Carbon Economy by Building a Conscious Package Low-Carbon Metropolis in China Infrastructure Building Guangzhou Knowledge City Helping Set Up a Low-Carbon, Environmentally Dalian Eco-Science and Technology City Conscious Infrastructure for India Hitachi is the ﬁrst Japanese company to participate in Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor, a joint Guangzhou Knowledge City, a next-generation city Japan-India project, is a 1,500 km highbeing built by the governments of Guangdong Province speed freight line between New Delhi, and Singapore. When completed in 2030, the city—on India’s capital, and Mumbai, its largest city, 123 square kilometers outside Guangzhou—will house with industrial sites, roads, ports, and other around 500,000. infrastructure over 300 km from south to For this city, we launched a development center north. In Dahej in Gujarat, a petrochemical and are conducting a feasibility study for energy zone, we made a study for a smart management, renewable energy, IT platforms, and community in 2010. In 2011, Japan’s METI next-generation transportation. commissioned us to explore a low-carbon Hitachi is also collaborating with the city of Dalian on infrastructure there. We will help create smart grids, water treatment, and appliance recycling. the infrastructures for urban and regional We will supply technologies, products, and solutions. communities. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 023 Natural Energy Control Technologies in Smart Housing in Japan Smart Grid Experiment in Rokkasho Village In September 2010, we jointly launched Japan’s ﬁrst smart grid in Rokkasho, Aomori Prefecture, a project for wind, solar, and other energy, with our partners, Japan Wind Development, Toyota Motor Corporation, and Panasonic Electric Works. We are testing energy applications between users and suppliers with energy storage equipment and management. For wind and solar, as well as smart meters for electricity generation and consumption in houses, we provide the demand and supply controls, including HUB batteries. We also monitor EcoCute water heaters and ensure efficiency of surplus electricity from solar power. Rokkashomura-Futamata Wind Power Station Participating in a Consortium: Industry, Academia, and Government in Urban Planning for a Graying Society in Japan Health & Vitality Urban Development Project in Hitachinaka Gerontology Consortium, the University of Tokyo Industry-Academia Collaboration* Believing that next-generation cities should be safe, secure and foster physical and mental health, we participate in graying society projects. We collaborate on the Health & Vitality project in a company hospital in Hitachinaka, Ibaraki. In the Gerontology Consortium, we propose solutions and roadmaps, together with various member companies, toward realizing an ideal graying society. We will continue helping with rural and urban revitalization through industry-academia-government collaboration, contributing with the realization of next-generation cities Hitachinaka Hospital, the focus of the for a graying society. Health & Vitality Development Project *This initiative continued from June 2011 as the University of Tokyo Industry-Academia Collaboration Gerontology Network Improving Water Environments with Intelligent Water Systems Building a water and sewage management facility in the Water and Sewage Management in the Maldives Maldives Waste Water Recycling in Dubai Since June 2010, the Water Environment Solution Division has provided “intelligent” water solutions—cycling water more efficiently with improved processing, information control and energy conservation. In the Republic of Maldives, we digitalized water distribution information, downsized puriﬁcation plants and streamlined water and sewage systems. In Dubai, the UAE, our advanced waste water treatment helps with water shortages by recycling water and desalinating seawater as well as treating ballast water to preserve the environment. With “intelligent” water systems, we are increasing water cycle efficiency. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 024 Third-party Expert Opinions The number of companies integrating sustainability in their business strategy is growing every year, underlying the importance of non-financial aspects in increasing the value of a company. Considering sustainability aspects in corporate strategy is perceived to have a positive impact on long-term value generation, innovation capability, operational efficiency, and reputation through the better management of stakeholders’ expectations. Companies are required to demonstrate a superior ability in managing sustainability issues and communicating transparently to their stakeholders. For companies of Hitachi’s size, stakeholders’ the strategic company focus on social innovation, expectations are high: through its operations, the more indicators, targets and achievement are company has the ability to shape business, society, expected to be reported in the future. and the environment. For that reason, broad and transparent public communication is paramount. What stands out in the 2011 Report is the clear Besides extensive reporting on key environmental description of how corporate social responsibility is and social performance indicators, qualitative integrated into the company’s management strategy aspects and materiality analysis also deserve a and vision. Sustainability analysis, besides being central role in Hitachi’s reporting. Showing progress an important pillar for the deﬁnition of the key on targets set is considered best practice. Notable is corporate policies and medium-term targets, is also the section devoted to innovation and intellectual used to ascertain the materiality for stakeholders property management, a ﬁeld where companies tend of the many environmental and social issues to be reluctant in disclosing details to stakeholders. that Hitachi faces. Regular communication with Hitachi’s Sustainability Report is therefore very stakeholders on themes related to sustainability complete from an international standpoint. enables Hitachi to further reﬁne the business strategy around its social innovation core competency. The environmental reporting section discusses the direct environmental impact of the company’s own operations and the indirect environmental impact of its products and services. Hitachi addresses both aspects extensively by describing its approach, formulating targets, and presenting achievements and examples for different product groups. Noteworthy is the comprehensive product lifecycle approach Hitachi uses for evaluating the environmental performance of its products. In the social section of Hitachi’s Sustainability Report, material challenges impacting employees, communities and supply chains, are seriously discussed, supported by numerical evidence and targets. For a global company like Hitachi, the Jvan Gaffuri management of diversity and community impact Senior Manager Sustainability Services deserves special attention. The report covers aspects SAM Research AG such as diversity development, human rights, and supply chains, providing sufficient data. Considering Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 025 Management Report Management Report MESSAGE Globally Reinforce Group Governance to Cultivate Highly Transparent CSR Management From a global perspective, CSR has progressed dramatically in recent years, in part because of the trend that CSR is core to management and strategy, but also because of a new international standard (ISO 26000), which is a newly signed international social responsibility agreement. We have also seen vigorous debate, particularly in Europe and the United States, over corporate transparency, especially on disclosure obligations related to corporate governance, the environment, and social issues. All Hitachi Group companies have traditionally grown their businesses independently, in line with a spirit of respect for management independence and innovation originality. However, today when we generate more than 40 percent of our business outside Japan, it’s not enough to comply with other countries’ business practices, laws, and regulations. We need to extensively and continually communicate on sustainable corporate strategies, business operations and compliance based on leading international concepts, customs and trends. Toshiaki Kuzuoka, Senior Vice President and Executive Officer These considerations prompted us to create the Hitachi in charge of Human Capital, Group Codes of Conduct in ﬁscal 2010. This document Government & External Relations and codiﬁes our corporate philosophy, the Hitachi Founding Corporate Auditing Spirit, and respect for human rights and so on. We shared Hitachi, Ltd. these codes with Group companies globally by translating it into 17 languages. We will establish a global framework of six regions—the Americas, Europe, India, Southeast Asia and China, complementing Japan—to reinforce local governance by giving them regional corporate responsibilities. To respond swiftly to social demands and expectations, we will implement highly transparent CSR management by engaging regularly with our stakeholders. Through our Social Innovation Business, we aim to solve fundamental global issues and contribute to social and environmental progress that creates a sustainable society. Moreover, we will respond to market-based sustainability challenges by collaborating with local communities and pursuing activities tailored to their particular circumstances in order to help them resolve their sustainability challenges. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 027 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance By enhancing corporate governance, the Compensation for directors and executive Hitachi Group is promoting speedier, more officers consists of monthly salaries together efficient management and is meeting the with year-end allowances for directors and expectations of stakeholders as a business that performance-based bonuses for executive officers. merits the public’s trust. While compensation for directors is generally ﬁxed, performance-based bonuses for executive Strengthening Governance officers are set at around 30 percent of annual Hitachi operates under a committee system.†1 We compensation. Bonuses are determined individually have strictly separated business supervision and according to business performance and the execution to establish a business structure for outcome of work carried out under the officers’ speedy, highly transparent management. We task management. outside directors to draw on their knowledge, Beginning with compensation for ﬁscal 2008, experience, and independent perspective when the scheme for directors and executive officers was supervising executives and other senior managers revised to eliminate retirement allowances. In ﬁscal to reinforce the role of the Board of Directors. We 2010, executives were compensated as follows: formulated the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct to develop common values for all Group members and FY 2010 Compensation to enable us to share among all Group companies Salaries and year-end allowances or a common understanding of our corporate social performance-based bonuses Category responsibility. Recipients Total amount (number) (millions of yen) Directors 12 231 Governance Structure of Hitachi, Ltd. (outside directors) (5) (99) General Meeting of Shareholders Executive officers 28 1,586 Election Total 40 1,817 * The number of directors indicated doesn’t include three serving concurrently as Board of Directors executive officers. (13 members, including 4 from outside) * Compensation to directors includes the monthly salaries, from April 2010 to the time of retirement, of three directors who retired upon the expiration of their terms, effective as of the close of the 141st Ordinary General Meeting of Nominating Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Shareholders on June 29, 2010. (4 members, including (3 members, including (4 members, including * We additionally provided ¥3 million in retirement allowances to two outside 3 from outside) 2 from outside) 3 from outside) directors who retired on June 24, 2011, and ¥313 million in retirement allowances to seven executive officers who retired on March 31, 2011. Election Supervision Executive Officers: Timely execution of company business Internal Control As a public company listed on the New York Stock †1 Committee system: A corporate governance system where a board of directors makes basic policy decisions and oversees the execution of business Exchange, Hitachi, Ltd. is registered with the U.S. by executive officers, while the executive officers, appointed by the board of directors, execute the company’s business affairs. Securities and Exchange Commission and is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX†1). A comparable Compensation assessment and report on internal control over Compensation for every director and executive ﬁnancial reporting (J-SOX†2) came into effect in officer is set by the Compensation Committee Japan at the beginning of ﬁscal 2008. Accordingly, based on the Japanese corporate law governing the Hitachi Group as a whole and all listed Group companies with committees. companies now evaluate internal control systems Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 028 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Governance and report the results on a consolidated basis. Group Management The Hitachi Group is committed to full Hitachi, Ltd. optimized the management structure compliance with these and other applicable laws and instituted an in-house company system in and regulations. Beyond that, we consider it an October 2009 to ensure swift management action important social responsibility to thoroughly and to become more competitive by restructuring, implement our internal control systems, to improve particularly in the Social Innovation Businesses. the transparency and credibility of our businesses, These eight in-house companies (businesses) are and to strengthen our management structure Power Systems, Rail Systems, Industrial & Social by clarifying, examining, and visualizing our Infrastructure Systems, Urban Planning and management and operational frameworks. Development Systems, Information & Control As a conglomerate of many companies, we have Systems, Information & Telecommunication adopted a framework that assigns accountability Systems, Defense Systems, and Battery Systems. at the Group level, including responsibilities for From ﬁscal 2011, we rated each company and the design and operation of internal controls. transferred authority to them so that they could Therefore, all Hitachi Group companies are required speedily pursue independent management. We to revise, document, and evaluate the effectiveness base the ratings of each company on such factors of their operations in line with guidelines as FIV,†1 operating proﬁt, and cash ﬂow, reﬂecting determined by speciﬁc levels of corporate scale these ratings in compensation evaluations for and business content. Management assessment of company management teams. each company is collected at the Group level, and is The Group Strategy Committee deliberates on reported to Hitachi, Ltd. along with certiﬁcations. Group-wide management measures to optimize overall Group strategies and management †1 SOX: Section 404 of this act, enacted in July 2002, mandates company management with the responsibility of establishing, maintaining, and resources. evaluating internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, and requires that control be assessed by independent auditors. †1 FIV (Future Inspiration Value): Hitachi’s economic value-added evaluation †2 J-SOX: A framework for evaluating and reporting internal control over index, in which the cost of capital is deducted from after-tax operating income. ﬁnancial reporting under the Japanese Financial Products Transaction Law. It came into effect since April 2008 with the promulgation of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law in June 2006. Hitachi Internal Control Assessment Framework Management assessment report Board of Directors SEC*1 Hitachi, Ltd. President and CFO*2 Report Audit Committee Report Report Monitoring Financial report Independent auditors Services Agency Internal Control Committee Internal Auditing Office Monitoring report Monitoring Monitoring Internal Control Committee Office Certiﬁcation, management assessment report Hitachi Group HQs (Hitachi Group HQs and In-House Hitachi Group Companies of Hitachi, Ltd.) subsidiaries *1 SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission *2 CFO: Chief Financial Officer Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 029 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report CSR Management CSR Management We strive to live up to our Corporate Credo One is the jointly developed CSR Self-Assessment of contributing to society through the Tool, which we use to improve Group-wide activities development of superior, original technology and to clarify the issues that we face as a global and products. We are also mindful of our vision entity, and the other is the materiality process. By to contribute to the solution of fundamental engaging in dialogue with global stakeholders, global issues and to pursue the realization of we proactively integrate global social issues within a better, more prosperous global society. We management to create sustainable management intend to become a truly global entity that and social programs. Management issues identiﬁed shares its values with society by integrating through these processes are presented to and CSR into management and operation strategies. discussed at the CSR Promotion Committee on a semiannual basis to investigate and decide on new CSR Management Structure initiatives for the upcoming ﬁscal year. To promote CSR, Hitachi executive officers in charge of corporate divisions on the CSR Promotion The Five-Year CSR Roadmap Committee discuss Group-wide CSR issues and We marked the centennial of Hitachi, Ltd. in ﬁscal policies. The committee develops speciﬁc global 2010 by creating the Five-Year CSR Roadmap, initiatives with the CSR Promotion Team of the a medium-term plan for CSR. The goal is to CSR-related departments within Hitachi, Ltd. and coordinate this initiative with the medium-term CSR promotion officers at regional headquarters management plan, or corporate strategy, to outside Japan. Hitachi, Ltd. and Group company become a truly global enterprise. Using this CSR promotion officers meet regularly to discuss roadmap, we have reinforced the foundation of issues that need attention and to follow a common Group-wide operations, quantitatively measured direction. CSR activities, and improved corporate transparency To meet our responsibilities as a global to demonstrate leadership in resolving global enterprise, we take on sustainable activities for the challenges and opportunities confronting society. entire Group by using two management systems. Based on this roadmap, CSR promotion Structure of Hitachi Group CSR Promotion Senior President Executive Committee CSR Division In-house companies CSR Promotion CSR Promotion Production Presidents Committee Department facilities CSR promotion officers (Secretariat) Senior Executive Committee: Decides CSR management Affiliated companies policies at the executive level Affiliated Presidents CSR Promotion Committee: CSR Promotion Team: companies CSR promotion officers Consists of Executive Officers Group Management, Corporate responsible for CSR Brand Management, Customer Discusses policies and plans for Satisfaction, Overseas Operations, Regional headquarters CSR activities Employee Relations & Human outside Japan CSR Promotion Team: Resources, Legal Affairs, Corporate Regional executives Consists of managers responsible Citizenship, Environmental CSR promotion officers for CSR in each department. Conservation, Compliance, Quality Prepares, implements and Assurance, Procurement, Public Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries follows up on detailed plans for Relations, Research and Development, (in total 914), and 164 companies that use the CSR activities Government and External Relations equity method Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 030 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report CSR Management Five-Year CSR Roadmap Demonstrate leadership as a social innovation enterprise Becoming a truly global Collaborate with key stakeholders to resolve global social issues corporation, realizing One Hitachi Integrate management strategies with CSR and instill CSR principles in operations Reinforce Group governance and globalize operations and activities April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 April 2014 team at Hitachi, Ltd. and our overseas regional headquarters outside Japan have created action FY 2010 Self-Assessment Results (Hitachi, Ltd.) plans and set assessment targets to make CSR Policy 1 73.6% programs more effective (see pages 032 and 033). 72.6% Policy 8 69.5% Policy 2 74.0% 73.1% 70.0% 100 71.5% CSR Self-Assessment Tool 64.0% 71.5% In ﬁscal 2008, Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies 50 jointly developed the Hitachi Group CSR SelfPolicy 7 Policy 3 Assessment Tool, which benchmarks our companies 89.7% 0 76.0% 87.6% 74.2% against other leading global companies. The goal 83.4% 74.2% is to tackle issues and clarify initiatives based on our policies for pursuing CSR and continuously improving performance. Policy 6 Policy 4 83.5% 81.8% Including Hitachi, Ltd., 35 Group companies—23 83.5% Policy 5 78.2% 83.5% 74.0% 67.3% in Japan and 11 in North America and Asia— 74.0% employ this tool, which has been translated into 74.0% FY 2010 FY 2009 English and Chinese. FY 2008 Main Topics Covered in Each Policy of Results of Fiscal 2010 Self-Assessment the CSR Self-Assessment Tool Hitachi’s scores in ﬁscal 2010 were higher than Policy 1: Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) a year earlier, including those for commitment CSR vision; CSR education; risk management Policy 2: Contribution to Society through Our Business to CSR, corporate ethics and human rights, and Coordination with business strategies; sustainable designs; customer satisfaction the working environment. The prime reasons for Policy 3: Disclosure of Information and Stakeholder Engagement Information disclosure; dialogue with stakeholders this success are holding CSR courses for Group Policy 4: Corporate Ethics and Human Rights Corporate governance structure; awareness of ethics; compliance; company directors, the Hitachi Group Codes of human rights Policy 5: Environmental Conservation Conduct, wider implementation of e-learning, and Carbon management strategies; resource recycling; the creation and publication of the Hitachi Group ecosystem conservation Policy 6: Corporate Citizenship Activities Health and Safety Policy. In ﬁscal 2011, we plan Strategic social contribution; participation in local communities; social enlightenment to review these evaluation items, using ISO 26000 Policy 7: Working Environment Respecting diversity; fulﬁlling work environments; work-life balance standards, to attain even higher global results. Policy 8: Responsible Partnership with Business Partners CSR procurement; communication with suppliers Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 031 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report CSR Management FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group Activities Achievement Results in FY 2010 Page(s) FY 2011 Goals/Plans Hitachi Group in FY 2010 level 1. Commitment to ∙ Increase the number of ∙ Twenty-four companies within Japan and 11 p. 031 ∙ Review CSR Self-Assessment Corporate Social companies worldwide using outside Japan used our CSR Self-Assessment Tool based on ISO 26000 and Responsibility the Hitachi Group CSR SelfTool other standards, and develop Assessment Tool these for the entire Group ∙ Build a comprehensive risk ∙ Strengthen the risk ∙ Expanded risk assessments to cover all p. 034 assessment structure and PDCA management system companies, Group companies, and research techniques laboratories to consolidate and collectively assess risk 2. Contribution to ∙ Implement CSR-oriented ∙ Conducted third-party assessments of pp. 046–048 ∙ Hold stakeholder dialogues Society through Our business assessments and business areas in 22 countries where we based on business materiality Business reﬂect the results in business can resolve social issues and where we and cultivate business strategy, operations, and/or can make the greatest contribution, and opportunities from the management issues incorporated these results into business and perspective of CSR communication strategies ∙ Continue implementing Hitachi Group QF Innovation Movement and assess the results ∙ Continue to implement process ∙ Launched the Hitachi Group QF (Quality pp. 093–094 ∙ Complete work on global improvement for business First) Innovation Movement and continued network for Web inquiry divisions prioritized by the to improve processes for priority business responses need for quality improvement divisions and OCHIBO HIROI and to reinforce OCHIBO ∙ Held quality assurance (QA) managers’ HIROI*1 activities conferences in China and Thailand ∙ Improve our responses to Web ∙ Produced a global network improvement p. 095 inquiries worldwide plan based on inquiries ∙ Expand access to and ∙ 176 Hitachi Group employees took the enhance the Web Inquiry Web Inquiry Responsiveness Improvement Responsiveness Improvement Course Course 3. Disclosure ∙ Engage in stakeholder ∙ Conducted dialogues in Asia, the Americas, pp. 099–100 ∙ Continue to hold stakeholder of Information dialogues globally and Europe about Hitachi’s solutions for dialogues worldwide and Stakeholder regional social issues ∙ Participate in international Engagement debate on sustainability, and ∙ Strengthen internal ∙ Held CSR training courses for Group p. 031 express our views dissemination of CSR company directors information 4. Corporate Ethics ∙ Expand global human rights ∙ Produced educational materials covering pp. 116–118 ∙ Promote human rights globally and Human Rights initiatives global human rights issues and collaborate with non∙ Held human rights discussions with governmental and other stakeholders in Europe organizations working in this area ∙ Continue to hold Hitachi Group ∙ Implemented annual Corporate Ethics pp. 036–037 ∙ Publish and distribute Hitachi Corporate Ethics Month every Month in October Group Codes of Conduct October ∙ Formulated Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Handbook and translated it into 17 languages ∙ Produce English and Chinese ∙ Used e-learning tools to broadly publish the versions of e-learning tools codes on the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct ∙ Raise compliance awareness ∙ Held a brieﬁng by legal and compliance p. 037 ∙ Continue educating and relating to operations outside officers, including those from regional auditing regional headquarters Japan headquarters outside Japan, on measures outside Japan to prevent corruption 5. Environmental ∙ Reduce CO2 emissions from ∙ Helped reduce CO2 emissions by 15.51 pp. 051–053 ∙ Reduce CO2 emissions from Conservation Hitachi products (target for the million tonnes Hitachi products year: 14 million tonnes) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 032 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report CSR Management 6. Corporate ∙ Deploy programs where ∙ Implemented programs involving volunteers, pp. 108–109 ∙ Set up and published mediumCitizenship Activities employees contribute including those preserving endangered term themes to Group to society, focusing on species, an afforestation tour to China’s businesses globally biodiversity Horqin Desert, and conservation initiatives ∙ Improve disclosure of external for satoyama (woodlands) information ∙ Continue to implement social ∙ Implement social contribution ∙ Undertake training programs for young p. 105 contribution programs on the programs in emerging South African and Indian engineers environment, energy, and other countries and markets to meet areas their social needs ∙ Undertake social contribution ∙ Implemented educational support programs p. 100 programs covering the on the environment for children in China environment, energy, and ∙ Held forums in Singapore and the United other areas Kingdom on the environment and energy 7. Working Promote the diversity of human ∙ Produced plan for appointing female p. 123 ∙ Follow up once a year on Environment resources and work styles executives at in-house companies progress with the hiring plans ∙ Promotion of more female ∙ Hitachi Europe produced e-learning p. 126 of each company executives and managers materials in four languages ∙ Establish balanced working ∙ Encourage employment of styles by continuing to more people with disabilities ∙ Implemented WLB (Work-Life Balance) -Up pp. 123–124 implement WLB-Up Month within the Hitachi Group Month to help people balance their work ∙ Strictly comply with legal with their lives employment rate for disabled people at all Hitachi Group ∙ Held four study sessions on employing p. 129 companies in Japan people with disabilities within the Hitachi Group ∙ Hired six people as part of the Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s model business program to promote hiring the mentally disabled 8. Responsible ∙ Rebuild supply chain from ∙ In addition to creating the Global p. 119 ∙ Plan monitoring suppliers Partnerships with global perspective Procurement Promotion Department, we globally Business Partners improved our worldwide procurement ∙ Continue to convey useful network in several ways, including setting information for suppliers’ up a procurement unit in Brazil environmental management ∙ Support voluntary ∙ Launched the New MMM Club, and p. 121 environmental management exchanged information on environmental initiatives by suppliers through regulations and outstanding environmental the New MMM Club*2 case studies at suppliers Achieved Partially achieved *1 OCHIBO HIROI (gleaning) is Hitachi’s program for adopting the customer’s perspective when reﬂecting on past accidents and working to prevent recurrences. *2 The New MMM Club is an organization run primarily by suppliers who have acquired environmental certiﬁcation through Hitachi’s activities to support their environmental programs. Mottainai, which means regrettable waste in Japanese, is now an international environmental term. The three Ms come from the ﬁrst letter of the word mottainai. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 033 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Risk Management Risk Management Reducing the frequency and impact of risks employee diversity and poor working conditions in globally by strengthening policies and the supply chain. Other risks are more traditional, programs to meet the goals of the 2012 Midsuch as natural disasters, the market environment, Term Management Plan. and raw material prices. We will reinforce our risk management Responding to the Great East Japan framework by improving our assessment standards, Earthquake by analyzing and evaluating accumulated risk A massive earthquake, followed by a devastating information in greater detail, and by evaluating tsunami, hit Japan’s Tohoku region and the responses at the management level. In addition, we Paciﬁc coast on March 11, 2011. We responded will improve risk awareness among all employees, by immediately setting up the Emergency especially through information sharing, education Headquarters for Response to Large-Scale and training. Earthquakes to conﬁrm the safety of all employees and their families, while assessing the damage. Business Continuity Plans (BCPs)†1 Some facilities were heavily damaged, particularly To guard against risks, and being deeply some in Ibaraki and Fukushima prefectures. committed to the social infrastructure, we are In response, we broadened the emergency enhancing our BCPs to minimize the impact on headquarters’ role and established the Hitachi society of any interruption to business operations. Group Headquarters for Post-Earthquake Since December 2006, the Hitachi Group has Reconstruction and Redevelopment, headed by disseminated the Guidelines for Formulation of BCPs the president, on March 23, which functions as a to all Group companies to mitigate risks, such as “control tower,” combining information on damage major natural disasters. with assistance requests. The headquarters is In ﬁscal 2010, we translated our BCP guidelines driving the concerted Group initiative to optimize into English and Chinese, and then distributed them support and restoration (see pages 010–014). to all Group companies around the world. Every Hitachi Group company and business site prepares Reinforcing the Risk Management for emergencies by producing a BCP using the System guidelines that are relevant to them. We manage the business and operational risks †1 Business Continuity Plan (BCP): A plan for ensuring the continuation of core of every division with internal audits. The entire operations and for promptly restoring operations in the event of a disaster or accident. Group is reinforcing management systems to address increasingly global and complex risks. In ﬁscal 2009, we audited the risks of Hitachi, Ltd. Group corporate divisions and those at regional headquarters outside Japan (in the Americas, Europe, China and elsewhere in Asia). In ﬁscal 2010, we expanded auditing to all in-house companies, Group companies, and research institutes to assess risks that could undermine Group-wide credibility and business sustainability. Such risks include environmental and reputation risks, as Guidelines for Formulation of BCPs (Chinese version) well as emerging human rights issues that include Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 034 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Risk Management Novel Strain of Influenza Action Plan and BCPs disasters by sharing the results of tabletop drills In 2008, as a precaution against a novel strain of with the entire Hitachi Group. We also hold inﬂuenza that gave rise to fears of a pandemic, monthly drills that use a satellite communications we set up a special organization called the Risk system. Management Headquarters, headed by the president. In the event of a worldwide outbreak, Providing Information through Our Internal the Risk Management Headquarters will take the Web Site lead in securing the safety of all Hitachi Group The Hitachi Group internal Web site has provided employees and their families. Every effort will a risk response page for all Group employees since be made to ensure that operations essential for 1997. This internal Web site features information maintaining social functions, such as medical from wire services and Japan’s Ministry of Foreign services, public security, and lifelines, are continued Affairs as well as problems that Hitachi Group without interruption. employees have experienced. If emergencies arise, As part of these preparations, we formulated the this site presents responses and alerts based on top Guidelines for Pandemic†1 Influenza Preparedness in management policies and disseminates information 2009. We distributed these to all Group companies on damage. in ﬁscal 2010, after translating them into English The risk response Web site adds or updates and Chinese. around 80 news items every day. Page views per month reached one million when the H1N1 ﬂu †1 Pandemic: An infectious disease epidemic that spreads worldwide spread worldwide; the average number of page views per month is about 400,000. These ﬁgures underscore the essential role that the internal risk response Web site plays for risk response activities. This page also has top management policies and disaster updates for the Great East Japan Earthquake for the entire Hitachi Group. Guidelines for Pandemic Influenza Preparedness (English version) Tabletop Exercise to Prepare for Large-Scale Disasters Hitachi, Ltd. has held annual disaster simulation drills since ﬁscal 1998—so far at 18 sites throughout Japan. For these drills, teams of people make decisions under disaster scenarios that have been developed over six months and include a range of crises. The objective is to verify and improve the effectiveness of prevention plans for large disasters. Personnel in charge of risk management at business sites participate in the drills, then report on their experience and results at a general assembly of around 200 officers responsible for handling risk. We are reinforcing our plans for large-scale Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 035 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Compliance Compliance Raising awareness and reinforcing compliance reinforce awareness of the Hitachi Group Codes among Group companies worldwide during of Conduct. During the month, we placed international expansion to ensure fair computerized learning tools on our intranet. To competition. date, 20,000 employees throughout the Hitachi Formulating and Ensuring Awareness Table of Contents — Hitachi Group Codes of of the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Conduct Hitachi, Ltd. formulated the Hitachi Group Codes Chapter 1: Sincere and Fair Business Activities of Conduct in August 2010 as speciﬁc common 1.1 Provision of Safe High-Quality Products and Services conduct codes for the Group. This was in line with 1.2 Sales Activities the shift to a new Group management structure 1.3 Procurement Activities to mark Hitachi’s centennial. Based on translations 1.4 Respect of the Hitachi Brand 1.5 Observance of Engineering Ethics of this document into 17 languages, consolidated Chapter 2: Environmental Protection subsidiaries worldwide then formulated their own 2.1 Promoting Environmental Management codes of conduct in line with the same content. 2.2 Environmentally Conscious Business Activities and We ensure broad awareness of the Hitachi Group Environmental Management 2.3 Communication with Stakeholders Codes of Conduct by displaying them on computer Chapter 3: Relations with Society startup screens during Hitachi Group Corporate 3.1 Disclosure of Company Information Ethics Month. We also produced an e-learning 3.2 Contribution to Local Communities 3.3 Relations with Politics and Government Administration tool based on case studies for speciﬁc code items 3.4 Prevention of Anti-social Transactions to help employees consider how best to act, and 3.5 Regarding Gifts, Business Entertainment, Etc. are extending this tool to Group employees in 3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of the Culture Japan. We ask managers to submit a statement and Customs of Each Nation and Region Chapter 4: Respect of Human Rights electronically conﬁrming that they have taken the 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights course and are pledging to comply with the code. 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination In ﬁscal 2011, we are extending this request to 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information Management consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan. 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Chapter 5: Management Foundations 5.1 Management and Use of Information Implementing Corporate Ethics Month 5.2 Use of Inside Information and Related Considerations Corporate ethics and compliance are the bedrock 5.3 Management and Preservation of Company Assets 5.4 Arranging a Work Environment That Draws Out Employee of all our activities. Every October has been Hitachi Strengths Group Corporate Ethics Month since ﬁscal 2009. 5.5 Observance of Laws and Regulations Governing Imports and Top management leads the way to improving Exports adherence to ethics and complying fully with laws Chapter 6: Complete Observance of Codes of Conduct and regulations. Executives and employees are 6.1 Complete Observance of Rules making compliance central to all their actions. In 6.2 Implementation of Self-Audits ﬁscal 2010, we also distributed top management 6.3 Internal Reporting System messages on compliance to all Group employees Chapter 7: Responsibilities of Top Management Supplementary Provision Hitachi Group Implementation of Codes of and familiarized employees with the Hitachi Group Conduct Codes of Conduct (described here). In addition, we arranged a presentation by an outside, non-Hitachi WEB Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct lawyer for compliance officers and managers to http://www.hitachi.com/csr/csr_images/codeofconduct.pdf Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 036 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Compliance Group in Japan have participated in seminars and TOPICS video courses on speciﬁc risk levels. Recognized as One of the World’s Most Compliance Reporting System Ethical Companies To prevent illegal or unethical behavior, to promptly After a rigorous review, Ethisphere address infractions, and to enhance the ability Institute, a U.S. think tank that researches, to self-regulate, we instituted a company-wide develops and promotes best practices in compliance reporting system. Employees can CSR and corporate ethics, awarded its report directly to the division responsible at Hitachi Ethics Inside Certiﬁcation to Hitachi Data (Compliance Division) or to an outside attorney. Systems Corporation in the United States This system can be used not only by Hitachi in November 2010. Ethisphere certiﬁes employees but also by former employees, business organizations that establish, maintain, partner companies, and temporary staff. Another and share ethical conduct beyond legal system—Channel to the Board of Directors—has requirements and which can be models been introduced to allow employees to report for other organizations. In March 2011, problems anonymously straight to Hitachi’s board Ethisphere also chose Hitachi Data of directors. Systems as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 2011. For this award, Preventing Corruption the institute evaluates several thousand Our 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan focuses companies from 36 industries in more on Social Innovation Businesses and strategic than 100 countries, choosing one or progress in emerging nations. Global compliance is two companies per industry. Ethisphere now becoming ever more important, as Japanese recognized the commitment to compliance corporations face tighter controls on bribery of of Hitachi Data Systems’ management and foreign public officials. Key examples include the lauded the company’s innovative initiatives, United Kingdom and the United States, which have including a video-based education program enacted new bribery prevention laws. and computer tools that give employees In ﬁscal 2008, we formulated corporate rules timely, relevant information on ethics. and guidelines to prevent bribery worldwide, and we are ensuring adherence through audits and education. In the second half of ﬁscal 2010, we requested top executives at Group companies in World’s Most Ethical Companies mark the Americas, Europe, China, and elsewhere in Asia to further improve compliance. In March 2011, we held a meeting at which legal and compliance officers from subsidiaries overseeing businesses in the Americas, Europe, China, and Asia reported on bribery prevention. Two hundred and twenty-four compliance officers and managers from Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies in Japan attended the meeting and shared information and case studies. Hitachi Data Systems employees Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 037 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Compliance Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading Representations (1) Precautionary measures and prompt security responses The entire Hitachi Group is working to prevent a Hitachi clearly classiﬁes information assets to be protected and recurrence of misleading information following takes safeguarding measures based on vulnerability and risk the Hitachi Appliance, Inc. misrepresentation of analysis. We also have an emergency manual for security breaches, based on the assumption that these are inevitable, not just refrigerators in ﬁscal 2009. Hitachi Appliances possible. has since reinforced their systems to check (2) Promotion of stronger ethical and security environmental information in catalogs and awareness among data users other publications. We decided to make April Hitachi has prepared a curriculum tailored to various personnel levels—staff, managers, etc.—and is working to raise the the month for improving representations, and prevailing sense of ethics and security awareness through Groupnow use intensive education to ensure that all wide education using e-learning. We are also working on the use of regulations are followed, particularly the Act audits to identify and address problems early on. against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Representations. In June 2010, representatives from consumer groups inspected manufacturing, Protecting Personal Information product testing, and appliance recycling at Hitachi We established a personal information protection Appliances’ Tochigi Works, which manufactures management system based on our Personal refrigerators and air conditioners. Information Protection Policy. With this system, The entire Hitachi Group is now setting up a through e-learning courses for all employees and check system for corporate rules, making internal through periodic audits, we ensure the protection audits, and building understanding through and safe handling of personal information. ecology awareness education and training Hitachi, Ltd. received Privacy Mark certiﬁcation tailored to personnel levels. By February 2011, we in March 2007 and renewed certiﬁcation in had held seven regular meetings of an advisory March 2011. As of March 2011, 72 Hitachi Group group on product environmental information companies have received the Privacy Mark.†1 and expressions, which we created in ﬁscal 2009, In July 2007, the Odaira Memorial Tokyo and obtained advice on consumer perspectives Hitachi Hospital became the ﬁrst corporate from outside experts. We explained this advice medical institution in Japan to earn Privacy Mark at a training seminar, sponsored by the Nippon certiﬁcation. The Hitachi Yokohama Hospital and Association of Consumer Specialists, to consumer Ibaraki Hospital Center (both are located in Japan) product managers. also obtained certiﬁcations. These hospitals work hard to protect and carefully handle personal Protecting Personal Information and information. Hitachi also strives to safeguard Information Security personal information at Group companies outside The Hitachi Group emphasizes two points in policies Japan based on the Personal Information Protection to protect personal information and information Policy and in accord with all national and regional security: legal and social requirements. WEB Personal Information Protection Policy http://www.hitachi.com/privacy-e/index.html †1 Privacy Mark: Certiﬁcation awarded by the Japan Information Processing Development Corporation to companies and organizations to recognize effective personal information management. Privacy Mark Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 038 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Compliance Information Security Initiatives speciﬁc policies, coordinating extensively with units The rapid spread of digital information and in the United States, Europe, Southeast Asia, and computer networks has made it essential for China to ensure that these measures are being businesses to strengthen security to maintain public taken. The Information Security Report details our trust. initiatives. For that reason, we established information WEB Information Security Report (only in Japanese) security policies and processes. We are striving http://www.hitachi.co.jp/csr/csr_images/securityreport.pdf company-wide to improve security in line with our information security management system. Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of For example, we develop information security Confidential Information procedures, educate employees about security, and Rule 1. audit information security. In principle, conﬁdential information cannot be taken from the We formulated the Three Principles for workplace. Preventing Leakage of Conﬁdential Information, Rule 2. ensuring accident prevention and the highest level Permission must be obtained from an information assets administrator when employees are required to take conﬁdential of care of customer information. Our policies ensure information from the workplace for business. that we minimize damage in the event of accidents Rule 3. by promptly contacting customers, reporting to Necessary and appropriate measures to prevent information leaks government agencies, investigating causes and are mandatory for conﬁdential information that needs to be taken from the workplace for business. acting to prevent recurrences. Notes: Group companies worldwide are taking these 1. Conﬁdential information includes all trade information for which access is steps to prevent information leaks: using Hibun restricted to internal areas and relevant third parties. encryption software; security PCs that do not store 2. These rules also apply to conﬁdential information taken from customer business sites. data; Katsubun electronic document access control and expiration processing software; and email and Web site ﬁltering. Group companies worldwide are reinforcing Export Control information security management in line with For basic export control, we use the Hitachi Global Information Security Administration Standards of Corporate Conduct, which states standards. We have set up PC security and other that we “shall help maintain international peace Basic Approach to Information Security Governance Clearly designate assets to be protected ∙ Sort through information assets and conduct risk analysis Improve user literacy Information Implement preventive techniques ∙ Supply security education materials assets to be ∙ Widely implement administrative measures ∙ Educate managers and staff protected ∙ Deploy technological processes Establish information security system ∙ Develop rules (security policy) ∙ Create managerial framework ∙ Establish audit and follow-up system ∙ Ensure solid feedback through extensive PDCA cycles for prevention and accident response Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 039 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Compliance and security through compliance with trade laws and regulations.” We adopted rules for controlling security exports based on this policy in 1987, and we continue to strive for the strictest possible export controls. This means screening the destination, enduse, and end-user of all goods and technologies intended for export and promoting all legal compliance. In addition, we are promoting Groupwide export controls by providing guidance to all Hitachi Group companies worldwide on rules and organizations for export control, as well as supporting education and compliance training to ensure that every Hitachi employee follows the same export control policies. In ﬁscal 2010, we held meetings for export control managers at regional Group companies in China, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and Thailand, and provided practical training on export control. We augmented the Japanese version of the e-learning course with a Chinese version, and broadly implemented basic education courses. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 040 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Innovation Management Innovation Management Since the beginning, Hitachi has applied R&D represents 60 percent of the total R&D investment to fulﬁll our Corporate Credo of contributing of 1.2 trillion yen allocated for ﬁscal 2010–2012. to society through the development of Further, to enhance R&D efficiency and speed up superior, original technology and products. technology development supporting the Social The sustainable growth of the Hitachi Group Innovation Business, locally-led research outside is driven by this continuous generation of Japan will be increased and the role of domestic innovation with R&D at its core. laboratories in disseminating cutting-edge technologies to the world will be reinforced. In Research and Development Strategy April 2011, the Technology Strategy Office was The Hitachi Group is investing 670 billion yen in established within the Research and Development R&D in the Social Innovation Business areas in order Group to integrate the technology strategy for to accelerate research and promote growth in the the entire Hitachi Group as well as to formulate global market based in this business area. This medium-to-long-term technology and development plans linked with business strategies. Major Indices New R&D Organization of Hitachi, Ltd. Trend in R&D efficiency (ROI) Prior to April 2011 From April 2011 Research and Development Research and Development 1.2 1.1 Group Group 1.0 Central Research Technology Strategy (Target) 0.82 Laboratory Office 0.8 Advanced Research Central Research 0.6 Laboratory Laboratory 0.4 0.45 Hitachi Research Hitachi Research 0.37 Laboratory Laboratory 0.2 0.31 ROI Systems Development Yokohama Research 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Laboratory Laboratory (FY) Trend in R&D expenditure Mechanical Engineering Design Division Research Laboratory (billions of (%) yen) Reserch centers 4.3 5 Production Engineering outside Japan 4.0 4.2 4.2 3.8 Research Laboratory 4 450 428.1 3 Design Division 412.5 416.5 2 400 395.1 Reserch centers outside Japan 372.4 1 0 Power Systems Company 350 Energy and Environmental Systems Laboratory 300 Consumer Electronics Laboratory 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Research investments R&D expenditures to revenues Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 041 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Innovation Management Research and Development Goals will be enhanced to target regional needs. First, The R&D expenditures of the Hitachi Group are the number of R&D personnel outside Japan will being maintained at around 4 percent of total be doubled from the current 150 to roughly 300 revenue. For R&D investment efficiency, our target in ﬁscal 2012, localization will be reinforced, and is to deliver an ROI,†1 operating income divided by collaboration with local government, business and R&D expenditure, of greater than 1.0. For the R&D research institutions will be strengthened. We will contribution to the environment, we use a “green pursue locally-led R&D that is grounded in regional research” index, which is deﬁned as research for needs. Further, we will select R&D themes focusing the development of environmentally compatible on the Social Innovation Business being promoted products. The target is for 100 percent of research in each region. to be green research by ﬁscal 2015. We also use the number of papers accepted by the Institute R&D Plan and Investment of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the At Hitachi, Ltd., 70 percent of R&D investment world’s largest professional technology association, comes from sponsored and advanced sponsored as a benchmark for the Hitachi Group’s technology research from Hitachi in-house companies and standards and activities worldwide. In ﬁscal 2010, Hitachi Group companies. The remaining 30 percent the IEEE adopted 47 research papers from the Hitachi Group, ranking us number three in the TOPICS world electronics industry and number one in Japan. Hitachi Cambridge Workshop In August 2010, the Hitachi Cambridge †1 ROI: return on investment Laboratory invited eight British and Japanese students to the Hitachi Cambridge Enhancing Overseas Research Bases Workshop. The goal was to foster mutual As our Social Innovation Business expands cultural understanding and a sense of globally, the four key R&D bases outside Japan community. Four British students and four Japanese students, aged 16 and 17, formed Global Research Policies at Four Bases outside Japan a nanotechnology project team to explore the future of electronics. Initiative 1 The students designed, assembled, Increase overseas personnel and measured simple electronic devices, FY 2012: approx. 300 (2x) Initiative 2 then made presentations at the end of the Foster global R&D human capital workshop on what they had learned. FY 2012: 90%+ local staff, 30%+ doctoral degree holders Initiative 3 Focus on local Social Innovation Business themes China ∙ Participate in national Social Innovation Business programs ∙ R&D base for local Hitachi Group companies Europe ∙ Promote open innovation in cutting-edge physics ∙ Accelerate development in Social Innovation Business such as rail and power systems United States ∙ Reinforce R&D in next-generation storage systems ∙ Develop environmentally conscious vehicle technologies Hitachi Cambridge Workshop participants Asia ∙ 2011 establishment of R&D base in India ∙ Alliance with research organizations in India Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 042 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Innovation Management comes from corporate funds and is allocated Examples of R&D Achievements for basic and platform research. Sponsored and Long-Life Lithium-Ion Batteries advanced sponsored research is conducted with A new manganese-based cathode material which a target of expanding core business, and aims roughly doubles the life of industrial lithium-ion at commercialization within three to ﬁve years. batteries was developed. A prototype battery Basic and platform research is based on the midcell was developed in collaboration with Shinto-long-term Technology Plan, and aims to create Kobe Electric Machinery Co., Ltd. employing this innovative technologies forming the base for future material. After evaluation, it was conﬁrmed that core businesses. the battery capacity could be roughly reduced by half, thus opening the way to achieving a battery Hitachi Fellow System life of 10 years or more. Prospective applications In June 1999, the Hitachi Fellow system was include power storage in renewable energy established to recognize the distinguished service generation such as wind power, and as a power and contributions of an employee to the progress source for electrical construction machinery and of science and technology on a global level, and other industrial equipment designed to reduce for the international acknowledgement of Hitachi’s greenhouse gas emissions. high standard of technology. The position of Hitachi Fellow is appointed by the Board of Directors, and it is the highest technical position within the company. The position of Hitachi Fellow is equivalent to that of executives. A Fellow is assured freedom of choice for research theme, research funding and support for external professional New manganese-based activities. cathode material (left) Prototype battery cell (right) Hitachi Fellows (as of March 2011) Service Robots Under a unique concept of “human symbiosis,” Dr. Akira Tonomura Hitachi, Ltd. has developed EMIEW to co-exist Field: Holographic electron microscopy with humans, applying various technology such as agility, obstacle avoidance and distance communication. In EMIEW2, mobility and voice Dr. Toshihiko Odaka recognition features are further improved. Field: Mainframe computers EMIEW2 is able to safely move over small ground obstacles such as thresholds or electric cables, as well as clearly distinguish human Dr. Hideki Kambara Field: DNA sequencers voices from background noise. Such features will improve the functionality of EMIEW2 in safely serving the daily needs of people Dr. Hideaki Koizumi Field: Optical topography in hospitals or offices as a guide, or as a surveillance robot during rounds. We aim to realize a society in which robots can safely Dr. Kiyoo Itoh Field: Semiconductor memory serve people in various ways. WEB Fellow details http://www.hitachi.com/rd/fellow_intro.html EMIEW2 service robot Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 043 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Intellectual Property (IP) Intellectual Property (IP) The mission for our intellectual property Breakdown of Patent Filing Countries / Regions activities is to maximize their contribution to U.S.A. China and business. While these contributions can vary Japan and Europe other Asian nations* from one business to another, we categorize 45% Around 20% Around 35% (FY 2012 target) them by differentiation and prevention, 49% Around 20% Around 30% securing business freedom, and patent (FY 2010) licensing income. We will forge ahead with our *Including international ﬁlings through the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which IP strategy, that is in line with a management has a single application for a patent and has legal effect in treaty member countries. focus on global, fusion, and environment—or more speciﬁcally, global development that fuses social infrastructure with intelligent IT Reinforcing Intellectual Property Initiatives in and environmental systems. Emerging Markets Our growth strategy mainly targets China and Globalization of Intellectual Property elsewhere in Asia, as well as emerging countries. Increasing the number of patent applications is We intend to increase the number of patent vital for the globalization of intellectual property applications in these areas. activities. We will strengthen our benchmarks The number of patents that the Hitachi Group against those of other companies and reinforce our has obtained in China over the past ﬁve years is patent position. comparable to major rivals in the Social Innovation Assuming that revenues from outside Japan will Business. We will also ﬁle more patents in emerging account for more than 50 percent of net sales in countries using Patent Cooperation Treaty ﬁscal 2012, we intend to generate 55 percent of our applications. patent applications outside Japan in that year, up from 51 percent in ﬁscal 2010. Building a Strategic Patent Portfolio We are supporting management strategies focused Major Targets on global, fusion, and environment with our intellectual property by building a patent portfolio Patent Application Ratios outside Japan that is consistent with our management strategy. (%) 60 Examples of Focused Themes of IP Activities 55 55 Field Key themes (Target) 51 Storage systems Global 50 Smart grids 47 Fusion Information platform for social infrastructure Environment New power devices Inverters 40 Lithium-ion batteries Green mobility 0 2009 2010 2012 (FY) *Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 044 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Intellectual Property (IP) Strengthening International use of these IPRs, subject to royalty payment. If any Standardization company is found to have infringed our IPR, we We are leveraging our combined human capital, encourage them to acquire the necessary license, knowhow, knowledge, and other resources for and we will take legal actions, if necessary. standardization so that we can expand our strong businesses. For example, at our environmentally Reward System for Employee conscious data centers, we have standardized Inventions interfaces for IT and air-conditioning control We motivate employees on the research and equipment. We also have key leaders from inside development frontlines with a reward system for the company working within global standardization new inventions. We more clearly deﬁned these organizations, notably through the vice-presidency, rewards in 2005, when Article 35 of Japan’s chairmanship, and other positions on the amended Patent Act took effect. We revised, International Electrotechnical Commission. and carefully manage, our reward system for employee inventions to increase the satisfaction Business Contributions of inventors. Hitachi provides rewards for ﬁled Intellectual property activities have no value unless patent applications and granted patents, as well they contribute to supporting businesses. We as performance-based rewards for patents which categorize the results from IP by differentiation and are used for our products/services and/or bring in prevention, securing a degree of business freedom, patent licensing income. We do not set any upper and patent licensing income. limit for performance-based rewards. We start by building a patent portfolio that focuses on technology consistent with Hitachi’s Cultivating Human Capital strengths, from the standpoints of market We drive forward IPR initiatives by cultivating needs and technology trends. We prevent other quality human resources who are highly skilled and companies from using our technologies without globally aware. As of April 1, 2011, our Intellectual our authorization and we differentiate our products Property Group had 100 registered patent attorneys and services. We have built a competitive patent and seven lawyers registered in the U.S.A. or the portfolio, and have cross-licensing agreements UK. Every year, we assign four to six people for with other companies to ensure business freedom. internships at patent and law offices in the United We also obtain patent licensing income from States and Europe. To date, 60 people have served other companies and invest it in new research and as interns outside Japan. development. Constantly aware of these results, we have been ﬁling and prosecuting patent applications, and enforcing our patents so that we contribute to and protect our businesses. Respect for Intellectual Property We respect the intellectual property rights (IPR) of other companies as we expect them to respect ours. We follow in-house rules on preliminary searches of other companies’ patents to avoid infringements during product development. For IPR that belongs to others, we obtain licenses from IPR holders before using them. For our own IPR, in principle, we provide licenses to businesses wishing to make Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 045 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Brand Management Brand Management To grow Hitachi’s Social Innovation Business brand in such emerging nations as China and worldwide, we must improve our brand India. There, we focus on corporate advertising recognition and reputation, and establish the campaigns through television commercials, Hitachi brand as a social innovation company. newspaper advertising, and on our Web sites. The We communicate globally in many ways with corporate advertising campaigns have improved stakeholders to ensure a full understanding our brand recognition and brand image in those so that we increase the value of, or minimize countries. In advanced nations, however, we damage to, our brand. found that word of mouth and Web sites are more effective, and therefore in those markets we mostly Global Brand Strategy focus on the Internet. For developing business globally, we need to We participate extensively in environmentcorrectly communicate our vision and brand related exhibitions and other events around the promise to our stakeholders. People have tended world, including eco-product shows, to spotlight to perceive Hitachi as an appliance or consumer how we address environmental issues. products manufacturer, particularly outside Japan. So, to establish a reputation as a social innovation company, we must promote the brand externally through advertising, public relations, and CSR initiatives, while raising our own employees’ awareness of the brand promise and encouraging employees to engage in activities based on that brand promise. Together as One Hitachi, we will evaluate the effectiveness of our activities to improve the value of the Hitachi brand. WEB Hitachi Brand Strategy http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/brand/ Improving the Global Brand Inspire the Next, our corporate statement, Corporate advertising campaign in North America embodies our brand vision. We set up corporate communication departments in North America, Europe, Asia, and China to completely localize and convey this vision to stakeholders. Market characteristics and business methods differ from region to region. So, by employing effective communications and combining core businesses and solutions for speciﬁc markets, we convey messages that are consistent with our commitment to environmental issues as a social innovation company. For example, we concluded that mass media advertising is an effective way to promote our Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 046 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Brand Management Web Management Internal Brand Management We have responded to increased Internet use Our employees are important contact points for worldwide by enhancing our Web portal sites in building the brand, as they deal directly with every country and region, making them the key stakeholders. We promote internal initiatives tools for publishing important information. We globally as well as increase awareness of Hitachi convey consistent Group brand messages, while Group’s brand promise to ensure that employees improving Internet searches, to match local needs. thoroughly understand and apply the Hitachi As well, in every region, we produce content that brand’s vision, mission, and value. focuses on our local businesses. In recent years, we In ﬁscal 2010, 1,103 employees attended have built Web sites in the emerging nations that 12 brand seminars worldwide. We strengthen we position as focused markets. employee awareness of the Hitachi Brand by giving At the end of March 2011, we had 58 Web sites an award to good initiatives that help improve in 27 languages covering 47 countries and regions, Hitachi brand value. These awards are called “The and we uniﬁed our brand image with a common Inspiration of the Year awards.” In ﬁscal 2010, we design format. received 382 applications for the Inspiration of the Year awards. A program that improved the value WEB Portal: Portal site to access Web content http://www.hitachi.com/ of the Hitachi brand through our UK rail business won the Special Top Prize. During ﬁscal 2010, we commemorated our centennial by increasing the number of awards, with around 50 entrants receiving Grand Prix, Innovation/Reliability, and Eco-Spirit Awards. Hitachi’s Global Portal Europe Global Site China U.S.A. Japan Asia Middle East and North Africa Oceania Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 047 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Brand Management incidents in other areas or businesses. Action against Infringement of the Brand Value The Hitachi brand is an important and clear Brand education content: Growing the Brand “promise” to all stakeholders of our fundamental WEB Hitachi Brand Platform worth, and that includes our management http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/brand/statement/index.html philosophy, social mission, and speciﬁc corporate activity. To reach our goals, it is essential to Evaluating the Effectiveness of Brand communicate consistently with one voice based on Initiatives the integral principles of the Hitachi brand. We evaluate the effectiveness of communications for our brand strategy with questionnaires and Management of the Hitachi Brand Impression online surveys. We summarize the responses and We globally uniﬁed the presentation and use of evaluations of customers and other targeted our logo and trademark to roll out our message as stakeholders, then we use this information to a single global entity, or One Hitachi. The Hitachi make improvements. We also conduct an annual Group Identification Standards Manual lays out brand image survey to create a snapshot of the how to use the logo. We have integrated visual global strength of the Hitachi brand. We use these impressions of the Hitachi brand, by developing a ﬁndings to analyze and report on the overall impact design system for each medium. of brand initiatives. When conducting these assessments and Safeguarding the Hitachi Brand brand image surveys, we set benchmarks based We provide legal protection for the Hitachi brand on the Hitachi Brand Platform, and use them for by working hard to eliminate counterfeit appliances monitoring brand initiatives. and parts in such high-risk regions as China, the rest of Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. In countries or Reputation Management regions where brand infringements are particularly Globally, all Hitachi Group companies share the widespread, we collaborate with local companies to Hitachi brand. This sharing generates group step up anti-counterfeiting programs. synergies for innovation and trust in the brand. We recognize that accidents and rumors can damage the brand globally, so we set up communication divisions at regional headquarters outside Japan to handle risks to our reputation. These divisions Corporate statement logo ensure the broad recognition of our activities by regularly informing the media and government agencies, as well as members of nongovernmental organizations and opinion leaders in every country who are particularly interested in human rights and environmental issues. These divisions work hard to correct public misperceptions about our operations. Hitachi, Ltd. and regional headquarters outside Japan collaborate to mitigate risks to the brand and resolve problems arising from accidents or rumors. Moreover, they seek to proactively prevent future occurrences by investigating similar and related Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 048 Environmental Report Wind Power Ibaraki Co., Ltd’s Wind Power Kamisu (seven 2,000-kW wind power turbines) Environmental Report MESSAGE Based on Our Commitment to the Environment, We Will Deploy Our Social Innovation Business Worldwide to Help Resolve Global Environmental Issues Nations around the world must work together if we are to deal with increasingly apparent climate change, ecosystem destruction, and other global environmental threats. We must also foster high levels of environmental consciousness in each of our employees and use their core business strengths to help resolve environmental problems. The Hitachi Group is currently focusing management resources on the Social Innovation Business to contribute to the development of a sustainable social infrastructure. In 2008, we created Environmental Vision 2025, our long-term plan for reducing CO2 emissions—a top-priority issue—through business operations. Our goal is to help reduce annual CO2 emissions by 100 million tonnes by ﬁscal 2025 through Hitachi products and services. In ﬁscal 2010, we succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions by 15.51 million tonnes. We achieved this reduction through the use of highly efficient Shigeru Azuhata Senior Vice President and Executive Officer, gas turbines, wind power generation systems, and Hitachi, Ltd. other energy infrastructure that emit less CO2, as Hitachi Group Chief Environmental well as through the global provision of powerStrategy Officer saving products and services. Sales of Eco-Products, products meeting rigorous environmentally boosting the efficiency of products and services; conscious criteria, jumped by 7 percent on the over the long term, that focus will shift to previous year to 60 percent of all sales. We aim to developing city functions that enable high energy make all Group products and services Eco-Products efficiency and minimal environmental loads. by ﬁscal 2025. In ﬁscal 2011, we launched the Third The recent Great East Japan Earthquake Environmental Action Plan, which sets out a highprompted countries around the world to review level goal of reducing global CO2 emissions by their energy policies as well as energy supply 10 percent per unit of production by ﬁscal 2015 and demand. Current mechanisms will have to (compared with ﬁscal 2005 levels). We will steadily be revised in the coming years to respond to move ahead with that plan, as well as work to increasingly diverse energy-related values and develop more environmentally conscious products, needs. factories, and offices. We also look forward to The Hitachi Group will lead the way by supplying working together with customers using Hitachi products and services, such as low-carbon power products and services to help reduce CO2 emissions supply systems, energy-saving solutions for through our products. transportation and industry, and IT-based energy We are committed to reﬂecting world trends control and monitoring technologies. We will and stakeholder views in our future improvements also contribute to the use of sustainable energies and innovations, growing as a corporate group that offer energy security through technology that contributes to the realization of a sustainable development geared to diversifying needs. In society. the short term, we will focus on optimizing and Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 050 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Corporate environmental management is a occurred in 2009.†2 focus of the Hitachi Group 2012 Mid-Term With the increase in economic and social Management Plan looking ahead to ﬁscal 2012 activities has come growing demand for energy, (see pages 015–016). water, minerals, and other resources, making When providing products and services, environmental problems worse, from resource and during our business operations, we depletion to climate change. These are problems believe that initiatives to reduce the load on faced by the entire world. To solve them, the load the environment are essential for the Midon the environment must be limited to the least Term Management Plan pillars of growth possible and society must be made sustainable. driven by social innovation business and The Hitachi Environmental Vision, giving priority establishment of a solid financial base. Based to actions for prevention of global warming, on this management policy, and guided conservation of resources, and preservation of by the Environmental Vision aimed at ecosystems, shows our commitment to contributing achieving a sustainable society, our corporate through our business to solving environmental environmental management is being carried problems. As a milestone on the road to realizing out to implement the long-term Environmental this Environmental Vision, we drew up the longVision 2025 and our Environmental Action Plan. term plan Environmental Vision 2025 for the period to ﬁscal 2025. The Hitachi Environmental Vision †1 According to the United Nations report: World Population Prospects: The 2010 We have drawn up our Environmental Vision Revision †2 According to the World Bank: World Development Indicators describing the aim of our corporate environmental management to achieve a sustainable society. The world’s population will reach 7 billion in 2011 Long-Term Plan Environmental and is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050.†1 At Vision 2025 the same time, the annual growth in worldwide In its Fourth Assessment Report published in GDP has averaged more than 3 percent for at least 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate the past 20 years, except for the downturn that World Outlook for Energy-Related CO2 Hitachi’s Environmental Vision Emissions and Reduction Scenarios (billions of tonnes/year) Scenario assuming world energy policies implemented to date 45 Scenario stabilizing at 450 ppm (sector and 40.2 billion tonnes reduction amount) 40 Power 9.3 billion tonnes 35 Necessary reduction 13.8 billion tonnes Transportation 1.6 billion tonnes 30 Industries 1.6 billion tonnes 27.1 Other 1.3 billion tonnes 25 26.4 billion tonnes 0 2005 2030 (FY) Based on energy-related CO2 emissions in IEA World Energy Outlook 2009 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 051 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Change (IPCC), a UN panel assessing and advising million in the transportation, commercial, and nations on the causes and effects of climate residential sectors. change, concludes that CO2 emissions must peak A leading indicator on the way to this goal is by 2015 and be reduced by 50 to 85 percent of the extent to which we can make all our products their 2000 levels by the year 2050 in order to Hitachi Eco-Products (see page 063) by ﬁscal 2025, meet the minimum stabilized density scenario for reducing their burden on the environment. We greenhouse gases (450 ppm stabilization scenario). plan to expand business opportunities further by The International Energy Agency (IEA) has working with partners in global markets and by drawn up a CO2 emission reduction scenario developing and creating new environmentally indicating the ﬁelds where CO2 emissions can conscious products and businesses. most feasibly be reduced for meeting the 450 Since the amount of contribution to CO2 ppm stabilization scenario, and the percentages of reduction is an important indicator of our business reductions in each ﬁeld. These ﬁelds extend widely management that requires effective progress across the Hitachi Group, including the electric assessment and information disclosure, we are power, transportation, and industrial sectors. receiving reviews by a third-party organization On this basis, the long-term Hitachi Group about the calculation methods and results to Environmental Vision 2025 states our goal of ensure trustworthiness. helping to reduce annual CO2 emissions by 100 million tonnes by ﬁscal 2025 through Hitachi Key Indicators products and services. Contributions to CO2 Emission Reduction This means that as we reduce CO2 emissions— (Base: FY 2005) by improving the environmental efficiency of (millions of tonnes) Hitachi Group products, and by other means—our 100 million tonnes/year 100 Transportation, contribution to lowering CO2 emissions through the Contribution to CO2 emission reduction commercial & residential 10% use of our products and services by 2025 from the Industry 80 20% products of ﬁscal 2005 will be 100 million tonnes 63 annually. 60 The target of 100 million tonnes was calculated based on growth strategies in each business sector. 40 35 Power generation It breaks down to 70 million tonnes in the power 70% sector, 20 million in the industrial sector, and 10 20 15.51 11.77 Initiatives in Each Sector toward Achieving Targets 0 2009 2010 2015 2020 2025 (estimate) (FY) · Building nuclear power plants · Delivering high-efficiency coal-ﬁred thermal *The 2008 ﬁgures in the IEA’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Power sector* power plants and gas turbines Highlights (2010 Edition) were used for CO2 emission coefficients. · Providing equipment for renewable energy · Providing high-efficiency inverters and transformers Industrial sector · Providing high-efficiency information equipment WEB Details of methods for calculating contribution of Hitachi products and and energy-saving solutions for data centers, services to the reduction CO2 emissions etc. http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/third/method.html Transportation, · Providing lithium-ion batteries for industrial and commercial, and automotive use Fiscal 2010 Results and Coming Initiatives residential sectors · Making home appliances more energy efficient Our contribution to CO2 reduction in ﬁscal 2010 *The accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, is expected to prompt a global review of and changes is estimated to be 15.51 million tonnes, meeting in energy policies, including plans for new installation and operation of nuclear and thermal power plants. In case this review results in major changes to the the target of 14 million tonnes. A wide range of business plans of the Hitachi Group power sector, the effects of the changes on the long-term plan Environmental Vision 2025 will be assessed and goal services and products contributed to this reduction achievement strategies or targets may be revised. in emissions, including high-efficiency gas turbines Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 052 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives and inverters, energy-saving information systems and hard disk drives, and parts and materials used in energy-efficient products. In ﬁscal 2010, the methods for calculating CO2 emission reductions and the results were subjected to third-party reviews in the case of 17 products, including hydro power plants, hard disk drives, monorail systems, transformers, drilling machines, amorphous metal ribbons, and cordless impact drivers (see page 090). To improve trustworthiness, these reviews will be expanded to include more products in ﬁscal 2011 and the following years. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 053 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Main Products Contributing to CO2 Emission Reductions in Fiscal 2010 Gas turbines duty design†1 and outstanding durability. Due to high-performance Power Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. turbine cooling and compressor technologies, the thermal efficiency when using natural gas is 34.8 percent, the highest level among gas turbines in the same class. It can be used with multiple fuels including light oil, natural gas, and LPG, and it supports environmental measures using wet/dry low-NOX burners. In December 2010 the H-25 began operation as a gas turbine in cogeneration power equipment†2 at a coke production plant in China. Gas generated in the coke production process is used as fuel in the H-25 to supply electrical power. At the same time, the heat generated by the H-25 is used to produce steam in a heat recovery boiler, achieving thermal efficiency of 80 percent or more for the facility as a whole and contributing to effective energy use. Moreover, capitalizing on our experience with conventional power generation systems, we developed an 80 MW-class H-80 gas turbine with a thermal efficiency of 38 percent, which is a heavy duty twoshaft gas turbine with the world’s largest capacity.†3 The ﬁrst unit is in operation at a Kyushu Electric Power Company power plant. In fiscal 2010, some 30 new gas turbines went into operation, including the 30 MW-class H-25 and the 80 MW-class H-80. These Cogeneration power plant equipment: Jingyuang Redian in China turbines, along with the 89 units already in operation, contributed to a adopting the H-25 gas turbine reduction in CO2 emissions by 1.55 million tonnes in ﬁscal 2010. Hitachi gas turbines are highly regarded for their reliability and †1 Heavy duty design: Highly reliable gas turbines which need less efficiency. They are in operation around the world for power generation frequent maintenance and general industrial use, and as gas turbines in oil and gas ﬁelds. The †2 Cogeneration power equipment: Equipment supplying electric power 30 MW-class H-25 gas turbine achieves high reliability with its heavy and heat at the same time †3 As of February 22, 2010 (Hitachi, Ltd. survey) Servers Distribution transformers Information & Telecommunication Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems Co., Ltd. Blade server BladeSymphony 2000 Amorphous transformer Facing sharply rising information volume, and increases in power When supplying electric power, limiting energy loss during use by IT equipment as a consequence, Hitachi servers use the latest transmission—in addition to efficient generation and natural energy processors and high-capacity memory while applying a variety of utilization—is an important issue for reducing CO2 emissions. power-saving techniques. Our BladeSymphony 2000 blade server Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems has been working on and HA8000/RS220 PC servers, for example, use high-efficiency ways of raising efficiency and reducing energy loss from distribution power supplies with 80PLUS® GOLD certification (power conversion transformers. Since ﬁscal 2006, we manufacture and ship transformers efficiency of 92 percent or above*). They also use a fan control system that are top-level in the industry in energy use. Among these, to adjust rotation speed based on the temperature inside the server. In amorphous transformers which use an amorphous metal alloy as the these ways, they reduce overall power consumption. Wasteful power steel core, are greatly contributing to CO2 reduction with an energy and power supply costs can also be reduced through virtualization efficiency of 40 percent or more. Approximately 23,000 high-efficiency techniques that use server resources carefully, and by power capping transformers including amorphous transformers were shipped in ﬁscal to control processor performance so it doesn’t exceed a preset power 2010, for a cumulative total of around 124,000 since ﬁscal 2006. The consumption level. The use of servers with improvements like these in use of transformers accounted for a reduction in CO2 emissions by 0.28 information processing capacity and energy efficiency accounted for a million tonnes in ﬁscal 2010. reduction in CO2 emissions by 0.42 million tonnes in ﬁscal 2010. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 054 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Environmental Action Plan environmental load from production, we are The Hitachi Group adopts environmental action expanding efforts at social load reduction through plans every ﬁve years that deﬁne speciﬁc action development and sales growth of Eco-Products, items and targets for achieving the Environmental with the aim of achieving emission neutral by ﬁscal Vision and for promoting the long-term plan 2015. Environmental Vision 2025. One aim is to achieve emission neutral by ﬁscal 2015. The last year of the Successes of the Second Environmental Second Environmental Action Plan was ﬁscal 2010, Action Plan so we reviewed the results of the actions to date, When implementing the Second Environmental and drew up Third Environmental Action Plan with Action Plan, covering ﬁscal years 2006 to 2010, we high targets that will push us to further lower the used 17 action items and targets as main indicators environmental load. for environmental management. In ﬁscal 2010, the ﬁnal year of the plan, we were able to exceed Emission Neutral our targets for 16 of these items. One standout The emission neutral concept is geared at achievement, aimed at reducing the environmental minimizing the environmental load throughout the load by providing environmentally conscious life cycle of products. Emission neutral is achieved products and services, was reaching 60 percent of when the direct environmental load becomes Eco-Product sales (compared with the target of 55 an equal to the reduction in environmental percent). Tackling the global environmental issue load during product use and disposal (social of CO2 emissions, we invested 29.7 billion yen in environmental load). Direct environmental load energy efficiency measures over the ﬁve-year period means the total impact in the stages from raw starting in ﬁscal 2006, resulting in a reduction materials reﬁning and processing to production and in CO2 emissions by 290,000 tonnes. In addition, distribution. It includes such impacts as greenhouse through energy conservation measures taken by gas emissions, waste materials, chemical emissions, the Hitachi Group as a whole, such as fuel switching and other environmental loads that can be reduced and energy efficiency diagnoses, we achieved a by self efforts. Social load reduction means the 21-percent reduction in Japan (target: 12 percent) amount reduced in greenhouse gas emissions and a 7-percent improvement outside Japan per during product use and recycling, waste generated, unit of production (target: 5 percent), compared and so on compared with products marketed in with ﬁscal 1990 levels. ﬁscal 2005 through product energy efficiency The one area where we fell short of our target and resource conservation. Besides pursuing was in the percentage sales of Super Eco-Products efficiency improvements that will reduce the direct (actual 26 percent versus target of 30 percent; The Emission Neutral Concept Direct Environmental Load Reduced Social (Indirect) Load CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from manufacturing Reduced CO2 emissions Reduced CO2 emissions from material CO2 emissions during product use in product take-back production/ from transportation through energy-saving products and recycling processing CO2 emissions from waste recycling Material production/ Manufacturing Distribution Use Take-back/recycling processing Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 055 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives see page 066). In the Third Environmental Action Plan, the target management indicator has been changed to the number of product models so that progress can be assessed more accurately. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 056 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Sustainability Compass The Sustainability Compass depicts the four directions of environmental initiatives to be taken based on the Hitachi Group Environmental Action Plan. All the initiatives are designed and carried Eco-Mind & Global Environmental Management out in accord with the Action Guidelines for Next-Generation Products & Services Environmental Conservation (see page 059). Super Eco-Factories & Offices Worldwide Environmental Partnerships Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan: Targets and Results Fiscal 2010 Achievement Item Action goal Index Fiscal 2010 results Page(s) targets level Eco-Mind & Global Environmental Management Establish Set up an integrated environmental environmental management Integrated Integration completed in 8 Integrated EMS certiﬁcation p. 082 management system in every in-house EMS certiﬁed divisions systems (EMSs) company/Group company Nurture Boost percentage of employees environmental receiving Hitachi Group-wide Percentage of employees receiving training 90% 95% p. 085 literacy training (environmental e-learning) Purchase products such as pp. Green purchasing environmentally conscious office Green purchasing percentage 90% 95% 120–122 products Next-Generation Products & Services Percentage of sales 55% 60% ICT systems, digital media, 100% 100% Percentage consumer products, etc. Promote of p. 065 Expand Eco-Product lineup Power systems, social/ Eco-Products registered industrial systems, high products 80% or more 86% functional materials & components, etc. Percentage of Super Eco-Products 30% 26% p. 066 Environmentally Conscious Factories & Offices Promote Super Build industry’s most advanced 30 production pp. Eco-Factories & factories Certiﬁcation of Super Eco-Factories & Offices facilities 35 production facilities (total) 071–072 Offices and offices (total) CO2 emission reduction rate 12% 21% Reduce CO2 emissions from energy (base: FY 1990, Japan) pp. Prevent global sources Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions per unit 072–074 5% 7% warming production (base: FY 2003, outside Japan) Reduce energy used in Rate of reduction in energy for shipping per 11% 29% p. 074 transportation real unit output (base: FY 2006, Japan) 33% (total reduction) Rate of waste volume reduction Reduce waste 25% 25% (per unit production (base: FY 2000) pp. reduction) Use resources 075–077 Resource recycling rate efficiently Promote resource recycling 10% 13% (base: FY 2005, Japan) Rate of reduction in water used (base: FY pp. Use water effectively 10% 10% 2005, outside Japan) 077–078 Rate of reduction in VOC* atmospheric 50% 69% Chemical emissions (base: FY 2000, Japan) Reduce chemical substance pp. substance Rate of reduction in the ratio of VOC emissions 079–080 management atmospheric emissions (base: FY 2005, 10% 29% outside Japan) Worldwide Environmental Partnerships Introduced initiatives on Web Continue site Improve dissemination of to improve Placed ads in newspapers and Enhance environmental environmental action Environmental dissemination magazines pp. activities through more two-way Issued press releases, etc. communication 087–089 communication Continue to Exhibited at Eco-Products 2010 Participate in eco-product exhibitions participate in Exhibited at 7th Eco-Products exhibitions International Fair (India) *Volatile Organic Compounds Achieved Partially achieved Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 057 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Overview of Third Environmental Action Plan program Eco-Products Select has the additional The Third Environmental Action Plan covering requirement of a large CO2 reduction rate for the ﬁscal years 2011 to 2015 seeks to strengthen the product, in order to accelerate the contribution to initiatives of the second plan, and sets higher reducing CO2 emissions through our products. The targets for environmental load reduction for each new Eco-Factories & Offices Select program now of the action items. New action plans and targets deﬁnes separate certiﬁcation criteria for factories were also drawn up in order to have the entire and offices, taking into account their different Hitachi Group become involved in preserving characteristics, rather than setting the same criteria ecosystems, a pillar of the Hitachi Environmental as before. Moreover, higher levels of achievement Vision. have been set, reﬂecting current technology levels. In addition, the existing certiﬁcation programs Through these programs, we will expand the for Super Eco-Products and Super Eco-Factories number of certiﬁed products, factories, and offices, & Offices were changed to Eco-Products Select promoting a further reduction in environmental and Eco-Factories & Offices Select programs, with load. revised certiﬁcation criteria. The new certiﬁcation Hitachi Group Third Environmental Action Plan Final ﬁscal year (2015) Category Action goal Index Fiscal 2011 targets targets Eco-Mind and Global Environmental Management Establish Completion of ecosystemenvironmental Ecosystem (biodiversity) Assessment on ecosystem preservation Preparation of ecosystem-preserving preserving assessments management systems preservation Strategy proposals assessments for business for business and their (EMSs) announcement Next-Generation Products and Services Percentage of Eco-Product sales 58% 65% Promote Eco-Products Expand Eco-Product lineup Number of models in Eco-Products Select program 20 models 100 models Environmentally Conscious Factories & Offices Build industry’s most Average of one or more Promote Eco-Factories & Offices advanced factories & Eco-Factories & Offices Select certiﬁcation Roll-out of new certiﬁcation criteria certiﬁcations per company/ Select certiﬁcation offices group company Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions (base: FY 1990, Reduce CO2 emissions 16% 20% Japan) Prevent global warming Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions per unit Improve CO2 emissions per unit production 6% 10% production (base: FY 2005) Reduce energy used Improve energy for shipping Rate of reduction in energy for shipping per real unit 12% 15% in transportation per real unit output output (base: FY2006, Japan) High Functional Rate of reduction in 7% 15% Materials Group Improve waste generation per waste generation per unit Use resources unit production production Assembly Industry Group efficiently (base: FY 2005) (other than high 16% 20% functional materials) Rate of reduction in water use per unit production Use water effectively 16% 30% (base: FY 2005, outside Japan) Reduce VOC Decrease ratio of VOC Ratio of VOC atmospheric emissions atmospheric atmospheric emissions 5.8% 5 percent or less (emissions/used amounts) emissions (emissions/used amounts) Worldwide Environmental Partnerships Global citizenship Social contributions through Carry out environmental communication as the Five-year plan drafting and One or more ﬂagship activity program environmental activities ﬂagship activity of each company or group company implementation per company/group company Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 058 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental conservation having wide-view about society activities. Conservation 9. Hitachi will evaluate potential environmental problems and prevent them from occurring. In the event that any Purpose environmental problem occurs, Hitachi will take appropriate In order to realize an environmentally harmonious and sustainable measures to minimize the environmental burden. society through products and services, Hitachi is committed to 10. Hitachi will make efforts to disclose information on meeting its social responsibilities by promoting globally-applicable its environmental conservation activities to its relevant ‘MONOZUKURI’ (designing, manufacturing or repairing of products), stakeholders. Hitachi will also actively communicate with these which is aimed at reducing environmental burdens of products stakeholders so as to strengthen mutual understanding and throughout their entire life cycles, ensuring global environmental forge cooperative relationships with them. conservation. Adopted March 1993, revised July 2010 Action Guidelines 1. Global environmental conservation is a critical challenge shared by all humans. Hitachi is committed, therefore, to fulﬁlling its responsibilities by assisting in the realization of an environmentally harmonious and sustainable society as one of its management priorities. 2. Hitachi will make efforts to contribute to society by developing highly reliable technologies and production processes, while identifying needs considering concerns related to the prevention of global warming, conservation of resources, and preservation of ecosystems. 3. Members of the board in charge of environmental conservation are responsible for facilitating appropriate environmental conservation activities. Departments responsible for environmental conservation should endeavor to promote and ensure environmental conservation activities, including improving environment-related rules and regulations and setting goals for environmental burden reduction. These departments should also conﬁrm that their environmental conservation activities are conducted in a proper manner and ensure that these activities are maintained and improved. 4. Hitachi will promote globally-applicable ‘MONOZUKURI’ with the aim of understanding and reducing environmental burdens at every stage, including product research and development, design, production, distribution, sales, usage, and ﬁnal disposal. 5. Hitachi will investigate and review the environmental impact caused in the course of its ‘MONOZUKURI’ processes. Hitachi will also introduce excellent technologies and materials useful to safeguard the environment, in other words, to reduce environmental burdens through energy and resource saving, recycling, chemical substance management, consideration for the ecosystem, and other measures. 6. Hitachi’s environmental conservation efforts are not only to be focused on observing international environmental regulations and those of national and local governments, but also on conserving the environment by implementing voluntary environmental standards when necessary. 7. Regarding globally-applicable ‘MONOZUKURI’ activities, impact on the local environment and community are to be considered. In addition, measures that meet local communities’ requests should be implemented. 8. Hitachi will educate its employees to take action in order to obey environment-related laws, raise their global environmental awareness, and encourage their interest in environmental Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 059 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Activities to Preserve Ecosystems The Concept of Ecosystem Preservation appropriate disposal), as well as increasing To promote ecosystem preservation, we the products and services for direct have made the preservation of ecosystems preservation of ecosystems in such areas as a pillar of our environmental vision. We water and air puriﬁcation. For contributions have also incorporated consideration for to society in the area of nature conservation, ecosystem preservation into our Action we encourage tree planting and ecological Guidelines for Environmental Conservation. surveys of rare plants and animals by Speciﬁc initiatives in this area are deﬁned in employees in volunteer programs, along the Hitachi Group Ecosystems Preservation with other programs that lead to ecosystem Guideline and are conducted accordingly. preservation. Corporations depend on ecosystem services such as the paper used in the Assessing the Corporate Relationship manufacturing stage (use of wood, a with Ecosystems biological material) and water use in Corporate Ecosystem Valuation (CEV) factories (use of clean water). In order to is an assessment methodology used to maintain and recover these ecosystem evaluate both ecosystem degradation services, we believe that we can contribute and the beneﬁts provided by ecosystem to ecosystem preservation both through services, so that improved business decisions business and through contributions to can be made that will lead to ecosystem society in the area of nature conservation. preservation. The Hitachi Group, as a Speciﬁcally, for contributions through member of the World Business Council for business, we are promoting designs Sustainable Development (WBCSD), has and production that reduce the impact helped to develop the Guide to Corporate on ecosystems during the product life Ecosystem Valuation, as well as translating cycle (material procurement, production, it into Japanese. We will perform CEV transportation, use, recovery, recycling and within the Hitachi Group on a trial basis and contribute to the widespread use of Corporations and Ecosystems CEV outside the Group in the days ahead. In 2010, Hitachi, Ltd.’s Representative Ecosystem Services Provision of raw materials (marine Executive Officer and President, Hiroaki resources, wood materials, etc.) and water Nakanishi, was appointed co-chair of Contributions through business the WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core Reducing the burden on ecosystems arising from corporate activities Ecosystems Corporations Creating products and services that preserve ecosystems Contributions to Society through Nature Conservation Production dependent on ecosystems Minimizing the negative impact (reducing burden on ecosystem) Expanding the positive impact (contributing to ecosystem Guide to Corporate Ecosystem preservation) Valuation Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 060 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Team (policy board). The Hitachi Group is scale, the greenery of the Central Research committed to supporting these efforts and Laboratory site plays the role of a “core contributing to ecosystem preservation. green space” necessary for maintaining an ecosystem, and contributes to the formation Preserving Greenery at Company Sites of an ecosystem network of the rivers Since Hitachi’s Central Research Laboratory having their source in the natural springs on was built in 1942, the wild natural the laboratory site. environment of the site has been preserved, The Hitachi Group has many more respecting the instructive message of the business sites that retain green space. Six Hitachi, Ltd. founder “not to cut down of these sites were chosen as among the good trees but to build around them.” This 100 Outstanding Examples of Preservation, landscape continues to be maintained and Creation, or Utilization of Accessible managed today. A pond on the site formed Greenspace by Corporations announced from the water of natural springs, which are in ﬁscal 2010 by the Urban Green Space the source of the Nogawa River, is a habitat Development Foundation. By continuing to for swans and mallards. Approximately maintain these green spaces in the future, 27,000 trees, including more than 120 we will contribute to the preservation of species such as zelkova trees and Himalayan local ecosystems. cedars, provide a resting place for over 40 species of wild birds, among them Chinese Contributions to Society through Nature bamboo partridges and gray starlings. Conservation To understand the role played by this The Hitachi Group contributes to society natural environment in preserving the through nature conservation at many ecosystems of the surrounding areas, we company locations (see pages 108–110). have conducted an analysis of the satellite Protecting endangered species is an images of the area supported by Mitsui important part of maintaining biodiversity. Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. and InterRisk Working with the NPO Earth Watch Japan Research Institute & Consulting, Inc. The every year since ﬁscal 2007, we have taken studies showed that because of its large part in habitat surveys of the Reverdin’s Blue butterﬂy (Lycaeides argyrognomon), an endangered species, around Mt. Fuji. Koganei Park Hitachi Central Research Laboratory – Musashi Kokubunji Park – Kurogane Park Musashino Park – Nogawa Park Fuchu no mori – Heiwa no mori Tamagawa Ecosystem network diagram in the Musashino area around the Central Research Laboratory (example of satellite image-based Reverdin’s Blue butterﬂy analysis; data provided by Eco-Asset Consortium) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 061 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives In cooperation with local residents, fallow farmland and forests that had been overrun with bamboo are being restored, turning them into rural landscapes full of life. Experiments are also being carried out using IT systems for information gathering and observations of living creatures to ﬁnd out how IT can be used in the future for preserving ecosystems. Habitat survey for Reverdin’s Blue butterﬂy IT Eco Experimental Village The Information & Telecommunication Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. opened an IT eco experimental village in Kanagawa Prefecture in April 2011 as part of the GeoAction 100 plan, a nature restoration project intended to contribute to the environment through IT. IT eco experimental village (April 2011) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 062 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Environmentally Conscious Products and Services We assess the environmental burden of Key Indicators products and services at the design and development stage, designating those products Trend in the Eco-Product Sales Ratio with a reduced environmental burden as Eco(%) Products. In ﬁscal 2010, 60 percent of our sales 60 60 were for Eco-Products. 55* 53 We are moving ahead with designing 50 47 and developing environmentally conscious products to meet the goal set in our long40 38 term Environmental Vision 2025 of making all 31 Hitachi products Eco-Products by ﬁscal 2025. 30 *FY 2010 target 0 Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) In 1999, we introduced a Design for Environment Eco-Product Increase (DfE) assessment system (see page 064) that sets (No. of (%) speciﬁc environmentally conscious criteria for models) 98 98 100 97 100* 94 designing and developing products and services to 86 86 84 85 minimize their environmental burden. Products that 78 10,000 80* meet DfE standards are designated as Eco-Products. 9,456 One of our goals is to increase the Eco-Product 8,387 8,000 60 sales ratio, or the ratio of Eco-Product sales to total 6,954 product sales. 6,000 5,741 40 In ﬁscal 2010, the number of models designated 4,900 as Eco-Products rose by 1,069 to 9,456. This 4,000 20 brought the Eco-Product sales ratio to 60 percent, topping our goal of 55 percent. Key factors driving 0 0 the improved sales ratio were the registration 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) of more Eco-Products for systems, software, and Number of Eco-Product models (*FY 2010 target) Eco-Product registration ratio (Product categories: services, as well as business growth in construction information and telecommunications systems, digital machinery and automobiles. media, and consumer products) Eco-Product registration ratio (Product categories: power systems, social infrastructure and industrial systems, high functional materials and components) Next Steps The Eco-Product registration ratio is the ratio of Eco-Product Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011– sales to sales of all products for which DfE is applicable. Up until ﬁscal 2010, we were increasing the number of Eco2015) sets the goal of boosting the Eco-Products Products in speciﬁc product areas, but from now on we intend to make all our new products Eco-Products. sales ratio to 65 percent by ﬁscal 2015. Given the growing localization of design, production and sales in recent years, our particular focus is to use DfE assessments to promote more Eco-Product development outside Japan. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 063 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services How a DfE Assessment Is Performed Eco-Product. Under the DfE system, the environmental load Management of the whole environmentally for each product life cycle stage—from material conscious design and development process is procurement to production, distribution, use, and coordinated using the Hitachi Group Ecodesign disposal—is quantitatively assessed using the eight Management Guidelines. Based on the IEC 62430 DfE assessment criteria such as environmental international standard on generic procedures for protection and energy efficiency, with results environmentally conscious design, the guidelines recorded as a level from 1 through 5. If a product require divisions, such as business planning, design, scores at least equal to or more than level 2 (the procurement, manufacturing, and quality control, reference level before the latest major model to be environmentally conscious and keep records change) in all 8 criteria and its average over all the on processes and results. This includes the use of criteria is level 3 or more, it is designated as an DfE assessment and Eco-Product development. How a DfE Assessment Is Performed Design for Environment Implementation of Assessment for DfE Eco-Product designation Qualifying products Non-qualifying products Product Life Cycle Eight Assessment Criteria (example) 1. Mass and volume reduction Resource conservation 8. Packaging 2. Long-term usability Collection materials Material ManuDistriand disUse Disposal 7. Information production facturing bution assembly 3. Recyclability provision Reuse or recycle 6. Energy saving 4. Ease of dismantling & treatment 5. Environmental protection Eight Criteria Used to Quantitatively Assess Environmental Load at Each Stage of the Product Life Cycle DfE assessment criteria (examples) Life cycle stage (examples) Focal points of assessment (examples) Size and weight reduction, yield of parts and materials, assessment of mass and volume reduction of 1. Mass and volume reduction Material production, manufacturing the product 2. Long-term usability Use Upgradability, ease of maintenance and repair, durability, reliability Selection of materials and parts that are reusable or recyclable, use of recycled resources, recyclability 3. Recyclability Reuse or recycling rate Manufacturing, collection and Structure for easy disassembly, ease of separation, reduction of disassembly time, easy collection 4. Ease of dismantling & treatment disassembly and transportation of product, safety in treatment, ease of crushing treatment Material production, manufacturing, Environmental protection of parts and units, safety of equipments and materials for maintenance, 5. Environmental protection collection and disassembly, disposal environmental protection in manufacturing process, environmental protection for facilities Material production, manufacturing, 6. Energy saving use, collection and disassembly, Energy-saving design of products, energy saving in production process, energy saving in distribution disposal 7. Information provision Use, collection and disassembly Information provision to requesting parties, mechanism for information provision Reduction in mass and volume of packaging materials, recycling of packaging material, ease of 8. Packaging materials Distribution collection and transportation of packaging materials, environmental protection in treatment and ﬁnal disposal of packaging materials Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 064 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Fiscal Year 2010 Breakdown of Eco-Products by Sector and Examples Power Systems, Social Information & Electronic Equipment & Infrastructure & Industrial Digital Media & Consumer High Functional Materials Sector Telecommunication Systems, Components & Systems, Construction Products & Components, Other Systems Devices Machinery, Automotive Systems Breakdown 18% 17% 35% 9% 21% (sales ratio) Transmitters Transmission electron Highly efficient gas turbines HD televisions Eco material cables Key products microscopes Monitoring software for TFT LCD modules Amorphous transformers Washer-dryers Anisotropic conductive ﬁlms IT systems Examples of Eco-Products Disk Array†1 supply to extra disk drives not in use, achieving a power saving of up Opening the way for efficient, power-saving data center operations to 75 percent across the whole system, compared with times when this feature is not used. · Hitachi Dynamic Provisioning, volume capacity virtualization reduces the number of hard disk drives by maximizing capacity. This means, for example, if 30 TB is initially used for an eventual capacity of 40 TB, power consumption can be reduced by around 20 percent before the extra 10 TB is required (in the case of a Serial Attached SCSI 300 GB drive in an AMS2300 model). • Third-party evaluation Received the Green IT Promotion Council Chairman’s Award in the Energy Consumption of IT category of the Green IT Awards 2010†2 • Product: AMS 2500 †1 Disk array: A data storage equipment using a redundant array of Top model in the Hitachi Adaptable Modular Storage 2000 family of independent disks (RAID) attached externally to a computer; it boosts mid-range disk arrays storage capacity, performance, reliability, and availability. Information & Telecommunication Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. †2 Green IT Awards: Awarded to IT equipment, software, and services, • Environmentally conscious features and characteristics as well as proposals using them, which achieve outstanding energy · Hitachi’s Tray Power Saving technology enables stopping power savings (from the Green IT Promotion Council, backed by METI). High-Performance Steel for Diecasting die · Makes more effective use of mold steel by extending the life span 1.5 Improves durability of molds and improves resource use to 2 times more than traditional diecasting die steel. · Greater strength at high temperatures, as well as greater heat crack resistance, helps boost the productivity of aluminum die cast products which opens the way for lighter cars with lower fuel consumption and more recyclability. • Third-party evaluation Received the Best 10 New Product Prize†2 at the 53rd Best 10 New Product Awards in 2010 †1 Toughness: Steel’s resistance and ability to withstand external forces †2 Best 10 New Products Awards: Sponsored by Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, • Product: DAC-MAGIC™ a leading newspaper, for new products meeting one of these criteria: Advanced die steel for diecasting (Hitachi Metals, Ltd.) an original invention with major impact in Japan and other countries; • Environmentally conscious features and characteristics world-leading performance; a major contribution to enhancing · DAC-MAGIC diecasting die steel retains the toughness†1 of traditional Japan’s industrial technology; or a pioneering role in promoting the die casting steel but has greater strength at high temperatures. advancement of industry or society. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 065 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Development of Super Eco-Products Global Warming Prevention Factor Calculation Eco-Products that meet even more demanding The global warming prevention factor is the amount of improvement requirements are designated as Super Eco-Products. in efficiency of global warming prevention compared with a reference Super Eco-Products must have either a global product. The efficiency of global warming prevention is based on warming prevention factor or resource factor of the concept of environmental efficiency that balances the value of products contributing to the quality of life and the reduction of 10 or more, or be leaders in their industry for their their environmental load. We gauge the improvement in product energy efficiency standard achievement rate†1 or value by function and life span, using the amount of greenhouse gases emitted over the product life cycle to calculate the reduced other similar factors, or be highly rated outside environmental load. the company. Factor 10 or more indicates that the Deﬁnition of efficiency of global warming prevention product has a global warming prevention efficiency Efficiency of Global Product function Product life span or resource efficiency of at least ten times more Warming Prevention Volume of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the product life span than reference products that were sold in ﬁscal 2000 in principle. We are committed to increasing Deﬁnition of factor of global warming prevention the number of Hitachi Super Eco-Products by Efficiency of global warming Factor of Global prevention of evaluated product improving the Super Eco-Product ratio, which is the Warming Prevention Efficiency of global warming ratio of Super Eco-Products to total Eco-Product prevention of reference product sales. In ﬁscal year 2010, an additional 182 models were designated as Super-Eco Products, bringing Resource Factor Calculation the total to 721. However, booming Eco-Product The resource factor is the amount of improvement in resource sales produced a relatively low Super Eco-Product efficiency compared with a reference product. Drawing on the same concept as global warming prevention efficiency, we gauge the ratio of 26 percent, under the 30 percent target. improvement in product value by function and life span, using the amount of resources used over the product life cycle†2 to calculate the †1 Energy efficiency standard achievement rate: Based on the Act on the reduced environmental load. Rational Use of Energy (also known as the Energy Conservation Law), this value indicates the rate of achievement for energy efficiency targets of certain Deﬁnition of resource efficiency home appliances. The target values are deﬁned using the most energy efficient products available at the time. Product function Product life span †2 Amount of resources used over the product’s life cycle: amount of new Resource Efficiency ∑ (life cycle resource use × value resources + discarded resources coefficient of each resource) Deﬁnition of resource factor Hitachi’s Eco-Product System Resource efficiency of evaluated product · Either a global warming Resource Factor prevention factor or a resource Resource efficiency of factor of 10 or more reference product Super Eco-Products · Industry leading level · Highly regarded outside Hitachi Products that meet DfE assessment Next Steps criteria Eco-Products Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 20112015) raises the environmental performance Products standards for the designation of Super-Eco Products even higher, introducing a new designation: Eco-Products Select. The reference products used to calculate the global warming prevention and resource factors have been changed from ﬁscal 2000 products to ﬁscal 2005 products. Product function, one element used in calculating global warming prevention efficiency and resource efficiency, will now be assessed based on the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 066 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services function creating the added value most vital to that teleconferencing system. product. We have also introduced a new condition: the carbon emission reduction must be at least 50 Disclosure of Environmental Information percent greater than ﬁscal 2005 products. Through In 1999, Hitachi introduced an environmental these changes, we aim to lift the environmental information labeling system that uses symbols performance of our product development to new and data sheets to provide environmental heights, gaining Eco-Products Select for 20 models by information on environmentally conscious products. ﬁscal year 2011 and 100 models by ﬁscal year 2015. Hitachi’s environmental mark indicates that a DfE Super Eco-Products that meet these new assessment has shown the product to be an Ecostandards will be designated as Eco-Products Select. Product, informing stakeholders that the product’s environmental burden has been highly improved. Addressing Carbon Footprint We also use our Web site to disclose environmental The Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) is information, such as data sheets that include power the carbon equivalent of the total amount of consumption for each environmentally conscious greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted over the entire product and case studies of products that helped life cycle of a product or service—from procurement improve environmental efficiency. of raw materials through to disposal and recycling. It is displayed on an easily understood label. This allows people to compare the CFP of similar products and services to select the product or service with the lowest environmental burden, and also helps businesses supply products and services Hitachi’s environmental mark to improve their own global warming prevention WEB Lists and datasheets of Eco-Products efforts. http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ecoproducts/ We participated in the CFP Pilot Project run WEB Environmental Efficiency of Hitachi Products Based on Factor X http://www.hitachi.com/environment/library/pdf/factorx_en.pdf by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and other ministries, and in ﬁscal year 2010 acquired permission to use the CFP label Recycling Product Resources for our interactive whiteboard (StarBoard) based To promote resource recycling, the Hitachi Group is building used product recovery systems and CFP Label for the Interactive Whiteboard StarBoarddeveloping recycling technologies. based Teleconferencing System Developing Rare Earth Recycling Technologies Rare earth magnets containing rare earths†1 can be used at very high temperatures and can exert a strong magnetic force. Since these properties make products highly energy efficient, rare earth magnets The top ﬁgure (4,750 kg) is the amount of GHGs that will be emitted over the product’s entire life are in increasing demand for cars, generators and cycle, where it is used in the following scenario during use for ten years. consumer appliance motors, as well as for hard disk drives (HDDs). However, the uneven global Product scenario Hitachi Solutions holds a 1.15-hour conference involving six people 0.89 times distribution of rare earths makes it vital for us to per week (53.2 hours and 46.3 times per year) over the 500 km distance between Tokyo and Osaka. Details of the system setup are available on the develop alternative materials, as well as to secure a official CFP Web site (http://www.cfp-japan.jp/). stable rare earth supply by, for example, recovering GHG emissions per conference hour: 8.93 kg The 8.93 kg ﬁgure is the amount of GHGs emitted over the product’s entire life these resources from products. cycle where it is used for one-hour conferences based on this scenario. Hitachi has been working since ﬁscal 2008 to *This ﬁgure was calculated and veriﬁed based on a particular scenario; if the scenario changes, so will the ﬁgure. recycle rare earths by developing technologies to Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 067 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services remove the rare earths from the magnets in hard of resources. In ﬁscal year 2010, we set up the disk drives and compressors. Product Recycling Service Center to bring in and In ﬁscal 2010, we developed a dedicated device recycle even more used IT products. At this center, to separate and recover rare earth magnets from we consult with sales and other divisions to devise used HDDs and compressors, and we succeeded plans for recovering end-of-life IT products from in extracting rare earths from magnets through corporations. This includes recycling or purchasing an experimental dry process that uses a special for reuse, according to the type and condition of extraction medium.†2 This extraction device reduces the product. In ﬁscal year 2010, Hitachi recovered the amount of time required to separate and around 5,700 tonnes of used IT products through recover rare earth magnets from used products the Hitachi Recycle Hotline and product recovery to around one-tenth of the time for doing this services. Looking ahead, we plan to improve by hand. In addition, because the new process recycling using the technologies we are currently does not employ the chemicals now often used, developing for extracting rare earths from used recycling will be both cheaper and have a smaller HDDs. environmental burden. The next steps will be to conduct more veriﬁcation TOPICS experiments using the dry process to extract rare earths, and to investigate the reuse of the rare Carbon Offset Service earths from rare earth magnets for launching the full To prevent global warming, reducing carbon operation of rare earth recycling in 2013. emissions needs to be considered not just when a product is manufactured or in use but †1 Rare earths: 17 elements including lanthanum and scandium. Rare earth magnets are magnetic alloys of rare earth elements such as neodymium and across the entire product life cycle, including dysprosium. †2 Undertaken using a FY 2009 New Resource Recycling Promotion Project reuse, recycling and disposal. We meet this Subsidy (Urban Resource Recycling Promotion Project: Development of need by adding the Carbon Offset†1 Service technologies for recycling rare earths from high-performance magnetic motors, etc.) to our reuse and recycling package. Rare Earth Recycling Process Hitachi Group Carbon Offset Service Japanese government Emission rights Customers HDD disamortization account assembly device Rare earth Emission Carbon offset Used IT extraction HDDs Voice coil rights certiﬁcate equipment Separation motors amortization using dedicated Emission device Hitachi Capital rights Hitachi Transport Rare earth Dry process Corporation System, Ltd. magnet recov· Procurement and · Collecting and shipping of ery provision of emission used IT equipment Compressor rights Rare earth Compressors disassembly Rotors and device magnets Used IT equipment Tokyo Eco Recycle Co., Ltd. · Disassembly, separation, recycling Hitachi Group Product Recycling in the Information/ Hitachi Capital Services Co., Ltd. · Purchase, reuse Telecommunications Field We set up the Hitachi Recycle Hotline in ﬁscal year 2002 to provide recovery and recycling of The Hitachi Group offers a carbon offset computers and peripheral devices via the Internet service to customers using the emission and other methods. Over the nine years up to credit to compensate for carbon emitted ﬁscal year 2010, we recovered 284,000 units in the course of reusing and recycling used (3,090 tonnes) and have recycled 2,090 tonnes IT equipment. We handle the collecting, Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 068 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services shipping and disposal of used IT equipment procedures to ensure compliance with REACH and also procure and pass on the emission and other regulations. Brieﬁngs are held in Japan credit, for providing the customer with a and other countries to ensure that regulations are carbon offset certiﬁcate. We transfer the understood and actions are taken throughout the carbon credit to the Japanese government Hitachi Group and to educate the employees who free of charge, helping Japan meet its Kyoto are responsible. Protocol commitments. Registration for the EU’s REACH regulations was In ﬁscal 2010, we arranged 17 carbon completed by November 2010 for the substances offsets. and compounds the Hitachi Group exports to Europe for more than 1,000 tonnes per year. †1 Carbon offset: Greenhouse gas emissions not easily reduced by direct measures are offset by purchasing the equivalent Investigations and preparations are also underway greenhouse gas reduction or absorption amount achieved in another location or by another company, or by undertaking on submitting the REACH notiﬁcation on particular projects that achieve emissions reductions and absorption. substances in articles by the June 2011 deadline. †1 REACH regulation: the European Union’s regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (EU) WEB Status of product packaging recycling http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/wrapping.html Working with the Supply Chain Working closely with suppliers and customers, we Managing Chemical Substances have been gathering and sending out information Contained in Products about chemical substances across the supply To manage the chemical substances contained chain via the Integrated Management System for in products, we created Regulations for Chemical Substances Contained in Products. In Environmental CSR-Compliant Monozukuri in 2005. July 2009, we linked this management system to This helps us to manage chemical substances from the cross-industry JAMP†1 information exchange product development and design to procurement, platform via Hitachi’s enterprise cloud service TWXproduction, quality control, and sales. To voluntarily 21.†2 The direct connection between customer and control chemical substances, we have deﬁned 13 supplier databases has opened the way for fast, prohibited substances (Level 1) and 13 controlled efficient information collection and transfer across substances (Level 2), including potential REACH†1 the entire supply chain. At the end of March 2011, substances added in 2009. We have also been chemical substance information for 890,000 parts using our Integrated Management System for and products was registered in our integrated Chemical Substances Contained in Products management system. created in 2005, as a way to gather and send out †1 JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium information about chemical substances contained †2 TWX-21: Cloud-based business service providing an intercompany e-marketplace in products. We will continue to revise and improve our regulations and product information gathering Hitachi Group’s Voluntarily Controlled Chemical (VCC) Substances Classiﬁcation Application Substance (Group) Names Level 1 Chemical substances that the Hitachi Group prohibits from Cadmium and its compounds, hexavalent chromium compounds, lead and its compounds, mercury and its Prohibited being included in procured products (chemical substances compounds, bis (tributyltin) oxide (TBTO), polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers substances banned or restricted for use in products, including packing (PBDE), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), polychlorinated naphthalene (with 3 or more chlorines), shortmaterials, by domestic or foreign regulations and potentially chain chlorinated paraffin, asbestos, azo dyes and pigments, and ozone layer depleting substances used for procured products for the Hitachi Group) Level 2 Substances that are not restricted for inclusion in procured Antimony and its compounds, arsenic and its compounds, beryllium and its compounds, bismuth and Controlled products but for which monitoring and control are required its compounds, nickel and its compounds (excl. alloys), selenium and its compounds, brominated ﬂame substances by domestic or foreign regulations, or for which special retardants, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), phthalate esters, tributyltins (TBT) and triphenyltins (TPT), ozone layer consideration for recycling or appropriate disposal is required depleting substances (HCFC), radioactive materials, and potential REACH SVHC Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 069 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Cities, which have been attracting attention, Integrated Management System for Chemical Substances Contained in Products particularly in emerging nations, as a conceptual framework for building environmentally conscious Suppliers Customers/ Design for Reduction of Risk management Green cities. Environenvironmen(traceability of inprocurement ment (DfE) tal burden dividual products) society Integrated Management System for Chemical Substances Contained in Products Environmental information Disclosing environmental Registration Collection database database Managing the total Managing the amount of designated amount of designated chemical substances Communicate Survey/register information chemical substances by product and busicontained in a product ness by material and part Survey/register, TWX-21 communicate JAMP information exchange platform (JAMP-GP (Global Portal)) Materials Final product Parts manufacturers manufacturers manufacturers Proposing international standards for Smart Cities at a WBCSD meeting Linking our integrated management system with the JAMP Global Portal enables a more efficient exchange of chemical substance information over the supply chain Participating in the Development of International Standards We work with the following international standards organizations for environmental issues and environmentally conscious product technology: the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Ecma International, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU-T), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), and the International Electrochemical Commission (IEC). This helps us discover global business opportunities and ensure our products’ competitiveness. In ﬁscal 2010, the IEC Technical Committee for Environmental Standardization for Electrical and Electronic Products and Systems (TC111), which is chaired by Hitachi, Ltd., adopted Japan’s proposal on a method for quantifying greenhouse gases emitted across the product life cycle. Hitachi also serves as a co-chair for the WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core Team and supported its creation of the Guide to Corporate Ecosystem Valuation (see page 060). In recent years, Hitachi has been making proposals for the development of international standards for Smart Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 070 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production Environmentally Conscious Production To reduce the environmental burden of Super Eco-Factory & Office Certiﬁcation Criteria business activities, we have set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Certiﬁed as achieving industrySuper Eco-Factories leading environmental load waste, chemical substance emissions, and & Offices reduction 1. Energy efficiency water use. Facilities that show a high level 2. Improvements in resource Facilities that have recycling of environmental consciousness as well as met their targets 3. VOC emissions reduction for the ﬁscal year 4. Water recycling outstanding results in these areas receive under the GREEN Eco-Factories & 5. Renewable energy use 21 evaluation Offices 6. Other (special Super Eco-Factory & Office certiﬁcation as a commendation or use of system way of promoting environmentally conscious original technologies to meet targets) production and encouraging environmental Offices and Factories activities. Creating Super Eco-Factories and facilities as Eco-Factories & Offices that have both Offices met their targets for the ﬁscal year under our Super Eco-Factory & Office certiﬁcations are given GREEN 21 system for comprehensively evaluating to facilities that have achieved an industry-leading environmental action (see pages 083–084) and environmental load reduction. We certify those have performed above the given criteria in areas Examples of Super Eco-Factories Hitachi Elevator Motor (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Hitachi Elevator Motor in Guangzhou, China, makes hoists, a core component of elevators. To save energy, production efficiency has been boosted on production lines, which use many types of machine tools. The plant has also promoted introducing high-efficiency air conditioners, LED lighting, and other energy-saving devices. For example, all 1,360 ceiling lights are now LED. Also, a new building which was added due to the need for production growth is designed for optimal use of natural light inside the building to reduce power consumption. As a result, the ﬁve-year average energy consumption rate per unit for ﬁscal 2010 was improved by 10 percent. Other environmentally conscious manufacturing initiatives include changing the type of forklifts used in the plant from diesel engines to electric (battery) motors, and using adsorption instruments to lower VOC emissions during the painting process. Hamura Works, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. The Hamura Works designs and manufactures wireless communications systems, and has many production areas to accommodate manufacturing of a wide range of the products. Hamura Works has cut power usage by improving the layout of assembly areas and by sharing facilities with other Group companies located nearby. Adoption of energy-saving machinery and equipment, such as high-efficiency Hf inverter fluorescent lights and air conditioners, enabled Hamura Works to improve its five-year average energy consumption rate per unit by 8.2 percent for ﬁscal 2010. Waste paper, including documents on speciﬁcations and other conﬁdential documents, accounts for more than 20 percent of the Hamura Works’ total waste. In ﬁscal 2010, the Works achieved zero ﬁnal waste disposal rate through rigorous sorting and recycling, including using wet shredders so that waste paper can be recycled into copy paper. The works has more energy-saving plans, including using LED lamps on employees’ desks, and shifting the responsibility of switching on and off the fluorescent lights in the work area from the managers to individuals. The amount of power used across the whole Works will also be monitored using a demand controller. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 071 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production such as energy efficiency, improvements in resource Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions recycling, and volatile organic compound (VOC) We are promoting reduced energy-related CO2 emissions reduction. Our target was to bring up emissions from production activities as well as CO2 to 30 facilities, or 10 percent of the approximately emissions from shipping to help cut greenhouse 300 facilities eligible for certiﬁcation, to the level of gases and prevent global warming. Super Eco-Factories & Offices by ﬁscal 2010, and the To reduce energy-related CO2 emissions in Japan, facilities themselves have worked hard to achieve a we intend to cut CO2 emissions by 12 percent from high level of load reduction in order to be certiﬁed. ﬁscal 1990 by ﬁscal 2010. Outside Japan, we aim As a result, three more facilities were named Super to improve CO2 emissions by 5 percent per unit of Eco-Factories & Offices in ﬁscal 2010, bringing the production from ﬁscal 2003, a goal reﬂecting the total to 35 (23 in Japan and 12 outside Japan). increase in both the number of production sites To encourage environmental conservation, outside Japan as well as the increase in capacity information on initiatives at these facilities are of those sites. In Japan, our sustained investment shared within the Group, along with energyprograms in energy saving include the introduction saving and water-processing technologies that of energy efficient machinery and switching to are relevant to other Group companies. Facilities alternate fuels. Outside Japan, we have improved yielding outstanding results after introducing production processes and also introduced the Hitachi Group energy-saving products conduct knowhow for energy savings which proved factory tours to demonstrate these products to outstanding in Japan and resulted in improvements people within Hitachi and to others. in efficiency of energy use. The amount of CO2 emissions rose in ﬁscal 2010 due to the increase in Next Steps production of auto-related parts in Japan as well As part of our Third Environmental Action as production growth in China and Southeast Asia Plan, we will review Super Eco-Factory & Office in particular. Due to ongoing programs to increase certiﬁcation criteria and mechanisms, launching a new designation: Eco Factory & Office Key Indicators Select. Certiﬁcation criteria will be developed Trend in CO2 Emissions in Japan individually according to the characteristics of our (kt CO2) (%) manufacturing (factory) and non-manufacturing 100 94 100 (office) divisions. For factories, standards will be 88 88* raised for energy efficiency, renewable energy use, 4,000 86 75 79 as well as water recycling and other Super Eco3,322 75 3,104 Factory & Office certiﬁcation criteria used to date. 3,000 2,805 2,893 2,630 For offices, evaluation criteria will be established in 2,482 50 areas such as energy saving for lighting, renewable 2,000 energy use, and a building’s overall environmental protection. 25 1,000 To maintain and raise the level of environmental activities in Eco Factories & Offices Select, certiﬁed 0 0 facilities will be re-evaluated every year to check 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) whether their performance for that ﬁscal year still CO2 emissions Normalized CO2 emissions meets the certiﬁcation criteria. Our goal is for every *FY 2010 target value in-house company and Group company to have at Emissions were calculated using CO2 emission coefficients for each electric power company of each ﬁscal year, as least one facility certiﬁed by ﬁscal 2015. published by the Ministry of the Environment Facilities already certiﬁed as Super Eco-Factories & Offices will be re-evaluated based on the new criteria. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 072 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production efficiency, however, we cut domestic CO2 emissions investment. Over that ﬁve-year period, we invested to 79 percent of the ﬁscal 1990 level in Japan, while 29.7 billion yen in high-efficiency equipment outside Japan, CO2 emissions per unit of production and fuel switching, achieving a 290,000-tonne improved by 7 percent compared with ﬁscal 2003. reduction in CO2 emissions. In ﬁscal 2010, we installed solar power generation equipment in two Key Indicators more factories and made progress on switching to LED tube lamps for a drastic reduction in CO2 Trend in CO2 Emissions outside Japan emissions. (kt CO2) (%) 100 98 98 97 100 95 Fuel Switching Initiative 93 95* 2,000 90 Based on our plan to reduce heavy fuel oil use 1,694 across the entire Group to one-tenth or less 1,483 1,500 1,407 1,419 1,397 from ﬁscal 2005 by ﬁscal 2012, since 2006, we 1,242 80 systematically switched to natural gas in the 1,000 10 plants which accounted for 80 percent of 70 the Group’s heavy fuel oil use in ﬁscal 2005. In 500 ﬁscal 2010, Hitachinaka General Hospital was 60 also switched entirely to electricity when it was renovated. This and other measures have reduced 0 0 2003 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 heavy fuel oil use by around 45% compared with (FY) CO2 emissions Normalized CO2 emissions per unit the ﬁscal 2005 level. Europe production Americas *FY 2010 target value China Trends in Fuel Use Ratios Asia Town gas Liqueﬁed petroleum Heavy oil Kerosene LNG* gas (LPG) Breakdown by Region (kt CO2) FY 2012 11% 74% 11% 2003 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (planned) 4% Europe 20 5 4 4 6 9 FY 2010 28% 9% 47% 16% Americas 369 524 443 416 361 473 China 339 436 476 510 554 626 FY 2009 26% 9% 48% 17% Asia 514 518 484 489 476 586 FY 2005 49% 17% 12% 22% Total 1,242 1,483 1,407 1,419 1,397 1,694 *Liqueﬁed Natural Gas Improving Energy Efficiency through Sustained Global Energy Conservation Diagnoses Investment in Energy Saving The Hitachi Group conducts energy conservation As part of our Second Environmental Action Plan diagnoses worldwide. Group engineers with for ﬁscal 2006–10, we implemented sustained Energy Conservation Investment and CO2 Emission Reduction in Japan 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Energy conservation 53 64 77 52 51 investment CO2 emission 58 102 50 44 32 reduction (unit: investment (billion yen), emission reduction (kt)) Local energy conservation diagnoses Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 073 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production advanced knowledge of the total equipment (air Reducing Transportation Energy conditioning and boilers, for example) propose We have worked to curb CO2 emissions from measures to improve energy use that will reduce transportation toward the target of improving CO2 emissions. Especially now when more factories transportation energy consumption per real unit of are being built in China and Southeast Asia and output by 11 percent from ﬁscal 2006 by ﬁscal 2010. when Japanese production lines are being moved Key steps to reach this goal include reducing product there, CO2 emissions from production facilities sizes, weights, and packaging to improve truck load outside Japan account for around 40 percent efficiencies; making modal shifts from truck to rail of total Group emissions. This is making energy and ship transportation; shipping complete rather conservation an urgent task. We provide facilities than part orders for large products; and combining outside Japan with energy conservation support truck, rail, and ship transportation to boost efficiency. programs to encourage them to make their own As a result, we improved transportation energy daily and ongoing improvements. Hitachi experts consumption per real unit of output by 29 percent with energy conservation knowhow developed in in ﬁscal 2010 and reduced CO2 emissions by 63,000 Japan have also gone to the Philippines, Malaysia tonnes from ﬁscal 2006. and other countries to conduct energy conservation diagnoses, identifying wasteful energy use and Key Indicators introducing high-efficiency equipment upgrades Trend in CO2 Emissions from Transportation to improve energy conservation. In ﬁscal 2010, in Japan energy conservation diagnoses were conducted (kt CO2) (%) 100 in 12 Japanese plants and 4 plants in Thailand, 100 bringing the number of factories diagnosed since 91 90 90 89* ﬁscal 2005 to more than 50. We will continue 200 188 74 71 to implement these global energy conservation 174 70 diagnoses, outside Japan in particular, to spread 155 energy conservation expertise and to train energy 150 50 128 125 conservation personnel. 30 100 Introducing Renewable Energy 10 We are committed to using solar and wind power, and other renewable energy sources. In ﬁscal 2010, 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 we introduced a 170 kW solar power generator, (FY) CO2 emissions bringing the amount of power generated from Normalized transportation energy consumption per real unit of output *FY 2010 target value renewable sources to 1,245 MWh from solar power and 76 MWh from wind power. We have also bought Green Power Certiﬁcations from Japan Trends in Transportation Mode Ratios in Japan Natural Energy Company for around 1,000 MWh of Rail Marine Truck Air natural energy every year, using it for Hitachi, Ltd. FY 2010 87.2% offices and for trade fairs, etc. 3.9% 8.8% 0.1% FY 2009 84.4% 4.8% 10.7% 0.1% FY 2008 78.5% 12.8% 8.6% 0.1% FY 2007 74.0% 16.3% 9.6% 0.1% FY 2006 90.1% 3.3% 6.2% 0.4% Green Power Certiﬁcation symbol Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 074 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production Next Steps To promote energy-related CO2 emission reduction, Key Indicators our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15) Trend in Amount of Waste Generated sets the goal of reducing CO2 emissions per unit of (kt/year) 100 (%) production across all Group production facilities by 85 100 78 6 percent from ﬁscal 2005 by ﬁscal 2011 and by 10 75 76 75 80 75* percent by ﬁscal 2015. For production facilities in 76 75 1,000 870 67 67 Japan, the target is a 16-percent reduction in CO2 784 50 760 737 738 emissions from ﬁscal 1990 by ﬁscal 2011, and a 750 608 20-percent reduction by ﬁscal 2015. To reach these overall targets, each in-house company and Group 500 25 company has been assigned a target according to growth in their particular business area. 250 Steps taken toward achieving our targets include systematic fuel switching and using high-efficiency 0 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 machinery. We will also create a mechanism for (FY) Amount of waste Normalized amount for total-waste monitoring monthly CO2 emissions at every in-house generated reduction group Europe Normalized amount for waste-perand Group company and assess the status of reaching Americas unit production reduction group that ﬁscal year’s goals, bolstering the PDCA cycle. China * FY 2010 target value Asia To curb CO2 emissions from transportation, we Japan are aiming for an ongoing reduction of 1 percent Breakdown by Region (kt/year) per year in transportation energy consumption per 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 unit of output. We will press ahead with modal shifts Europe 2 2 0 0 1 1 Americas 113 73 52 53 38 54 and product weight reduction to cut transportation China 39 52 58 59 51 80 energy consumption per unit of output in Japan by Asia 64 60 60 61 54 78 12 percent from ﬁscal 2006 by ﬁscal 2011, and by 15 Japan 652 597 590 564 464 525 percent by ﬁscal 2015. Total 870 784 760 737 608 738 Reducing Waste Trend in Resource Recycling Rate in Japan (terajoules) (%) We reduce and recycle waste materials generated 18 20 14 20 during manufacturing, including valuable resources 13 13 10* (reusable resources with residual value). To meet 4,000 0 our goal of reducing waste by 25 percent from 0 ﬁscal 2000 by ﬁscal 2010, we have promoted 2,913 3,000 2,496 2,541 2,542 the reuse of resources from manufacturing by 2,401 2,342 recycling material residue as raw resources, as 2,000 well as by ﬁltering and reusing cleaning oil. These technologies and measures were shared across the 1,000 Group, enabling the total-waste reduction group to achieve a 33-percent cut by ﬁscal 2010 and the 0 waste-per-unit production reduction group to 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) achieve a 25-percent reduction, both meeting the 3R load Resource recycling rate year’s targets. *FY 2010 target value We will also recycle waste into resources rather than disposing of it in landﬁlls. Using the Group’s 3R load index to assess the environmental load Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 075 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production incurred in waste disposal, we are developing Promoting Appropriate Disposal technologies and applications to promote reuse To reduce the risk of inappropriate waste disposal, and recycling. In ﬁscal 2010, we raised the resource we have developed a waste management system recycling rate†1 in Japan by 13 percent from ﬁscal that electronically records information from 2005, clearing the year’s goal of 10 percent. In our manifests†1 on waste type, disposal method initiative to boost the number of zero emission†2 and disposal completion, and can register the sites that have minimized landﬁll disposal, 159 e-manifests†2 being promoted by the government. facilities achieve that goal in ﬁscal 2010. We have bolstered our mechanisms for ensuring appropriate waste disposal, with the system †1 Calculated as (base year 3R load minus subject year 3R load) divided by base year 3R load now issuing a warning if there are mistakes in a †2 Deﬁned as a ﬁnal disposal rate (landﬁll disposal/waste) of no more than 1 percent and less than 5 tonnes of ﬁnal waste in any given year manifest or if disposal cannot be completed. A function has been added for collating data on WEB Zero emission sites http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/zeroemission.html waste volume, disposal methods, and disposal volume from electronic manifest information to 3R Load Concept boost operational efficiency and promote resource Natural resources recycling. In ﬁscal 2010, enhancing support Energy for refining mechanisms for the introduction of e-manifests to promote greater e-manifest use within the Group, which resulted in 62 facilities adopting e-manifests. Materials †1 Manifest: An evidence document for industrial waste management issued by Input waste generators and relayed along the waste stream to ensure appropriate disposal Refining †2 Electronic manifest (e-manifest): Mechanism for centralized management energy Manufacture of digital manifests, with waste generators and waste disposal companies saved sharing relevant information Waste disposal Waste Management System Energy for Energy for Energy for Energy for recycling incineration incineration using landfills Office · Collate and analyze waste Reuse Recycling Heat recovery Simple Landﬁll Management of contractor’s disposal volume incineration disposal Intranet contract information · Print and issue manifests · Manage manifest recovery period Heat energy Wastes Information recovered Data on waste management server Waste data contractors The 3R load is the expected environmental load from waste disposal. The smaller the environmental load, the more resources are being recycled. The following are totaled for each waste type and disposal method: Internet [1] Energy used in reﬁning natural resources into materials [2] Energy used in waste disposal [3] Heat energy recovered through waste recycling and reduction in reﬁning energy JWNET* E-manifest registration * Japan Waste Network, operated by the Japan Industrial Waste Technology Center Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 076 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production deﬁnition of zero emissions will be revised as of TOPICS ﬁscal 2011 and the ﬁnal disposal rate (landﬁll Reducing Waste from Transportation disposal/waste) will be cut from no more than 1 Packaging percent to less than 0.5 percent, as we work to Hitachi Transport System is promoting develop and increase the number of zero-emission activities to reduce waste by improving sites. packaging. The initiative in ﬁscal 2010 was to reduce wood waste by switching Water Conservation from one-way wooden packing crates to Given the global shortage of water resources, we collapsible, reusable metal crates. These are committed to promoting effective use of the crates were made more compact to ﬁt into water by reducing the amount of water consumed Japan Freight Railway Company ﬁve-tonne in our operations. Outside Japan, where water containers, enabling a modal shift from conservation is a pressing issue, our production truck to rail transport and helping to reduce facilities had recovered and recycled water CO2 emissions during transportation. The during manufacturing process or reused it for shorter unpacking time has also enhanced non-technical uses to reach the goal of reducing work efficiency and service. Due to these water consumption by 10 percent from ﬁscal improvements, the company received an 2005 by ﬁscal 2010. In ﬁscal 2010, the 10-percent Electric Equipment Packaging Category target was achieved despite increased water Award at the Japan Packaging Contest 2010, which is sponsored by the Japan Packaging Key Indicators Institute. Trend in Water Use outside Japan (million m3) (%) 100 100 90 18.21 90* 20 81 78 75 16.40 80 71 15 14.68 14.26 One-way wooden crates (left) replaced by collapsible, reusable 13.61 12.90 60 crates (right) 10 40 Next Steps 5 Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15) 20 aims to further reduce the amount of waste generated by increasing the target for improving 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) waste generation per unit of production from Water use Normalized water use ﬁscal 2005 by 16 percent in ﬁscal 2011 and by 20 Europe *FY 2010 target value percent by ﬁscal 2015. Facilities manufacturing Americas China high-function materials, such as copper products Asia and magnetic materials, are expected to achieve Breakdown by Region (million m3) a 7-percent improvement by ﬁscal 2011 and 15 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 percent by ﬁscal 2015, considering the heavy Europe 0.04 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02 energy use of production processes in these areas. Americas 5.21 5.05 4.05 3.89 3.71 4.05 China 4.68 4.71 4.84 4.80 4.94 5.16 To improve appropriate waste disposal rates, our Asia 8.28 4.91 5.35 4.90 4.24 7.17 target is to lift the e-manifest registration rate in Total 18.21 14.68 14.26 13.61 12.90 16.40 Japan to at least 90 percent by ﬁscal 2015. The Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 077 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production use—particularly in China and Southeast Asia—due goal was to reduce VOC atmospheric emissions in to the rise in production volume. We will pursue a Japan by 50 percent from ﬁscal 2000 by ﬁscal 2010, range of measures to boost water use efficiency, and to cut the rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric ensuring a steady reduction. emissions†1 outside Japan by 10 percent from ﬁscal 2005. The rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric Next Steps emissions—intended to reduce the ratio of Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15) emissions to the volume of VOCs handled—is used aims to balance increased production outside Japan as an indicator outside Japan because of production with water resource conservation by improving water growth there. We are improving manufacturing use per unit of production by 16 percent from ﬁscal processes to introduce VOC alternatives and install 2005 by ﬁscal 2011 and by 30 percent by ﬁscal 2015. equipment to recover and render them harmless. Hitachi Construction Machinery, for example, has Chemical Substance Management achieved a 40-percent reduction in the volume of To deal with chemical risk and comply with laws VOC emissions by adopting low-solvent paints and and regulations, we assess chemical substances, introducing an electrodeposition coating process managing risk in three ways: prohibition, reduction, using water-based paint for coating large hydraulic and control. Since 1998, we have operated shovels. Outside Japan, Hitachi Elevator (Shanghai) an online database for chemical substance has cut the volume of VOC emissions to less than 1 management called CEGNET to index the latest percent by introducing devices for absorbing and laws and regulations and our own voluntary recovering VOCs during the painting process for regulations, ensuring appropriate management of elevator parts and by switching to water-based newly introduced chemical substances. Chemical paints. As a result of all these activities, in ﬁscal substances used in our operations are also 2010, we cut VOC emissions in Japan by 69 percent registered with CEGNET. Collecting and aggregating from ﬁscal 2000, and outside Japan reduced the data on the amount of chemical substances emissions by 29 percent from ﬁscal 2005, in both used, emitted, or transferred helps to reduce our cases achieving our targets. use of chemicals. In addition, we train chemical We comply with Japan’s PRTR Law†2 through substance managers and regularly communicate the risks to deepen local residents’ understanding Key Indicators of how we manage chemical substance risk. Trend in VOC Atmospheric Emissions in Japan (kt) (%) The CEGNET Chemical Substance Management System 100 100 Chemical information management server 80 60 Regulatory/voluntary 15 56 50* control information Chemical data 51 40 38 Network 11 32 31 20 New chemical risk Registration of amounts searches handled / data collation 10 0 6 Production facilities 5 5 4 3 3 0 Reducing Chemical Substances 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) To prevent air pollution, we cut emissions of 41 VOC atmospheric emissions volatile organic compounds (VOCs) based on a Normalized VOC atmospheric emissions * FY 2010 target value program from the Ministry of the Environment. Our Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 078 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production Group-wide monitoring of chemical substances Next Steps released into the atmosphere or into public waters, To reduce the ratio of VOC emissions to VOCs or transferred outside our plants as waste, or used, our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY discharged into sewage systems, reporting this 2011–15) established the rate of reduction of to local Japanese governments. Although some VOC atmospheric emissions as the indicator used substances are exempt from reporting due to worldwide. It sets the targets of reducing that their small quantities, our policy is to keep data rate to 5.8 percent in ﬁscal 2011 and to less than on all PRTR substances, provided the amount is 10 5 percent in ﬁscal 2015, further reducing VOC kilograms or more per year, so that we can control emissions into the atmosphere. these substances as well. Managing Environmental Risk †1 The rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric emissions: The percent difference between the 2005 emission ratio and the emission ratio in the In the Hitachi Group, we go the extra mile in subject year. The emission ratio is calculated as VOC atmospheric emissions divided by total volume of VOCs handled. environmental management by considering the †2 PRTR Law: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law environmental burden of all our business activities and setting voluntary management criteria more stringent than regulations. At every business site, Key Indicators we monitor water quality and noise, for example, Trend in Reducing VOC Atmospheric Emissions outside Japan and work to minimize environmental risk. We also (t) 100 (%) share information on environmental regulations 97 96 100 and violations to prevent recurrences and to 86 90* strengthen management. 900 In ﬁscal 2010, four incidents exceeded statutory 71 75 774 76 752 environmental limits and there were nine noise 704 complaints, and all were promptly resolved. We 577 600 523 50 will continue to audit and monitor data to prevent 439 recurrences. To prevent soil and groundwater contamination 300 25 caused by chemical leaks, we replace underground pipes, pits, and tanks with ones above ground. 0 0 We have now completed soil and groundwater 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) decontamination or conﬁrmed the sites VOC atmospheric Normalized the ratio of VOC atmospheric emissions emissions where chemical substances were used to be Europe *FY 2010 target value conatmination free. Cleanups and monitoring will Americas China continue at the remaining sites. Asia Breakdown by Region (t/year) Violations of Statutory Standards 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 15 0 8 9 7 9 Europe Water quality Air Total (26) (0) (14) (13) (10) (12) Japan 2 0 2 33 17 29 37 29 41 Americas (46) (25) (44) (44) (41) (48) Outside Japan 2 0 2 336 459 430 288 268 131 China (445) (655) (639) (607) (502) (310) 320 276 307 189 273 258 Asia (525) (532) (496) (356) (452) (539) 704 752 774 523 577 439 Total (1,042) (1,212) (1,193) (1,020) (1,005) (909) * Top ﬁgures show VOC atmospheric emission volumes. Bottom ﬁgures in parentheses show the volume of VOCs handled. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 079 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmentally Conscious Production Environmental Load Data Generated through Business Operations (FY 2010) This chart shows resource inputs and the environmental load for Hitachi Group business activities in ﬁscal 2010. Total Output of Environmental Load Volume of products shipped: 3,378 kt (in Japan); 831 kt Total Input of Resources (outside Japan) Total Energy Input Greenhouse Gas Emissions Outside Total all energy ener In Japan 62% Outside Japan Greenhouse gases In Japan 71% 38% Japan 29% consumption (crude (GHGs) †2 oil equivalent) Electricity 81% 2.07 million kl CO2 emissions 98% 4,431 GWPkt Gas 12% Fuel oil 7% Other 2% In Japan Outside Japan In Japan Outside Japan Electricity 4.7 billion kWh 2.1 billion kWh CO2 emissions 2,630 kt 1,694 kt Gas Other GHGs Town gas, LNG 100 million m3 24 million m3 SF6 (sulfur hexaﬂuoride) 68 GWPkt 0 LPG 42,000 t 18,000 t PFCs (perﬂuorocarbons) 18 GWPkt 0 Fuel oil (heavy oil, kerosene, etc.) 109,000 kℓ 14,000 kℓ HFCs (hydroﬂuorocarbons) 17 GWPkt 4 GWPkt Total Input of Materials Total Volume of Waste Outside Japan Outside In Japan 55% In Japan 71% 45% Materials Japan 29% Waste generated 3,519 kt 738 kt Metals 57% Other 35% Recycling 82% Plastics 7% Rubber 1% Waste reduction 6% Final disposal 12% In Japan Outside Japan In Japan Outside Japan Metals 1,275 kt 722 kt Waste reduction 33 kt 15 kt Plastics 169 kt 83 kt Recycling 450 kt 151 kt Rubber 6 kt 21 kt Volume reused 80 kt 5 kt Other materials 478 kt 764 kt Volume of material recycled 341 kt 144 kt Chemical substances Volume of thermal (heat) 29 kt 2 kt recycled Handling volume for chemical substances covered under the PRTR Law†1 183 kt 14 kt Final disposal 42 kt 47 kt Handling volume for ozoneChemical substances 2t 543 t depleting substances Discharge or transfer volume of chemical Handling volume for substances covered under the PRTR Law 1,531 t 374 t 4.6 kt 0.4 kt greenhouse gases SOx (sulfur oxides) 47 t 10 t NOx (nitrogen oxides) 471 t 45 t Volume of discharge for ozone-depleting substances 2 t (0.1 ODP†3t) 0.3 t (0 ODPt) Total Water Input Total Volume of Wastewater Outside Japan 23% Outside Japan 24% Volume of In Japan 77% water reused In Japan 76% Water used Wastewater 71,470,000 m3 In Japan: Sewerage 66.31 million m3 Industrial water 43% Groundwater 36% 34.61 million m3 Public water 65% system 31% Outside Japan: Surface water 21% 4.46 million m3 Underground inﬁltration, etc. 4% In Japan Outside Japan In Japan Outside Japan Surface water 6.51 million m3 8.74 million m3 Public water 39.92 million m3 3.29 million m3 Industrial water 25.65 million m3 4.75 million m3 Sewerage system 8.64 million m3 12 million m3 3 3 3 Groundwater 22.9 million m 2.9 million m Underground inﬁltration, etc. 1.74 million m 0.71 million m3 Water quality BOD (biological oxygen demand) 247 t 455 t COD (chemical oxygen 187 t 1,024 t demand) †1 The 354 chemical substances covered under Japan’s PRTR Law †2 GWP (Global Warming Potential): Coefficient derived by converting the global warming potential into CO2 equivalent tonnes †3 ODP (Ozone Depletion Potential): Coefficient derived by converting the global depletion potential into trichloroﬂuoromethane (CHC-11) equivalent tonnes Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 080 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Management Framework and Communication In the Hitachi Group, we have built a global for Environmental Policy, chaired by the president. network and are using environmental The Environmental Strategy Officers Meeting, management systems to foster sound made up of representatives from in-house environmental practices and instill “Ecocompanies and major Group companies, ensures Mind” in all our employees. We also work that environmental strategies are implemented to deepen stakeholders’ understanding of throughout the Group. We also have an our environmental activities by disclosing Environmental Committee and subcommittees information, and we encourage two-way of working level experts in each policy area who communication to improve those activities. develop speciﬁc targets and measures for achieving them. In ﬁscal 2011, we established the new EcoEnvironmental Management Business Committee to promote the globalization Framework of our environmental business operations. The Hitachi Group is made up of Hitachi, Ltd.’s Outside Japan, we hold regular regional in-house companies and Group companies. We environmental meetings to promote environmental are building a global environmental management action. In ﬁscal 2010, information was shared system to support environmental decision making during meetings in China, the United States, and and action at Hitachi, Ltd., 913 consolidated Europe on the Third Environmental Action Plan (FY subsidiaries, and 164 equity-method affiliates. 2011-15) and the latest environmental regulations. The Hitachi, Ltd. Environmental Strategy In addition, views were exchanged on local Office is responsible for developing Group-wide environmental issues. We will continue using these environmental policies. It drafts basic management worldwide regional networks to improve our global policies and action plans that are deliberated on activities, keeping the special character of each and approved by the Senior Executive Committee region in mind. Environmental Management System (EMS) Senior Executive Environmental Strategy Factories and President Committee for Officers Meeting In-House Companies Offices Environmental Policy Presidents Division heads Environmental strategy officers Environmental Environmenmanagement officers Regional Environmental Meeting Environmental tal Strategy Committee Group Companies Office Presidents In-House Companies’ Environmental Eco-Management Integrated EMSs management officers Sub-committee Eco-Products Factories and Sub-committee Major Group Companies Offices Presidents Division heads Environmental strategy officers Environmental Eco-Factory management officers Sub-committee Group Companies Presidents Environmental Management System under Eco-Business Group Companies’ Environmental the Hitachi Group Sub-committee Integrated EMSs management officers Environmental Promotion Organization* *Organization built around the environmental promotion departments of the Hitachi, Ltd. 913 consolidated subsidiaries and 164 equity-method affiliates Research & Development Group, four in-house companies, and 20 Group companies Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 081 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Status of ISO 14001 Certiﬁcations (as of March 2011) Building Environmental Management Systems To ensure efficient management of each business Japan Outside Japan NonNonTotal site’s environmental load, we have set the criteria Production Production Production Production Sites Sites for environmental management. Twenty-ﬁve Sites Sites No. of business units which have approximately 300 sites Certiﬁed 240 213 111 27 591 meeting these criteria—the R&D Group, four inSites house companies, and 20 Group companies—and the Environmental Strategy Office have together Europe developed and implemented the Hitachi Group 16 China North America Environmental Promotion Organization EMS 42 Japan 18 453 to consistently promote the implementation of Asia 62 environmental policies. In ﬁscal 2010, the Hitachi Group Environmental Promotion Organization EMS had its ﬁrst ISO 14001 surveillance audit since a recertiﬁcation audit. No WEB List of ISO 14001–certified sites corrective action was required, and certiﬁcation http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/iso14001.html remains in effect. Also, at the same time, the in-house and Monitoring Environmental Performance Data Group companies covered by the Hitachi Group For effective environmental management, we Environmental Promotion Organization EMS have collect environmental performance data on been working to develop their own EMSs. In ﬁscal business operations using the Environmental 2010, three in-house and ﬁve Group companies Load Evaluation System. This system collects carried out EMS integration for multiple business environmental load data from some 300 Hitachi sites. With this completed, EMS integration has business sites worldwide on such items as now been done at all major in-house and Group energy use, CO2 emissions, and waste generated, companies. together with information on outside complaints, Every business site meeting the criteria for honors received, and other items. By analyzing environmental management continues to maintain this information, we identify environmental ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. In fact, business sites management issues, share instructive examples that did not meet the criteria have also obtained within the Group, and improve environmental certiﬁcation, so that 591 Hitachi Group business practices. We will continue to expand this system to sites were certiﬁed as of March 2011. keep pace with new laws and policies. For example, we added a function for registration to the electronic Criteria for Environmental Management Level manifests promoted by the Japanese government to (major items) prevent inappropriate disposal of wastes (see page Employees ≥ 500 76) and upgraded our system to collect and analyze Electric power consumption ≥ 6,000 MWh/year Waste generated ≥ 500 tonnes/year energy-use data from all relevant sites in response to Water used ≥ 600 m3/day Japan’s amended Energy Conservation Law.†1 Paper purchased ≥ 50 tonnes/year Further improvements will allow the system to assess progress toward reduction targets for CO2 emissions and other environmental load indicators. These measures will heighten awareness of what needs to be done to meet the goals of the Environmental Action Plan. †1 Energy Conservation Law: Act on the Rational Use of Energy Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 082 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Activity Evaluation System sites around the world. In the areas of reducing We use our own evaluation system, GREEN 21, to global warming and worldwide environmental improve the level and quality of our environmental partnerships, where results fell short of their activities. It divides environmental activities into targets, we intend to improve scores in the future eight categories and evaluates achievements and by continuing the shift to more energy-efficient progress toward Action Plan targets by rating 55 systems and by ramping up communication on items on a scale from 1 to 5, then showing the environmental action outside Japan. results on radar charts. For any category, a perfect Under our Third Environmental Action Plan score is 200 green points (GPs). The results of (FY 2011–15), we are adding new GREEN 21 GREEN 21 evaluations are incorporated into the evaluation items with which we increase the level business performance evaluations of all Hitachi of activity: contributing to business growth and in-house companies and some Group companies. preservation of ecosystem through expanded In ﬁscal 2010, the ﬁnal year, we surpassed the environmental business operations, and collecting overall Group target of 1,280 GPs with a total score and communicating environmental data across our of 1,286, due to steady improvements at business supply chain. Key Indicators Green Point (GP) Average: Results and Targets 1. Eco-Management 8. Worldwide 163 GPs Environmental 180 2. Eco-Mind Partnerships 151 GPs 168 GPs FY 2010 target: 1,280 GPs FY 2010: 1,286 GPs FY 2009: 1,194 GPs FY 2008: 1,108 GPs 90 FY 2007: 966 GPs FY 2006: 845 GPs 7. Eco-Factories: 0 3. Eco-Products: Resource Manufacturing Recycling Categories and Evaluation Items 161 GPs 166 GPs 1. Environmental management action plan, environmental accounting, risk management, and statutory compliance 2. Environmental training and education for employees (general education, specialized education, auditor training) 3. Ecodesign, Eco-Products, management of chemical substances in products 6. Eco-Factories: 4. Eco-Products: 4. Green procurement, green purchasing Reducing Global Green Procurement 5. Next-generation Eco-Product strategy, sustainable business Warming 164 GPs 6. Energy conservation at business sites, environmentally responsible 148 GPs 5. Next-Generation transportation Product / Service Strategy 7. Waste reduction, chemical substance management 165 GPs 8. Stakeholder-oriented information disclosure, communications, global citizenship activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 083 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Hitachi Group Environmental Award Program multiple criteria, including the results of GREEN To encourage environmental activities and 21 overall environmental evaluations, reduction disseminate best practices throughout the Group, of environmental load, innovation, and ongoing we established the GREEN 21 Award program beneﬁt. In ﬁscal 2010 there were 30 entries, 10 of honoring environmentally conscious products, which were selected for awards. technologies, and activities. Awards are based on Fiscal 2010 GREEN 21 Awards Category Recipient Achievement Grand Prize Hitachi Works, Power Systems Co. (Hitachi, Ltd.) Contributing to CO2 emission reduction through development and spread of Hitachi Engineering & Services Co., Ltd. wind power generation system Division Eco-Mind & Global Hitachi Elevator (China) Co., Ltd. Adopting green policies to save energy, reducing toxic chemicals, etc., Awards Environmental and implementing them at sites around China; winner of China’s Excellent Management Corporate Citizen in China award Next-Generation Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. Product development of onboard ballast-water puriﬁcation system using Products & Services magnetic separation; winner of the 7th Eco-Products Awards, Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Worldwide Shenzhen Hailiang Storage Products Co., Ltd. Promoting environmental education and conservation through community Environmental programs involving employees, their families, and local residents Partnerships Super Eco-Factories & Hamura Works, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. Improving energy efficiency and reducing volume of ﬁnal waste disposal (see Offices pages 075–077) Special Award Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Ltd. Global company-wide GREEN 21 campaign Honorable Mentions Hitachi IE Systems Co, Ltd. Air-conditioning system for environmentally conscious modular data center Taga Home Appliance Works, Home Appliance Group, Developing low-steam-emission rice cooker that steams without added Hitachi Appliances, Inc. water for lower electricity and water consumption and improved taste Shikoku Area Operation, Hitachi, Ltd. Contributing to the environment and the local community through afforestation Sakado Operations, Hitachi Intermedix Co., Ltd. Adopting energy conservation and waste-reducing measures to win METI’s Commerce and Information Policy Bureau Director-General Award for energyefficient factories GREEN 21 Grand Prize Grand Prize Winner: Contributing to CO2 Emission Reduction through Development and Spread of Wind Power Generation System • Criteria for Decision Hitachi Works, Power Systems Co. (Hitachi, Ltd.) · Developed a 2 MW downwind turbine, among the world’s largest, and commissioned 19 turbines as of the end of FY 2010, contributing to an annual CO2 emission reduction of 45,000 tonnes. Hitachi Engineering & Services Co., Ltd. · Launched ﬁrst output power stabilization system for wind power generation in Japan with a combined power rating of 15.44 MW and equipped it with an energy storage system using long-life lead-acid batteries. Minimized power generation cost increases and reduced ﬂuctuations in output to ensure consistent power supply. Opened facilities to viewing by more than 150 visitors from around the world, Elementary school children touring wind farms during construction helping spread wind power generation. · Offered environmental education by giving more than 800 schoolchildren and local residents tours of wind farms during construction from FY 2006 to FY 2010. Wind Power Ibaraki Co., Ltd’s Wind Power Kamisu Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 084 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Education conscious product design, risk communication Hitachi Group Training is offered to all Group regarding chemicals, and factories’ environmental employees with a view to raising awareness and protection. In ﬁscal 2010, we instituted a new spreading understanding of environmental issues. training course for staff in charge of factory Training is divided into general education, covering management to familiarize them with the subjects such as Hitachi’s Environmental Vision and latest environmental laws and explanations of environmental strategies, and specialized expert amendments. In addition to Hitachi Group Training, training. individual companies and units provide special For general education, we offer an Interneteducation tailored to their own business area. based e-learning course in three languages: From ﬁscal 2011, we will intensify training to Japanese, English, and Chinese. To date 174,977 enhance the knowledge and skills of staff in charge employees worldwide (95% of the target group) of factory management, using case studies to have taken this course. illustrate compliance, noncompliance, and the need Specialized training aims to nurture skilled for environmental management, while providing personnel in such areas as environmentally opportunities for discussion with outside experts. Hitachi Group Education and Training System Target Introductory Beginning Intermediate Advanced Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (General Topics: Global environmental issues, environmental law, etc.) General All education employees Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (Hitachi Group Topics: Environmental policy, Environmental Action Plan, etc.) Basic environmental management course for working-level employees (management of waste, air/water quality, hazardous materials, etc.) (development & operation of management systems, etc.) Working Education for Eco-Factories level employees Eco-Product development training Specialized education Risk communicator training Brush-up training for ISO 14001 auditors Internal environmental ISO 14001 auditor ISO 14001 senior auditor auditors certification training certification training Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 085 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Guidelines. The results We have adopted, and are making public, help us to raise the efficiency of environmental environmental accounting conforming to Japan’s investments and activities. Environmental Protection Costs Costs (billions of yen) Item Overview FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Expenses Costs of maintenance, of equipment with low Business area 39.24 39.72 33.31 28.20 27.98 environmental burden, depreciation, etc. Upstream/ Green procurement expenses, recovery and recycling 2.89 2.79 1.97 1.70 1.60 downstream of products and packaging, recycling expenses Labor costs of environmental management, Administration 10.31 11.30 11.20 8.92 8.61 implementation and maintenance of environmental management system R&D for the reduction of environmental burden Research and 41.66 46.63 50.25 52.81 57.56 caused by products and production processes, product development design expenses Planting, beautiﬁcation, and other environmental Social activity 1.20 0.48 0.35 0.25 0.31 improvement expenses Environmental Environmental mitigation costs, contributions, and 2.89 0.80 0.99 0.68 0.37 remediation assessments Total 98.18 101.72 98.06 92.56 96.44 Total investment Investment in energy-saving equipment and 15.48 15.38 10.17 7.95 7.60 equipment that directly reduces environmental load Equipment depreciation costs are calculated using the straight-line method over ﬁve years. Environmental Protection Effects Economic Effects*1 Costs (billions of yen) Item Major FY 2010 Activities FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Net income effects 12.28 14.50 10.90 8.30 9.62 Finding value from waste by sorting and recycling Reducing resource costs through resource and energy Reduced expenses effects 20.15 22.02 18.24 15.00 18.45 conservation; reducing waste disposal costs through waste reduction Total 32.43 36.52 29.14 23.30 28.07 Physical Effects Amount Reduced (parentheses: equivalent number of households) *2 *3 Item Major FY 2010 Activities FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Reduction in energy used 159 million 161 million 158 million 191 million 129 million Reviewing clean room operating conditions; during production kWh kWh kWh kWh kWh consolidating worksites and facilities (relocation of (46,000) (34,000) (33,000) (40,000) (27,000) production bases); limiting the number of refrigerator units and switching to inverter technology; partnering with electric supply companies to save energy Reduction in amount of waste 6,375 t 7,361 t 6,752 t 5,955 t 3,623 t Switching to PRF (solid waste fuel); recycling grinding for ﬁnal disposal (42,000) (53,000) (48,000) (43,000) (26,000) sludge and slag; reducing effluent volumes; reducing packaging materials for goods received Beneﬁts from equipment investment are calculated using the straight-line method over ﬁve years, as with costs. *1 Economic effects include the following items: ∙ Net income effects: beneﬁts for which there is real income, including income from the sale of resalable material and income from environmental technology patents ∙ Reduced expenses effects: reduction in electricity and waste treatment expenses arising from environmental load reduction activities *2 Calculation for household-number equivalent for energy-use reduction: decrease in energy used during production (or during product use) ÷ total annual power consumption per household. Source: The Energy Conservation Center, Japan, FY 2008 Survey on Standby Power Consumption (only in Japanese). *3 Calculation for household-number equivalent for ﬁnal-waste disposal reduction: decrease in ﬁnal waste generated during production ÷ (total annual volume of nonindustrial ﬁnal waste ÷ number of households). Sources: Ministry of the Environment, Annual Report on the Environment in Japan 2009; Statistics Bureau, 2005 Population Census. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 086 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Efficiency of Environmental Load Reduction* Item FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Reduction in energy used during production (million kWh/billion yen) 0.30 0.28 0.33 0.42 0.32 Reduction in amount of waste for ﬁnal disposal (t/billion yen) 18.0 20.0 19.4 22.9 14.7 *This is an indicator of the efficiency of environmental load reduction, calculated as the amount of environmental load reduction divided by the expenses needed for the reduction. FY 2010 Investment Ratio by Countermeasure high functional materials and components, which began screening in August 2010, won the grand Prevention of Global prize in the environmental TV commercials category Other 31% Warming 35% of the 14th Environmental Communication Awards. Judges lauded Hitachi’s skilful portrayal of the environmental contribution of the materials Pollution Prevention Waste Reduction business, recognizing that while these materials 30% 4% are critical to the environmental business, they are difficult to explain to viewers. Environmental Communication Also, we cooperate with socially responsible Communicating Environmental Information investment†1 ratings and other environmental We publish reports every year on our environmental surveys (see pages 102–103). protection initiatives, their results, and our plans. †1 An approach to investing where shares are selected partly on the basis of In ﬁscal 2011, taking into account the global need criteria relating to CSR for a sustainability report, we combined our Hitachi WEB CSR/Environmental reports published by Hitachi Group companies Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report and http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/rpt_open.html the Hitachi Group Environmental Sustainability WEB External environmental awards http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/commendation.html Report into a single report. The Environmental Activities page on the Hitachi’s Web site also provides information on the environmentally Participation at Exhibitions conscious features of the Hitachi Group’s main We value the opportunity for direct dialogue with products, as well as customer feedback. In ﬁscal stakeholders, so we participate in environment2010, for its clear themes and the high standard of related exhibitions. In ﬁscal 2010, we took part in environmental activities, our Web site won the prize exhibitions around the world, setting “towards a in the corporate category of the Environmental goo sustainable society” as our core concept. Awards. In Japan, we participated in Messe Nagoya 2010, Our environmental campaign TV commercial on held in October to coincide with COP 10, as well as the Eco-Products Exhibition 2010 in December Environmental Activities page on Hitachi’s Web site Eco-products International Fair in India Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 087 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication (an annual event for us). Outside Japan, we held the Hitachi Eco Conference 2010 in September in Singapore as a private Hitachi Group event. Also, we exhibited at both the 2010 International Greentech and Eco Products Exhibition in October in Malaysia and the Eco-products International Fair 2011 in February in India. At these events, we demonstrated to visitors our environmentally conscious products and services, deepening their We provide specialized environmental education courses using visual aids to teach children about the ecosystems of forests and animals. understanding of Hitachi. (Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Philippines Corp.) At exhibitions, we also work to reduce the environmental load of our booths. The Hitachi booth at Eco-Products Exhibition 2010 was built with environmental consciousness in mind, using LED lamps for all lighting and a carpet made from recycled plastic bottles. For these initiatives, Hitachi booth won the Eco & Design Booth Prize granted to environmentally conscious exhibition booths. WEB List of environmental exhibitions To deepen exchanges with local residents, we opened our office to http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ads_events/event/index.html the public and provided opportunities to learn about environmental technologies by exhibiting models running on solar cells, etc. (Hitachi Works, Hitachi, Ltd.) Partnerships with Stakeholders We promote environmental communication, deepening the exchange on environmental themes with local stakeholders, and we conduct social contribution activities with them. In ﬁscal 2010, we carried out environmental education and tree planting as well as restoration projects in various regions worldwide. As far as environmental education is concerned, to help As part of our support for university students’ research, we deepened raise the eco-awareness of children who will lead mutual understanding by explaining our waste management activities and exchanged opinions. the next generation, we provided easy learning (Hitachi Chemical (Johor) Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia) opportunities through hands-on training and experiments and explanations of Hitachi Group activities. To conserve the environment as a global citizen, we promote environmental beautiﬁcation and natural conservation in cooperation with employees, their families and local residents. Through these activities, we also support local environmental conservation, by holding meetings We planted trees in Hill Park, Nanshan, China, with the participation of with local authorities and working with NGOs 55 employees and their families. (Shenzhen Hailiang Storage Products Co., Ltd.) and NPOs that specialize in local environmental situations and activities (see pages 108–110). Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 088 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Designating an “Environment Day,” we promote environmental conservation activities, such as clean ups in the area around our office and publicize these activities in an environment column in the company newsletter. (Hitachi Building Equipment Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.) WEB Other environmental communication activities Hitachi Eco-Activities http://www.hitachi.com/environment/showcase/employee/index.html Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 089 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Environmental Management Framework and Communication Independent Review To enhance the reliability of the data disclosed in this report, we have received a review by Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd.* on our ﬁscal 2010 performance. *A certiﬁcation agency providing inspection, audit, and certiﬁcation services in areas such as marine; building compliance; health safety and the environment; systems; and consumer products. The standards, guidelines, and calculation methods used in collecting data appear on our Web site. WEB Calculation methods for environmental load data http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/third/method.html Bureau Veritas Japan review report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ 090 Social Report Social Report MESSAGE Changing Our Business through Sustainable Procurement Activities Improving Transparency and Cultivating Human Capital for a Global Supply Chain Escalating costs and a tightening supply of raw materials stemming from increases in worldwide demand, as well as the globalization of our operations, have transformed procurement for us in recent years. We must therefore accelerate the globalization of our entire supply chain while consistently procuring the materials we need. Our key challenges are to ensure the transparency of our entire supply chain, to share information with suppliers, and to cultivate human capital worldwide. In Japan, we have built close relationships with, and have grown together with, our suppliers in what is essentially a family relationship. But these ties have eroded somewhat in a global procurement climate where equal partnerships have become the prime focus. We intend to build Makoto Ebata a global supply chain based on trust by localizing human capital Senior Vice President and Executive Officer while cultivating professionals worldwide. in charge of Procurement and “We’ll change our business through sustainable Consumer Business, Hitachi, Ltd. procurement activities.” With such a high aspiration and commitment, we’ll create a sustainable procurement system that manages risk and builds business partnerships that meet mutual social responsibilities. Becoming a Corporate Group that Champions Diversity Seeking to Be a World-Class Enterprise Where All Employees Can Work Safely and Happily We aim to be a global business solving global issues, and expect our businesses to grow worldwide and dramatically over the next decade, particularly in emerging countries. We therefore need to develop locally oriented management and employ, evaluate, and cultivate human capital worldwide, ﬁnding leaders to play key roles within the Hitachi Group. That said, we have not yet fully identiﬁed the career and educational experience, and the skills, of all of our employees around the world. In keeping with our commitment to be a global company, I am eager to create a worldwide human capital database as well as a global grading system that we can use for developing the careers of our employees, worldwide. We must maintain high standards of worker safety to Naoki Mitarai develop globally, which is why we formulated the Hitachi Vice President and Executive Officer Group Safety and Health Policy in ﬁscal 2010. General Manager of Human Capital Group, We intend to become a world-class, sustainable corporate Hitachi, Ltd. group that motivates employees by helping them to achieve work-life balance and by accelerating diversity management. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 092 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction To reinforce our management structure, we Activities Supporting Quality Assurance improve the quality of products and services globally through our tradition of monozukuri †1 craftsmanship. Organization & management ∙ Management of defective product accidents Quality Assurance Activities ∙ QF*1 emphasis management system To preserve our tradition of monozukuri ∙ OCHIBO HIROI (gleaning) ∙ Management of craftsmanship from the customer’s perspective, hazardous chemicals ... we are fully committed to Group-wide quality Activities Supporting Quality Assurance assurance—covering everything from product Technologies Human capital planning and development through to delivery and ∙ Quality reliability ∙ Penetration of OCHIBO HIROI committee spirit after-sales service. We support quality assurance ∙ Product safety ∙ Improvement of engineers’ in particular by activities that place the priority ∙ Technical law ethical awareness compliance ∙ Education on quality and on organizations and management, technology, ∙ Work process reliability improvements ... ∙ Quality awareness and human capital. In ﬁscal 2010, we launched improvement movement ... the three-year Hitachi Group QF (Quality First) Innovation Movement to ensure product safety, *1 QF (Quality First) compliance with laws and regulations, human resource development, and improved quality. We †1 monozukuri: manufacturing that combines innovative technologies with also concentrate on quality improvement outside experience gained over many years. Japan, especially in China and the rest of Asia. Quality and Reliability Education Quality Assurance Flow Chart We develop training courses for all technical and skill levels at divisions engaged in design and Product Manufacturing Process Quality Assurance Activities quality assurance. The courses include Reliability Customers’ Market trends needs (Fundamentals and Applications) and Product Safety. Product planning Design review In ﬁscal 2009, we augmented management Prototype evaluation/ training with a course that reaffirms the mental Design approval attitude of Hitachi engineers. In ﬁscal 2010, we Feedback to each activity Purchased Management of goods purchased goods reinforced our monozukuri capabilities by starting a new course for section chiefs and above to reaffirm Manufacturing In-line quality control (QC)*1 their way of thinking on technology and design. Improving inspection A quality assurance training center at a Inspection techniques manufacturing site in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Shipment/Delivery Prefecture, Japan, helps to increase production, Collecting field data and inspection, and maintenance skills. Other locations after-sales services Customers and manufacturing sites offer their own specialized technical courses. *1 In-line QC: Review and verification for identifying potential defects at the development and prototype stages of the product life cycle. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 093 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Strengthening Quality Assurance (QA) accident, we quickly submit a status report to top Systems in China and throughout Asia management, and the responsible company and China and other Asian nations account for much Hitachi join hands to take fast remedial action. of our offshore production. We are therefore At the same time, we promptly comply with legal reinforcing systems and training to improve quality requirements to report to government agencies. there. For example, we host the annual Conference We then publish the incident information through for QA Managers in China to improve quality our Web site and other channels. awareness and to share information. In ﬁscal 2010, When we decide that a product recall is we held a Conference for QA Managers in Thailand, necessary, we notify the public through newspaper our ﬁrst such meeting in Southeast Asia. advertisements or our Web site, then repair or We provide the two following quality reliability replace these products. Our Web site also provides courses to develop QA skills in people worldwide by detailed product safety information. improving their quality awareness and inspection techniques: Customer Satisfaction · Basic Reliability Course: Deepens understanding Using the Customer Satisfaction (CS) Management of such basic issues as Hitachi’s monozukuri Guidelines, one of the pillars of Hitachi’s business craftsmanship, quality management, and labor management, we continue to improve CS with the safety. goal of “creating innovation through collaboration · Intermediate Reliability Course: Boosts with customers.” We use CS surveys tailored to understanding of more practical issues in such each business operation. In addition, we analyze areas as Hitachi’s monozukuri craftsmanship, ISO customer opinions submitted to the Hitachi 9001, defect elimination, design for reliability, and Customer Answer Center. purchasing and vendor management. We host the annual Hitachi Group Service Business Liaison Council, chaired by the president Handling Product Accidents of Hitachi, Ltd., whose members are presidents and If a product malfunctions, the division responsible departmental officers from Group and in-house acts swiftly to resolve the problem from the service companies. customer’s perspective, coordinating with other Participants at these gatherings share intrabusiness units as needed. For an especially serious Group information to reinforce after-sales service Response Flow in the Event of Product Malfunction Accident Obtaining information occurs Top management Consumer Affairs Agency Quality Assurance Division and other government Customer liaison Fire department, police department bodies Customers and mass retailer Confirming accident status Serious product accident Investigative committee on serious product accidents Product recall Investigation of Onsite Newspapers, investigation Investigation of Decision concerning Web site, cause Product damage scope serious product accident Notification Disposition and reporting investigation : Flow of information : Report : Sharing of information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 094 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction for products and systems, including repairs and Electronic & Electric Equipment maintenance, and use that information to improve To ensure customer satisfaction, the Hitachi service quality and to ensure appropriate service Customer Contact Center and a Web site handle costs. customer inquiries and complaints about LCD TVs, washing machines, and other appliances. Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines ∙ Our customers determine the value of products and Customer Desk Response Figures and Connectivity services (Cases per (%) month) ∙ Information from our customers is the source of 100 improvement 84.0 84.0 78.5 ∙ Offer prices and quality that are competitive 60,000 75 ∙ Respond rapidly to keep our promises to our 51,300 47,850 49,000 customers 50,000 16,850 50 ∙ Adopt systems that prevent accidents and minimize 17,300 40,000 16,450 their impact 25 Formulated in 1994 30,000 20,000 34,450 0 31,400 31,700 10,000 Web Site Customer Support Our Web site provides comprehensive customer 0 2008 2009 2010 support. It enables us to process customer inquiries, (FY) White goods (appliances) Brown goods opinions, requests, and complaints in collaboration and other products (electronic equipment) with the customer support units of Group companies to improve our products and services. We also use educational and other initiatives Results of Customer Service Evaluation Survey (CS Rate) (%) to speed up and improve our response to these inquiries. 100 95.5 One of our initiatives is to hold the Web Inquiry Responsiveness Improvement Course, something 90 85.6 86.1 we have done since ﬁscal 2009. To date, 176 Hitachi Group employees have taken this course, 80 which features case studies based on responses to inquiries. Going forward, we will collaborate with 70 Group companies to respond more quickly and 0 effectively to customer inquiries, using this Web site 2008 2009 2010 (FY) as an important point of contact. Voice of the Customer Flow Chart Repair request Information on repair service Each business groups Service Information Quality assurance department Center Response Feedback on improvements Customers Filed in database of Design department Inquiry customers comments Customer & questions Feedback Support Center Manufacturing department Response : Response activities : Flow of information : Sharing of information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 095 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction The center receives about 600,000 phone For building facilities management, our products calls and emails a year. We have undertaken the improve our customers’ efficiency and we respond following initiatives to better respond to inquiries to demands for more effective building facilities and to reﬂect customer feedback in our monozukuri management. For example, we developed BIVALE, craftsmanship: an integrated building facility management system · Third-party assessments of individual call center that coordinates energy and security at multiple employees locations through the Internet. Our maintenance · Training via monitoring the “voice of the services subsidiary, Hitachi Building Systems Co., customer” for design, quality assurance, and other Ltd., has 350 service sites around Japan to swiftly departments respond to customers. State-of-the-art remote · Improved connectivity by outsourcing some building monitoring and diagnostic systems operations during busy seasons observe and analyze elevators and escalators, and · Creating a database of direct customer feedback, building facilities, 24/7, to perform preventive including consultations, questions and complaints maintenance. We conduct semiannual customer service evaluation surveys at 100 service centers around Information and Telecommunication Systems Japan. Based on the survey ﬁndings, we improve Products and Services service by upgrading employee education, The IT Systems Division is contributing to customer’s especially through CS training courses and CS business innovation by “collaborative creation” with improvement months. its customers, drawing on Group-wide expertise and information technology. “Collaborative Elevators and Escalators, Building Facilities creation” is based on our customers’ point of Management view, so we conduct an annual survey to gauge When we design and develop elevators and customers’ satisfaction with our products and escalators, we use proprietary technologies to services. ensure peoples’ safety and comfort. We make Another goal of this survey is to improve our technical improvements based on their feedback. business by reﬂecting customers’ opinions, not only For elevators, for example, we adopt Universal satisfaction with our products and service, but also Design when we design buttons, sensors to detect expectations of Hitachi. With customers’ consent, dog leads stuck in doors, as well as emergency we have donated the fee that customers received systems that safely stop at the nearest ﬂoor and for participating in our survey to Good Earth evacuation instructions during power outages or Japan,†1 a non-proﬁt organization, since ﬁscal 2007. earthquakes. Overview of the Information and Telecommunication Division’s Activities Based on Customers’ Point of View Customers Collaborating to create value Reﬂecting on businesses Requests and demands Customer-oriented activities Suggestions Satisfaction Expectations with Hitachi for Hitachi Measuring customer satisfaction relative to their expectations Customer surveys Maintaining an elevator control board Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 096 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction †1 Good Earth Japan (GEJ) is a non-profit organization which is mainly engaged in helping people to rebuild their livelihoods in post-mine-clearance areas in Cambodia. GEJ started its activities in March 2007. Universal Design Our operations touch on many aspects of society and daily living, and we promote Universal Design (UD) by improving the quality and ease of use, accessibility, and life cycles of our products. The wide door Quality of use means focusing on the traits that make people feel that the product is easy and enjoyable to use. Accessibility refers to the range of people who can use a product or service. Life cycle covers all the stages of the value chain from before the product is purchased through to disposal. Product Development Cycle and UD Guidelines In keeping with our UD philosophy, we maintain “Talking” button an “upward spiraling” product development cycle Large white LCD display and “talking” button that completely involves customers and experts in basic research, guideline formulation, and product development. We draw on extensive research into Public Equipment and Systems consumer behavior and their characteristics to Since these are to be used in public spaces, it is vital formulate UD guidelines for product development. to design public equipment and systems that even The information obtained during product children can use while optimizing security, privacy, development goes into a database that our and safety. businesses share, and we distribute some of this For example, we researched and commercialized information externally to promote open-source a tabletop electron microscope to encourage more standardization and education initiatives. children to enjoy science. We made this microscope easy to use for novice teachers and children. This Digital and Home Appliances product received the Minister of Economy, Trade We deﬁne people as customers as soon as a and Industry (Japan) Award in the Future Products product interests them, so it is essential to consider Category of The 4th Kids Design Award 2010, quality in everything from pre-sales to disposal. sponsored by Kids Design Association.†1 Key attributes are usability, features, harmony with the environment, safety, and maintenance. Our intention is to tailor products to people’s needs and lifestyles so that they become attached to them. With washing and drying machines, for example, we widened doors and put in shallower drums to make it easier to remove clothes from the bottom of the drum. At the same time, we added a large white LCD display that is more visible and easier to use, as well as a “talking” button that instructs, indicates status, and helps resolve problems—at the press of a button. Tabletop electron microscope Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 097 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction †1 Kids Design Association: a nonprofit organization founded in 2007; started by companies and other organizations in Japan dedicated to creating and disseminating designs that promote the safe, secure and healthy development and growth of children. Web and Information Systems These systems are vital for gathering information and communicating. For example, people with disabilities rely heavily on these systems and so we aim to make them more accessible, usable, and secure. We developed a prototype gesture-based user interface for public information boards for large street maps, building ﬂoor guides, and other displays in public spaces. We lowered the screen and made it horizontal so wheelchair users and young children can operate it easily. This product won a Universal Design Award from Universal Design Germany†1 in 2011 and also won an award in the Consumer Favorite category. Person using a hand gesture to operate a public display screen †1 Universal Design Award from Universal Design Germany: Sponsored by universal design e.V. of Hannover, Germany, and universal design GmbH. A panel of top international designers adjudicates on the Universal Design Award, while 100 consumers vote in the Consumer Favorite category. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 098 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Public Policy Initiatives Public Policy Initiatives Partnerships with governments and business. In ﬁscal 2009, however, the Government policymakers around the world are vital for & External Relations Division (initially known as creating a sustainable society and growing our the Government & External Relations Office) was Social Innovation Business. Through external established within our headquarters to integrate relations like these, we are able to have and coordinate external relations. Outside Japan, discussions with governments and groups from we set up offices in Washington, D.C. and Brussels Japan, as well as other countries and regions, to monitor policy trends in North America and with the goal of providing optimal and relevant Europe. The key external relations initiatives include solutions for society. lobbying and communicating with governments; participating in government-led study groups External Relations Policy and councils; contributing to policymaking by Our basic plan is to participate in decision making sending people to international institutions, public in countries and regions around the world and offices and external groups; and by participating to contribute to developing a sustainable social in international groups such as the World Business infrastructure. In particular, we respond to social Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). expectations by identifying risks within the Hitachi These activities are reported back to the Group as a Group at an early stage and by making policy whole through the Hitachi Group External Relations recommendations. For example, we may focus members meeting. on the environment and “smart cities” as our particular area of expertise. With that plan in mind, Stakeholder Engagement we hold dialogues with a range of stakeholders, To help resolve sustainability issues, we invite including government officials, non-governmental local policymakers to stakeholder dialogues that organizations (NGOs) and research institutes that we hold regularly, worldwide. In this way, we have inﬂuence on social policies. participate in wide-ranging exchanges of views on issues such as public-private cooperation External Relations Structure and corporate involvement in policymaking. The We previously allowed every division to manage increasingly globalized and complex nature of external relations for information and global social and environmental issues requires ﬂexible, dynamic partnerships that transcend governments, Hitachi External Relations Promotion Structure international institutions, NGOs and companies. Government Hitachi Group Hitachi, Ltd. Through dialogues with stakeholders in many Hitachi, Ltd. & External External Relations Related President Relations members meeting divisions Division In-house companies External relations divisions Main Group companies External relations divisions Hitachi Corporate Office, Washington, D.C. Hitachi Corporate Office, Europe (Brussels) Stakeholder dialogues in Asia Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 099 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Public Policy Initiatives regions, we will continue to identify problems that Forum since 1998 to provide a platform for we can help solve as a company and thought leader public policy debate, discussing how science and in the area of Social Innovation Business. We take a technology can contribute to solving Europe’s social multi-sided approach to sustainability issues, while issues. ensuring full transparency in policy participation. In May 2010, to celebrate Hitachi’s 100th anniversary the Science and Technology Forum Partnerships for Combating Global was organized by addressing the theme of Smart Warming Energy Usage for a Sustainable Society. Over 140 To help combat global warming, the Ministry of people attended the forum, including business Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan has and government representatives, researchers from been investigating a new credit scheme where universities and research institutes, and other key energy-saving products, high-efficiency coalﬁgures from industry, government and academia, ﬁred thermal power plants, and other products as well as representatives from NGOs. At the forum, and technologies where Japan leads the world, we introduced technologies for a low-carbon are only partially being used under the existing society, such as hybrid trains and environmentally Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). We are conscious data centers. During panel discussion, the committed to working with Group companies to topic of policies towards energy-efficient end-use contribute to this new scheme with our energyand energy-efficient technologies was vigorously saving products and solutions. One example: in discussed. October 2010, Hitachi Plant Technologies was Forum results were compiled into a report and selected by METI for an open call for feasibility shared with the European Commission, officials studies on a project to reduce carbon emissions in the various European governments, and our by air conditioning using deep sea water in the business partners. Republic of Maldives. Global External Relations Initiatives Partnerships to Create Next-Generation Cities We are pushing forward with a range of initiatives to create next-generation cities that have a low environmental burden by exploiting advanced technologies based on smart grids. In ﬁscal 2010, we participated in the Japan Smart Community Alliance, established by the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), as a member of the board. Panel discussion at the EU Hitachi Science and Technology Forum We are conducting studies and veriﬁcations on smart community projects not only in Japan but also in China, Spain, Hawaii, etc. , with the support of government organizations such as METI, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) of Japan, and NEDO. The 12th EU Hitachi Science and Technology Forum Hitachi Europe Ltd. and Hitachi, Ltd. have been organizing the EU Hitachi Science and Technology Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 100 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Communication with Shareholders and Investors Communication with Shareholders and Investors To ensure that shareholders and investors can appropriate, precise and timely manner. make sound investment decisions, we provide 4. Quiet Period Hitachi stipulates a quiet period of a certain length prior to the information they need in a fair, transparent earnings announcements to prevent information leaks and to and appropriate way that strives to enhance maintain disclosure fairness. During this period, Hitachi refrains communication with them. from answering inquiries about business performance and related matters. 5. Forward-Looking Statements Policy on Information Disclosure For disclosures, Hitachi may make statements that constitute We communicate with shareholders and investors forward-looking statements that reﬂect management’s views guided by our disclosure policy. We disclose not with respect to certain future events and ﬁnancial performance at the time of disclosure and include any statement that does not only information required by laws or regulations, directly relate to any historical or current fact. Such statements but also information that promotes deeper are based on information available at the time of disclosure and stakeholder understanding of our management are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Certain forwardpolicies and business activities, including their looking statements are based upon assumptions of future events which may not prove to be accurate. Hitachi discloses the factors relation to creating sustainable long-term value. that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in forward-looking statements. Disclosure Policy 1. Basic Policy Hitachi’s corporate credo is to contribute to society through the Proactive IR Approach development of superior, original technology and products. With this in mind, Hitachi seeks to maintain and develop trust Our diverse investor relations activities include relationships with all stakeholders, including shareholders business strategy meetings for institutional and other investors, customers, business partners, employees investors and analysts, tours of plants and R&D and regional communities. We will fulﬁll our responsibility facilities, participation in brokerage-sponsored to stakeholders by disclosing information in a fair and highly transparent manner, and by conducting various communication investor meetings, and one-on-one meetings with activities. investors and analysts. 2. Information Disclosure Standards In ﬁscal 2010, we held quarterly ﬁnancial results Hitachi discloses information as appropriate in a fair and highly transparent way, in compliance with the laws and regulations of brieﬁngs and corporate strategy meetings on the the stock exchanges on which the Company is listed. 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, which promotes Hitachi discloses not only information required by laws and “Growth Driven by Social Innovation Business” and regulations, but also management and ﬁnancial information that “Solid Financial Base.” We hosted the ﬁrst Hitachi is regarded as useful in deepening stakeholder understanding of Hitachi management policy and business activities. Hitachi IR Day, where company presidents and CEOs also discloses non-ﬁnancial information on the social and explained their businesses strategies under the environmental impact of Hitachi Group activities. Hitachi’s 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan. Feedback from stance on disclosure recognizes that society regards the above institutional investors and analysts was positive. information as important. 3. Disclosure Methods One said, We are better able to understand Hitachi uses appropriate means to disclose the information Hitachi’s businesses …, which I found useful for required by laws and regulations of the stock exchanges on analysis. We plan to hold this event regularly. which the Company is listed. The Company also posts this information on Web sites immediately after it is disclosed. We also communicate extensively with individual Hitachi also discloses information not required by laws investors through brokerage-sponsored brieﬁngs. and regulations by distributing news releases, holding press We conduct one-on-one meetings with institutional conferences and presentations, posting information on investors and analysts worldwide. We convened Web sites, and conducting other disclosure activities in an more than 600 similar meetings in ﬁscal 2010, a Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 101 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Communication with Shareholders and Investors signiﬁcant increase over last year. We are doing our relations Web site. A part of the site, speciﬁcally best to share IR feedback in-house and reﬂect this designed for individual investors, provides in management and operations. information that cultivates a deeper understanding We are committed to timely disclosure and we of the Hitachi Group. post brieﬁngs and other materials on our investor General Meeting of Shareholders At the ordinary general meeting of shareholders, we offer audio-visual reports designed to give shareholders a thorough understanding of our situation. After the general meeting of shareholders, our Web site discloses management policy explanations from the president for shareholders and investors. We post notices of general meetings of shareholders earlier than legally required to give stakeholders more time to consider our proposals. The corporate strategy meeting on 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan Socially Responsible Investment (SRI†1) and Sustainable Investment Assessments in Fiscal 2010 Disclosure Tools The Hitachi Group performed well in external ∙ Financial results assessments as a socially responsible and ∙ Annual and quarterly reports pursuant to the Financial Instruments sustainability investment. and Exchange Law of Japan ∙ Form 20-F ﬁlings with the United States Securities and Exchange In ﬁscal 2010, DJSI World, a leading global Commission (SEC) sustainability investment index, chose Hitachi, ∙ Annual reports Ltd. as a component stock for the second year in a ∙ Hitachi Group Corporate Sustainability reports* row. This benchmark assesses the sustainability of * From ﬁscal 2011, Hitachi Group Sustainability Report around 2,500 companies worldwide, ﬁrst looking at economic, environmental, and social development, then selecting the top 10 percent of companies in Trends in Shareholder Composition Other institutions Financial institutions 3.79 & securities ﬁrms Individuals Foreign investors National March 2007 27.63 28.09 40.49 & local governments 0.00 3.68 0.00 March 2008 27.16 27.06 42.10 4.03 0.00 March 2009 30.60 30.24 35.13 3.41 0.00 March 2010 29.49 31.61 35.49 2.26 0.00 March 2011 30.36 29.69 37.69 (Unit: %) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 102 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Communication with Shareholders and Investors Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 Institution Index Companies selected 1 SAM DJSI* World Hitachi, Ltd. DJSI Asia Paciﬁc Index Hitachi, Ltd. / Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. 2 EIRIS FTSE4Good Global Index* Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. / Hitachi Capital Corp. / Hitachi High-Technologies Corp. / Hitachi Maxell, Ltd. / Hitachi Koki Co., Ltd. Morningstar SRI Index Hitachi, Ltd. / Hitachi Cable, Ltd. / Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. / Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. / Hitachi High-Technologies Corp. / Hitachi Transport System, Ltd. *1 DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index): A global sustainability investment index that was developed by Dow Jones & Company (U.S.A.) and Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Group (Switzerland). The Asia Paciﬁc Index—covering Japan, Asia, and Australia—was launched in 2009. *2 FTSE4Good Global Index: An index developed in the UK by Ethical Investment Research Services (EIRS), which evaluates corporations, apart from speciﬁc industries, based on their environmental, social, and human rights performance. each industry. We received the highest score in our considerations such as the purchaser’s business industry for our new economic criteria for brand proﬁle, future plans, and past investment behavior. management and new environmental criteria for At present there is no imminent concern that water-related risks. Our environmental initiatives any particular party will acquire a large amount of scored the highest among all the companies. We Hitachi’s shares, and we have not established any also made the Silver Class in the Sustainability special measures (anti-takeover measures), should Yearbook 2011, published in February 2011, by such a purchaser appear. SAM†2 and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Nevertheless, as a natural duty to our shareholders and investors, we constantly monitor †1 SRI: Socially responsible investment, where investment funds evaluate companies and select stocks from a CSR perspective. Hitachi share transactions and movements, and †2 SAM: Sustainable Asset Management. A Swiss sustainability investment research and asset management company. if a party appears attempting to purchase large amounts of shares, we will immediately take the measures considered appropriate. Speciﬁcally, this Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers will mean assessing the purchase proposal with the We invest considerable management resources assistance of external experts, as well as negotiating in basic research for the future and for the with the purchaser. In addition, when such an development of pioneering products and acquisition does not contribute to our corporate businesses. To ensure that these management value and the joint proﬁts of shareholders, we will measures bear fruit, it is necessary to maintain promptly determine the need for and contents of the continuity of management policies over speciﬁc countermeasures, and set up a framework a certain period of time. To this end, we keep for their implementation. A similar response will shareholders and investors informed not only be made in the event of any attempt to purchase about management results for each term but large amounts of the shares of any Hitachi Group also management measures looking ahead to the company. future. We do not deny the signiﬁcance of stimulating corporate activities or the economy through the transfer of management control rights. However, regarding large purchases of Hitachi and Hitachi Group companies’ shares, it is necessary to cautiously assess the impact that such a purchase or purchase proposal would have on our corporate value and shareholders’ joint proﬁts, based on Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 103 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities Our social contributions are tailored to local FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding Note: Data on Hitachi, Ltd. needs, but help to resolve the challenges facing for Social Contribution Activities and ﬁve foundations in Japan a global society. In emerging economies, we Other 9% Environment 4% Social welfare are tackling poverty, starvation, disparities in 21% education and medical care, and destruction of Culture and the arts 13% the environment. Total expenditure: 1.347 billion yen Philosophy and Policy Scholarships and education For social contributions, we are committed to 53% resolving the basic social issues in the communities where we operate. We work in cooperation with Group employees, Group companies and our six communities as a good corporate citizen and to foundations, based on our Social Contribution inspire more ﬂexible thinking, as well as a greater Philosophy and Policy. We are always mindful of our commitment in those employees who are helping Group Vision of “tackling the basic issues faced by to improve the social infrastructure in their global society.” communities. Through our innovations and social These activities help us to build trust with contributions, we foster the development of both local communities and sustainable business. Hitachi, Ltd. and the ﬁve foundations in Japan Social Contribution Philosophy and Policy contributed around 1.35 billion yen as social Philosophy contributions in ﬁscal 2009. The Hitachi Group strives to demonstrate good corporate citizenship WEB Hitachi: Global Community Relations and Activities in response to social needs and expectations, while endeavoring to http://www.hitachi.com/Int-e/skk/index.html enrich the quality of life and realize a better society. Policy The Hitachi Group promotes various social contribution activities to Education build a vibrant society based on fostering leadership to implement Monozukuri, the heart of our business reformation for the next era. This is achieved by making optimal manufacturing approach, is founded on sound use of our knowledge and information technology in three speciﬁc areas: education, the environment, and social welfare. human resources. We instill a keen sense of social Adopted February 2002 awareness in our engineers and we nurture their ambition and technical capabilities to overcome Approach to Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities of the Hitachi Group Hitachi Group Individual fulﬁllment Volunteer activities, etc. Local Realization of a better society employees communities Actively engaging in social contribution activities to enhance Vitalization of business activities through more ﬂexible thinking and a Business partners brand value Shareholders Hitachi Group greater desire to work Customers Supporting the volunteer activities of employees companies Social contribution activities that allow us to fulﬁll our duty to society, such as disaster assistance Enhanced brand value Active operations as Hitachi Group Foundations Foundations Dissemination of information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 104 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities new challenges and achieve their dreams. We do Vietnam, opportunities to raise their awareness of this to ensure that the technical and other expertise common issues in Asia by taking part in forums, that our people have accumulated is useful for the panel discussions and ﬁeldwork. In ﬁscal 2010, to development of the next generation of engineers. celebrate the 10th anniversary of the program, and our own centennial, a special Alumni Forum was Providing Educational Support organized. We brought together alumni to discuss in Emerging Countries the theme of “Driving Asia to a new paradigm— Emerging markets are vital to Hitachi’s business, what is Asia’s role in the global arenas?” At the while these same markets urgently need to create opening of the forum the guest of honor, Mr. Teo outstanding engineers and technicians to drive Chee Hean, Singapore’s Deputy Prime Minister and national development. We provide support for the Minister for Defense, spoke of his hope that the development of young engineers and technicians in program alumni and other promising young leaders these countries. would make a sustained social contribution. Asia’s In India, Hitachi operates the Hindu-Hitachi now global importance is expected to grow still Scholarship Program in conjunction with a leading further in the years ahead, so we will continue to Indian newspaper, The Hindu. Under this program, contribute to a bright future and further growth in three young engineers are invited to Japan every Asia through the development of next-generation year from India for six months of training in human resources. technical skills, such as design and quality assurance as well as in the Japanese language. Around 130 young trainees have completed this program since it began in 1960. To develop the next generation of leaders in Indian manufacturing, Hitachi India is also cooperating in the development of the Visionary Leadership for Manufacturing Program conducted by the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and the Indian Institute of Technology Madras and sponsored by the Confederation of Indian Industries. This program develops leaders with Students taking part in the Hindu-Hitachi Scholarship Program a clear vision and creates strong partnerships between industry and academia through cuttingedge research and development based on the Supporting Science Education needs of India’s manufacturing sector. So far, We provide children with many opportunities to Hitachi India has held two month-long internship learn about science and technology. Our goal is to programs, where students have gained a deeper overcome an increasing disinterest in science, math understanding of the Hitachi Group. They also and technology among the young generation and participated in a real industry project. stimulate their interest and desire to learn. Hitachi will continue with these activities to help Having concluded a basic agreement on boost the level of manufacturing technologies in partnership and cooperation with Hitachi City, India. Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan, in 2009 to back the city’s Elsewhere in Asia, we have conducted the drive to enhance science education, Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Young Leaders Initiative since 1996 to provides support for the operation of the Hitachi offer university students from Indonesia, Japan, Science Club, a non-proﬁt organization founded Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and in May 2009. The club consists of around 100 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 105 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities some 30 pupils the opportunity to learn about buoyancy using model hot air balloons and about water puriﬁcation using magnets (ballast water†1 treatment experiment). The children took part in these experiments with enthusiasm, learning while having fun. This program has also been held in the United Arab Emirates and China. Hitachi Plant Technologies will continue to hold these locally geared programs worldwide to stimulate the interest of the children who are our future. †1 Ballast water: Seawater used for balancing a ship, which can harm marine ecosystems because the water is taken aboard and then discharged in Conducting a scientiﬁc experiment (Hitachi Science Club) different parts of the sea retired employees from our plants and research institutes, including doctors, professional engineers, manufacturing engineers, and senior engineers with top-class specialist skills, who volunteer their services. The Hitachi Science Club offers six programs, including dispatching volunteers to support science classes at elementary and junior high schools, operating a science and mathematics academy for junior high school students with a strong interest in these subjects, and organizing classes for hands-on experiments in making magnetically powered cars Experiment using a hair dryer to suspend a model hot air balloon (Egypt) and water rockets. In ﬁscal 2010, 280 classes were held for 15,673 students. This year, volunteers are visiting 19 of Hitachi City’s 25 elementary schools twice a week as special science consultants. They help to prepare science experiments and answer students’ questions. This program will be extended to all elementary schools in the area during ﬁscal 2011. We are committed to supporting the Hitachi Science Club, so that these senior engineers can use the expertise and skills built up over the years to educate children and provide them with the opportunity to experience for themselves the joy of science and the wonder of creation. Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. has been running the Community Partnership Academy of Wisdom, an environmental and science program for students that leverages the company’s expertise in air conditioning and water treatment. In ﬁscal 2010, instructors visited the Cairo Japanese School in the capital of the Arab Republic of Egypt to give Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 106 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Some Other Hitachi Group Education Initiatives Company Initiative Overview Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd Chemical experiment classes Summer vacation observation classes for parents and children as well as chemical experiment classes are held at the company’s four plants. In ﬁscal 2010, classes, including those for chemical experiments, were held at the Ibaraki University College of Science, Kaisei Academy and Hitachi City’s Hitachi Eco-City Fiesta in Japan. Hitachi Maxell, Ltd. Kyoto Edison Program Hitachi Maxell’s Kyoto Works has held an annual workshop for parents and children on building dry cell batteries every year since ﬁscal 2006. In ﬁscal 2010, the ﬁrst classroom visits were held in elementary schools in Nagaokakyo City in Kyoto Prefecture, Japan. So far, classes have been held at 11 schools for 880 people. Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. Internship program for solution experts Internships are offered to undergraduate or postgraduate students about to move into the workplace so that they can experience ﬁrsthand and understand systems engineering and sales and marketing in an IT company. Since ﬁscal 2007, the company has hosted around 6,800 students, who have participated in business simulations and systems development under the guidance of company staff. Hitachi Construction Machinery Educational support for elementary school students HCMI staff volunteers teach mathematics and English to children from Indonesia, PT (HCMI) disadvantaged homes at elementary schools in Bekasi and Cibitung in Indonesia. Since ﬁscal 2009, 12 HCMI employee volunteers have taught more than 100 students at three elementary schools. Chemical experiment classes (Hitachi Chemical) Kyoto Edison Program (Hitachi Maxell) Education support by staff volunteers (HCMI) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 107 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities TOPICS The Environment Hitachi’s environmental management mitigates Outstanding Performance Commendation increasingly serious global environmental in the Barrier-Free, Universal Design threats and helps to achieve a more sustainable Contributors Awards†1 society. In our social contribution activities One Hitachi program organizes volunteer too, Group employees and members of their visits by employees from the Hitachi Group families are involved in planting trees and other to elementary schools to give hands-on environmentally conscious projects in keeping workshops on Universal Design (UD). This with the two main Environmental Vision priorities: program shows children the importance of prevention of global warming and preservation of UD from a product developer’s perspective. the ecosystem. In 2010, this program received the Minister of State for Special Missions’ Outstanding Desert Afforestation Volunteer Program Performance Commendation in the Ninth Since ﬁscal 2007, Hitachi, Ltd. has been organizing Barrier-Free, Universal Design Contributors annual volunteer experience tours in conjunction Awards sponsored by the Cabinet Office in with G-Net, a non-proﬁt afforestation organization Japan. Since the program was launched in working in the Horqin Desert in Inner Mongolia, 2005, approximately 6,000 children from 98 China. This program was designed to raise schools have participated in 187 workshops. awareness of the environment and ecosystems Drawing on the experience of this among Hitachi Group employees in Japan and program in Japan, a similar program China and their families through their participation has been launched, as of 2009, for in afforestation. As well, it encourages them to elementary school students in the United consider what they can do personally and how they States. Preparations are also underway can begin to take action. for programs in the United Kingdom In ﬁscal 2010, 22 people—employees of the and Malaysia. This program will also be Hitachi Group in Japan and China and their family gradually extended to other countries and members—participated in the fourth tour, which regions where the Hitachi Group operates, ran for six days from September 17. To celebrate helping more children understand the UD the International Year of Biodiversity, as well as philosophy. Hitachi’s 100th anniversary, one area of the desert was designated the Hitachi Group Forest. For the next decade, we will provide support for this afforestation project. Children’s ideas for a remote control (U.S.) A hands-on UD workshop †1 Barrier-Free, Universal Design Contributors Awards: Launched by the Cabinet Office, Japan, in ﬁscal 2002, these awards honor individuals or organizations for service or performance in facility development or product development, promotion and dissemination of barrier-free UD. Volunteer Experience Tour to the Horqin Desert Afforestation Project in China Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 108 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities We will continue to work to preserve ecosystems, encouraging as many employees as possible to experience ﬁrsthand the importance of ecosystem preservation and to instill a sense of unity across the Group. Woodland Preservation Hitachi Volunteer Seminars encourage employees to volunteer for worthy causes. In ﬁscal 2010, to mark the International Year of Biodiversity, three outdoor seminars were held in Okutama, Tokyo. The theme was going out into local woodlands on weekends. These woodlands are critical for preserving local ecosystems, recharging water resources and preventing natural disasters, but the impact of urbanization, depopulation, and aging in rural villages has caused woodlands to deteriorate. To help stem this trend, Hitachi Group employees and their families take on practical seasonal tasks, such as cutting back summer undergrowth, autumn thinning, and winter pruning. They learn ﬁrsthand the importance of preserving woodlands and the beneﬁts of forests. About 100 people participated in these three seminars. Woodland preservation in Okutama, Tokyo Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 109 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Other Hitachi Group Environmental Protection Programs Company Initiative Overview Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. Terraced rice paddy restoration The Hitachi Solutions Rice Paddy Project restores a part of rice terraces in Yokosawairi in Akiruno City in Tokyo. From June to November 2010, 66 employees took part. After the paddies were restored, though harvests have been small, some ﬁreﬂies have returned. Hitachi Electronics Services Forest preservation In May 2010, company employees and their families, about 25 people in all, Co., Ltd. thinned trees in a forest in Sendaiji in Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. They Kansai Regional Office used the wood to try their hand at making charcoal. In November, 15 employees cleared away and thinned trees on the hillsides behind the Ibaraki City Satoyama Center. Hitachi, Ltd. Information & Hakone Forest Restoration Project In October 2010, around 150 Hitachi Group employees and family members Telecommunication Systems helped conserve trees in the 21st Century Forest (Minamiashigara City, Kanagawa Company Prefecture, Japan) in conjunction with the Kanagawa Forest Instructors’ Association. In addition to thinning trees and clearing underbrush, they observed nature and learned woodcraft. Hitachi Terminals Mechatronics Adopt-A-Forest Program Since ﬁscal 2006, HTMP has been participating in the Adopt-A-Forest Program, a Philippines Corporation project initiated by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) Ecology Center, (HTMP) Philippines. In June 2010, 18 HTMP employees planted around 400 fruit tree seedlings. HTMP plans to continue with regular maintenance and planting. Terraced paddy ﬁeld restoration Making charcoal Adopt-A-Forest Program (HTMP) (Hitachi Solutions) (Kansai Regional Office, Hitachi Electronics Services) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 110 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Social Welfare We also support social welfare projects to ensure that everyone can enjoy the beneﬁts of technological progress, placing special emphasis on promoting the education of the young, the independence of people with disabilities, and helping the elderly. Hitachi Group Activities in North America The Hitachi Community Action Partnership (HCAP) is a program of The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) and the Hitachi group in North America. Community Action Committees (CACs) led by employees from Participants in Food Drive Hitachi Group companies throughout the region, provide support for non-proﬁt organizations proﬁt organizations) in North America offering food with programs focused on local needs. Today, 40 programs. The total was about enough to feed CACs are active in North America, with employees 27,000 people for a week. representing 47 business locations from 19 Group To improve their effectiveness, CACs use a selfcompanies. assessment tool called the Mastering Community In April 2010, 16 Hitachi Consulting employees Action Framework that measures their operations from the southern California area volunteered and activities against clear, concrete benchmarks. to build houses with Habitat for Humanity. This NGO builds houses for people in need, including Making a Social Contribution through Sign victims of disasters, in 100 countries around the Language world. In July, more than 7,350 employees from For visitors with impaired hearing, Team Swan, 28 Hitachi Group companies in North America formed in February 2005 by Hitachi Group also took part in the 11th Annual Hitachi North employees with hearing disabilities, provides sign America Food Drive, a month-long food donation language services at events around Japan. Team campaign. They collected around 21 tons of food Swan began with the goal of providing accurate and received about US$80,000 (around 6.8 million information through detailed explanations for the yen) in donations. All the food and cash donations hearing impaired, who are often left behind as were given to local food banks and NPOs (noninformation becomes more diverse and complex. Habitat for Humanity volunteers Employees on Team Swan talking to customers in sign language Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 111 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities In March 2011, the team had eight signers, who position through Team Swan has boosted their provide explanations at company and outside own motivation to work. In 2010, Team Swan was events as well as at retail consumer electronics featured on The Nikkei Web site and in Shougaisha stores. They also hold exchange meetings with ga Kagayaku Soshiki (Organizations Where the schools for the hearing impaired. These volunteers Hearing Impaired Shine), a book available from normally work in their departments, but say that Nikkei Publishing. being able to help other people in the same TOPICS IT Education at Child Care Centers Hitachi Information Academy Co., Ltd. (Hitachi fun that they would like the volunteers to visit IA) is an IT training organization that operates again. Ms. Asami Matsuno, the person who Smile Delivery, a program that sends Hitachi suggested this idea, hopes that the project volunteers to child care centers to teach will continue, becoming a model not just for children basic computing skills. In June 2009, her own company but also for other Group the company launched a “wish” system for all companies. employees to suggest ideas; the Smile Delivery program grew out of a suggestion from one employee. In February 2009, this Hitachi IA employee—who was participating in social contribution evening classes†1 organized by Hitachi, Ltd.—heard a lecture on support for child care institutions. She realized that if she didn’t act, nothing would change. Once her suggestion was adopted, an email was sent to all employees looking for volunteers. Thirty people responded, and thanks to their cooperation and understanding, the program was launched in March 2010. It operates under Asami Matsuno (right) from the Training Service Division, original proponent of Smile Delivery, and volunteer Aoi Kozuki from the the auspices of Kibo-no-Ie (Hope House), a social Marketing Division welfare public corporation based in Katsushika †1 Social contribution evening class: Lectures given regularly to foster the Ward, Tokyo. Three classes have been held so far. volunteer spirit in Hitachi Group employees The children have said that it was an interesting ﬁrst-time experience, and that it was so much Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 112 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Other Hitachi Group Social Welfare Initiatives Company Initiative Overview Hitachi Information Systems, Interview support for people with disabilities To help people with disabilities ﬁnd work and to participate in social activities, Ltd. we work with Tsukuba University of Technology, Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan, to hold mock job interviews for people with disabilities, who also receive guidance on job seeking, including how to market themselves and how to write a résumé. Hitachi Cable, Ltd. Volunteer activities of the Marathon Club Employees in the Marathon Club volunteer in local communities. At the (Support for visually impaired athletes) Kasumigaura Marathon and International Blind Marathon held at Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan, they assist visually impaired runners, including running alongside as escorts. Hitachi Transport System, Ltd. Traffic safety education Hitachi Transport System provides traffic safety education for elementary school students. In addition to learning basic traffic safety, students take part in experiments. For example, they learn about blind spots and the difference between where a truck’s front and back wheels go when it turns a corner. In ﬁscal 2010, 305 students took part in this program. Traffic safety education was also provided for the elderly, with around 30 people participating. Hitachi Global Storage Morning Sun Program In this voluntary program, Hitachi employees contribute 800 yuan per year— Technologies China Operation individually or as a group—towards a fund for children who are living in poverty in Gongby Town in Guangdong Province, China. In ﬁscal 2010, more than 50 employees helped support 16 children. The fund supports the children by providing them with the daily necessities. Volunteers escort blind runners (Hitachi Cable) Traffic safety education for children Hitachi employees visited the children supported (Hitachi Transport System) by the Morning Sun program with the school bags donated by the company. (Hitachi Global Storage Technologies China Operations) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 113 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Hitachi’s Foundations Hitachi’s six foundations worldwide, operate in a wide range of areas, including supporting family education, promoting science and technology research, inviting Southeast Asian university faculty members to Japan, helping with environmental conservation, supporting the sound development of young people, and developing good corporate citizenship in the United States. Hitachi’s Foundations The Odaira Memorial Hitachi Education Foundation Award winners growing gourmet mushrooms with waste The Hitachi Environment Foundation The Kurata Memorial Hitachi Science and Technology Foundation The Hitachi Mirai Foundation drawing on the experiences and lessons learned The Hitachi Scholarship Foundation by these young entrepreneurs to address the The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) sustainable business practices and the role of business in improving lives and strengthening communities. WEB The Foundation in Hitachi Group http://www.hitachi-zaidan.org/global/index.html WEB The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) http://www.hitachifoundation.org/ Yoshiyama Young Entrepreneurs Program In ﬁscal 2010, The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) Support for Volunteer Activities launched the Yoshiyama Young Entrepreneurs We support employees who volunteer in three Program, the successor to the Yoshiyama Award ways: with information, time off, and funding for Exemplary Service to the Community, which support. For information, we publish information had run since 1988, more than two decades. The about volunteer activities at seminars and on original Yoshiyama Award honored high school our intranet. In ﬁscal 2010, we sponsored four seniors in the U.S. for their community service and seminars, including three outdoors. For time off, social change efforts. The award included a cash we provide employees with special annual paid prize and participation in a four-day program that leave on top of their regular holidays which they included a commendation ceremony and leadership can use for volunteering or for other forms of selftraining. fulﬁllment. For funding support, we operate The The new program provides young entrepreneurs Growing Tree, a volunteer program that provides who are operating a business aimed at helping to ﬁnancial assistance to non-proﬁt organizations that improve the lives of underprivileged individuals in Hitachi employees are involved with or support as the United States, and who began their businesses volunteers. Assistance was given in 12 cases for before they reached the age of 30. In ﬁscal 2010, around 3.2 million yen in ﬁscal 2010. nine young people were named Yoshiyama Young Entrepreneurs. They represent six enterprises that Main Activities Supported by The Growing Tree (FY 2010) help farm and forestry workers, female immigrants, and support underprivileged entrepreneurs. Each Training volunteers for environmental protection enterprise received a cash prize of US$50,000 Helping Japan’s farmers, who are struggling with a labor shortage because (given out over two years) as well as mentoring and of depopulation, aging, and the falling rate of food self-sufficiency technical assistance to help grow their business. Putting up side fences for sports ﬁelds for blind soccer players The Hitachi Foundation looks forward to Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 114 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Social Contribution Activities Disaster Relief and Recovery Recovery Support for Areas Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake As of June, 2011, the Hitachi Group decided to provide support with a total value of 940 million yen, including the provision of ﬂat-panel TVs, dry cell batteries, and Disaster Victim Support Systems†1 for local municipalities with no charge and to aid victims of the disaster and to assist in recovery efforts (see pages 010–014). †1 Disaster Victim Support Systems: A system that provides support to operations undertaken by municipal governments in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster. The system’s program is provided by the Local Authorities Systems Development Center (LASDEC). Support for Disaster Recovery in Oceania Torrential rains in northeastern Australia at the end of 2010 caused catastrophic ﬂooding. In Queensland, collapsed river banks and dykes, among other problems, created terrible ﬂood damage over a wide area. Hitachi Australia and four Hitachi Group companies donated AU$50,000 (around 4.1 million yen) to the Premier’s Disaster Relief Appeal administered by the Queensland government. Following the 6.3-magnitude earthquake that occurred in Christchurch, New Zealand, in February 2011, the Hitachi Group donated NZ$100,000 (approximately six million yen) for victim relief and for rebuilding the city. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 115 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Respect for Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Cherishing humanity is fundamental to labor that employs children below the minimum working management at Hitachi. When operating age or coerced labor that is against the will of the workers. (2) We will conduct procurement with proper consideration for globally, we respect human rights based on corporate social responsibility, and will not procure goods international codes for all of our stakeholders, or services from enterprises that utilize child labor or forced appreciating the cultures of every country and labor. (3) Considering the laws and regulations and labor practices region to enhance our understanding of their in each nation and region, and respecting the basic rights values. of employees presented as the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we will strive to have employees Human Rights Policies and managers better understand each other’s problems and resolve issues jointly through genuine and constructive We established the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct dialogue. in 2010. Central to these rules are respect for national and regional laws as well as universal human rights based on international norms. Our codes clearly require: respect for the individuality rights awareness among all Group employees and personalities of everyone related to our worldwide. business; the elimination of discrimination in recruitment and employment; and respect for basic Framework for Promoting Respect for human rights in all workplaces. We have translated Human Rights the codes into 17 languages to improve human Hitachi, Ltd. established the Central Human Rights Promotion Committee to deliberate on mechanisms and policies to prevent human rights violations. Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct A Hitachi, Ltd. executive officer chairs this body, Chapter 4 Respect of Human Rights whose members include representatives from 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights sales, procurement, human resources, and other (1) We will respect international standards of conduct corporate units. Information from deliberations is regarding human rights, and strive to ensure that we do not engage in any conduct that obstructs or interferes with human rights. Hitachi, Ltd. Framework for Promoting Respect for 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination Human Rights (1) We will respect every person’s character and individuality Central Human Rights Promotion Committee in the recruitment and treatment of employees, the Chairperson: Executive Officer conduct of commercial transactions, and all other Members: Personnel in charge of corporate divisions such as marketing, procurement, human company activities, and not engage in any acts that impair resources, and other divisions individual dignity or discriminate on the basis of sex, age, nationality, race, ethnicity, ideology, belief, religion, social Company and Business Site Committee status, family origin, disease, disability, etc. Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents and Division Heads 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information Members: Division managers Management (1) We will establish information ethics based on consideration Company and Business Site Committee of human rights and the maintenance of security Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents in information handling, to prevent in advance the and Division Heads Members: Division managers emergence of problems from personal information leaks, computer viruses, and unauthorized access. Company and Business Site Committee 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents (1) We will advance employment with proper consideration and Division Heads Members: Division managers for corporate social responsibility. We will hire employees in accordance with the governing domestic, foreign and local laws in each country and region. We will not use child Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 116 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Respect for Human Rights shared with all employees through company and Sixty percent of senior management-level business site committees, led by company and employees at European Group companies division executives. completed Senior Manager training in ﬁscal 2010. In March 2011, Hitachi Europe, Ltd. conducted Raising Awareness of Human Rights a stakeholder dialogue on human rights with Hitachi improves Group-wide human rights representatives from the European Commission, awareness based on guidelines from the Central international bodies, national governments, and Human Rights Promotion Committee. We augment nongovernment organizations. Executives from business units’ regular group training, seminars, Hitachi, Ltd. attended this gathering. We gained and video education sessions with the human rights valuable insights into the human rights activities e-learning course that the 260,000 employees of that the Hitachi Group must consider in global all 440 Group companies in Japan take once every business activities. three years. We collaborate with our European CSR team to produce educational materials that include concepts from regions where human rights practices are advanced. We maintain a framework to more swiftly detect and resolve internal and external human rights violations. This framework includes the Compliance Reporting System, a sexual harassment consultation system, and employee awareness surveys. We strive to identify human Stakeholder dialogue in Europe rights risks globally through regular management and business risk assessments. VOICES Applying Human Rights Worldwide We have developed educational programs and Acting with a Sense of Global Responsibility management best practices in Europe, which we believe is the most advanced in addressing human rights and business. We intend to apply these programs and practices worldwide as a global enterprise to ensure that Hitachi Group employees and businesses consistently respect human rights. Richard Howitt MEP European Parliament Rapporteur Our European CSR team collaborated with on Corporate Social Responsibility European Group companies to launch a human I welcome this Sustainability Report and rights project. We follow the work of Professor John Hitachi’s journey to move beyond being a Ruggie, Special Representative of the SecretaryJapanese headquartered company to being General of the United Nations on business and a truly global company. With this global human rights, and support his framework, Protect, status also comes a global responsibility. Respect and Remedy. The work during the early It is vital that as a leading player in stages of the project is setting up Hitachi in Europe sustainability that Hitachi continues to implement the framework across its businesses. to take a leadership role on Corporate We are educating employees on human rights, Social Responsibility (CSR). Your focus ensuring that all relevant standards and policies are on Social Innovation Business from clean up to date, and establishing business speciﬁc action trains to smart grids marks a step forward plans. in promoting measurable advances on Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 117 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Respect for Human Rights sustainability, Hitachi has also been one of the few companies who commit publicly to a human rights approach. Your objective is clear, to foster a culture where there is awareness, understanding and appreciation of human rights at all employee levels, and to ensure that international human rights standards are understood and met across your business. I hope Hitachi will actively take a leading role in promoting both the UN Guidelines on Business and Human Rights as well as increased transparency, bringing ﬁnancial and environmental, social and governance issues together, side by side in one integrated report. During the year I had the pleasure of visiting your plant in Narashino and meeting both management and workers which was truly enlightening for me in my work on global CSR. I look forward to working more closely with you as part of my continuing work, and hope for your support in developing collaborative ventures on CSR between the Japanese Ministry for Economy Trade and Industry (METI) and the European Commission. In conclusion, although establishing itself globally Hitachi will I am sure never forget its roots in Japan and will be part of the work to rebuild the Japanese economy and Japanese communities following the horriﬁc earthquake and tsunami. The challenges are huge but the determination is tangible. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 118 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management One priority in the 2012 Mid-Term employment and occupations as well as all forms Management Plan is to expand our global of child and forced labor. We will share global procurement ratio, particularly by stepping supply chain issues within the Group and reinforce up purchasing in emerging nations. This procurement in line with the Hitachi Guidelines for will reinforce our global competitiveness Procurement Activities. and operational foundation. For global †1 UN Global Compact: An international accord that Kofi Annan, the former procurement, we respect the human rights Secretary-General of the United Nations, proposed and which was adopted in 2000. This compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and the basic work rights of everyone in the and anti-corruption encourage the building of a sustainable society. The supply chain. We collaborate with suppliers United Nations asks corporations, nongovernment organizations, citizens groups, and other entities to base their actions on these principles. As of in promoting CSR by sharing guidelines and March 2011, 8,711 organizations are supporting the UN Global Compact (of these, 139 are Japanese). communicating proactively. Promoting Globalization Guidelines for Procurement Activities Using the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, we intend to raise the Group’s global procurement These guidelines deﬁne business transaction standards which shall be applied to all HITACHI executives and ratio from 36 percent to 50 percent by ﬁscal employees in connection with their activities purchasing 2012. We therefore formulated the Hitachi Group necessary materials, products, services, and information Medium-Term Procurement Strategic Plan. The from outside sources. key aims are to establish global partnerships to 1. Overall procurement activities of Hitachi shall adhere to the “HITACHI Company Conduct Standards.” create Group procurement strategies, to stabilize 2. HITACHI shall maintain proper partnerships, mutual the supply of materials, and to reinforce CSR and understanding, and reliable relationships with sustainability within the supply chain. In order to suppliers with a view to the long term results. accelerate these Group-wide activities, we set up (1) HITACHI shall treat all suppliers impartially and be prohibited from favoritism such as giving unfair the Global Procurement Promotion Department priority to any speciﬁc suppliers. within the Corporate Procurement Division to boost (2) HITACHI respects fair business dealings with the global procurement ratio. We are continuing to suppliers and will avoid any improper act which might cause a loss to a supplier apart from normal reinforce our responsiveness to CSR risk, a growing and customary business transactions. concern as the global supply chain expands. (3) HITACHI shall keep suppliers’ trade secrets strictly conﬁdential and prevent them from being revealed or improperly used. Main Barometers 3. HITACHI develops suppliers to maintain Global procurement ratio of Hitachi Group competitiveness from a worldwide point of view. (1) HITACHI responds to all suppliers’ offers sincerely, 36% 50% and is always willing to offer the information necessary for suppliers to compete on an even Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2012 target playing ﬁeld. (2) HITACHI shall periodically check and review suppliers’ performance and will consider offering Sharing Procurement Policies more advantageous business opportunities when comparison with other resources allows. We revised the Hitachi Guidelines for Procurement 4. Through a designated selection process, suppliers Activities in June 2009 in line with the United shall be evaluated by product quality, reliability, Nations Global Compact.†1 These guidelines delivery, price, suppliers’ business stability, are the basis of our procurement activities. The technical development ability, fair and transparent information release, compliance with societies’ revision added the elimination of discrimination in Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 119 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Supply Chain Management rules, regulation compliance, respect for human Supply Chains, we support initiatives to build and rights, elimination of discrimination in respect of foster sustainable supply chains that follow UN employment and occupation, elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, environmental principles on human rights, labor, the environment, preservation activities, social contributions, good and anti-corruption. In ﬁscal 2010, we helped working environment, and recognition of social formulate guidelines on supply chain sustainability, responsibilities with business partners. supply chain Web sites, and on-line assessment (1) HITACHI shall not request quotations from suppliers with whom there is no intention to and study tools for organizations participating enter into a future business relationship. in the UN Global Compact. We will keep serving (2) In accordance with speciﬁed internal procedures, as an opinion leader by supporting these UN the role and responsibility for speciﬁcations, terms and conditions, product acceptance activities, drawing on our expertise from our global and inspection belongs to each Requester, operations in dealing with Procurement Department and Inspection sustainability issues, such Department. as human rights and the (3) Procurement Departments shall be a representative of HITACHI when contracting with environment. suppliers. 5. HITACHI members are prohibited from receiving any personal gifts or offers from suppliers. Revised in 2009 Guidelines on Supply Chain *All companies in the Hitachi Group act in accordance with these guidelines. Sustainability WEB UN Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Building Partnerships The Hitachi Group values partnerships and an open-door policy with suppliers. We strive to Sharing CSR Awareness maintain and reinforce mutual understanding In ﬁscal 2009, we produced the Hitachi Group and trust over the long term. We also employ Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook, worldwide perspectives, choosing suppliers in line which conforms to the guidelines of the Japan with the principles of free competition and equal Electronics and Information Technology Industries opportunity. One special priority is to cultivate Association. We distributed this publication both and expand the pool of suppliers in the emerging throughout the Group and to our suppliers. We nations that we have positioned as major markets. plan to evaluate progress on CSR among suppliers Following a 2009 initiative, we dispatched worldwide to reinforce mutual understanding and another team in October 2010 to seek new communication about social issues. suppliers in Vietnam. We gathered information WEB Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook from the Japan External Trade Organization and http://www.hitachi.com/procurement/policy/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2010/08/30/ SC_CSR_E_2.pdf other countries’ trade bodies on companies that were the focus of our research. We are reinforcing procurement in Southeast Asia, China, South Green Procurement†1 Korea, India, and Eastern Europe to build our Social In keeping with our commitment to monozukuri Innovation Business. We also set up a procurement craftsmanship, we use green procurement in our unit in Brazil in April 2010 to broaden our South supply chain. American supplier network. †1 Green procurement: Procuring parts and materials that reduce the environmental burden from suppliers that protect the environment. Helping Create International Guidelines As a founding member of the advisory group for Green Procurement Guidelines the United Nations Global Compact on Sustainable We developed Green Procurement Guidelines Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 120 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Supply Chain Management to secure the understanding and cooperation Orientation on REACH†1 Compliance of suppliers in conservation and in reducing Hitachi, Ltd. business sites and Group companies environmental burdens when developing and held a supplier orientation on REACH compliance. making their products. There are six speciﬁc supplier To ensure compliance with Europe’s REACH requirements: (1) conserve resources, (2) conserve regulations, they focused on surveys of chemical energy, (3) pursue the 3Rs,†1 (4) reduce packaging, substances in products. (5) rigorously manage chemical substances, and Suppliers found the event stimulating. We (6) fully disclose information. For requirements explained our response and other REACH-related (1) through (4), we present case studies of initiatives initiatives to the over 900 participants at the ﬁscal that have beneﬁted both the environment and 2010 gathering. suppliers because they have cut costs and improved †1 REACH regulation: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of product functionality. For requirement (5), we specify Chemicals (EU) the chemicals used in products from suppliers and have them register those substances in the Green Promoting Green Purchasing Procurement System. We are improving our green purchasing rate—the ratio of environmentally conscious †1 3Rs: Reduce, reuse, and recycle products purchased to total office supplies—by WEB Green Procurement Guidelines using a Group-wide online purchasing system, http://www.hitachi.com/environment/library/pdf/green_en.pdf the e-sourcingMall. This system has a range of environmentally conscious products. It promotes Helping Build Environmental Management purchasing by clearly labeling these products. For Systems ﬁscal 2010, our green purchasing rate reached 95 To promote green procurement, we ask suppliers percent, clearing the year’s goal of 90 percent. to develop environmental management systems that third parties can certify. Suppliers with these Response to Conflict Minerals†1 Issue certiﬁcations become Green Suppliers. With these The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Green Suppliers, we launched the New MMM Protection Act was signed into law in the United Club,†1 where members exchange information on States in July 2010. One provision under the Act advanced environmental technologies, regulations, obliges companies with securities registered in the and outstanding environmental initiatives by U.S. that use in their products any conﬂict minerals suppliers. We will continue to encourage suppliers produced in the Democratic Republic of Congo to lower environmental risk and costs, while we (the “DRC”) and adjoining countries (together the keep building win-win relationships with these “DRC countries”) to report this to the U.S. Securities suppliers through green procurement. and Exchange Commission (SEC). The aim of the provision is to cut off revenues from armed groups †1 The MMM Club is an organization run primarily by suppliers who have acquired environmental certification through Hitachi’s activities to support that are engaged in violence and other serious their environmental programs. Mottainai, which means regrettable waste in Japanese, is now an international environmental term. The three Ms come breaches of human rights in the conﬂict-ridden from the first letter of mottainai. DRC countries. Pursuant to the Act, the SEC plans to promulgate regulations requiring that companies using any conﬂict minerals in their products disclose in their annual reports whether these conﬂict minerals originated in the DRC countries. Hitachi is committed to the pursuit of responsible procurement practices and has no intention, directly or indirectly, of abetting the human rights violations identiﬁed in the DRC New MMM Club General Meeting Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 121 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Supply Chain Management countries. Accordingly, we are working with Group companies and suppliers to boost supply chain transparency and to ensure that the minerals we procure do not ﬁnance or beneﬁt armed groups committing human rights violations. †1 Conflict minerals: “Conflict minerals” are defined under the Dodd-Frank Act as the following minerals or their derivatives: · Columbite-tantalite, also known as coltan (the metal ore from which tantalum is extracted); · Cassiterite (the metal ore from which tin is extracted); · Gold; · Wolframite (the metal ore from which tungsten is extracted); and · Any other mineral or its derivatives determined by the U.S. Secretary of State to be financing conflicts in the DRC countries. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 122 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management Diversity Management We have a range of initiatives that help us Diversity Development Project Structure become a company that develops employees’ abilities or ideas and empowers them to President (overall executive in charge) realize their potential. We are committed to Advisors: External directors creating an attractive work environment by, for example, appointing more female managers, Advisory Committee: Executive Vice Presidents, Vice President in and improving child and nursing care support. charge of personnel, managers in charge of labor administration in Group companies Diversity Development Project Diversity Development Group Council We launched the Diversity & Inclusion Development Secretariat: Diversity Development Center Project in ﬁscal 2006 to encourage a good workMembers: People in charge of diversity development life balance. Initiatives within the program include within Group or internal companies and offices developing and enhancing support for employees In promoting diversity, we hold regular meetings to exchange in balancing work with child care or nursing care opinions with labor unions. for family members. We also advance women in the workplace through the strategic development of female managers and a proactive hiring policy, in Work-Life Balance-up! Month line with our goal of ultimately achieving an equal As part of the Diversity Development Project, we ratio of males and females in key management are improving employees’ work-life balance. In positions. November 2010, we held the Work-Life Balance-up! In addition, we continue to educate and raise Month (WLB-up! Month) throughout the company the awareness of employees. We are expanding our to increase awareness and understanding of how training options to include courses on deepening we support work-life balance. At the start of the understanding of diversity management as well as month, a message from the president was sent courses that employ corporate lectures and World out, and a pamphlet was distributed outlining Café-style dialogues. child care and nursing care support programs In May 2010, we received the Corporate Prize and how to use them. Other steps included in the Best Mother Awards held by the NPO Japan delivering a mail magazine, calls for senryu (satirical Mothers Society in recognition of our programs. poetry) submissions, and release of the WLB-up! Declaration.†1 Individual companies and offices also had their own campaigns geared to their particular circumstances. Employees reported back that the campaign was easy to understand, and that they would like it to keep going. To meet these expectations, we will continue, as well as improve, these programs. Award ceremony for the Best Mother Awards Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 123 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management †1 WLB-up! Declaration: An initiative where all employees outline their own work and life goals, which are shared in the workplace Trend in the Number of Employees Taking Child Care Leave (People) Acquiring “Kurumin” Certification 1,200 In February 2011, Hitachi, Ltd. acquired certiﬁcation 1,056 1,080 under the Act on Advancement of Measures to 1,000 Support Raising Next-Generation Children, also 800 546 538 known as “Kurumin” certiﬁcation. This is granted to companies that create action plans for child 600 care support in line with the act and meet the 438 459 performance requirements. 400 510 542 189 200 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan “Kurumin” Mark Breakdown of Male and Female (People) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Ratio of Male and Female Employees in FY 2010 504 525 Female 183 436 451 (533*) (522*) Female Female 16% 10% 6 17 Male 6 2 8 (13*) (16*) 510 542 Total 189 438 459 (546*) (538*) Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* Male Male Number of Employees Taking Paternity Leave 84% 90% (People) *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan 500 467 450 400 Trend in the Number and Ratio of Female Managers (People) (%) 311 3.3 4 300 307 2.9 3 2.5 3 1,200 1.2 1.3 2 200 1 139 981 0 121 900 840 100 156 143 595 0 600 520 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Hitachi, Ltd. 276 303 Hitachi Group* *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan 300 320 386 73 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* Hitachi Group* *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 124 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management Trend in the Number of Employees TOPICS Taking Nursing Care Leave (People) Family Day 40 36 One workplace-speciﬁc event during WLB 33 Month was a family day; it was also held 30 at Hitachi, Ltd. headquarters in December 25 2010. 20 23 20 18 Employees’ families were invited to the headquarters office on a holiday to see the 10 place where their family members work, 7 11 to learn about Hitachi’s history and to eat 10 in the cafeteria. The goal was to deepen 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the families’ understanding and empathy (FY) Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi, Ltd. toward employees’ jobs and encourage a Hitachi Group* Hitachi Group* sense of pride and satisfaction for working *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan at Hitachi. Breakdown of Male and Female (People) On that day in December, 180 people 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 from 56 families came to the office, getting 6 7 Female 5 10 8 an up-close look at workplaces and learning (10*) (9*) 5 3 about our company. Male 2 10 10 (15*) (14*) 11 10 Total 7 20 18 (25*) (23*) Trend in the Number of Employees Working Shorter Hours (People) 1,200 1,032 900 839 695 600 551 Employee family members looking around the workplace 383 350 300 288 337 Main Assessments & Awards 96 0 Hitachi, Ltd. has received the following assessments 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and awards from the media and related (FY) Hitachi, Ltd. organizations to recognize diversity and other Hitachi Group* *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan initiatives that create more employee friendly Breakdown of Male and Female (People) workplaces: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 · Nihon Keizai Shimbun, 2010 Ranking of 287 330 Female 94 349 381 (543*) (688*) Companies with the Best Working Conditions: 4th 1 7 place Male 2 1 2 (8*) (7*) 288 337 · Nikkei Business Publications, Inc., 2011 Ranking Total 96 350 383 (551*) (695*) of Companies that Encourage Working Women: 12th place Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 125 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management European Diversity Project the European Human Rights and Diversity Project We believe that workplaces that value diversity team developed an e-learning program available attract the best human resources and that they in English, French, German and Italian that was excel at innovation and business. Hitachi Group distributed to all Group companies in Europe. The companies in Europe have undertaken the aim is to educate 80 percent of employees by the European Human Rights and Diversity Project end of ﬁscal 2011. as one way of addressing the priority issue of In the coming years, Group companies will track human rights, promoting equal opportunity and the goals and ratios for gender in employment and eliminating all forms of discrimination. management positions, and Hitachi Europe Ltd. too According to a survey conducted by Hitachi is looking at appointing female executives by the Group companies in Europe in ﬁscal 2010, the ratio end of ﬁscal 2013. of Group female employees, including managers, These activities have been welcomed in Europe was below the average of other European and have been presented at the Enterprise 2020 companies. MarketPlace of CSR Europe and other international To boost diversity awareness among all conferences. employees at Hitachi Group companies in Europe, VOICES Internship Program for Female Athletes attributes that the company seeks in recruiting new employees. For the pilot program, 10 women athletes are being selected for internships from top colleges in the area, Lisa Dearborn including Stanford and Santa Clara University, Senior Director, Diversity, College Programs, and Communications and will receive development and mentoring Hitachi Data Systems speciﬁcally tailored for the program. Hitachi Data Systems is launching a program Hitachi Data Systems is focusing not only on in the United States that focuses on recruiting recruitment of women with winning attributes college women who are athletes: the Women’s but on leadership development. Its Women’s Athletic Intern Program (WAIP). The motivation Leadership Network (WLN) begins its fourth for WAIP is simple: to be successful in their year in 2011 and has continued to expand its chosen sport while attending top colleges, activities and membership. In addition, the athletes must possess a winning combination company hand selects women managers with of teamwork skills, competitiveness, time high potential for participation in the year-long management, and determination. These are Women Unlimited leadership programs. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 126 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management VOICES Great Chances for Women I am grateful that I not only had the chance to start my career in this male-driven surrounding but was also promoted to lead a core department in our company—as a woman. Karin Weintoegl Lawyer The necessary improvement from a quantitative Head of Commercial Proposals Vice President view is with the company until today. From Hitachi Power Europe GmbH the quality side it is with our society, which is The main challenge for women at Hitachi often not used to women in technology-driven Power is driven by the fact that the plant companies and/or executive positions. engineering and construction business is Therefore I would advise all women, who traditionally a male-dominated business. currently have to decide where to apply for a When I started my career in 2004 at Hitachi job, not to leave out companies such as Hitachi, Power Europe GmbH in Germany, we were which might not be known as typical “female,” only 4 female professionals out of some 300 but which grants great chances–as I might be employees–until today this did not change the perfect proof for. fundamentally. Balancing a Fulfilling Job and Family nearly half of our management teams are women. We do not feel any gender barriers in promotions nor other career advancement opportunities. Flexible working schedules Ms. Hua Ping and locations in some positions which do not Chief Representative/ Shared Services / Human Resources impact business delivery will further support Hitachi GST China Operations women’s career development by providing As a woman leader, especially an Asian woman, them more ﬂexibility in arranging job and I think family is in equal importance with career. family issues. How to balance our work and life is usually one Bearing a positive mindset, maintaining our of the biggest challenges women leaders have. professionalism and try as much as we can to I would say Hitachi GST does a good job manage self-emotions at all times, especially at diversity. There are a number of excellent when handling tough situations, can always women leaders in our company who are help us mitigate the stress from work and making important business decisions and achieve success. Enjoy your work and enjoy who are involved in the company’s strategic your life as well. planning and development. At our China sites, Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 127 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management VOICES Diverse Human Resources Are the Wellspring of As research laboratory director, I was in a Innovation position to foster young researchers. Based Shen Liping on my own experience, when I was hiring Shanghai Region General Manager researchers or instructing them, I placed priority and Director of Advanced Technology Innovation Research on their abilities. I realize that men and women Laboratory Hitachi (China) Research & of course differ in certain respects, but I think Development Corporation it is more important to understand the unique In 2004 I returned to China from Japan and characteristics of each individual and provide joined Hitachi (China) Research & Development opportunities for them to realize their full Corporation as a senior researcher. After potential. In addition, rather than attempting working for two years on launching research to foster the same kind of human resources in projects and building research teams, I was the organization, I try to bring together people promoted to the position of research laboratory with different abilities and diverse personalities director. Looking back a few years, I think I in order to bring innovation into our research. was able to advance this far thanks to Hitachi’s I will continue to strive to foster the human corporate culture of giving opportunities to resources who will be the future of Hitachi. employees regardless of gender. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 128 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Diversity Management Employing People with Disabilities Model Project for Promoting We employ around 3,000 disabled people in a the Employment of People with broad range of areas. To help them adapt to work Mental Disabilities environments, we have taken actions geared to We have a number of programs that create their particular needs. These include installing attractive environments for people with mental magnifying reading devices, computers with speech disabilities. These are part of our two year recognition, and warning lights for those with commitment, from May 2009, to the Ministry of hearing impairments. Health, Labour and Welfare to undertake a model There are also four special subsidiaries within project entitled Promoting the Employment of the Hitachi Group where 200 or so disabled or People with Mental Disabilities. Key measures challenged employees perform tasks such as include creating work geared to the particular collecting and distributing internal mail, office kind of disability, promoting understanding in the cleaning, and clerical work. In ﬁscal 2010, those workplace, and training “natural supporters” with in charge of employing disabled people came whom employees can feel comfortable consulting together for information exchange meetings, on workplace issues. Within the workplace, we workshops, visits to special support schools, have assigned psychiatric social workers to manage and other events. The goal was to deepen their the health of mentally disabled employees and understanding of disabilities. We have also provide them with advice. We are also using special collaborated on the employment of disabled training and group work to ensure healthy work workers with Public Employment Security Offices for people with mental disabilities and how to by holding a Hitachi Group job fair for disabled develop smooth personal relationships. This project jobseekers. has led to the employment of new employees with In June 2010, the employment ratio of people mental disabilities since ﬁscal 2009 and six have with disabilities was 2.05 percent at Hitachi, Ltd. joined the company as of March 2011. Hitachi and 1.88 percent as a consolidated domestic Group has also adopted a ﬂexible work system that has company. This reached the legally mandated ratio the new employees gradually building up from of 1.8 percent. We are committed to creating even three four-hour days per week. One employee more employment opportunities. commented that Hitachi was the ﬁrst place where he had been able to continue working for more Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities than a year, while another was grateful that there (People) (%) was someone close at hand to provide advice. We 2.5 will report on these results to Group companies and 2.05 2.11 2.06 2.05 other companies to help promote understanding 1,300 2.01 2.0 and recognition of the employment of people with 1.8* 1,150 1,106 1,091 mental disabilities. 1.5 1,001 1,000 981 933 1.0 850 0.5 700 0 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Source: Hitachi, Ltd. (collected in June every year) *Legally mandated employment ratio Supporter training Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 129 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Global Human Capital Development Global Human Capital Development Because we believe that maximizing employee hiring engineers. By matching the positions that potential is vital for creating new value, we applicants want with where we need staff, we are work hard to improve employees’ abilities and increasing both the satisfaction of new hires and to develop their careers. Given the accelerating the quality of our human resources. pace of globalization, we urgently need to For hiring outside Japan, we are prioritizing develop leaders capable of competing in the regions and jobs with an eye on establishing global arena. We are pushing ahead with a common Hitachi Group hiring practices, in range of initiatives to enhance and expand our cooperation with head offices in each region. global business. Global Education for Young Aligning Hiring with Global Business Employees To globalize more effectively, we have identiﬁed We are considering several ways of strategically eight key qualities for global human resources. securing and training people who will thrive in These include the ability to see from the other the global business arena. For young employees party’s perspective and the ability to communicate in particular, we have created programs that clearly. These key qualities are being used in include practical training outside Japan, ﬁeldwork, the selection of new employees from the 2012 and overseas language study. By giving these graduate pool. We approach hiring with the goal employees the opportunity to experience life in of having all new graduates move into global other countries, we will equip them to handle business at sometime in the future. This includes the challenges of globalization. We are currently new graduates hired in Japan for office jobs and developing programs to send young employees 50 percent of those hired for engineering jobs. We outside Japan from ﬁscal 2011 so that they can also intend to have foreign students make up 10 acquire not just language skills but experience percent of our new graduate intake. In addition, working with a variety of people. Along with the we led the way for other companies with the business experience they will receive, they will 2001 introduction of a job-matching scheme for grow to understand local cultures and lifestyles ﬁrsthand. We plan to send 2,000 employees outside Trend in the Number of Non-Japanese Employees Japan through these programs by the end of ﬁscal (People) 2012. We consider speaking English an essential skill for global business, so we will strengthen 300 English language training for future leaders, with a 230 particular emphasis on global business. 218 200 To deepen overseas employees’ understanding 200 179 of Hitachi and of Japan, we are also systematically 151 increasing opportunities for high-potential employees to work in Japan. 100 Global Manager Training With our operations taking on an increasingly 0 global focus, it is necessary that all managers 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) working on the global frontlines to understand Note: Number of non-Japanese staff within Hitachi, Ltd. our history, founding spirit, company operations, Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 130 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Global Human Capital Development common values, corporate philosophy, and basic HITACHI BASIS management skills. To instill this understanding, We have speciﬁed the HITACHI BASIS as a common we provide a four-day course called Global basic education platform for sharing our Corporate Fundamental Course—Ready to Inspire, which Credo, work approach, and way of thinking with offers the same training to all Hitachi managers all Hitachi Group companies worldwide. On that around the world. foundation, we operate a two-tiered employee Since ﬁscal 2006, when it was launched, this education system that uses human resource course has been taken by approximately 1,369 development tailored to the needs of individual managers. We plan to continue to offer this course business ﬁelds and regions. from ﬁscal 2011 on, while broadening the regions As of ﬁscal 2010, we have begun evaluating and personnel covered, as well as improving the the effectiveness of education in the main Group training methods. companies. As part of the HITACHI BASIS initiative, we also took the opportunity of Hitachi’s centennial to develop Discover Hitachi, a program targeting Group employees worldwide that reaffirms our history, Hitachi Founding Spirit, management policies and business operations. Participants in the Global Fundamental Course Training Future Managers To compete with the world’s top companies in the years ahead, Hitachi Group managers will have to create their own business models as well as develop HITACHI BASIS portal Web site and manage the methods to achieve them. We intend to offer intensive business training courses Training System to help them reach their goals. Business training We have supplemented in-house education—based for managers within Japan has been completely on on-the-job training—with an extensive training revamped, and we plan to have around 4,000 system consisting of a number of educational staff take the new training courses. In addition to programs: Management Development, Education training managers for a global leadership style— for Engineers, Production Worker Training, identifying a vision, motivating, and providing Education for Globalization, Sales Education, and clear feedback—senior management candidates Training by Job Function. These programs are in particular will learn strategic business planning offered across the Hitachi Group by the Hitachi and leadership over a six-month period through Institute of Technology, the Hitachi Institute of weeklong sessions taught in English with ﬁeldwork MONOZUKURI Skills and Engineering, and the outside Japan. We also provide opportunities Hitachi Institute of Management Development as for discussions between talented non-Japanese common Group educational courses. During ﬁscal employees and executives at Hitachi headquarters, 2010, 22,666 Hitachi Group employees took these and they are given training in Japan to help training courses. them build networks and groom them for senior Other kinds of training are provided by different management positions. companies and offices. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 131 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Employee Health and Safety Employee Health and Safety The health and safety of employees is our highest priority. Based on the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Policy, we work hard to ensure that employees are healthy and safe by constantly improving conditions for them. The English version of the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Policy is scheduled to be published within fiscal 2011. Health and Safety Programs Based on the policies developed by top Hitachi Group Health and Safety Research Presentation Meeting management, we ensure that basic activities such as regular workplace inspections and 5S†1 activities Trends in Occupational Accident Rates are conducted in line with our labor, health 2.00 1.90 and safety management system. We also work 1.83 1.75 continually to prevent accidents and to reduce the 1.75 1.62 risk of accidents through risk assessments and other 1.50 hazard prediction and preventive systems. The Hitachi Group Health and Safety Research 1.25 1.09 1.12 Presentation Meeting is held every December 1.02 0.99 1.00 to ﬁnd ways to improve the level of health and safety throughout the Group. In ﬁscal 2010, the 0.75 54th meeting attracted 250 participants from 0.48 0.46 70 companies, and featured ﬁve case study 0.50 0.39 0.37 presentations as well as special lectures by outside 0.22 0.25 0.23 0.25 experts. Reports on best practices and new 0.25 0.26 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.12 0.12 measures learned from serious mishaps in the 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 past were followed by vigorous discussions that (FY) All industries stimulated health and safety activities across the Manufacturing industries Electrical machinery sector Group as a whole. Hitachi Group Hitachi, Ltd. At the same time, health and safety levels Notes: within the Group are far from perfect, with serious 1. 2010 figures are not available, except for Hitachi, Ltd. and the Hitachi Group accidents continuing to occur. We are committed 2. 90 Hitachi Group companies in Japan to working, Group-wide, to improve the level of health and safety still further and to achieve zero workplace accidents. †1 5S activities: The five principles for maintaining and improving workplace environments are seiri (sorting), seiton (setting in order), seiso (systematic cleaning), seiketsu (standardizing) and shitsuke (self-discipline). Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 132 Management Report Environmental Report Social Report Employee Health and Safety Mental Health Care communication skills. Second-line programs Ensuring physical and mental health is another include early identiﬁcation and treatment through key priority. To enable every employee to work in EAP,†1 as well as counseling from industrial health a healthy environment, we consult with health professionals. For the third line, we created a insurance associations and other groups to program for employees returning to work based maintain high levels of employee health. on our workplace return support guidelines, and In recent years, the number of employees taking we have adopted a system that allows employees leave from work because of mental health issues to gradually come back to work. We are also has increased. For our ﬁrst line of prevention, we considering Life Microscopes, wristband devices have been cutting back on long working hours that monitor daily activities. and providing education programs designed to †1 EAP (Employee Assistance Program): provides employees with strengthen resistance to stress and to improve psychological, physical, and social support TOPICS Basic Attitudes to HIV/AIDS Application of Wristband Activity MonitorSince 1995, Hitachi, Ltd. has promoted an ing Devices understanding within the Hitachi Group of HIV/ Hitachi has developed a wristband activity AIDS based on the following three points: monitoring device called Life Microscope. This small, light, battery-operated device Basic Attitudes Concerning HIV/AIDS is attached to the wrist and records the wearer’s movements as well as pulse, body 1. We will actively build AIDS awareness in keeping with the undertemperature, and other information. As this standing that the most important thing is “to cultivate accurate knowledge and understanding of HIV/AIDS on the part of every device can capture detailed, objective data, employee.” such as levels of activity and sleep periods, 2. We will respond to known cases of infection by giving the highest we may use it to support the return to work consideration to respecting the human rights of those infected, and consider how to delay the onset of illness. of people who took leave for mental health 3. With a view to protecting the privacy of individuals, no testing issues. Worn when someone is preparing for HIV/AIDS will be conducted as a part of any routine physical to return to the workplace, and then for a examinations for employees done within the company, whether period after their return, the information the physical examination is legally sanctioned or not (i.e., voluntary). obtained can be used as reference data for consultations with industrial doctors, for example. This device is proving to be effective as a tool to support the return to work. We will increase the number of trial subjects before full-scale practical use. Life Microscope Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 133 Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines In formulating the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011, we used the GRI Application Levels indicating compliance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This provides an objective measure of the extent to which version 3.1 of the guidelines (G3.1) and other GRI Reporting Framework elements have been applied. We evaluated this year’s report as achieving Application Level B+ by self-assessment. A comparative table with GRI Guideline indexes is included below. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B 1.1 Level C plus: 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Proﬁle 3.1–3.8, 3.10 –3.12 3.9, 3.13 Disclosures 4.1– 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Management Approach disclosed Standard Disclosures Disclosures for each Indicator Category Management for each Indicator Category OUTPUT Approach Disclosures Report fully on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 and Performance Performance Indicators, including Performance Indicators, at least Sector Supplement*3 indicator Indicators & at least one from each of: social, one from each of: economic, with due regard to the materiality OUTPUT Sector Supplement economic, and environment.*1 environment, human rights, labor, Principle Performance Indicators society, product responsibility.*2 by either: a) reporting on the indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. *1 Performance Indicators may be selected from any ﬁnalized Sector Supplement, but 7 of the 10 must be from the original GRI Guidelines *2 Performance Indicators may be selected from any ﬁnalized Sector Supplement, but 14 of the 20 must be from the original GRI Guidelines *3 Sector supplement in ﬁnal version Related Pages in This Report Item Index Items Disclosed and Other References 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., Top Commitment pp. 007–008 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Message from the Chief Environmental Strategy p. 050 Officer 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans pp. 032–033 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies pp. 051–062 and Initiatives Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan: pp. 057–058 Targets and Results Third Environmental Action Plan 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 countries with either major operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site of customers/beneﬁciaries) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 134 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: ∙ Number of employees Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 ∙ Number of operations Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 ∙ Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site organizations) ∙ Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site sector organizations) ∙ Quantity of products or services provided Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: ∙ The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site closings, and expansions ∙ Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 p. 103 External Environment Awards Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Hitachi Group Environment Activity 3. Report Parameters Report Proﬁle 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., ﬁscal/calendar year) for information provided Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc) Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Contact information p. 149 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content, including: ∙ Determining materiality Material Issues for Hitachi p. 019 ∙ Prioritizing topics within the report ∙ Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 p. 103 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Sustainability Report Editorial Policy pp. 003–004 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Sustainability Report Editorial Policy pp. 003–004 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Bases of calculations are described if necessary — assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Environmental Load Information Collection Hitachi, Ltd. Web site: Methods Environmental Activities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided Explanation is given if necessary to complement in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ data descriptions acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, None — or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines pp. 134–143 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Independent Review p. 090 for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Strengthening Governance p. 028 highest governance body responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Strengthening Governance p. 028 executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Strengthening Governance p. 028 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 135 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Compliance Reporting System p. 037 direction to the highest governance body Communication with Shareholders and Investors pp. 101–103 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Strengthening Governance p. 028 body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of Strengthening Governance p. 028 interest are avoided. Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations, and expertise of the Strengthening Governance p. 028 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans pp. 032–033 Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Corporate Environmental Management Strategies pp. 051–062 and Initiatives Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan: p. 057 Targets and Results 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s Initiatives That We Participate in p. 004 identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Strengthening Governance; Internal Control pp. 028–029 Supply Chain Management pp. 119–122 Respect for Human Rights pp. 116–118 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies pp. 051–062 and Initiatives 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Strengthening Governance p. 028 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 addressed by the organization Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) pp. 034–035 Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Initiatives That We Participate in p. 004 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Participating in the Development of International p. 070 Standards 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ∙ Has positions in governance bodies None — ∙ Participates in projects or committees Strengthening International Standardization p. 045 Participating in the Development of International p. 070 Standards ∙ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues None — ∙ Views membership as strategic None — Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization None — 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage None — 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading p. 038 by type and by stakeholder group Representations Environmental Communication pp. 087–089 Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 Voices: Acting with a Sense of Global pp. 117–118 Responsibility 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Material Issues for Hitachi p. 018 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 136 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Item Performance Index: Core (C) / Add (A) Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Economic Performance Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Year Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Ended March 31, 2011 Market Presence Form 20-F ﬁled with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Indirect Economic Impacts FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding for Social p. 104 Contribution Activities Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 Business Operations (FY 2010) Goals and Performance Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Year Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Ended March 31, 2011 Policy 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan pp. 015–016 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Economic Performance Indicators C Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 EC1 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding for Social p. 104 governments Contribution Activities Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 C Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Corporate Environmental Management strategies pp. 051–062 EC2 activities due to climate change and Initiatives C Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations None — EC3 C Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government None — EC4 Market Presence A Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local None — EC5 minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation C Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Sharing Procurement Policies pp. 119–120 EC6 signiﬁcant locations of operation Building Partnerships p. 120 Sharing CSR Awareness p. 120 Green Procurement pp. 120–121 Response to Conﬂict Minerals Issue pp. 121–122 C Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from None — EC7 the local community at locations of signiﬁcant operation Indirect Economic Impacts C Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Social Contribution Activities pp. 104–115 EC8 primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement A Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 EC9 including the extent of impacts Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 137 Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Materials Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 Business Operations (FY 2010) Energy Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 Business Operations (FY 2010) Water Water Conservation p. 077–078 Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 Business Operations (FY 2010) Biodiversity Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Reducing Waste pp. 075–077 Water Conservation pp. 077–078 Chemical Substance Management pp. 078–079 Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 Business Operations (FY 2010) Products and Services Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Compliance Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 Transport Reducing Transportation Energy p. 074 Overall Environmental Management Framework pp. 081–084 Goal and Performance Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan: pp. 057–058 Targets and Results Third Environmental Action Plan Policy Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental p. 059 Conservation Organizational Responsibility Environmental Management Framework pp. 081–084 Training and Awareness Environmental Education p. 085 Monitoring and Follow-up Building Environmental Management Systems p. 082 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Materials C Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN1 Business Operations (FY 2010) C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials None — EN2 Energy C Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN3 Business Operations (FY 2010) C Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN4 Business Operations (FY 2010) A Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 EN5 A Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 EN6 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 A Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved The Hitachi Environmental Vision; Long-Term Plan pp. 051–053 EN7 Environmental Vision 2025 Water C Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN8 Business Operations (FY 2010) Water Conservation pp. 077–078 A Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water None — EN9 A Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN10 Business Operations (FY 2010) Water Conservation pp. 077–078 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 138 Biodiversity C Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, None — EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas C Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Social Contribution Activities: The Environment pp. 108–109 A Habitats protected or restored None — EN13 A Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 EN14 biodiversity A Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with None – EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents, and Waste C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN16 Business Operations (FY 2010) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 C Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN17 Business Operations (FY 2010) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 C Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN18 Business Operations (FY 2010) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 C Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN19 Business Operations (FY 2010) C NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN20 Business Operations (FY 2010) Chemical Substance Management pp. 078–079 C Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN21 Business Operations (FY 2010) Water Conservation pp. 077–078 C Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Load Data Generated through p. 080 EN22 Business Operations (FY 2010) Reducing Waste pp. 075–077 C Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 EN23 A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed None — EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally A Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies None — EN25 and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services C Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products pp. 063–067 EN26 extent of impact mitigation C Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Product and Package Recycling Hitachi, Ltd. Web site EN27 by category Compliance C Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 EN28 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport A Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Reducing Transportation Energy p. 074 EN29 and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall A Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 EN30 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 139 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Employment Aligning Hiring with Global Business p. 130 Labor/Management Relations Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Occupational Health and Safety Employee Health and Safety pp. 132–133 Training and Education Diversity Development Project p. 123 Diversity and Equal Opportunities Diversity Management pp. 123–129 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men None — Goals and Performance Major Results Data pp. 147–148 Policy CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Organizational Responsibility Diversity Development Project p. 123 Training and Awareness Diversity Development Project p. 123 Monitoring and Follow-up Diversity Development Project p. 123 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Employment C Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, Hitachi Group Proﬁle pp. 005–006 LA1 broken down by gender C Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age None — LA2 group, gender, and region A Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary None — LA3 or part-time employees, by signiﬁcant locations of operations C Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender LA15 Labor/Management Relations C Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements None — LA4 C Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether None — LA5 it is speciﬁed in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety A Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– None LA6 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs C Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Trends in the Occupational Accident Rates p. 132 LA7 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender C Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Model Project for Promoting the Employment of p. 129 LA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members People with regarding serious diseases Mental Disabilities Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) pp. 034-035 Mental Health Care p. 133 A Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions None LA9 Training and Education C Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by None — LA10 employee category A Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Global Human Capital Development pp. 130-131 LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings A Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career None — LA12 development reviews, by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity C Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Diversity Management pp.123–129 LA13 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aligning Hiring with Global Business p. 130 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 140 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men C Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee None — LA14 category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Investment and Procurement Practices Guidelines for Procurement Activities pp. 119–120 Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment p. 120 Guidebook Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 1.3 p. 036 Procurement Activities Non-Discrimination Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.2 p. 036 Eliminating Discrimination Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4 p. 036 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Child Labor Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4 p. 036 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4 p. 036 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Security Practices Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4 p. 036 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Indigenous Rights Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4 p. 036 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Remediation Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 4. Corporate p. 032 Ethics and Human Rights Policy Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4 p. 036 Respect of Human Rights Organizational Risk Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Impact Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Organizational Responsibility Framework for Promoting Respect for Human p. 116 Rights Training and Awareness Raising Awareness of Human Rights; Applying p. 117 Human Rights Worldwide Monitoring, Follow-up and Remediation Applying Human Rights Worldwide p. 117 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Investment and Procurement Practices C Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements and None — HR1 contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening C Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners Sharing Procurement Policies; Sharing CSR pp. 119–120 HR2 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken Awareness C Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Raising Awareness of Human Rights; Applying p. 117 HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the Human Rights Worldwide percentage of employees trained Non-Discrimination C Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None — HR4 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining C Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise None — HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labor C Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct abolition of child labor Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 141 Forced and Compulsory Labor C Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices A Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Raising Awareness of Human Rights p. 117 HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people None — HR9 and actions taken Assessment C Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human None — HR10 rights reviews and/or impact assessments Remediation C Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, addressed and resolved None — HR11 through formal grievance mechanisms Society Disclosure on Management Approach Local Communities Philosophy and Policy p. 104 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter p. 036 3.2 Contribution to Local Communities; 3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of the Culture and Customs of Each Nation and Region Corruption Preventing Corruption p. 037 Public Policy Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 Anti-Competitive Behavior Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, Chapter 1.2 p. 036 Sales Activities Compliance Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the p. 036 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 4. Corporate p. 032 Ethics and Human Rights Policy CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Organizational Responsibility CSR Management Structure p. 030 Training and Awareness Implementing Corporate Ethics Month pp. 036–037 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Local Communities C Percentage of operations with implemented Philosophy and Policy p. 104 SO1 local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs C Operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 SO9 negative impacts on local communities C Prevention and mitigation measures Environmentally Conscious Production pp. 071–080 SO10 implemented in operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Corruption C Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 SO2 corruption C Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Preventing Corruption p. 037 SO3 and procedures C Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading p. 038 SO4 Representations Public Policy C Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 SO5 lobbying Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 142 A Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to political parties, — — SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-Competitive Behavior C Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and None — SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance C Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading p. 038 SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Representations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction pp. 093–098 Product and Service Labeling Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products pp. 063–067 Marketing Communications Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Customer Privacy Protecting Personal Information and Information pp. 038–039 Security Initiative Compliance Compliance pp. 036–040 Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 2. p. 032 Contribution to Society through Our Business Policy Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines p. 095 Organizational Responsibility Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Training and Awareness Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Monitoring and Follow-up Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Customer Health and Safety C Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Quality Assurance Activities p. 093 PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such procedures A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Handling Product Accidents p. 094 PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling C Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products pp. 063–067 PR3 percentage of signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading p. 038 PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Representations outcomes A Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 PR5 measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications C Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 1.2 p. 036 PR6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and Sales Activities sponsorship A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading p. 038 PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Representations promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy A Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer None — PR8 privacy and losses of customer data Compliance C Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and None — PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 143 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Hitachi’s engagements are shown together with the corresponding seven core subjects of ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility). Related Pages in Core Subjects Issues Hitachi’s Engagements This Report Organizational Governance Organizational Governance ∙ Corporate Governance pp. 028–029 ∙ CSR Management pp. 030–033 ∙ Brand Management pp. 046–048 ∙ Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 Human Rights 1. Due diligence ∙ Respect for Human Rights pp.116–118 2. Human rights risk situations 3. Avoidance of complicity 4. Resolving grievances 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6. Civil and political rights 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour Practices 1. Employment and employment relationships ∙ Diversity Management pp. 123–129 2. Conditions of work and social protection ∙ Global Human Resource Development pp. 130–131 3. Social dialogue ∙ Employee Health and Safety pp. 132–133 4. Health and safety at work 5. Human development and training in the workplace The Environment 1. Prevention of pollution ∙ Corporate Environmental Management pp. 051–062 2. Sustainable resource use Strategies and Initiatives 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation ∙ Environmentally Conscious Products and pp. 063–070 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of Services natural habitats ∙ Environmentally Conscious Production pp. 071–080 ∙ Environmental Management Framework and pp. 081–089 Communication Fair Operating Practices 1. Anti-corruption ∙ Risk Management pp. 034–035 2. Responsible political involvement ∙ Compliance pp. 036–040 3. Fair competition ∙ Intellectual Property pp. 044–045 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ∙ Supply Chain Management pp. 119–122 5. Respect for property rights ∙ Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 Consumer Issues 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair ∙ Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction pp. 093–098 contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers’ health and safety 3. Sustainable consumption 4. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness Community Involvement and 1. Community involvement ∙ Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and pp. 010–014 Development 2. Education and culture Hitachi’s Response 3. Employment creation and skills development ∙ Social Contribution Activities pp. 104–115 4. Technology development and access 5. Wealth and income creation 6. Health 7. Social investment *1 Examination of the potential negative effects that an organization’s decisions and activities may have on society, the environment, and the economy Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 144 Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact Items in Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct and Hitachi’s engagements are shown together with the corresponding 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Related Pages in Area Principles Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Hitachi’s Engagements This Report Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support 1.3 Procurement Activities ∙ Respect for Human Rights pp. 116–118 and respect the protection 3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of ∙ Supply Chain Management pp. 119–122 of internationally the Culture and Customs of Each Nation and Region proclaimed human rights 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination Principle 2 Businesses should make 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information sure that they are not Management complicit in human rights 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should 1.3 Procurement Activities ∙ Diversity Management pp. 123–129 uphold the freedom 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights ∙ Global Human Capital Development pp. 130–131 of association and the 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination ∙ Employee Health and Safety pp. 132–133 effective recognition of 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information ∙ Supply Chain Management pp. 119–122 the right to collective Management bargaining 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work 5.4 Arranging a Work Environment That Draws Out Principle 4 Businesses should Employee Strengths uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support 2.1 Promoting Environmental Management ∙ Corporate Environmental Management pp. 051–062 a precautionary approach 2.2 Environmentally Conscious Business Activities and Strategies and Initiatives to environmental Environmental Management ∙ Environmentally Conscious Products pp. 063–070 challenges 2.3 Communication with Stakeholders and Services ∙ Environmentally Conscious Production pp. 071–080 Principle 8 Businesses should ∙ Environmental Management undertake initiatives Framework and Communication pp. 081–089 to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies AntiPrinciple Businesses should work 3.3 Relations with Politics and Government ∙ Compliance pp. 036–040 Corruption 10 against corruption in Administration all its forms, including 3.5 Regarding Gifts, Business Entertainment, Etc. extortion and bribery Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 145 Policy, Vision, and Guidelines Policy, vision, and guidelines reported in Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 are listed below. Related Pages in This Category Policy, Vision, and Guidelines Report Hitachi’s Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo p. 015 Hitachi Group Vision p. 015 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 015 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan pp. 015–016 CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Management Report Risk Management Guidelines for Pandemic Influenza Preparedness p. 035 Compliance Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Basic Approach to Information Security Governance p. 039 Personal Information Protection Policy p. 038 Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of Confidential p. 039 Information Brand Management Hitachi Brand Platform pp. 047–048 Environmental Report Environmental Management Strategies and The Hitachi Environmental Vision p. 051 Initiatives Long-Term Plan Environmental Vision 2025 pp. 051–052 Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation p. 059 Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines p. 095 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Disclosure Policy p. 101 Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers p. 103 Supply Chain Management Social Contribution Philosophy and Policy p. 104 Guidelines for Procurement Activities pp. 119–120 Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook p. 120 Green Procurement Guidelines pp. 120–121 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 146 Major Results Data Major results data reported in Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 are listed below. Management Related Pages in FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 This Report Innovation Management R&D Efficiency (ROI) (%) 0.45 0.82 0.31 0.37 1.1 p. 041 R&D Expenditures to Revenues (%) 4.0 3.8 4.2 4.2 4.3 p. 041 Intellectual Property Patent Application Ratios outside Japan (%) 37 45 47 47 51 p. 044 Scope of data Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies) No. of companies: FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 Environment Related Pages in FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 This Report Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Contributions to CO2 Emission Reduction (millions of — — — 11.77 15.51 p. 052 tonnes) Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Eco-Product Sales Ratio (%) 31 38 47 53 60 p. 063 No. of Eco-Product Models (models) 4,900 5,741 6,954 8,387 9,456 p. 063 Environmentally Conscious Production CO2 Emissions in Japan (kt-CO2) 2,805 3,104 2,893 2,482 2,630 p. 072 CO2 Emissions outside Japan (kt-CO2) 1,483 1,407 1,419 1,397 1,694 p. 073 CO2 Emissions from Transportation in Japan (kt-CO2) 188 174 155 128 125 p. 074 Waste Generation (kt) 784 760 737 608 738 p. 075 Water Use outside Japan (millions of m ) 3 14.68 14.26 13.61 12.90 16.40 p. 077 VOC atmospheric Emissions in Japan (kt) 6 5 4 3 3 p. 078 VOC atmospheric Emissions outside Japan (t) 752 774 523 577 439 p. 079 Scope of data For environmental load data generated from products Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies) No. of companies: FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 For environmental load data generated through business operations Companies that cover 90% of the load (based on Hitachi calculations) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 147 Social Related Pages in FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 This Report Social Contribution Activities Breakdown of Funding for Social Contribution Activities†1 1,412 1,472 1,439 1,347 — p. 104 (millions of yen) Supply Chain Management Global Procurement Ratio (%) — — — — 36 p. 119 Diversity Management Ratio of Male and Female Employees (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) 86:14 86:14 86:14 85:15 84:16 p. 124 Ratio of Male and Female Employees (Hitachi Group†2) — — — 89:11 90:10 p. 124 (%) Ratio of Female Managers (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) — 2.5 2.9 3 3.3 p. 124 Ratio of Female Managers (Hitachi Group†2) (%) — — — 1.2 1.3 p. 124 No. of Employees Taking Child Care Leave (Hitachi, Ltd.) 189 438 459 510 542 p. 124 (people) No. of Employees Taking Child Care Leave (Hitachi — — — 546 538 p. 124 Group†2) (people) No. of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave (Hitachi, 7 20 18 11 10 p. 125 Ltd.) (people) No. of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave (Hitachi — — — 25 23 p. 125 Group†2) (people) No. of Employees Working Shorter Hours (Hitachi, Ltd.) 96 350 383 288 337 p. 125 (people) No. of Employees Working Shorter Hours (Hitachi — — — 551 695 p. 125 Group†2) (people) Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities†2 (%) 2.05 2.11 2.06 2.01 2.05 p. 129 Global Human Capital Development No. of Non-Japanese Employees (Hitachi, Ltd.) (people) 151 179 200 218 230 p. 130 No. of Employees Taking Group-Wide Training (Hitachi — — — — 22,666 p. 131 Group†3) (people) Employee Health and Safety Occupational Accident Rates (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) 0.12 0.05 0.12 0.06 0.07 p. 132 Occupational Accident Rates (Hitachi Group†2) (%) 0.25 0.26 0.22 0.25 0.23 p. 132 Scope of data †1 Hitachi, Ltd. and ﬁve foundations in Japan †2 Twenty-seven Hitachi Group companies in Japan †3 Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modiﬁed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies) No. of companies: FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 148 Inquiries Hitachi, Ltd. CSR Promotion Department, CSR Division (For inquiries on this report or CSR activities overall) 1-6-6 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8280, Japan Tel: +81-3-3258-1111 Fax: +81-3-4564-1454 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ Environmental Strategy Office (For inquiries on environmental activities) 1-6-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8220, Japan Tel: +81-3-3258-1111 Fax: +81-3-4235-5835 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 149
