Sustainability Report 2010 Pyhäsalmi Underground copper-zincpyrite mine nearing its 50th year of commercial FINLAND production. Forms an integral part of the community of Pyhäjärvi in the lake lands of central Finland, and just north of a Natura 2000 protected Troilus CANADA portion of the lake. Open pit copper-gold mine closed in mid-2010. Located within the Boreal Forest of northern Quebec, Canada on the traditional hunting and fishing lands of the Cree of Mistissini. S PA I N N o r t h A t l a n t i c O c e a n TURKEY Las Cruces Çayeli Open pit copper mine ramping up to commercial Underground copper-zinc production of cathode copper. Located within the mine operating 15 years plains of Andalucia northwest of Sevilla, Spain in the Eastern Black Sea and approximately 80 kilometres upstream of region of Turkey, eight Donana National Park. kilometres south of the sea and within the steep terrain and tea growing community of Madenli. PANAMA Uses a unique and closely monitored system to safely deposit tailings within the depths of the Black Sea. Cobre Panama Open pit copper-gold S o u t h A t l a n t i c O c e a n development property located in the rainforest of Panamá. Part of the Mesoamerican Biological Ok Tedi Corridor within 20 kilometres of the Open pit copper-gold mine located within the Star Caribbean coast and Mountain highlands of the Western Province of near small subsistence Papua New Guinea. Its riverine tailings deposition PAPUA Ngöbe and Campesino affects 152 villages along the Ok Tedi and Fly River NEW GUINEA farming communities. system. Inmet is an 18 percent shareholder. S o u t h P a c i f i c O c e a n Development Our operating properties property Cobre Çayeli Las Cruces Pyhäsalmi Cobre Panama Location Turkey Spain Finland Panama Ownership 100% 100% 100% 100% Primary metal copper copper copper copper Secondary metal zinc – zinc gold Mine type underground open pit underground open pit Mine life 2017 2023 2018 +30 years Closed properties Copper Range Norbec Samatosum Sturgeon Lake Troilus Winston Lake Michigan, Quebec, British Columbia, Ontario, Quebec, Ontario, Location USA Canada Canada Canada Canada Canada Ownership 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Activity Rehabilitation Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation, Water treatment Rehabilitation Rehabilitation, and monitoring water treatment water treatment and monitoring and monitoring water treatment and monitoring and monitoring and monitoring ab ou t i n m e t Inmet is a Canadian-based global mining company that Letter to stakeholders 2 produces copper, zinc and Q&A with Craig Ford gold. We’re headquartered (Vice President, Corporate Responsibility) 4 in Toronto and listed on the About this report 6 ab ou t i n m e t Toronto Inmet isStock Exchange under a Canadian-based global the symbol IMN. mining company that We have produces Approach 1,166 employees worldwide. copper, zinc and gold. headquartered www.inmetmining.com We’re in Toronto and 01 Vision and values Corporate responsibility framework 8 8 listed on the Toronto Stock Governance 10 Exchange under the symbol Relationships and partnerships 11 b e n cWe IMN. h mhave ar kapproximately i n g ag a i nst Voluntary and industry initiatives 12 e hemployees 1,200 th i g h e s t s ta worldwide n da rds (not including Ok Tedi). Strategy www.inmetmining.com 02 Corporate responsibility at Inmet – New demands and challenges 14 14 – The importance of our This report fulfills the requirements for a Cobre Panama project 14 level B+ using the criteria for the Global Our program for 2011 16 Reporting Initiative. You can read our Planning for the future 16 assurance statement on page 29. Performance 03 Economic performance – Contributions and benefits 18 18 We participate and benchmark our – Government subsidies 18 performance against Towards Sustainable – Local hiring and purchasing 18 Mining (TSM), an initiative of the Mining Safety performance 19 Association of Canada. Read more on page 32. Environmental performance 20 – Water 21 – Energy 21 – Emissions and waste 22 – Product impacts and mitigation 23 – Biodiversity 23 Social performance 25 – Employment 25 We support and strive to meet the ten – Training 25 principles of the United Nations Global – Labour practices 25 Compact. Read more on page 28. – Human rights 25 – Indigenous peoples 25 – Communities and infrastructure 26 – Product stewardship 26 Qu es t i o n s, c o m m e n t s or f e e d back? We invite your comments and Data questions about this report. To learn more, please visit our 04 What we measure and why Collecting and verifying our data 28 29 website (www.inmetmining. com/sustainability) or contact: SECA targets 33 Company indicators 39 Craig Ford, Vice President, GRI indicators 29 Corporate Responsibility T +1.416.860.3960 E craig.ford@inmetmining.com letter to stakeholders Letter to stakeholders Joche n Tilk President and Chief Executive Officer Society’s attention is As a growing mining enterprise with and employment and indirectly, through operations in several countries and a large the stimulation of local economies. increasingly drawn on development project in Panama, Inmet is Building on our commitment to host rising expectations for no exception to this trend. We recognize communities, we created a community safety, environmental, the need to keep pace and broaden foundation at Las Cruces, expanded our our corporate responsibility portfolio to community programs in Panama and social and governance include more emphasis on community Turkey, and through these programs, performance in the development, human rights, security and invested approximately 1 percent of our mining sector. biodiversity, in addition to our traditional after tax profits in local communities. emphasis on safety, health and We experienced many successes: environmental performance and community dialogue. This is reflected • In Panama, we submitted our in the organization of our corporate environmental and social impact responsibility report this year, which aligns assessment (ESIA) for the Cobre more explicitly with the Global Reporting Panama project to the Panamanian Initiative (GRI)’s reporting structure environmental regulatory authority, and categories. We hope you find our already rehabilitated 130 hectares of objective of absolute transparency forest using native vegetation and helpful and, as always, welcome feedback continued to deepen our relationship on our approach. with community members, NGOs and others working to improve the quality Our performance in 2010 of life and future for people in the project area. It was another strong year for commodity • In Spain, we improved our water prices, with base metal prices rising higher management systems and published our than many other commodities, and copper first socio-economic assessment tool being one of the top-performing metals. (SEAT) report. Our revenue stream is the basis for our • In Turkey, we built on the SEAT process ability to deliver economic benefits to our to include stakeholder participation in shareholders and to the countries and our community development programs communities, where we conduct our and continue to see improvements in business directly through taxes, royalties direct energy consumption. 2 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n We also submitted our first Communication license to operate at our production and On Progress to the United Nations in development sites. In that context, we will: October, re-affirming our commitment to • continue with a number of projects in the ten principles of the United Nations sustainable development, community Global Compact. In November, our board consultation and human rights, including of directors approved a Human Rights a micro-finance program in Panama. Policy, based the Guiding Principles for • c omplete our gap analysis as a member Business and Human Rights endorsed by of the UN Global Compact, and make the UN Human Rights Council. The policy plans for moving forward. commits us to develop formal community feedback (grievance) processes which we • e xplore membership in the International are now in the process of implementing Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM). at all our sites. We anticipate that we will also sign on to the Voluntary Principles on Security But there are also areas where we need to and Human Rights. improve: We struggled to reach our target • w ork to ensure all our employees are injury frequency and severity performance aware of our new Human Rights Policy. improvements this year and addressed challenges in meeting our regulated water We will also strive to achieve our five-year quality levels at Las Cruces and Çayeli. safety and environmental targets and continue to improve our safety practices Regrettably, an accident at Las Cruces and operating procedures with the resulted in a fatality and severe injuries objective of achieving a zero harm to two workers. This incident highlights working environment for our employees. the very serious hazards associated with Specifically, we will continue to rigorously the work we do, and underscores how implement our safety, environmental and • In Finland, we reduced our fresh water important it is to make our work places community affairs (SECA) Standards and consumption through recycling. and practices as safe as we know how. high consequence protocols and are • In Canada, we successfully closed We have an unwavering commitment to confident we’ll be near completion by our Troilus site in Quebec, meeting all achieve zero harm at all our operations, the end of 2011. environmental and safety requirements. and deeply regret this tragic event. We are also helping workers find new jobs to replace their income. Key plans and goals • A t our other closed sites in Canada Our objectives for 2011 are set to and the US, we continued to monitor continuously improve our performance and manage water quality and target in the area of corporate responsibility Jochen Tilk reductions in power consumption and provide the platform for our social President and Chief Executive Officer and greenhouse gas emissions. A final note on Ok Tedi On December 2, 2010, we announced an agreement with During our tenure as a minority owner of OTML, we held Ok Tedi Mining Limited (OTML) for it to repurchase our a seat on OTML’s board and helped with the establishment 18 percent equity interest in OTML. The transaction closed of the sustainability foundation that now holds a majority on January 28, 2011. (52 percent) equity interest in OTML. Inmet’s experience and involvement in Ok Tedi have had a major influence on the OTML owns and operates Ok Tedi, an open pit copper-gold evolution of our deep commitment to corporate responsibility. mine in the Star Mountain highlands of Papua New Guinea. Ok Tedi’s riverine tailings deposition practices are controversial We have included some statistical data about Ok Tedi’s 2010 and have attracted international attention and criticism. performance in our key performance indicators at the back of this report. This is the last year we will be doing so. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 3 Q&A WITH CRAIG FORD Q&A with Craig Ford Above: Tea harvest, Çayeli. 4 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n indicators improve. Our employees and The proposed power plant can be built and c r aig f o rd v i c e pr e si de n t, contractors need time to internalize the fully functioning within about two years c orp or at e r e spo n s i b i l i t y goals and expectations we’ve set, and in of site capture. It will have two 150 MW some cases, to become accustomed to electricity generation units – enough to Craig has a Ph.D. in geology from the doing things differently than they have in supply our operation at peak demand Colorado School of Mines. He joined Inmet in 2000 and was appointed Vice President, the past. Until then, our performance may and provide additional capacity to the Safety, Environment and Community continue to improve incrementally, level off Panamanian power grid at other times. Affairs in 2005. His title was changed to or even decline. Nevertheless, continuing Exhaust gas will be filtered to remove Vice President, Corporate Responsibility in to build the capacity of our workforce in particulates, and scrubbed with seawater 2010 to reflect the expanding scope of his realizing our commitments is our key to remove sulphur dioxide, a leading cause portfolio. He has worked in the mining challenge and priority. of acid rain. Bottom ash will be stored industry for 30 years. in a reliable on-site facility. We believe We believe our leading indicators are that these are reasonable, responsible trending in the right direction and that, over measures that mitigate the environmental In your most recent time, the trailing indicators will follow. impacts of the plant. sustainability reports, you’ve emphasized that You’ve made a decision to We considered several alternatives before making our decision, evaluating all of you’re setting goals and build a coal-fired power plant the options, including liquefied natural focusing on things to to generate the energy you’ll gas, against the International Finance improve your safety and need at your new operation Corporation (IFC) and World Bank’s environmental performance. in Panama. Why did you guidelines for power generation and air How do your performance choose coal and did you emissions near ecologically sensitive areas. From a combined cost and statistics measure up? consider any alternatives? emissions perspective, the use of low The five-year goals we set in 2007 and the We recognize and accept that proposing sulfur Colombian coal scored as the programs and training we’ve implemented to build a new coal-fired power plant at cleanest and most economically efficient – operational excellence, field leadership, Cobre Panama is a concern for some fuel available for this project. stop and talks – are designed to drive our stakeholders from the climate change perspective. We have heard these We are also investing an additional performance and help us achieve the concerns from shareholders and other US$20M in measures that exceed the kind of results we’re looking for: zero important stakeholders. We have also IFC’s current requirements for controlling fatalities, fewer and less severe injuries, been challenged by our External sulphur dioxide, nitrous oxide and total few reportable environmental incidents Stakeholder Advisory Panel to justify particulate matter to meet the higher and notices of violation, better dialogue our choice and ensure that we’re using standard for new coal-fired power and benefit-sharing with communities evolving best practices to reduce the generation in the United States (the Best (see page 30 for our five-year targets). impacts of using coal. Available Control Technology Standard). We’ve been successful in improving near As an additional measure to reduce miss incident reporting and reducing total We’re building the new site in Panama emissions as much as we can, bulldozers injury frequency and medical aid cases, but entirely from the ground up in an area with and other heavy vehicles used at the site we’re still seeing higher injury frequency very little infrastructure. When the project will have low emission diesel engines and severity statistics than we’d like. is approved, we’ll need considerable and burn low sulfur diesel fuel. Similarly, we’ve made excellent strides power to both excavate the site and build in environmental incident reporting, but the necessary infrastructure. By late 2015, 1 Based on March 2010 FEED study, not including the number of reportable environmental we’ll need even more power to begin Balboa discovery. incidents and notices of violation at our actual production. Minera Panama will operations are still higher than our targets. be one of the largest copper mining operations in the world, extracting Safety and environmental performance between 255,000 and 289,000 tonnes of both depend on what happens day-to-day copper per year1, along with gold, silver on the ground at our operations, and molybdenum. Based on our FEED development projects and closed study assumptions, we’ll need about properties. Policies, standards, 275 MW of power at peak demand to management systems and training meet this production target, while our are vitally important, but until they’re normal operating demand should be consistently translated into behaviour, about 180 MW. you don’t see trailing performance s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 5 about this report About this report This report talks about our company’s Assurance Accessing our approach to corporate responsibility, documents online explains our actual performance in 2010, Inmet employees collect, compile, review and describes our plans and goals for and approve all sustainability and corporate Our annual information form (AIF) 2011. Our last report, published in responsibility data. We assess our Towards and management proxy circular are 2010, disclosed information about Sustainable Mining (TSM) performance available in pdf format on our website at our 2009 performance. independently, and have the data externally www.inmetmining.com and on SEDAR verified once every three years. We also at www.sedar.com. We did not produce In this report, Inmet means Inmet have an external verifier review this report a printed version of our corporate Mining Corporation and we, us and each year. responsibility report this year. our mean Inmet and/or its subsidiaries and joint ventures. You can read a summary of our TSM results at www.mining.ca and the assurance statement for this report Scope on page 29. The report includes information about all of our operations and closed Forward-looking information properties, except where we note otherwise. In general, we include five Securities regulators encourage companies years of performance data to show to disclose forward-looking information performance trends. to help investors understand a company’s future prospects. This sustainability report contains statements about our Materiality business, results of operation and future For this report, we consider an event financial conditions. or circumstance material if it has or is These statements are “forward-looking” likely to: because we have used what we know and • seriously or fatally injure an employee expect today to make a statement about or contractor; the future. Forward-looking statements • damage the environment, or break the usually include words like may, expect, law and regulations designed to protect anticipate, believe or other similar words. the environment; We believe the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are • adversely affect our relationships with reasonable. Actual events and results stakeholders, including our investors, could be substantially different, however, communities, governments and because of the risks and uncertainties NGOs; and associated with our business (see our • put our reputation or our social licence 2009 Annual Report) or events that to operate at risk. happen after the date of this report. We also consider information material if You should not place undue reliance on it’s likely to cause a reasonable investor forward-looking statements. As a general to impact his or her decision to invest policy, we do not update forward-looking in Inmet. statements except if there is an offering We use our experience, judgment and document or where securities legislation knowledge of the mining industry and requires us to do so. the communities where we operate to decide whether an event, circumstance or information is material. We also use industry and corporate responsibility best practices – for example, guidance from the Mining Association of Canada, the IFC Performance Standards and the Global Reporting Initiative – to help us determine significance and materiality. 6 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n 01 Approach Our corporat e responsi bilit y fram ework In thi s sec t io n Vision and values 8 Corporate responsibility framework 8 Governance 10 Relationships and partnerships 11 Voluntary and industry initiatives 12 Above: Pyhäsalmi, Finland. 01 approach vision and val u e s corporat e Re s po n s i bi l i t y f ra m e wo rk Vision and values Inmet’s approach to business is founded on our four values: operate safely, make a profit, protect the environment and treat people and communities well. To make sure we can meet these We also believe that one of the most Core values commitments, we bring discipline and important assets a corporation has is a business-like approach to managing its reputation. This is especially true in All of our business activities are conducted corporate responsibility. the extractive industries, where we in the context of our four core values: have a visible impact and often operate • operate safely; Our policies, programs and targets have in challenging jurisdictions and business to make good business sense, and we • make a profit; environments. Our positive reputation must be able to implement them using • protect the environment; and makes growth possible by ensuring we practical systems and tools that will, over maintain and enhance our social license • treat people and communities well. time, achieve the results we are looking to operate. for. We aim to improve overall company These values guide us day-to-day and in performance and to focus our efforts longer-term planning, helping us manage and resources where it counts – at the material risks associated with our our operations. business. We have learned through experience that the business case for corporate responsibility is compelling: we do well by doing good. Corporate responsibility framework At Inmet, corporate responsibility describes the interactions between our company and everyone else – investors, employees, contractors, governments, those with whom we do business and the public at large, as well as the environment we all share. On a practical level, corporate responsibility is how we integrate sustainability goals and considerations into the business plans and control systems at our operations. C o m p o n e n t s o f o u r c o rp o r at e r e sp o n s i b i l i t y f r a m e w o r k Corporate strategy • To grow responsibly while providing superior returns to shareholders Core values • Operate safely • Make a profit • Protect the environment • Treat people and communities well Codes of conduct • Leadership charter • Code of business practices and ethics Policies • Human rights • Waste management Internal standards • Safety, Environment and Community Affairs (SECA) Standards, Environmental management system 8 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n C o m p o n e n t s o f o u r c o rp o r at e r e sp o n s i b i l i t y f r a m e w o r k ( c o n t i n u e d ) Examples of • Mining Association of Canada – Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) UN Global Compact external standards • International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability Objectives • Annual goals and targets • Five year goals (2008-2012) Examples of Tools • Operational excellence • Field leadership • Stop and talks • Inspections and audits • Socio-economic assessment toolbox (SEAT) • Corporate responsibility vulnerability assessment • Community feedback (grievance) mechanism Metrics • Key performance indicators (GRI, TSM, internal) Managing corporate Risk management Our management system also includes ten high consequence protocols (HCPs) that responsibility at Inmet We identify hazards and assess potentially address common hazards that have a high Our corporate office and operations are material corporate responsibility risks at all potential to result in serious injury or death jointly responsible for our performance. our sites throughout their life cycles. We at our worksites. The HCP guidelines give Management at head office and at each do this on an ongoing basis, using the technical guidance on how to effectively operation implements policies, systems deep knowledge and expertise of our manage the greatest risks associated with and standards, and they assess and report experienced workforce. At the end of our business and keep workers safe. on actual performance and results. the day we firmly believe that there is no adequate substitute for managing We have also broadened our risk Inmet’s corporate responsibility enterprise-wide risk than through a identification to include a broader range management system includes corporate hands-on approach by management of vulnerabilities associated with corporate standards and procedures that set out the at the operations and at Head Office, responsibility, such as community requirements our operations must meet, coupled with a strong commitment to relations, community health and safety, and voluntary guidelines that provide practical and effective management development, human rights and security. further detail for practitioners. Our SECA systems and continuous improvement. Conducted in collaboration with a broad Standards address a broad range of range of operational staff, our Corporate corporate responsibility issues. This approach is enhanced by Operational Responsibility Vulnerability Assessment Excellence, an integrated approach to identifies inherent risks, required Our corporate responsibility practice has identifying workplace hazards and management systems to manage risk evolved over the past few years as we managing risk through preventing injuries, and opportunities to improve. have tackled emerging business risks, property damage, environmental impacts strengthened our management systems and other kinds of harm. Operational and enhanced our reporting. We expect Excellence combines traditional risk Compliance audits this evolution to continue in response management tools with systems that Our compliance audits identify exceptions to changes in the business environment encourage leadership and behavioural to of law or regulation and also identify and societal expectations. change. Supervisors and managers are vulnerabilities associated with our required to regularly observe work and management against mining industry best You can find our charters, codes, interact with employees and contractors practice. Independent auditors review policies and standards on our website to measure performance and identify our safety, health and environmental (inmetmining.com). improvements. Employees are expected performance every two years. Our sites to use practical tools for recognizing prepare corrective action plans to address hazards and assessing risk to plan their any identified compliance issues within work, with a target of achieving zero harm. 60 days of the audit. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 9 01 approach governance re l ationships an d pa rt ne rs h i ps Governance Sound corporate governance is essential to attracting and retaining the trust of our shareholders, employees and the communities affected by our business. Inmet board of directors compensation to the board and approving board composition and the effectiveness compensation and incentive plans for of individual directors and the board Our board of directors oversees our other employees. overall. They oversee compliance with our activities with support from four code of conduct and business ethics and committees of independent directors: make recommendations to the board about Audit committee elected directors and potential candidates. Safety, environment The audit committee oversees the quality, integrity and appropriateness of our In 2010 there were eleven directors and community affairs on our board. Our President and CEO, financial reporting and internal control (SECA) committee systems (finance, accounting and ethics). Jochen Tilk, is the only director who They also monitor and assess the quality, is not independent. The SECA committee reviews and oversees our corporate responsibility performance and independence of our performance. It is made up of six external auditors and compliance with directors and meets quarterly. legal and regulatory requirements. Corporate responsibility governance structure Compensation committee Corporate governance and Corporate responsibility governance is The compensation committee oversees nominating committee the combined responsibility of our board, Inmet’s efforts to recruit, retain and management and operations, with input This committee is responsible for motivate employees. They are responsible and insight from independent third parties reviewing our corporate governance for making recommendations for executive representing a variety of stakeholders practices generally, and for monitoring and perspectives. Board of directors SECA committee • oversight of CR performance, risk management, strategy and implementation Corporate management team President & CEO • corporate CR strategy Vice President, Corporate Responsibility and implementation Vice President, Mining • strategic support and expert advice Senior managers responsible for: and leadership to the operations – safety, health and security • overall accountability for system – environmental affairs implementation and effectiveness – community relations and development • day-to-day implementation of – government relations CR program and standards • performance reporting to the board Operations management team Managing Directors/General Managers • site-level CR management, Managers and CR professionals implementation, monitoring responsible for: and evaluation – safety & health • performance reporting to corporate – environmental stewardship management team – community and government relations Third parties Stakeholder advisory panels • strategic advice (corporate and operations) • feedback and recommendations Strategic partners (NGOs, consultants • best practices and others) All employees Full-time, part-time and contract employees • safeguarding the environment, respecting human rights • working safely and maintaining a safe workplace 10 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Relationships and partnerships Stakeholder We communicate and receive Partnerships feedback through: engagement In 2010, a Cooperation Arrangement • formal and informal meetings with memorandum of understanding was We strive to develop strong, mutually investors and other interested signed between Inmet and Fund for Peace, beneficial relationships with all stakeholders (including workshops, a Washington, DC-based, non-profit stakeholders, including local governments, round tables, tours, visits and organization. Fund for Peace is committed employees and contractors, partners and town halls); to sustainable development and their suppliers, local, regional and national governments, NGOs and other members • consultations (including socio-economic mission is to alleviate the conditions that of civil society, shareholders and investors. and environmental impact assessments, create conflict. It has been working with external stakeholder advisory panel companies in the extractive industries We believe that stakeholder engagement meetings, and corporate responsibility for more than a decade, and is now should begin early and continue throughout workshops and forums); working with Inmet on developing and the entire life cycle of a mine. We work to implementing policies in the areas of • reports, newsletters and press releases; foster trust and respect and facilitate direct human rights, security, community dialogue between affected stakeholders • voluntary initiatives; and engagement and community development, and our operations to achieve shared goals, • our website and those of our subsidiaries. to help us incorporate evolving good catalyze social development and earn our practice. This is Inmet’s first formal social license to operate. We use culturally partnership with an NGO and an exciting appropriate forms of engagement, Stakeholder step forward for both Inmet and Fund and hold meetings and consultations advisory panels for Peace. in our stakeholders’ own communities. Stakeholder engagement is a key part of In addition to our formal community our external relations and environmental relations programs at each site, the Inmet management systems. External Stakeholder Advisory Panel meets twice a year and offers third-party perspectives that help us improve. It includes representatives from civil society organizations, industry associations, sustainability experts, and the investment community. We are also introducing advisory panels at each of our sites, with a view to engaging them in our business and community development decisions. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 11 01 approach vol untary and i n d u s t ry i n i t i at i ve s Voluntary and industry initiatives We participate in organizations and initiatives that are aligned with our approach and values, and where our participation is likely to improve our performance and change our company for the better. Business and mining and community development of the Executive Committee of the Mining issues. The objective of the initiative Association’s board and is active in its Biodiversity Offsets is to improve social and community committees and in helping establish Program (BBOP) development outcomes wherever strategic direction. We measure our www.bbop.forest-trends.org Canadian mining companies operate performance against the association’s overseas. Inmet is a founding member Towards Sustainable Mining framework, This program is a partnership between of the Devonshire Initiative and serves a set of principles designed to promote companies, governments and conservation on its Steering Committee. sustainable mining and a continuous experts to explore biodiversity offsets. dialogue between the mining industry Advisory Group members include more and communities of interest. than fifty private and public companies, Fund for Peace lending and other financial institutions, and Human Rights and representatives of government and civil United Nations society. Their goal is to develop and test Business Roundtable Global Compact global best practices for biodiversity www.fundforpeace.org offsets and conservation-oriented banking. www.unglobalcompact.org Fund for Peace is an independent, nonpartisan research and educational A voluntary policy initiative that helps businesses align their operations and Canadian Turkish organization that works to prevent war and alleviate the conditions that cause conflict. strategies with ten universally accepted Business Council principles in the areas of human rights, The human rights and business roundtable www.ctbc.ca is a forum for multinational businesses and labour, environment and anti-corruption. mainstream human rights organizations to Inmet formally joined the Global Compact Founded by several Canadian corporations, in 2008. discuss issues of common concern in an this council promotes bilateral trade and atmosphere of mutual respect, trust and investment between Turkey and Canada, confidentiality. Inmet has been a member and provides members with important of the roundtable since 2009. Transparency information about opportunities and International Canada strategies in overseas markets. Inmet chairs this council. Business Roundtable Association of the www.transparency.ca Finnish Extractive Carbon Disclosure Resources Industry Transparency International Canada Inc is an organization that promotes anti-corruption Project (CDP) www.teknologiateollisuus.fi practices and transparency in Canada’s www.cdproject.net Founded in 1999, this association aims to governments, businesses and society improve working conditions in the Finnish at large. Inmet is one of four business A reporting system that collects, harmonizes mining industry by organizing research roundtable members. Inmet joined the and distributes climate change data from projects and increasing awareness of roundtable in 2010. 2,500 organizations around the world to help develop international carbon reporting environmental and safety issues. standards. Inmet has reported under the Mining Safety CDP since 2007. Mining Association Roundtable of Canada (MAC) A mining industry safety and health Devonshire Initiative roundtable that focuses on eliminating www.mining.ca www.devonshireinitiative.org fatalities and major incidents through An association that promotes the growth benchmarking, sharing best practices, The Devonshire Initiative is a forum for and development of Canada’s mining and and fostering a safety culture. Inmet leading international development NGOs mineral processing industry for the benefit joined the roundtable in 2010. and mining companies to come together in of all Canadians. Our Vice President, response to the social agenda surrounding Corporate Responsibility is a member 12 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n 02 Strategy In thi s sec t io n Corporate responsibility at Inmet 14 – New demands and challenges 14 – The importance of our Cobre Panama project 14 Our program for 2011 16 Planning for the future 16 Above: Cobre Panama project. 02 strategy corporat e re s po n s i bi l i t y at i nm e t Corporate responsibility at Inmet Corporate responsibility (CR) describes the interactions between a company and everyone else – employees, contractors, governments and the public at large, as well as the environment we all share. On a practical level at our operations, corporate responsibility is how we integrate sustainability goals and considerations into our business plans and control systems. Our strategy, programs and reporting New demands expected to report on recent and have traditionally focused on safety and emerging issues in their monthly reports and challenges health, environmental stewardship and to management and to have effective community dialogue, mirroring the Society expects business to be transparent community feedback mechanisms in place evolution of corporate responsibility in the about its activities and gains, accountable end of 2011. mining industry and other sectors, and in for its actions, and proactive in encouraging alignment with our four core values (page and catalyzing the development of fair and 8), the IFC Performance Standards and open markets, sustainable communities The importance of our with the goals of the Mining Association and robust ecosystems. Accordingly, we Cobre Panama project of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining have maintained an open and transparent (TSM) initiative – a framework we have approach to our business and in our Cobre Panama is a large open-pit copper subscribed to and actively helped develop dialogue with all stakeholders and in our development project in Panama that has an over many years. reporting for many years. estimated 20 billion pounds of copper. The concession is located 120 kilometres west There are numerous inherent risks related To ensure that local people and communities of Panama City and 20 kilometres from to our business and the work we do, share in the wealth creation generated by the Caribbean Sea coast, in the district of and we continue to treat environmental the extraction of natural resources, mining Donoso Colon province, in the Republic of stewardship and employee health and companies must invest meaningfully Panama. The concession consists of four safety as paramount. Strong leadership according to their needs and priorities and zones totaling 13,000 hectares. is provided by senior management with their full support, engagement and throughout the organization, supported participation in decision making. In some There are complex environmental and by formal management systems that jurisdictions, companies must also use social challenges associated with this describe our approach to managing our their influence to model safer, healthier, project and it will have a large impact on health and safety and environmental more equitable business practices and the future of the communities in the area. risks and responsibilities in detail. We to engage host governments and other Local and international scrutiny of our benchmark our performance against stakeholders in meeting international best activities will intensify as we progress evolving international practices, and practice in the areas of safety, labour this project and we must be ready to continuously strive to improve. standards and environmental protection. demonstrate our commitment to Environmental protection and worker developing, mining and rehabilitating We are focused on making purposeful responsibly throughout the estimated safety are explicit responsibilities of every investments that benefit both Inmet and thirty year life of this mine. employee at our operations, reflected in its stakeholders to contribute meaningfully both job descriptions and performance We want the Cobre Panama project to to social development. Our operations evaluations. In the area of safety, we go be a regional economic engine that will are incorporating findings from their beyond compliance, seeking the most catalyze responsible development in the socio-economic assessment reviews effective means of protecting workers on project area, improve the lives of local into community engagement and the job every day. We set short, medium communities with improved infrastructure, investment plans. and long-term environmental goals for health, educational and economic our sites, executed by skilled and In the area of human rights, we are opportunities. While much of the area knowledgeable professionals. We provide committed to ensuring our activities do not is remote and mainly primary forest, full and open cooperation to regulatory adversely affect internationally recognized in-migration is increasing and, with it, authorities and external organizations, rights, and to providing effective recourse deforestation, as people with few such as TSM and the Carbon Disclosure if they do. Corporate, operational and economic opportunities move into the Project, meeting or exceeding regulatory project management are jointly responsible area and clear the land. The forest in environmental requirements throughout for understanding how our activities could the project area is being impacted at the full life cycle of our projects. affect human rights and for ensuring an ever-increasing rate and we believe employees have adequate awareness that the best way to address these issues and tools to minimize negative impacts. is to introduce sustainable economic Starting in 2011, our operations are development to the area. The project will 14 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n provide strong stimulation to the economy engagement in 2007 that will continue economically, socially and environmentally because it will need goods and services throughout the mine’s life. Government viable. The ESIA is also the place where and will provide training and employment. and civil society at all levels have been commitments are made by Minera Panama Revenues will be generated by royalties engaged and consultations have been to mitigate the adverse impacts. and taxes, and businesses in Panama will inclusive, culturally appropriate, responsive In the community consultation sessions benefit from an increase in customers. to the language preferences of affected the most frequently mentioned concerns Infrastructure and government services people and communities, and sensitive of local residents were: will be improved in this under-developed to the requirements of disadvantaged or area, which will improve access to vulnerable groups. • employment; education and healthcare and the quality We submitted our 14,917 page • community health and safety; of local infrastructure. environmental and social impact • the potential need for resettlement We want Cobre Panama to play a key role assessment (ESIA) report to the Autoridad of local residents; and in protecting the rich biodiversity of the Nacional del Ambiente (ANAM), the • potential environmental damage to Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, an Panamanian environmental regulatory water, air and the rich biodiversity important ecological conservation zone authority, in September, 2010. This of the area. that is currently under threat. We are document represents a three-year effort committed to minimizing our impacts and and more than 40,000 hours of baseline The primary socio-economic impacts of to achieving no loss of critical habitat that study work completed by respected the project are likely to be increases in is essential for the survival of a species, environmental specialists. The ESIA economic stimulation and employment, which we will achieve through on and describes in details how we intend improvements in education, healthcare and offsite reforestation efforts and by locating to responsibly develop the region other infrastructure and adverse impacts all high-priority species of concern in at and protect the environment. A plain related to in-migration and resettlement. least three widely separated designated language executive summary is The most likely environmental impacts are or proposed conservation areas. We also available for download at our website changes to local stream flows, possible intend to minimize our footprint and to (www.inmetmining.com). water quality impacts, deforestation, progressively restore the site throughout impacts to air quality and possible impacts The purpose of the ESIA is to consider the life of the mine. to the flora and fauna of the area. MPSA all components of the social and has made significant commitments to Inmet will not develop Cobre Panama environmental context of the Cobre address these concerns and to ensure that without a social license to operate. Early Panama project and how those could be our project sustainability vision of social and ongoing dialogue with communities affected, both positively and negatively, by development and ecological protection and other stakeholders have helped guide the development of Cobre Panama. The are realized and that the project improves our plans and decisions throughout the overall objective of the ESIA is to conclude the lives of local residents and Panama project. We began intensive stakeholder whether the project is technically, as a whole. E v o l u t i o n o f c o rp o r at e r e sp o n s i b i l i t y i ss u e s i n t h e m i n i n g i n d u s t r y at a g l a n c e Emerging issues Growing issues Mature issues human rights biodiversity safety risk mitigation and management resettlement security environmental risk mitigation and management indigenous rights sustainable community development stakeholder engagement and community donations anti-corruption government relations environmental and social impact assessments (pre-development) product stewardship CR-focused investor relations fair wages and labour practices, occupational health collective bargaining free, prior, informed consent stakeholder engagement closure planning and management s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 15 02 STrategy our program f o r 2 0 1 1 pl anning f or t h e f u t ure Our program for 2011 Our immediate priority is to close the gaps We will do this by: We will focus particularly on tailings between our current policies, programs management, water stewardship, • developing and implementing companyand performance and what is required by biodiversity plans and partnerships, and wide corporate responsibility training; respected third parties and frameworks, community relations and development, including the United Nations Global • formalizing the way we identify, assess including feedback systems and Compact, the Voluntary Principles on and mitigate sustainability risks; investments that will deliver long-term Security and Human Rights and the • conducting site-level corporate benefits, like infrastructure and skillsevolving principles and standards of responsibility vulnerability assessments; development projects. the IFC. • working toward greater accuracy and We will also continue to advance the tracking and reporting on our corporate five-year goals we set for our organization responsibility performance; and in 2007 (see page 31). • implementing formal community feedback (grievance) mechanisms. 2 011 c o rp o r at e r e sp o n s i b i l i t y o b j e c t i v e s 1. Advance Operational Excellence (OE), continue to • demonstrations of OE effectiveness target zero harm 2. Better communicate our five-year strategy • corporate responsibility roadmap 3. Continue to build our corporate responsibility • government affairs strategy strategy and organization 4. Identify where we need to implement new • site-level vulnerability assessments management systems 5. Fill management system gaps • community feedback (grievance) system • corporate responsibility training • water use and protection standard • occupational health/industrial hygiene • process hazard management systems • rigorous OMS implementation for tailings management • expand corporate standards • biodiversity partnerships and site-level plans • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (with a focus on Panama and Turkey) 6. Responsible development of Cobre Panama • robust CR management system to manage issues through the construction phase of the project • ensure the basic engineering design meets Inmet’s expectations and corporate responsibility requirements Planning for the future We recognize that our influence and Over the coming years, we will be working adaptation and local community responsibilities extend beyond stewardship toward conformance with best practice adaptation). We will also work of our operations and that choosing to do in the areas of security and human rights, toward encouraging open and business in environmentally and socially corruption and business ethics, mineral competitive markets. vulnerable locations gives us additional transparency, product stewardship and responsibilities and obligations. climate change adaptation (both corporate 16 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Below: Community meeting at Rio Caimito, Panama. 03 Performance 2010 per formance hi ghli ghts We continue to measure our sustainability performance as it relates to three key things: safety, the environment and communities. However, this year’s report presents most of our performance information using the three primary GRI performance categories: economic, environmental and social performance. To highlight its importance, we continue to discuss safety and health separately. Our detailed numeric reporting on key performance indicators starts on page 32. In thi s sec t io n Economic performance 18 – Contributions and benefits 18 – Government subsidies 18 – Local hiring and purchasing 18 Safety performance 19 Environmental performance 20 – Water 21 – Energy 21 – Emissions and waste 22 – Product impacts and mitigation 23 – Biodiversity 23 Social performance 25 – Employment 25 – Training 25 – Labour practices 25 – Human rights 25 – Indigenous peoples 25 – Communities and infrastructure 26 – Product stewardship 26 03 Performance Eco nomic perf o rm a nc e Saf ety pe rf orma nc e Economic performance GRI economic performance indicators Local hiring and actively putting programs in place to measure the impact a company has on the develop local capacity and skills. Minera and purchasing places where it does business – how much Panama will generate more than 5,000 it earns, how much it invests (through direct jobs during the construction phase taxes, employment and other expenses), Hiring of this labour-intensive, large-scale project. how much support it receives from local Each of our operating sites employs local Our exploration team uses Inmet governments, and how much it gives residents and our rate of local employment employees for project management and back through community development ranges from as high as 80 percent at technical work and hires skilled labourers initiatives, charitable donations and local Las Cruces, to 41 percent at Çayeli and locally. Service providers and qualified drill hiring and purchasing. 57 percent Pyhäsalmi. and geophysical contractors are also hired The definition of local varies between from within country, if available. Contributions sites, each site has defined local and benefits in consultation with a broad range Purchasing of stakeholders. Although we do not yet have a formal In 2010, we contributed a total of $191M 30 percent of the 170 employees at corporate purchasing policy, our operating in direct taxes and royalties to federal Cobre Panama are local hires, including sites make best efforts to buy from and provincial governments in Canada three of ten director-level positions and all suppliers within the local region or country and elsewhere. employees involved in our native species whenever possible. Currently, 87 percent reforestation program. 81 percent are of the materials used at Cobre Panama Government subsidies hires from within the country, including are purchased from resident Panamanian 22 employees from local indigenous companies and 91 percent of goods used Las Cruces received $282,000 in communities. We are developing a local at Las Cruces are purchased from within employment incentives and capital grants hiring policy for Panama that will include Spain. Çayeli is able to procure 34 percent from the Spanish government in 2010. preferential hiring and skills development of their materials within the Rize province Pyhäsalmi received $181,000 from the for people from the 22 communities most boundary, and Pyhäsalmi is able to buy Finnish government for mineral exploration. affected by the project, and identifying the 12 percent of its materials from Pyhäjärvibest locations for recruitment and skills based contractors and suppliers. We track building centres. We’re committed to hiring local purchasing at the point of sale level. 100 percent locally for non-skilled positions 18 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Safety performance Our goal is to bring every employee and • near miss and incident reporting; 2009 numbers, lost time injury frequency contractor home healthy and safe every day. • leading and lagging key was relatively flat for the second year in performance indicators; a row. To achieve the kind of zero harm workplace to which we aspire, we work to establish • safety and health audits; and Regrettably, both our injury severity and a culture and an environment where • safety task force. disabling injury frequency increased in incident-free work is business as usual, 2010. Disabling injury frequency increased no matter what a person’s role or where We believe that focusing our resources, 17 percent and injury severity increased in the world they are working. energy and attention in these six areas is significantly. This was mostly due to an the best way to build and maintain a safe accident at Las Cruces in May 2010 that We do this through a combination of and healthy industrial workplace. resulted in the death of a maintenance safety standards, safe work practices contractor and serious injuries to two and procedures, incident reporting and tracking, knowledge sharing across our 2010 Performance others. The accident occurred when the discharge piping below a leach reactor operations, safety audits and Operational We expanded our Operational Excellence failed while the workers were attempting Excellence, our behaviour-based program in 2010 through visible leadership to lower the level of solution in the reactor management approach. activities in key areas. We made good to perform maintenance. The force and progress in improving both the quantity extreme heat of the liquid that escaped Operational Excellence is the practice and quality of layered audits, stop and the burst pipe caused the resulting injuries. of engaging our workforce in identifying talk coaching sessions, planned behaviour We completed both an internal and hazards, assessing risk and managing it observations and planned inspections. external investigation to analyze and to as low as reasonably achievable (also We also delivered Operational Excellence determine the root cause of the incident known as ALARA) on the job. By engaging training to managers at all our operations, and any contributing factors. We also our workers, we empower them to find including teams working on our exploration commissioned an intensive hazard and ways to do jobs more safely and instill a and development projects. operability review of the entire property sense of personal responsibility for safety. We believe this is the most practical and In 2010 we also modified our approach to identify any other processes and/or effective way to make our work sites safe. to near miss and incident reporting to equipment whose failure could lead improve awareness of hazards and high to worker exposure to hazard. The Across the company, we manage safety recommendations have been implemented consequence risks, reporting, investigation and health through our risk-based SECA and we are fully cooperating with an and follow up practices. Consequently, Standards. Managers at our operations ongoing criminal investigation. encouraging employees and contractors, are responsible for implementing these continuing our OE implementation and The fatality at Las Cruces also increased standards, and it is their responsibility to improving management systems helped our statistical level of work days lost in ensure work practices and procedures improve our total injury frequency 2010 because a fatality is statistically that support the standards are in place. performance in 2010. equivalent to 6,000 lost work days. Our focus areas Although we are continuing to implement 2 Formerly MASHA (the Mines and To support our zero harm goal and Operational Excellence and move toward Aggregates Safety and Health Association), approach, we focus on six key areas, zero harm at all our sites, we continue to an Ontario-based mine industry workplace aligned with industry best practice: lag Workplace Safety North2 in lost time safety association. injury frequency and have not yet achieved • high consequence protocols (protocols our targeted year-over-year reductions in to address incidents that carry a high injury frequency and severity. While fewer risk of serious harm); medical aid injuries reduced our total injury • field leadership; frequency this year by 16 percent over O c c u pat i o n a l h e a lt h a n d s a f e t y All employees are covered by joint occupational health and checkpoints help us ensure our policies and standards are safety committees that are tasked with performing employee being applied on the job every day, while our Safety Task health checks, and ensuring that workplace monitoring Force, comprised of general managers and safety staff from systems effectively control workplace health hazards. our operations, meets biweekly by conference call to share information and report on performance and issues. We use compliance audits, workplace inspections, job safety analyses, training exercises, safety meetings, stop and talks Health and safety compliance audits were conducted at and work observations to manage safety at our sites. These Çayeli and Las Cruces in 2010. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 19 03 Performance Environme ntal pe rf o rm an c e Environmental performance GRI environmental performance indicators measure the impact a company has on the environment – how much energy it uses (directly and indirectly), how much fresh and recycled water it uses and what water sources are affected, how much hazardous and other waste it generates, its levels of carbon emissions, the impacts it may have on biodiversity, and how responsibly it manages its environmental stewardship obligations in general. 2010 performance A treatment facility was also built • Troilus – also experienced two significant to effectively remove zinc and other fuel spills in 2010. A large hydraulic oil In 2010, Inmet’s operations experienced contaminates from the site’s effluent. spill, which was remediated by excavating a significant increase in the number of the contaminated soil and rock, and a incidents reported to government agencies fuel spill that resulted from a vehicle under regulatory requirements, as well as Spills accident which subsequently reached a incidents that were reportable according We consider a spill significant if it is large nearby creek. The site acted quickly to to our internal standards. Altogether there enough to have a material impact on the install sorbent booms across the creek were 715 reportable incidents in 2010. environment or the local community, or if it downstream of the accident and capture The majority resulted from water-related is a spill involving very hazardous substance. the fuel. incidents at Las Cruces and Çayeli. In 2010 we formalized a five-point severity • Cobre Panama – experienced two spills scale for environmental incidents and of fuel in 2010: a fuel truck leak and a Water quality issues implemented it across the company to spill during fuel tank recharging in the better standardize the way our operations • Las Cruces – most of our environmental camp. The first is considered significant report. The same classification system also incidents in 2010 were the result of because the fuel was spilled over addresses safety and health, community water-related exceedances at Las a relatively large area; the second, incidents, security and human rights. Cruces. Our compliance with emission because the site was not able to recover limit values for the discharge to the According to our classification scale, we all of the fuel spilled. Actions have been Guadalquivir River improved dramatically had seven significant environmental spills taken to remediate the damage caused as the operation began to reach in 2010: by these incidents. steady-state operations and the • Pyhäsalmi – a surface runoff collection improvements in our water treatment sump was overwhelmed during a period Notices, fines and violations process were implemented. However, of heavy runoff which reached Lake We received eight notices of violation our compliance with limits for Pyhäjärvi. Additional temporary pumps (NOV) at three sites in 2010. Most were re-injection of ground water that we had to be added to control the overflow. related to environmental exceedances. remove from the proximity of the open Pyhäsalmi has installed increased pit declined markedly, primarily because • Troilus – received three NOVs, one pumping capacity to prevent such strict limits were imposed before the related to dust emissions from a tailings overflows in the future. engineered membrane water purification pond, one for improper disposal of system (a form of reverse osmosis) was • Las Cruces – experienced two biomedical waste (shipping medical constructed and operational. Moreover, significant spills in 2010. An accidental waste to a pharmacy instead of a the limits included some constituents discharge of process water and an hospital for disposal), and a third for which the purification system was obstruction that caused an overflow of exceeding the site’s monthly limit for not designed to treat effectively. The effluent during a heavy rainstorm. The iron in its tailings effluent. Mitigation purification system was commissioned discharge was controlled by building two activities included re-vegetating areas mid-year 2011 and performance has emergency dikes that helped contain around the tailings pond to control the improved markedly. the water. To prevent an overflow from spread of dust, better communication occurring in the future, we installed • Çayeli – this site had difficulty controlling with parties responsible for waste additional valves that minimize the the spread of concentrate in the form of disposal, and improved monitoring volume of water that can be discharged fugitive dust at the Rize Port concentrate of the water injection system. when there is an obstruction. We loading facility in 2010, resulting in • Millenbach – our closed property at reported these spills to regulatory higher than permitted levels of metals Millenbach received two notices of agencies because a portion of each in site effluent. To address the problem, violation related to discharge water reached the Garnacha stream, but the operation focused on improving its quality and operation of the site’s based on subsequent monitoring, transport and storage practices, and temporary water management system we do not believe that either had an reducing spillage at transfer points. at its mine waste facility. We have adverse effect on the environment or the local community. developed an action plan that includes installing an interim collection and 20 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n treatment system, diverting clean water Las Cruces is located in an arid region of water quality in the area surrounding from the area, and further evaluating southern Spain where water resources our submarine tailings outfall. To-date restoration performance and options are scarce. To protect the Nieblas-Posada 65 surveys have been completed and for the long term. aquifer which lies above the Las Cruces indicate no change in water quality. Based • Las Cruces – received three notices of ore body, a dewatering and reinjection on these results, we continue to believe violation in 2010. Two were related to system (DRS) is used to move that deep sea placement is a safe practice exceedances in its dewatering and groundwater away from the mine. This is under these somewhat unique reinjection system. Although the level done by drawing water from wells which environmental conditions. of some contaminants in this system surround the open pit. Before water is In 2010, Cobre Panama conducted in 2010 remained lower than naturally returned to the aquifer, it is treated using an aquatic life study as part of its occurring levels of these substances a highly efficient reverse osmosis process environmental and social impact in the Niebla-Posadas aquifer, they and tested for potential contaminates. assessment, to establish a baseline exceeded the Spanish human health Las Cruces also uses treated sewage for water quality and assess the current based water quality standards, resulting from another enterprise and contact water diversity of the aquatic environment. in non-compliance. The commissioning from its own pit to minimize the need for The study found that the levels of some of the water purification system freshwater as much as possible. In 2010, metals are higher than expected because described above has greatly reduced Las Cruces was able to reuse 75 percent of existing mineralization in the area but the instances of non-compliance and of the water it used in its processes. that aquatic organisms aren’t affected. we are now re-injecting drinking water Each of our producing properties reduced back into the aquifer. In addition to monitoring the quality of absolute water withdrawal in 2010. our discharge water, Las Cruces regularly Cobre Panama uses groundwater from monitors and reports on the quality of the Water wells and surface water from rivers and Guadalquivir River (levels of sediment, streams, including Quebrada Brazo, Río El health of organisms and fish). No material We recognize that sound water Medio, Río Botija, Río Petaquilla, Quebrada changes were reported in 2010. management practices are essential to Valle Grande, Quebrada sin nombre. Cobre our competitiveness in a resource-limited Panama’s water use increased in 2010 as environment, and we strive to balance Energy a result of increased activity at the site. our operational needs with environmental concerns and the needs of local No water sources are significantly affected Mining is an energy-intensive activity, so communities. In 2007, we set a five-year by our operations, and none of our monitoring and managing the amount of target to reduce fresh water withdrawal at properties are located near Ramsdar energy we use is both an environmental our operations by 20 percent, by recycling listed wetlands, a network of wetlands responsibility and a sound business and other means. To date, we have designated as being of international practice. We measure both direct and achieved a 16 percent reduction in water importance for global biodiversity and indirect energy use – the amount of fuel use and we are confident that we will sustaining human life. we use onsite, in trucks, generators and reach our ultimate goal of 20 percent by other forms of machinery, and the amount of electricity we purchase and consume. the end of 2012. Discharge and treatment The closing of our Troilus mine meant that We monitor the quality of receiver water Fresh and recycled water use at all of our operating sites and closed we processed less ore in 2010 than in 2009. This resulted in higher energy use Pyhäsalmi draws water from Lake Pyhäjärvi, properties, measuring for quantities of per tonne of ore produced, even though and has developed a water recycling and copper, zinc, calcium, sulphate and the total amount of energy we used at our conservation plan. The operation has suspended solids in water, among many sites did not change. Increased energy reduced its water consumption by roughly other chemical constituents. We also demands at Las Cruces offset modest 250,000 m3 since 2009 and it recycled conduct biological studies at our closed energy improvements at our operations 100,000 m3 in 2010. Pyhäsalmi’s target properties to monitor changes to aquatic and the closure of Troilus as Las Cruces is to recycle 30 percent of the water it ecosystems. Monitoring results are reached commercial production midway consumes each year. It recycled roughly reported to regulatory authorities, as through 2010. 20 percent of the water it used in 2010. required by domestic legislation. In 2010, there were no adverse changes in the Çayeli uses water from a local aquifer and Consumption quality of water we discharged to. a river. In an effort to reduce groundwater consumption, Çayeli uses river water Since 1993, our operation in Turkey has Inmet’s direct energy consumption and also maximizes its use of runoff and discharged tailings into the Black Sea improved this year (10 percent less than mine and mill process water. Successful at a depth of 275 m. The oxygen-free 2009), bringing it to 52 percent less recycling has reduced the amount of fresh environment prevents these materials than our absolute consumption in 2007, water withdrawal by nearly 19 percent at from oxidizing and generating acid. A when we began targeting year over year this site since 2007. government institute in Turkey monitors improvements. However, our indirect s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 21 03 Performance Environme ntal pe rf o rm an c e energy consumption was up five percent 29 percent higher than 2009 levels, and We had more hazardous residues than over 2009 – a level 20 percent higher six percent greater than 2007. Most of this expected at Las Cruces this year because than 2007. increase can be attributed to the ramp up of operational problems with filters that of our operations at Las Cruces. Other hindered that site’s waste reduction On an intensity basis, our direct energy factors included increased activity and the initiatives. Non-hazardous exploration usage increased 16 percent in 2010 over use of mobile equipment at Cobre Panama, waste increased significantly because we 2009, despite absolute reductions of direct an expanded exploration drilling program, had more drilling projects than in previous energy since 2007. Our indirect energy and an unusually cold winter in Finland. years and increased reverse circulation intensity was eight percent higher Closing Troilus did not significantly drilling, which produces more waste than 2009. influence our GHG emission levels because material than core drilling. Pyhäsalmi Energy intensity at Las Cruces will continue it used electricity from a carbon-free source. disposed of more hazardous waste in 2010 to increase until we reach target production compared to 2009 because water mixed We voluntarily report our emissions every levels, likely sometime in 2011. Intensity at with their used oil, requiring disposal of year to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Cobre Panama will increase steeply when a larger amount of material. This site is we move into the construction phase of making improvements to the containment that project in 2012. Greenhouse gas of their hazardous waste. Panama reduction efforts generated more waste because there Conservation was generally more activity at the site. Çayeli has had good success in reducing its GHG emissions by increasing Energy conservation initiatives vary by site mechanical hoisting and reducing hauling Mine waste management and we continuously find opportunities to by truck at this site. They also use a higher Mine waste (overburden, waste rock, improve our performance. An energy study efficiency Eurodiesel fuel for their heavy tailings, sludges and residues) at all our at Pyhäsalmi identified opportunities for equipment. Las Cruces is still establishing majority-owned operations are carefully energy savings through retrofitting the an energy use baseline and will look for managed following all regulatory and site’s milling operations. Çayeli has been reduction opportunities once they reach permit requirements, as well as our own able to reduce its direct energy consumption full commercial production. Pyhäsalmi has mine waste management policy and by increasing mechanical hoisting, replaced several motors in its equipment SECA Standards. switching to cleaner-burning Eurodiesel with higher efficiency motors and drives, fuel and reducing truck hauling across the and its energy comes from a certified We generally contain tailings and residues operation. This site has also succeeded carbon-free source. Our closed sites have in specially engineered structures. Waste in reducing its annual average power achieved a 231 tonne reduction in absolute rock and tailings are used as backfill in consumption per milled tonne by 11 percent CO2 emissions since 2008, primarily from our underground mines or are stored in over the past three years (2008 to 2010). indirect initiatives (reducing the amount containment facilities. At operations where An energy reduction survey is underway of electricity they use or purchasing it tailings from sulphide ores could generate at Las Cruces to establish a consumption from a carbon-free source). An active acid and leach metals that could be baseline and targets for energy use reforestation program near our harmful to the environment, we take steps when the operation reaches commercial development project in Panama will help to reduce oxidation, contain any possible production. Our closed sites continue to offset carbon emissions at that site. contaminants and treat water before we monitor their consumption and promote release it back into the environment. energy conservation. In 2010, they invested At Çayeli, tailings are safely discharged in energy efficient generators and lighting. Waste disposal into the oxygen-free Black Sea at a depth At Inmet, we strive to limit our waste of 275 m. footprint by reducing the volume of waste Emissions and waste We are continuing to upgrade our tailings we generate. We look for opportunities management systems to meet the to reuse and recycle materials where Greenhouse gas (GHG) possible, and some of our sites practice Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) standards. emissions energy recovery with our residual waste. Operations, maintenance and surveillance Our waste is disposed of onsite in Our absolute direct GHG emissions manuals are either available, being revised approved and inspected facilities, or (emissions from burning fossil fuels at or under development. Çayeli and Las off-site in certified recycling or disposal our sites) decreased by ten percent this Cruces have plans in place to complete facilities. Non-hazardous solid waste year over 2009, but our indirect GHGs their manuals in 2011. All other sites have includes materials such as wood, paper, (emissions from electricity usage) already implemented their manuals. metal, domestic waste and residuals from increased significantly. Overall, we emitted treated water (sludge). Hazardous waste We will continue to use the TSM tailings a total of 153,588 tonnes of carbon dioxide includes materials such as used oil, grease, management guidance and protocols to equivalent, company-wide which is solvents and contaminated soils and water. drive our mine waste and wastewater performance at all sites. 22 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Product impacts Other conservation areas underway to understand the effects of our electrical lines and roads on various and mitigation There is diverse resident bird population birds and animals in the area. Inmet produces copper, zinc and pyrite near our Las Cruces mine that is home to • Cobre Panama – Biodiversity concentrates, and copper cathode. Our several important steppe birds, including conservation and offset strategies concentrates are fine grained and have the Great Bustard, Little Bustard, Stoneformed a key part of the Cobre Panama low moisture content (approximately Curlew, Black-bellied Sandgrouse, environmental and social impact 10 percent). They contain metals, sulphur Pin-tailed Sandgrouse and Lesser Kestrel. assessment (ESIA) submitted to the and small proportions of silica and other An independent project is underway in Panamanian authority, ANAM, in trace elements. Spain to strengthen the Great Bustard September 2010. The ESIA includes in greater numbers near Las Cruces. Concentrates can be toxic to aquatic a first version Biodiversity Action Plan organisms and people if improperly The southern part of Lake Pyhäjärvi, near that will be further refined to ensure that handled. To prevent the exposure of our site in Finland, is protected by the our extensive biodiversity commitments concentrates they are transported with Natura 2000 European Union conservation are met. material safety data sheets and are network. Although Pyhäsalmi’s discharge Our biodiversity commitments at Cobre updated every three years in most enters the lake well north of the protected Panama cover five areas: biodiversity jurisdictions. Copper cathode does not area and the lake does not contain offsets, species of concern management, present significant environmental hazard. endangered species, we are supporting capacity building, research and additional the town and local fishing association by Our operations have measures in place to habitat creation. We have retained an working with them to protect and improve control the airborne spread of concentrate internationally recognized consulting firm, fish habitat in the lake. as fugitive dust by controlling spillage at Hardner & Gullison, to prepare a second, transfer points. We also have emergency refined version of the Biodiversity Action Biodiversity impact Plan for Cobre Panama that will be fully plans which include protocols for responding to concentrate spills. In 2010, management implemented when the project is our sites re-evaluated their environmental approved. This plan will address ten Our formal approach to managing risks and have made improvements to the elements of conservation, underpinned by biodiversity was developed in 2008 and way they store and transport concentrate, a landscape-scale conservation approach all of our operations work to maintain as needed. to maximize conservation of important biodiversity levels throughout the mining habitat in the regions around the project. life cycle. Both our active operations and Samatosum and Norbec control their water The landscape-scale approach includes our closed properties carry out regular treatment residuals (sludge) on site as creating new conservation areas and environmental monitoring to assess and required by legislation and contemplated enhancing existing protected areas. manage potential impacts from our in their closure plans. An external Minera Panama has signed agreements activities. We also participate in the assessment of our closed sites sludge with several respected conservation Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program management is scheduled for 2011. institutions, including the Peregrine (BBOP) and aim to achieve no net loss, Foundation, the Houston Zoo and the or preferably a net gain of biodiversity Missouri Botanical Garden. These Biodiversity where achievable. experienced and knowledgeable partners • Pyhäsalmi – has developed a water will work with Minera Panama to achieve Protected and high recycling and conservation plan to the goals of the Biodiversity Action biodiversity areas reduce the quantity of contaminants it Plan, through such evolving international adds to Lake Pyhäjärvi. The operation best practice measures as captive Our greenfield development project, also actively monitors heavy metal breeding, off-site flora propagation Cobre Panama, is located within the concentrations in its effluent and in and long-term monitoring. Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC), the lake. Pyhäsalmi completed its an area of high biodiversity value. It is A flora and fauna rescue program to biodiversity management plan in 2010. adjacent to the two national parks, Omar identify and conserve species of concern • Las Cruces – Opportunities for in the MBC has been drafted and will be Torrijos and Santa Fe, but will not encroach biodiversity protection and enhancement finalized in late 2011. Activities to date on them. We are developing this sensitive form an integral part of Las Cruces’ have included identifying and relocating site using the International Finance operating plans. Las Cruces assists at-risk plants and animals, reforestation Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards local farmers with developing and and soil protection. In 2010, 130 hectares on Social and Environmental Sustainability implementing ecological agriculture of protected land were successfully and other internal and external standards practices that help provide an appropriate reforested, using 60 native species to that ensure that our project effectively habitat for steppe birds. In 2010, the site compensate for some of Minera Panama’s manages its impacts and enhances also conducted studies of both steppe exploration-related disturbances. We plan opportunities to conserve species of birds and turtles. Studies are also to reforest 720 hectares in 2011. All work concern in the project area and beyond. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 23 03 Performance Environme ntal pe rf o rm an c e Social pe rf orma nc e has been planned and executed in cooperation with the Panamanian I n v e s t i n g i n e n v i r o n m e n ta l pr o t e c t i o n environmental regulator, ANAM, using a n d r e s t o r at i o n a local workforce. Inmet expects to invest approximately A large part of any mining company’s annual budget is environmental $108M in environmental conservation stewardship, whether at the exploration and development stages of a project, initiatives over the 30-year life of this mine. during operations or at and beyond closure. • Closed sites – In 2010, our closed Environmental expenditures at our operations this year addressed waste sites developed preliminary biodiversity and water management, environmental monitoring and testing, repairs and plans for the properties that did not improvements to existing equipment and systems, as well as rehabilitation already have them. These plans outline and restoration work. initial targets and working plans to To prevent exposure of contaminants to water Pyhäsalmi covered several improve biodiversity elements at water seepage areas and two forest ditches. They also made improvements our closed sites. to their recycling systems. Future plans Çayeli significantly increased its environmental spending in 2010. Their program includes hydrogeology and geochemistry monitoring, waste management and We plan to expand our biodiversity monitoring of our deep sea tailings in the Black Sea. In 2010, they also made planning and activities at all operations modifications to the mix tank to prevent reverse tailings flow, invested in dust to align with the Mining Association of suppression at the Rize port, rehabilitation of the south waste dump and Canada’s biodiversity protocol (level 3) and improved secondary containment for lubricants. ICMM Principle 7. Biodiversity planning is a key 2011 objective for Çayeli, which does Most spending at Las Cruces was for restoration and re-vegetation activities. not yet have a biodiversity plan. Las Cruces also invested in new laboratory equipment and a feasibility study for an underground drainage filtration plant. Las Cruces has invested more than €40 million since 2008 in systems designed to protect water resources in the area, including our dewatering and reinjection water purification system and a purification plant for treating contact water. Capital spent to enhance the design of the water management systems at Las Cruces has begun to be realized in 2011. This has led to significant improvements in water-related exceedances. Most of our 2010 environmental budget at Panama was spent on the environmental and social impact assessment which we submitted for review in September, 2010. Other spending included biodiversity research, environmental monitoring and reporting, reforestation programs and flora and fauna rescue relocation work. Environmental spending was up at Troilus as we ramped up activities to dismantle buildings, infrastructure and rehabilitate disturbed areas at this newly closed site. Environmental spending at the other closed sites did not change significantly in 2010. 24 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Social performance GRI social performance indicators measure operational excellence and root Indigenous peoples the impacts a company has on people cause incident investigation. and communities, including employees, One of Inmet’s closed sites, Troilus, and contractors, indigenous peoples, and our Cobre Panama development property communities affected both directly and Labour practices lie within or adjacent to places where indirectly by the organization’s activities. indigenous peoples have formal or informal All employees at Pyhäsalmi and Las This category includes employment land rights. Of the other five closed Cruces and 72 percent of the employees at and labour practices, health and safety, properties, two are less than 20 kilometres Çayeli are covered by collective bargaining and community engagement, impacts from such territories. agreements. Minera Panama also and development. established a union this year. 27 percent Recognizing there is no universally of its 170 employees are now covered by accepted definition, we support the collective bargaining agreements. concept of Free, Pior and Informed Employment Consent (FPIC) in terms of it being a way On average, about five percent of for communities to be fully informed about the employees at our operations are Human rights projects to ensure that there is sufficient managers and ten percent are supervisors. Inmet treats all stakeholders we engage support in those communities for a project Approximately 70 percent of employees at with fairly and respectfully through open to proceed. Moreover, FPIC should our active sites are hourly employees. Most and transparent dialogue. We believe that facilitate decision making about how hourly employees are directly involved in building and fostering mutually trusting, benefits from projects are distributed either production or maintenance activities. respectful and productive relationships will in communities. earn community support for our activities The majority of the workforce at all of our • C obre Panama – Approximately 600-700 throughout the life cycle of our mines. sites is made up of national employees. In indigenous community members live in 2010, only three of the employees at Çayeli We condemn all forms of violence and three communities near Minera Panama: (451 employees), eight of the employees threats of violence, including coercion, Nuevo Sinai, Chicheme and Nueva at Las Cruces (250 employees) and 22 intimidation and manipulation and will not Lucha. To ensure we are respecting the of the employees at Cobre Panama tolerate such behaviour by employees or rights of people in these communities, (144 employees) were expatriates (hires contractors. We support the protection we are applying IFC Performance from outside of the host country). All of human rights within our sphere of Standards 5 and 7 in our project and employees at Pyhäsalmi (225 employees) influence and we will not be directly or are also creating corporate procedures are Finnish. indirectly complicit in the violation of for Minera Panama that meet human rights. international best practice. These Company-wide, we had less than three procedures include accountability, percent voluntary turnover in 2010, and are To demonstrate our commitment, we monitoring and evaluation mechanisms encouraged by our ability to retain skilled established a formal human rights policy to ensure they are effective. talent in a competitive industry. (based on the work of the United Nations Special Representative on Business We demonstrate our respect for and Human Rights, Dr. John Ruggie) indigenous peoples at Cobre Panama Training incorporating the Protect, Respect and by including their perspectives in our Remedy framework. This policy was development plans and by ensuring Our sites design and implement training reviewed by our NGO partner, the Fund they will benefit from our future mining programs to give employees and for Peace, and our external stakeholder activities at this site. An Indigenous contractors the knowledge, skills and advisory panel and was then approved by People’s Development Plan that will competence they need to perform our board in November 2010. We have guide our ongoing relationship is their jobs safely and well. We invest begun the process to become a signatory being developed and is scheduled for considerable time and resources on training to the Voluntary Principles on Security and implementation in January 2012. This for both employees and contractors. Human Rights. We are also a signatory to plan, informed by, among other things, In 2010, training ranged from job-specific ILO Convention 169, will help ensure the United Nations Global Compact, which skills, such as basic miner training and our interactions are inclusive, respectful, includes principles related to human rights. mobile and stationary equipment training, culturally appropriate and mutually to more general topics such as first aid In 2010, we provided basic human rights beneficial. An indigenous peoples and high consequence protocols. orientation to all of our security personnel. hiring policy will be a key feature. Management and leadership training We will be conducting vulnerability Three hundred indigenous community was delivered as part of our operational assessments at our sites in 2011, to members will be physically or excellence program and, in addition, identify locations at risk and any actions economically relocated as a result of our managers in Turkey received emotional needed. This includes an assessment of project, in addition to the members of intelligence coaching. Our entire security needs at Minera Panama and of 29 non-indigenous households. We are exploration team was trained on the the risks associated with potential security using respected external consultants, principles and best practices of first arrangements (both inside and outside the rePlan, and following IFC Performance contact with communities, gate) at that site. Standards to develop a fair and s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 25 03 Performance Social pe rf orma nc e appropriate resettlement plan. Six Community development prevent and control erosion. We have resettlement negotiation committees of signed a contract to build ten schools representatives from local communities Everywhere we operate, we aim to focus in the project area in partnership with have been established, including our social investments in priorities of the CoSPAE, a local NGO, and we awarded our two indigenous committees. These communities to ensure that our investments first international scholarship to a student committees represent their respective have the greatest impact. As a result most from the project area in 2010. Work to communities in the resettlement investments are in the areas of public reconstruct the San Benito aqueduct also dialogue process, and we expect to health, education and improving and continued this year. sign a Resettlement Action Plan with expanding livelihoods. We intend to all affected households in 2011. invest in sustainable, culturally appropriate programs, designed and executed with Resettlement • T  roilus – Our Troilus mine site is located stakeholder input and in cooperation with Cobre Panama – Approximately 67 families in the traditional territories of the government, NGOs and other partners. will be displaced, either physically or Mistissini Cree Nation. In 1995, the Cree Building literacy and ensuring the inclusion economically, by our Cobre Panama Nation of Mistissini and Inmet signed a of women and girls in programming will project. We are meeting regularly with Joint Implementation Agreement, with be key priorities for our community the affected households to ensure a fair the support of the Grand Council of development plans and projects. and appropriate resettlement process that Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree will see affected community members Regional Authority. The partnership was In Turkey, for example we have a housing relocated to safe housing in locations that considered successful by both parties foundation that supports community consider their long-term livelihoods, social throughout the life of this mine. members in repairing or rebuilding and family units, and cultural needs and their homes or relocating to new preferences, meeting IFC Performance accommodations, and public health Communities and Standard 5 and 7 criteria. We expect to partnerships that bring improved access finalize a Resettlement Action Plan with infrastructure to preventative and emergency healthcare affected residents in 2011. to local residents. Çayeli – Our operation in Turkey is Engagement Our sustainable community development now using a form of Alternative Dispute work and plans in Panama include carpentry, Our operations began using the SEAT, a Resolution to work with local residents to agriculture and animal husbandry programs framework for identifying and assessing identify the technical causes of housing and training, scholarship programs, and community development needs developed damage that community members microcredit partnerships. We are also for the mining sector, to guide their have attributed to our mining activities. developing local skills in native plant community engagement and development We are using geotechnical and mining identification and reforestation and other efforts in 2009. All of our sites now have engineering methods to better understand activities related to mining and mine-site formal stakeholder engagement and the characteristics of the impact area and rehabilitation. Local sourcing is increasing management strategies, built on the determine whether our activities are in fact economic opportunities for local and framework outcomes. We regularly consult contributing to land subsidence and, regional businesses, which will expand with communities in a consistent, culturally consequently, housing damage, or whether as we proceed with construction and appropriate and transparent manner, it is occurring naturally. The Near Mine operation of this site. School meal, infant disclose information about our activities Housing project has begun working with nutrition and vaccination programs also and seek feedback regarding our activities. local stakeholders to establish the provide needed support to vulnerable trustworthy relations needed to develop While active engagement is a priority at community members. solutions that meet international best all of our operations and closed sites, it practice for resettlement, avoid conflict is of vital importance at our development Infrastructure and maintain our social license to operate. site in Panama, where early and active engagement about our planned activities The majority of our current and future has been ongoing since 2007. Team community infrastructure investments will be focused at Cobre Panama. We are Product stewardship members visit the 22 communities directly impacted by the project regularly to inform developing this project in an area where Because we mine and concentrate metals and consult with them about our planned there is currently very limited educational and then market them to smelters and activities and include them in important and economic opportunity and where refineries owned by third-party customers, decisions about the development of our basic services (health, water, hygiene, Inmet has not be active to-date in the area project. A public information forum for transportation) are virtually non-existent. of product stewardship. As we grow, we the project’s ESIA was held in Coclesito Our investments will bring bridge and road will investigate opportunities to engage in November. More than 1,000 people upgrades and fresh water supply. We more deeply in product life cycle initiatives attended, demonstrating interest in the respond to requests from government and will consider joining commodity-based project and provided stakeholders with the agencies to coordinate emergency medical organizations. In 2011, we will be opportunity to ask questions and provide evacuations for community members and considering joining the International feedback on the ESIA process. participate in hay bale production to help Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). 26 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Below: Cobre Las Cruces. 04 Data How ou r perfor mance m easures up This section includes our key performance indicators. We currently measure against The Mining Association of Canada’s TSM (Towards Sustainable Mining) indicators, our own company indicators and a range of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators. You will find overviews of our economic, environmental and social performance starting on page 32. In thi s sec t io n What we measure and why 28 Collecting and verifying our data 29 Key performance indicator index 33 Data – SECA targets 30 – TSM indicators 32 – Company indicators 33 – GRI indicators 36 – GRI/Global Compact index 36 Assurance statement 29 Notes on the performance data amounts are in Canadian dollars ($) unless otherwise indicated. A blank means there is no data or represents the period before Inmet’s ownership. Some 2010 values for Ok Tedi are missing because divestment occurred in January 2011 before the data from the site was consolidated and verified. 04 DATA MEASUREMENT What we measure and why We choose frameworks and key Towards Sustainable We choose which indicators to report performance indicators (KPIs) that are on based on what our communities are Mining (TSM) relevant to our business and that will help interested in, what data we can actually us manage risk and drive measurable The Mining Association of Canada’s TSM gather, and how well the indicators performance improvements. initiative is Canadian-based and specific correspond to our business approach. to our industry, which means that it’s both We added seventeen new indicators to We are also mindful of external relevant to what we do and consistent with our reporting this year to help meet our stakeholder interests and input, and are a Canadian standard of performance. It’s a Global Compact commitments. adding more indicators as our capacity practical framework that helps us manage to report increases. risk and reduce avoidable losses, and it’s the first mining association-sponsored Company indicators initiative in the world to require external Safety, environment Our company indicators are leading verification of members’ performance. and community affairs indicators developed five years ago to help us control priority hazards and drive (SECA) targets performance at all of our majority owned G3 Guidelines In late 2007 we set five-year SECA targets, operations. Six indicators related to safety, and every year we set annual objectives GRI is the world’s most widely used community affairs and the environment to help us stay on track and measure our sustainability reporting framework, provide relevant year over year trend success in implementing the SECA developed through dialogue with a large information that supplement our TSM Standards, corporately and at our network of stakeholders from over and GRI tracking. operations. These targets are designed 60 countries. The process is open to help us reduce incidents and injuries, and inclusive and the framework is protect lives and the environment, reduce continuously improved and expanded as Global Compact (GC) our use of energy and fresh water, reduce knowledge of sustainability issues evolves The United Nations Global Compact is a our greenhouse gas emissions, and and the needs of report makers and voluntary initiative that aims to advance ensure we know our communities and users change. universal principles on human rights, are listening to input from a range of labour, environment and anti-corruption The G3 Guidelines are relevant to all stakeholders. We also want to share the through active engagement of the organizations, regardless of size, sector, or financial benefits of our operations with corporate community. It is not designed location, and have been used by thousands our communities by giving back a share to monitor or measure participants’ of organizations worldwide as the basis of our profits. performance, but our GRI/GC index for their sustainability reporting. We use indicators from the general framework and (page 37) shows where you can find the Metals and Mining Sector Supplement. performance information in this report that is relevant to the ten GC principles. A b o u t t h e G R I M i n i n g a n d M e ta ls S u ppl e m e n t a n d G R I 3 .1 The G3 Mining and Metals Sector Supplement is intended to We’ve used five indicators from the supplement in our 2010 help the mining and metals industry produce more effective performance reporting. We do not report on all core sustainability reports by giving guidance tailored to this indicators of the GRI or the Mining and Metals Supplement sector, particularly in the areas of land control, use and at this time because we have determined that these are not management, national economic and social development, material to Inmet. community and stakeholder engagement, labour relations, The next generation of GRI indicators, GRI 3.1, has now been environmental management, and relationships with artisanal released. We will assess our alignment with GRI 3.1 for our and small-scale mining. 2011 corporate responsibility reporting. For our 2010 report, we have used GRI 3.0 guidance and indicators. 28 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Collecting and verifying our data Collecting data Energy and water use Our 2010 annual audited consolidated financial statements are available Data for the indicators are collected and Our operations are often connected to at www.inmetmining.com or compiled using information submitted community water, sewer and electricity at www.sedar.com. by each site on a standard template. We supplies, so much of the performance provide instructions and criteria for G3 and data for water and energy come from the TSM, and also supply a greenhouse gas metered quantities shown on our utility About third (GHG) emissions worksheet (developed by bills. Where we have installed our own party assurance the Mining Association of Canada). Data transmission systems by connecting to are measured or estimated, and operations power from the nearest point on regional Third party assurance is useful for are asked to explain significant deviations electrical grids, our report includes sustainability reporting because it provides in year-over-year trends and any challenges performance data for these systems. an unbiased assessment, identifies in meeting their performance targets. opportunities for improving tracking and With the exception of diesel-powered reporting, and gives stakeholders Our performance data are generally reported backup generators, we do not generate confidence that companies are reporting at the operation level because we operate power at any of our majority-owned transparently and accurately. our business on that level. Where needed, operations. Minera Panama will build and we roll up data to the corporate level to operate a coal-fired power station that help us manage safety, environmental and will generate 300 megawatts of electricity community affairs across the company. for the project. Safety and environmental Verifying data incidents and GHG emissions We verify our sustainability data internally We provide safety and environmental and have an external verifier review our incident definitions so that all operations narrative report and KPI tables to assess report incidents consistently. We calculate our compliance with G3 reporting. Our greenhouse gas emissions using published TSM reporting must also be externally factors for emissions from grid electricity verified every three years. Our TSM data in each country we operate in. were last reviewed and verified by a third party in 2008. 2 010 v e r i f i c at i o n s tat e m e n t Through a review of Inmet’s Sustainability Report The report contains content related to several of Inmet’s verification activities, we confirm that Inmet Mining challenges including mine waste, safety, community Corporation has provided the necessary G3 Profile and relations, water and energy use, and greenhouse Management Approach Disclosures and reported on gas emissions. a minimum of 20 performance indicators to meet the requirements of Level B+ reporting. A review of the materiality, content and quality of the report indicates that Inmet has provided a balanced report consisting of measurements from a variety of respected Robert Duda, P.Eng., M.B.A.,CRSP, CHSMSA sources including GRI, the GRI draft Metals and Mining Managed Process Consulting Inc. Sector Supplement, and the Mining Association of Canada. Inmet has a disciplined process to identify and determine material content for inclusion in the report including data from all of Inmet’s operating, closed and shared ownership sites. A sampling of data indicated that the data provided are clear, complete and comparable metrics consistent with conventional data reporting. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 29 04 DATA SECA targets SECA targets Annual targets (2010) O bj e ct i v e Result DETAIL  afety, S environment • Implement operational excellence  Good progress • Operational excellence implementation is ongoing and community • Continue plan implementation – SECA Standards and HCPs  Good progress • Significant reductions in water consumption – Water and energy conservation – Community development strategies  orporate C • Develop a corporate human rights Yes • Our corporate human rights initiatives policy and evaluate the benefits of  policy was approved by the signing on to the Voluntary Principles Board in November 2010 on Security and Human Rights • We are preparing to sign on to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights • Develop and implement UN Global Partially • Submitted first Communication Compact training and complete the first  completed on Progress in November 2010 Communication on Progress • Training to be completed in 2011 • Engage with financial analysts to Yes • New director of investor relations improve reputation, build competitive  • Completed analyst visits to Panama advantage and analyst literacy on and Spain corporate responsibility issues • Evaluate the benefits of becoming a Yes • Evaluation completed member of the International Council  • Membership application submitted on Mining and Metals (ICMM) in Q2 2011 • Evaluate options for a community Progressing • Recommendations from an foundation for Minera Panama ~ independent third party are under discussion • Forge a corporate biodiversity Incomplete • We continue to make best partnership with an international û efforts to forge a corporate ecological organization biodiversity partnership 30 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Five-year targets ob j ec ti v e r e s ult detai l Safety Protect lives Setback • One fatality at Cobre Las Cruces (May) Target: Eliminate fatalities Reduce injuries Some progress • Progress: Target: 10 percent year over – 10% decrease in lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) year improvements in injury – 16% decrease in total injury frequency (TIF) frequency and severity • Set back: – 21% increase in disabling injury frequency (DIF) – Significant increase in injury severity (2010 fatality) Environment Protect the environment On track • No significant environmental incidents at our operations Target: Eliminate significant and closed sites environmental incidents Reduce incidents Setback • Complications with the dewatering and reinjection system Target: 10 percent year at Las Cruces increased the number of reportable and over year improvements in non-reportable incidents significantly in 2010. Frequency reportable and non-reportable of incidents increased because of additional reporting environmental incidents, notices requirements in 2010 of violation and warnings Reduce fresh water use On track • Our operating properties have reduced their absolute water Target: 20 percent reduction withdrawal by 15 percent since 2007 from 2007 levels Reduce energy use Setback • Energy intensity up 3 percent from 2009 and GHG emissions • Emissions intensity up 5 percent from 2009 Target: 10 percent year over year improvements in both Community affairs Know our communities Good progress • SEAT process completed at all of our closed properties and Target: Review and update operating sites (Çayeli, Pyhäsalmi, Las Cruces). Findings being socio-economic assessments used to develop and improve community relations and every year development plans and strategies at each site Updated target: Use the findings from our socio-economic assessments to update our community relations and development plans each year Listen to other voices Good progress • Significant engagement with a wide range of NGOs, primarily Target: Develop a via Cobre Panama and also corporately constructive relationship • Cobre Panama continues to lead the company by partnering with at least one NGO with a local NGO to deliver a school meals program • Other operations are working toward this goal • Fund For Peace partnership established Share the benefit On track • Allocated 1.1 percent of after-tax profits in 2010 Target: Allocate 0.5 percent of annual after-tax profits to community development priorities s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 31 04 DATA TSM IN DICATORS company indicato rs TSM indicators The Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining performance elements help Canadian mining companies set goals, establish policy and measure their performance in six key areas: T S M p er f or m a n c e e l e m e n t M e a sures a com pany’ s m anagem ent system s for Tailings management • Dealing with tailings (the materials left over after valuable minerals and metals have been separated from ore) Energy use and greenhouse gas • Using less energy and releasing less greenhouse gas emissions management Aboriginal and community outreach • Maintaining dialogue with the communities near the company’s operations Crisis management planning • Being prepared, throughout the company, for emergencies Biodiversity conservation management • Conserving wildlife Safety and health • Protecting the safety and health of the company’s workers, contractors and visitors MAC is also seeking ways to develop performance standards or objectives concerning: • relationships with indigenous communities; • health and safety; • biodiversity; and • mine closure. You can learn more about TSM and review our latest TSM performance statistics at www.mining.ca. 32 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Company indicators Environmental 1 inspections Inspections are conducted by federal or state/provincial/regional environmental law officers completing their periodic and documented audits against permits and applicable legislation. The number of inspections generally follows our submittal of project proposals, permit amendment proposals, or legislative changes. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 7 5 7 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 50 59 29 2 6 Cobre Panama 3 3 9 Pyhäsalmi 2 4 1 1 1 1 Troilus 2 2 1 4 2 2 Closed properties 8 10 12 10 18 8 Exploration 4 6 1 1 Pollutant 2 release amounts Amounts reported as required under the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI/INRP) legislation. Our Canadian operation, Troilus, is required to report under NPRI. www.ec.gc.ca/pdb/npri/ National Pollutant Release Inventory – Releases to air, land & water reported (kg) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Location Troilus Copper and its compounds rejects 423 5,720 5,760 70 Chromium and its compounds rejects 3 0 0 3 Hexavalent chromium and its compounds rejects 0 0 95,000 0 Total particulate matter 702,000 903,000 1,616,000 3,410,000 Particulate matter (<10 um) 303,000 365,000 605,000 1,481,000 Particulate matter (<2,5 um) 96,000 100,000 150,000 485,000 Ethylene glycol 0 0 10 0 Methanol 0 0 24,000 0 Lead 20,000 35,000 120,000 10 Manganese 144 100 150 1,400 Ammonia 1,300 2,350 234 7,800 Nitrate ion in solution at pH >= 6.0 335 2,100 894 20,000 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 33 04 data COMPANY IN DICATO R S Formal 3 community meetings There have been fewer community meetings at our exploration sites since 2006-7 because we have been exploring in areas outside of privately held land. Formal meetings are documented (date, attendees, topics, actions or follow up). 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 156 113 65 55 2 0 Cobre Las Cruces 88 66 55 45 40 14 Cobre Panama 125 108 120 10 Pyhäsalmi 11 4 4 4 4 3 Troilus 3 8 3 6 5 4 Closed properties 28 29 27 7 17 2 Exploration 28 15 6 257 166 35 Inmet majority-owned properties 439 343 280 384 234 58 Formal 4 safety meetings Safety meetings include pre-shift daily, weekly crew and contractor meetings with a supervisor, lead hand, captain, coordinator, or manager. There were fewer safety meetings at Las Cruces and Çayeli in 2010 because of the implementation of joint safety meetings. Formal meetings are documented (date, attendees, leader, topic, actions or follow up). 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 1,976 2,686 2,594 2,709 3,075 2,790 Cobre Las Cruces 1,587 3,814 287 97 54 6 Cobre Panama 3,799 2,503 Pyhäsalmi 658 680 652 722 664 331 Troilus 86 186 296 296 308 350 Closed properties 426 566 518 430 360 461 Exploration 156 30 17 Inmet majority-owned properties 8,688 10,465 4,364 4,254 4,461 3,938 NUMBER OF FORMAL COMMUNITY MEETINGS NUMBER OF FORMAL SAFETY MEETINGS (does not include Ok Tedi) (does not include Ok Tedi) 400 12,000 300 9,000 200 6,000 100 3,000 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Ç AY E LI COBRE PANAMÁ CL OS ED PROPERTIES Ç AYELI PYH ÄSA LM I C LOSED P R O P ERTI ES C O B R E LA S C R U C ES TROI L US EXPLORATION C OBRE LA S C RU C ES TROILU S EXPLO R ATI O N C OBRE PA N A M Á 34 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Workplace 5 inspections Inspections increased at Çayeli because of its new field leadership and stop-and-talk programs. Inspections decreased at Troilus because production stopped at this operation midway through 2010. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 3,731 479 86 30 72 95 Cobre Las Cruces 605 885 440 189 17 Cobre Panama 1,088 81 Pyhäsalmi 234 242 226 257 222 178 Troilus 24 44 64 64 68 72 Closed properties 427 612 905 757 649 726 Exploration 188 55 38 Inmet majority-owned properties 6,297 2,398 1,759 1,297 1,028 1,071 6 Job safety analyses Job safety analyses at the operations include reviews of the tasks or jobs related to different work at the site. The analyses are completed by the safety department, at some sites with our medical staff or consultants and/or with worker representatives. The number of analyses is high at Çayeli because they have divided their jobs into smaller tasks. Las Cruces launched its safety management system in 2009 which established formal safety meetings, improved its job safety analysis program and added new metrics that were not in place during the construction period. Numbers for the closed sites include job safety observations completed as part of employee training. During these observations, job tasks and procedures are updated as needed and communicated to the crews. The increase at Pyhäsalmi is due to our Job Hazard Analysis program. Number of job safety analyses performed and documented 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 2,837 860 332 339 360 338 Cobre Las Cruces 3,039 844 32 27 61 Cobre Panama 541 562 Pyhäsalmi 67 16 0 16 34 31 Troilus 6 15 60 60 64 68 Closed properties 51 44 56 47 97 45 Exploration 22 38 1 Inmet majority-owned properties 6,563 2,379 480 490 616 482 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE INSPECTIONS NUMBER OF JOB SAFETY ANALYSES PERFORMED AND DOCUMENTED 7,000 7,000 5,250 5,250 3,500 3,500 1,750 1,750 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Ç AY E LI PYHÄSAL MI C LOSED PROPERTIES Ç AYELI PYH ÄSA LM I C L O S ED P R O P ERTI ES C O B R E LAS CRUCES TROI L US EXPLORATION C OBRE LA S C RU C ES TROILU S EX P L O R ATI O N C O B R E PANAMÁ C OBRE PA N A M A s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 35 04 data GRI indicators Global reporting initiative (GRI) and global compact index The following table shows where you can find GRI indicators and performance information relevant to the ten Global Compact principles in this report. GRI G3 protocols were followed for all indicators, except where indicated otherwise. GRI Indicator Where to find it Global Compact principle General 1.1 CEO statement p 2 1.2 Key impacts, risks, opportunities p 2, 6, 10 http://www.inmetmining.com/aboutInmet/riskmanagement 2.1 Organization name p 1, 4 2.2 Primary brands, products inside front cover (map and table) 2.3 Structure inside front cover (map and table) p6 2.4 Headquarters p1 2.5 Countries (operations, exploration) inside front cover (map and table) http://www.inmetmining.com/ouroperations/exploration 2.6 Ownership, legal structure p1 http://www.inmetmining.com 2.7 Markets http://www.inmetmining.com/ourmarkets 2.8 Scale inside front cover (map and table) 2.9 Significant changes Çayeli (permit renewal) – p 23 Las Cruces (ramp up) – p 14, 26 Troilus (closure) – p 3, 12, 31 Ok Tedi (change in ownership) – p 34 Cobre Panama (development) – p 3, 39–40 2.10 Awards p 48 3.1 Reporting period p4 3.2 Date of most recent report p4 3.3 Reporting cycle p4 3.4 Contact p4 3.5 Process for defining report content p4 3.6 Boundary of report p4 3.7 Limitations on scope or boundary p4 3.8 Basis for reporting joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. p4 3.9 Data measurement techniques p 47 3.10 Explanation of effects of any re-statements p 12 (2008 death confirmed as a work-related fatality) 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary or measurement from previous reports Additional GRI indicators – p 46 Las Cruces (ramp up) – p 14, 26 Troilus (closure) – p 3, 12, 31 3.12 GRI table p 52 3.13 External assurance (policy and practice) p 47 4.1 Governance structure p 6–7 http://www.inmetmining.com/governance 4.2 Chair independence http://www.inmetmining.com/boardofdirectors 4.3 Independent and non-executive members http://www.inmetmining.com/boardofdirectors 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or direction to highest governing body http://www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 36 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n GRI Indicator Where to find it Global Compact principle 4.5 Compensation and performance (executives, senior managers, highest members of governance body) http://www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.6 Conflicts of interest (processes to prevent) http://www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) Principle 10: Anti-corruption 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise (highest governance body) http://www.inmetmining.com/governance 4.8 Mission, values, codes, etc. p6 4.9 Risk and opportunity identification and management, adherence to international standards http://www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.10 Process for evaluating performance of highest governance body http://www.inmetmining.com/governance (see proxy circular) 4.11 Precautionary principle p6 Principle 7: Environment 4.12 Charters, principles, other initiatives (external) p8 4.13 Association memberships p8 4.14 List of stakeholders p8 4.15 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholder groups p 8, 17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement p8 4.17 Key topics raised by stakeholder engagement, how addressed p 17, 20, 39 Economic EC1 Economic value p 55 EC4 Financial assistance p 56 EC6 Spending (local suppliers) p 56 EC7 Local hiring p 56 Principle 6: Labour standards Environmental EN2 Recycled materials p 57 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN3 Direct energy consumption p 57 Principle 8: Environment EN4 Indirect energy consumption p 58 Principle 8 : Environment EN5 Energy conservation p 58 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN7 Indirect energy consumption (initiatives to reduce) p 59 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN8 Water withdrawal (by source) p 59 Principle 8: Environment EN9 Water sources affected p 60 Principle 8: Environment EN10 Water recycling and reuse p 60 Principles 8 and 9: Environment EN11 Protected and high biodiversity areas p 60 Principle 8: Environment EN14 Biodiversity impact management p 60 Principle 8: Environment EN16 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p 61 Principle 8: Environment EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions p 61 Principles 7, 8 and 9: Environment EN21 Water discharge p 62 Principle 8: Environment EN22 Waste disposal p 62 Principle 8: Environment EN23 Spills p 63 Principle 8: Environment EN26 Environmental impact mitigation p 63 Principles 7, 8 and 9: Environment MM31 Waste management (overburden, rock, tailings, sludges and residues) p 64 Principle 8: Environment EN28 Fines and sanctions (environment) p 65 Principle 8: Environment EN30 Environmental expenditures p 65 Principles 8 and 9: Environment s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 37 04 data GRI indicators GRI Indicator Where to find it Global Compact principle Social (Human rights) HR1 Agreements with human rights clauses p 66 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards HR2 Human rights screening (suppliers and contractors) p 66 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards HR3 Employee training on human rights p 66 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards HR4 Discrimination (incidents and actions) p 66 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards HR6 Child labour p 66 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 5: Labour standards HR8 Security training (human rights) p 67 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights HR9 Indigenous peoples (incidents and violations) p 67 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights MM5 Indigenous peoples (territories and agreements) p 67 Social (Product responsibility) PR3 Product and service information p 67 Principle 8: Environment PR4 Non-compliance (products and service information) p 67 Principle 8: Environment PR9 Fines and sanctions (products and services) p 67 Social (People and communities) SO1 Impact assessments and programs (community) p 68 SO2 Corruption screening (business units) p 68 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO3 Anti-corruption policies and procedures p 68 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO4 Corruption (action taken) p 68 Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO5 Public policy development and lobbying p 68 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards Principles 7, 8 and 9: Environment SO6 Financial and other political contributions p 69 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6: Labour standards Principles 7, 8 and 9: Environment Principle 10: Anti-corruption SO8 Fines and sanctions (general) p 69 MM82 Resettlement p 69 Principles 1 and 2: Human rights MM93 Closure plans p 69 MM114 Emergency preparedness p 70 Social (Labour practices) LA1 Total workforce p 70 LA4 Collective bargaining p 70 Principle 1: Human rights Principle 3: Labour standards LA6 Occupational health and safety p 70 Principle 1: Human rights LA75 Illness, injuries and fatalities p 71 Principle 1: Human rights LA10 Employee training p 72 1 Formerly MM6. Reported as MM3 in last report. 2 Formerly MM9. Reported as MM8 in last report. 3 Formerly MM10. Reported as MM9 in last report. 4 Formerly MM12. Reported as MM11 in last report. 5 Occupational disease formerly reported under MM13. Included in LA7 in last report. 38 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators Economic EC1 Economic value Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Troilus community investments include its annual $50,000 payment to the Cree of Mistissini in fulfillment of the Troilus Agreement. Cayeli community investments of $1.06 million includes the asset value of the aggregate plant donated to the village of Madenli ($650,000). Ok Tedi reported at 18 percent ownership. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 STATEMENT OF EARNINGS $1,098,087 $ 983,885 $ 944,865 $ 1,103,698 $ 1,087,869 Gross sales (166,754) (176,432) (179,738) (206,478) (240,605) Cost of sales and depreciation (427,608) (373,184) (390,406) (344,097) (318,788) Corporate development and exploration (12,036) (10,837) (10,620) (9,083) 9,754) General and administration (20,638) (23,892) (13,138) (20,298) (13,740) Investment and other income 35,416 9,131 5,986 36,454 47,757 Asset impairment 0 (9,915) (36,275) 0 0 Interest expense (6,873) (1,977) (1,884) (1,693) (1,619) Capital tax expense (373) (925) (1,679) (609) (450) Income tax expense (134,682) (120,854) (105,689) (140,085) (130,017) Non-controlling interest 1,112 (5,831) 5,500 (200) 0 Net income $ 358,898 $ 269,169 $ 216,922 $ 417,609 $ 420,653 CASH FLOW (THOUSANDS) Cash and short-term investments, beginning of year $ 533,913 $ 572,733 $ 840,823 $ 640,186 $ 251,895 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities 409,333 322,751 324,505 427,351 438,129 Investing activities (483,050) (364,839) (864,446) (295,765) (129,445) Financing activities (9,272) 49,974 206,940 122,246 64,031 Other (124,499) (46,706) 64,911 (53,195) 15,576 Cash and short-term investments, end of year $ 326,425 $ 533,913 $ 572,733 $ 840,823 $ 640,186 OTHER GRI VALUES THAT ARE INCLUDED IN THE ABOVE Employee compensation $ 92,679 $ 127,816 $ 98,610 $ 102,684 $ 85,800 Donations and other community investments $ 2,601 $ 10,025 $ 8,650 $ 6,218 $ 2,419 Payments to governments $ 191,175 $ 179,029 $ 163,521 $ 204,583 $ 111,411 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 39 04 data GRI indicators EC4 Financial assistance Significant financial assistance received from government In 2010, Las Cruces received grants for geological exploration, research and for productivity enhancement. Pyhäsalmi received financial assistance for mineral exploration. Las Cruces values from previous years were restated to reflect subsidies received for establishment of a hydrometallurgical plant and staff training. Financial assistance ($000s) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 0 3,347 3,004 492 Cobre Las Cruces 282 72,013 7,529 266 7,779 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 181 48 104 67 262 75 Troilus 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 72 0 EC6 Spending (local suppliers) Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers Çayeli, Pyhäsalmi, Troilus, the closed sites and our exploration team all give preference to local vendors and contractors. Local suppliers in Panama received greater proportions of spending in 2010 as the size of the camp increased with the development of the project. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 34% 20% 19% 34% Cobre Las Cruces 91% 90% 91% 90% Cobre Panama 87% 39% 50% 30% Pyhäsalmi 12% 11% 12% 90% Troilus 57% 44% 53% 21% Closed properties 47% 43% 55% 63% 24% 40% EC7 Local hiring Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community Each site employs local residents for entry-level work. Çayeli uses progressive hiring practices with input from the community in selecting local workers. Local hiring has increased at Las Cruces in recent years and we have been able to hire new managers from communities near the mine. Our exploration team uses Inmet employees for project management and technical work. Non-technical workers are hired locally. Service providers and qualified drill and geophysical contractors are hired from within country, if available. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 41% 27% 27% 40% Cobre Las Cruces 80% 77% 67% 50% Cobre Panama 30% 44% 50% Pyhäsalmi 57% 57% 43% 43% Troilus 57% 57% 60% 50% Closed properties 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 40 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Environmental EN2 Recycled materials Percentage of materials used that have recycled input Our operation in Finland used 2,268 tonnes of sulphuric acid sourced from industries that produce it as a by-product of their main production. This represented 33 percent of their total consumption in 2010. Exploration used 202,744 litres of recycled diesel. EN3 Direct energy consumption Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Energy consumption increased at Las Cruces because of increased efforts to reach nameplate production. Consumption increased at Cobre Panama generally because of the increased size and activity at the camp. Explorations direct energy use increased because of the higher number of drill projects. Only half of Troilus direct energy is used in the intensity data because this property closed half way through the year. Direct energy use (GJ) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 61,123 62,969 67,318 71,438 76,073 65,369 Cobre Las Cruces 400,126 345,317 836,235 822,610 211,585 754 Pyhäsalmi 22,849 23,980 23,393 23,078 22,473 263,794 Cobre Panama 60,314 42,911 13,558 Troilus 78,881 222,445 493,954 423,315 418,665 471,319 Closed properties 467 394 392 325 647 541 Exploration 8,127 5,558 2,866 Inmet total without Ok Tedi 631,886 703,574 1,437,716 1,340,766 729,444 801,777 Intensity GJ/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 5.34 4.59 5.56 5.17 5.36 8.07 Cu equivalent (tonnes) 98,000 105,036 105,086 100,220 96,531 99,197 TOTAL ENERGY USE – INTENSITY (Inmet majority-owned operations) (Energy use – GJ/tonne copper (eq)) 14.0 10.5 7.0 3.5 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 D I R E C T E NERGY USE I NDI RECT ENERGY USE s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 41 04 data GRI indicators EN4 Indirect energy consumption Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Our absolute indirect energy consumption increased largely due to the ramp up of activities at CLC. The closure of Troilus also caused our indirect energy intensity to be higher. Pyhäsalmi’s indirect energy consumption increased partly because of an unusually cold winter. Cobre Panama, Exploration and Ok Tedi values are not given because these operations do not consume indirect energy. Indirect energy use (GJ) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 262,390 261,399 275,662 258,911 235,018 217,193 Cobre Las Cruces 522,613 174,248 24,418 3,042 1,101 Pyhäsalmi 305,532 295,740 305,440 297,307 299,895 263,794 Troilus 298,894 585,753 605,952 594,996 592,399 588,461 Closed properties 6,255 7,456 7,545 6,415 6,892 6,870 Inmet total without Ok Tedi 1,395,684 1,324,596 1,219,017 1,160,671 1,135,305 1,076,318 Intensity / tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 12.65 11.71 11.30 11.49 11.68 10.78 Cu equivalent (tonnes) 98,000 105,036 105,086 100,220 96,531 99,197 EN5 Energy conservation (Direct) Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Çayeli has been able to reduce its direct energy consumption by increasing mechanical hoisting, switching to cleaner-burning Eurodiesel fuel and reducing truck hauling across the operation. Pyhäsalmi achieved energy savings through retrofitting motors in the site’s milling operations as well as installing new agitators, aerators and pumps for the floatation systems. Energy saved (GJ) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 1,846 4,349 4,120 4,635 Cobre Panama 0 323 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 1,133 0 0 0 INDIRECT ENERGY USE – INTENSITY (Inmet majority-owned operations) 14.0 10.5 7.0 3.5 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 I N D I R E C T E N E R G Y USE 42 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n EN7 Indirect energy consumption (initiatives to reduce) Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved At Pyhäsalmi initiatives to reduce consumption were offset by an unusually cold winter and reductions achieved at our closed properties were due to lower annual rainfall, which required less treatment, rather than initiatives to reduce. An energy reduction survey is underway at Las Cruces to establish a consumption baseline and targets for energy use when the operation reaches commercial production. 2010 2009 Location Çayeli 0 17,653 Cobre Las Cruces 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 1,200 Troilus 0 0 Exploration 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 EN8 Water withdrawal (by source) Total water withdrawal by source in m 3 Each of our producing properties reduced absolute water withdrawal in 2010. Las Cruces reduced its water withdrawal from the NieblasPosada aquifer by 35 percent since 2009. Çayeli has reduced the amount of fresh water withdrawn by nearly 19 percent since 2007. Pyhäsalmi has reduced its water consumption by roughly 5 percent since 2009. Cobre Panama’s water use increased in 2010 as a result of increased activity at the site. Water withdrawn by our exploration team increased because of the higher number of drill projects in 2010. Water withdrawal by source (m3) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli groundwater, river 3,903,772 3,973,955 4,636,082 4,802,996 4,633,380 4,000,000 Cobre Panama rivers, groundwater 111,816 81,800 Cobre Las Cruces groundwater 152,656 237,187 0 107,766 Pyhäsalmi lake 5,097,282 5,362,142 6,077,204 5,141,938 5,427,080 6,317,210 Troilus lake 1,754,200 2,895,540 2,488,649 3,086,075 3,086,075 3,086,531 Closed properties river 803,000 805,200 805,200 803,040 803,040 803,000 Exploration lakes, rivers 7,705 3,876 27,257 Inmet majority-owned properties 11,830,431 13,359,700 14,034,392 13,941,815 13,949,575 14,206,741 Intensity/tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 102 118 126 130 136 135 Cu equivalent (tonnes) 98,000 105,036 105,086 100,220 96,531 99,197 WATER WITHDRAWAL – INTENSITY (Inmet majority-owned operations) (Water use – cubic meter per tonne copper (eq)) 140 105 70 35 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 43 04 data GRI indicators EN9 Water sources affected Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No water sources are significantly affected by our operations, and none of our properties are located near Ramsdar listed wetlands, a network of wetlands designated as being of international importance for global biodiversity and sustaining human life. Although Las Cruces is located in an arid region of southern Spain where water resources are scarce, systems are in place to protect the Nieblas-Posada aquifer which lies above the Las Cruces ore body. A dewatering and reinjection system (DRS) is used to move groundwater away from the mine by drawing water from wells which surround the open pit. Before water is returned to the aquifer, it is treated using a highly efficient reverse osmosis process and tested for potential contaminates. EN10 Water recycling and reuse Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Successful recycling has reduced the amount of fresh water withdrawal by nearly 19 percent at Çayeli since 2007. Las Cruces also uses treated sewage from another enterprise and contact water from its own pit to minimize the need for freshwater as much as possible. In 2010, Las Cruces was able to reuse 75 percent of the water needed for its processes. The rest is stored in ponds and tanks for future uses or treatments. Pyhäsalmi recycled 100,000 m3 in 2010. Pyhäsalmi’s target is to recycle 30 percent of the water it consumes each year. It recycled roughly 20 percent of the water it used in 2010. Recycled process water can block pipelines, valves and couplings and can reduce the amount of metal we can recover. Our process teams continue to look for ways to mitigate these challenges, such as mixing water from different sources and exploring pre-treatment options. Çayeli values were restated due to a calculation error. Total volume recycled (000s cubic metres) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 545 830 0 152 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 1,032 695 0 108 Pyhäsalmi 1,093 1,037 1,047 1,046 1,028 742 Troilus 3,650 7,728 7,027 8,293 8,147 8,600 Closed properties 104 104 104 4 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 14% 23% 0% 3% 0% 0% Cobre Las Cruces 75% 49% 0% 0% Pyhäsalmi 21% 19% 17% 20% 19% 12% Troilus (estimated) 77% 75% 75% 81% 0% 0% Closed properties (estimated) 4% 2% 2% 1% 44 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n EN11 Protected and high biodiversity areas Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Our greenfield development project, Cobre Panama, is located within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, an area of high biodiversity value. We are developing this sensitive site using the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability and other internal and external standards that ensure that our project effectively manages its impacts and enhances opportunities to conserve species of concern in the project area and beyond. There is a diverse resident bird population near our Las Cruces mine that is home to several important steppe birds, including the Great Bustard, Little Bustard, Stone-Curlew, Black-bellied Sandgrouse, Pin-tailed Sandgrouse and Lesser Kestrel. An independent project is underway in Spain to strengthen the Great Bustard in greater numbers near Las Cruces. The southern part of Lake Pyhäjärvi, near our site in Finland, is protected by the Natura 2000 European Union conservation network. Although Pyhäsalmi’s discharge enters the lake well north of the protected area and the lake does not contain endangered species, we are supporting the town and local fishing association by working with them to protect and improve fish habitat in the lake. When rehabilitating mined areas, we re-vegetate the areas we’ve disturbed with native plant species. EN14 Biodiversity impact management Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Our formal approach to managing biodiversity was developed in 2008 and all of our operations work to maintain biodiversity levels throughout the mining life cycle. Both our active operations and our closed properties carry out regular environmental monitoring to assess and manage potential impacts from our activities. We also participate in the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP) and aim to achieve no net loss, or preferably a net gain of biodiversity where achievable. We plan to expand our biodiversity planning and activities at all operations to align with the Mining Association of Canada’s biodiversity protocol (level 3) and ICMM Principle 7. Biodiversity planning is a key 2011 objective for Çayeli, which does not yet have a biodiversity plan. In 2010, our closed sites developed preliminary biodiversity plans for the properties that did not already have them and Pyhäsalmi completed its biodiversity management plan. Current activities Pyhäsalmi has developed a water recycling and conservation plan to reduce the quantity of contaminants it adds to the lake and better protect fish habitat. Opportunities for biodiversity protection and enhancement form an integral part of Las Cruces’ operating plans. Although we meet all the requirements and address impacts on all animals, our focus at Las Cruces is on the regional and resident bird population because the area provides an important habitat for steppe birds, some of which are protected. Las Cruces assists local farmers with developing and implementing ecological agriculture practices, conducted studies of both steppe birds and turtles. Studies are also underway to understand the effects of our electrical lines and roads on various birds and animals in the area. Biodiversity conservation and offset strategies have been evaluated as a key part of the Cobre Panama ESIA. The assessment was submitted to local authorities in 2010 and will also be assessed for compliance with the IFC’s performance standards for social and environmental sustainability. The ESIA includes a first version Biodiversity Action Plan that will be further refined to ensure that our extensive biodiversity commitments are met. Our biodiversity commitments at Cobre Panama cover five areas: biodiversity offsets, species of concern management, capacity building, research and additional habitat creation. Pyhäsalmi has developed a water recycling and conservation plan to reduce the quantity of contaminants it adds to the lake and better protect fish habitat. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 45 04 data GRI indicators EN16 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Our absolute direct GHG emissions (emissions from burning fossil fuels at our sites) decreased by ten percent this year over 2009, but our indirect GHGs (emissions from electricity usage) increased significantly. Overall, our GHG emissions were 29 percent higher than 2009 levels, and six percent greater than 2007. Most of this increase can be attributed to the ramp up of our operations at Las Cruces. Other factors included increased activity and the use of mobile equipment at Cobre Panama, an expanded exploration drilling program, and an unusually cold winter in Finland. Closing Troilus did not significantly influence our GHG emission levels because it used electricity from a carbon-free source. Pyhäsalmi also buys its electricity from a supplier that is certified as carbon neutral. The 2009 data for Cobre Panama and Troilus was restated to reflect GHG’s caused by explosives. GHG emissions (tonnes CO2 per tonne copper (eq)) Direct Indirect 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 4,357 4,490 4,798 5,110 5,533 43,732 43,567 45,944 43,152 39,170 Cobre Las Cruces 28,609 24,658 59,630 58,877 15,134 61,117 20,377 2,855 356 129 Cobre Panama 4,305 3,172 1,058 Pyhäsalmi 1,713 1,798 1,759 1,729 1,684 2,440 1,994 1,860 2,106 15,842 Troilus 5,620 15,950 35,873 31,017 30,945 756 1,481 1,532 1,537 1,530 Closed properties 213 194 322 297 301 12 114 135 398 348 Exploration 579 396 204 Inmet air travel 135 113 149 Inmet total without Ok Tedi 45,532 50,770 104,262 97,521 53,597 108,056 67,533 52,325 47,549 57,019 Intensity / tonne copper (eq) – majority-owned operations 0.38 0.33 0.40 0.38 0.40 1.10 0.54 0.47 0.47 0.59 Cu equivalent (tonnes) 98,000 105,036 105,086 100,220 96,531 98,000 105,036 105,086 100,220 96,531 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS – INTENSITY (Inmet majority-owned operations) (GHG emissions – tonnes CO2 per tonne copper (eq)) 1.20 0.90 0.60 0.30 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 DIRECT I NDI RECT 46 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Çayeli has reduced its use of fuels and their corresponding GHG emissions by increasing mechanical hoisting and reducing hauling by truck at this site. They also began using a higher efficiency Eurodiesel fuel for their heavy equipment. Las Cruces is still establishing an energy use baseline and will look for reduction opportunities once they reach full commercial production. Pyhäsalmi has replaced several motors in its equipment with higher efficiency motors and drives, and its energy comes from a certified carbon-free source. Our closed sites have achieved a 231 tonne reduction in absolute CO2 emissions since 2008, primarily from indirect initiatives (reducing the amount of electricity they use or purchasing it from a carbon-free source). An active reforestation program near our development project in Panama will help offset carbon emissions at that site. EN21 Water discharge Total water discharge by quality and destination We monitor the quality of receiving water at all of our operating sites and closed properties, measuring for quantities of copper, zinc, calcium, sulphate and suspended solids in water, among many other chemical constituents. We also conduct biological studies at our closed properties to monitor changes to aquatic ecosystems. Monitoring results are reported to regulatory authorities, as required by domestic legislation. In 2010, there were no adverse changes in the quality of water we discharged to. Annual loading Average annual water quality (mg/L) Discharge Copper Suspended Calcium Sulphate volume (m3) (kg) Zinc (kg) solids (kg) (tonnes) (tonnes) Cu Zn TSS Ca SO4 Location Çayeli: Black Sea 4,756,000 2,425 10,368 0.510 2.180 Cobre Panama 45,250 0.2 1.4 0 181.0 0 0.005 0.030 4 Cobre Las Cruces 899,240 71 52 9,939 725 2,655 0.079 0.057 11.052 806 2,952 Pyhäsalmi: Pyhäjärvi lake 6,285,188 182 1,823 13,500 4,485 11,196 0.03 0.28 2.10 714 1,780 Troilus effluents to lac A 6,639,282 23 57 43,651 0.003 0.015 7.02 Closed properties to rivers 7,672,238 287 286 27,742 954,818 1,680,522 0.010 0.061 2.192 201 1,015 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 47 04 data GRI indicators EN22 Waste disposal Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste disposal is either on-site in an approved facility or off-site in certified recycling or disposal facilities. Waste management at our exploration sites mainly involves disposal of drill cuttings. Drill cuttings are collected in sumps dug away from water courses. Cuttings are allowed to settle, and are then either buried or transported to authorized disposal sites. Non-hazardous exploration waste increased significantly because we had more drilling projects than in previous years and increased reverse circulation drilling, which produces more waste material than core drilling. Changes in waste numbers at Pyhäsalmi occurred because water mixed with their used oil, requiring disposal of a larger amount of material. This site is making improvements to the containment of their hazardous waste. There was a high production of residues at Las Cruces because of operational problems with filters which also hindered that site’s waste reduction initiatives. Panama generated more waste because there was generally more activity at the site. Waste from our closed properties consists mainly of water treatment residuals from Norbec. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method: Units 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli Non-hazardous kg 953,388 853,860 930,760 965,180 667,650 Hazardous kg 116,640 140,944 115,768 99,803 96,272 Cobre Las Cruces Non-hazardous kg 596,793 260,320 553,230 1,573,363 14,336 Hazardous kg 2,158,924 464,889 352,826 409,459 76,400 Closed properties Non-hazardous kg 6,590,774 9,960,215 11,672,429 5,918,580 8,858,400 Hazardous L 220 227 129 Cobre Panama Non-hazardous kg 93,600 25,214 Hazardous kg 55,000 20,615 Pyhäsalmi Non-hazardous kg 621,457 590,655 715,000 788,000 845,000 Hazardous kg 78,595 45,701 42,153 58,601 40,622 Troilus Non-hazardous kg 2,785,170 3,303,133 1,873,768 389,150 Hazardous kg 210,175 1,290,333 186,159 215,920 183,845 Exploration Non-hazardous kg 264,000 2,565 5,746 Hazardous kg 48 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n MM3 Waste management (overburden, rock, tailings, sludges and residues) Approach to management of overburden, rock, tailings and sludges/residues Mine waste (overburden, waste rock, tailings, sludges and residues) at all our majority-owned operations are carefully managed following all regulatory and permit requirements, as well as our own mine waste management policy and SECA Standards (see p. 19). We generally contain tailings and residues in specially engineered structures. Waste rock and tailings are used as backfill in our underground mines or are stored in containment facilities. At operations where tailings from sulphide ores could generate acid and leach metals that could be harmful to the environment, we take steps to reduce oxidation, contain any possible contaminants and treat water before we release it back into the environment. At Çayeli, tailings are safely discharged into the oxygen-free Black Sea at a depth of 275 m. We are continuing to upgrade our tailings management systems to meet the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) standards. Operations, maintenance and surveillance manuals are either available, being revised or under development. Çayeli and Las Cruces have plans in place to complete their manuals in 2011. All other sites have already implemented their manuals. Mass of Mass of Mass of other tailings waste rock mine waste discharged in disposed of in disposed of in 2010 (tonnes) 2010 (tonnes) 2010 (tonnes) Location Çayeli 447,559 117,668 456,845 Cobre Las Cruces 375,421 278,380 14,627,260 Pyhäsalmi backfill 100% 267,744 +quarry 282,206 Troilus 2,769,674 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 6,591 Exploration 264 EN23 Spills Total number and volume of significant spills We consider a spill significant if it is large enough to have a material impact on the environment or the local community, or if it is a spill involving very hazardous substance. In 2010 we formalized a five-point severity scale for environmental incidents and implemented it across the company to better standardize the way our operations report. According to our classification scale, we had seven significant environmental spills in 2010. Please see page 14 for a description of our spill performance. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Number Volume (m3) Location Çayeli 0 0 1 1,530 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 2 155 0 0 0 0 Cobre Panama 2 0.1 1 0.25 Pyhäsalmi 1 10,600 1 0.5 2 1 1 41 Troilus 2 0.5 5 3.3 2 4 1 3 1 6 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 3 2,165 Exploration 0 0 0 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 49 04 data GRI indicators EN26 Environmental impact mitigation Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Inmet produces copper, zinc and pyrite concentrates as well as copper cathode. Our concentrates are fine grained and have low moisture content (approximately 10 percent). They contain metals, sulphur and small proportions of silica and other trace elements. Concentrates can be toxic to aquatic organisms and people if improperly handled. To prevent the exposure of concentrates they are transported with material safety data sheets and are updated every three years in most jurisdictions. Copper cathode does not present significant environmental hazard. Our operations have measures in place to control the airborne spread of concentrate as fugitive dust by controlling spillage at transfer points. We also have emergency plans which include protocols for responding to concentrate spills. In 2010, our sites re-evaluated their environmental risks and have made improvements to the way they store and transport concentrate, as needed. Samatosum and Norbec control their water treatment residuals (sludge) on site as required by legislation and are included in their closure plans. An external assessment of our closed sites sludge management is scheduled for 2011. EN28 Fines and sanctions (environment) Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Troilus received three NOVs, one related to dust emissions from a tailings pond, one for improper disposal of biomedical waste, and a third for exceeding the site’s monthly limit for iron in its tailings effluent. Our closed property at Millenbach received two notices of violation related to discharge water quality and operation of the site’s temporary water management system at its mine waste facility. Las Cruces received three notices of violation in 2010 related to exceedances in its dewatering and reinjection system. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Location Çayeli 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Panama 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 2 0 0 Closed properties 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 An NOV is a notice of violation or other documented governmental warning or enforcement action. 50 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n EN30 Environmental expenditures Environmental expenditures by location Environmental expenditures at our operations this year addressed waste and water management, environmental monitoring and testing, repairs and improvements to existing equipment and systems, as well as rehabilitation and restoration work. Please see page 24 for a description of our environmental expenditures by site. Inmet’s 2009 total expenditure was restated due to a calculation error. Environmental expenditures (CAD ‘000) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 1,740 746 464 643 314 359 Cobre Las Cruces 5,852 4,796 4,865 2,438 2,168 561 Ok Tedi 87,564 54,015 174,224 34,357 43,445 40,094 Cobre Panama 10,200 7,271 3,640 Pyhäsalmi 1,292 1,764 1,318 1,213 833 1,186 Troilus 6,670 4,418 1,486 625 404 445 Closed properties 1,730 1,407 1,410 2,054 1,271 1,971 Exploration 19 17 20 Inmet majority-owned properties 27,503 20,419 13,203 6,973 4,990 4,522 Social (human rights) HR1 Agreements with human rights clauses Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or have undergone human rights screening We have not yet conducted formal human rights screening. HR2 Human rights screening (suppliers and contractors) Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening and human rights and actions taken We do not currently have a formal policy or procedure for human rights screening. However, the countries where we operate have human rights laws in place and our contracts have general requirements for compliance with all legislation. In addition, our operations include specific safety, health and environmental clauses in our contracts and review contractor performance in these areas. At Cobre Panama, our community development team and Patronato de Nutricion have agreed to human rights requirements. HR3 Employee training on human rights Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects or human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Çayeli and Cobre Panama conduct training regarding human rights. In 2010, approximately three percent of Çayeli’s workforce received two hours of training. Cobre Panama did not provide human rights training this year. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli 3% 4% 6% 4% Cobre Panama 0% 20% s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 51 04 data GRI indicators HR4 Discrimination (incidents and actions) Discrimination incidents and actions taken Number of Incidents 2010 Actions Taken in Response to Incidents Location Ok Tedi 1 One female employee was sexually harassed by another employee. The victim underwent three sessions of counselling and agreed with the case outcome – the perpetrator was disciplined with an Open Final Warning, meaning that any further incidents would result in their immediate termination from employment. The victim was relieved and happy to have undergone counselling and the rehabilitation. HR6 Child labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour We have not yet conducted formal screening for this risk. Our operations respect the minimum legal working age at all our sites for hiring employees and contractors. As a general rule Inmet does not employ anyone under the age of 16. Students are hired for summer work and other short contracts in accordance with domestic laws but are not exposed to hazardous work and are not permitted to go underground. Pyhäsalmi’s legal working age was restated. Age of youngest worker Legal age 2010 2009 Location Çayeli 18 26 25 Cobre Las Cruces 16 22 20 Pyhäsalmi 18 19 21 Cobre Panama 18 19 22 Troilus 18 22 18 Closed properties 18 24 >40 HR8 Security training (human rights) Security training regarding human rights In 2010, all of the security personnel at Çayeli received training. Cobre Panama did not provide security training this year, but have previously. Las Cruces, Pyhäsalmi and Troilus do not provide human rights training to their security personnel. HR9 Indigenous peoples (incidents and violations) Incidents and violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples There were no incidents or violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples at our majority-owned operations and closed properties MM5 Indigenous peoples (territories and agreements) Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities Our recently closed operation, Troilus, and our development property Cobre Panama, lie within or are adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories. Two other closed properties are less than 20 kilometres from such territories. The Troilus property lies within the traditional trapping lands of the Cree of Mistissini. Troilus and the Cree Grand National Authority signed the Troilus Agreement in 1995, prior to the start of mining at the site. The Cobre Panama property lies adjacent to lands occupied by indigenous peoples. We expect to formalize and approve the Resettlement Action Plan with indigenous communities in 2011. Additionally, Cobre Panama is on target to develop the Indigenous People’s Development Plan scheduled for implementation in January 2012. 52 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n Social (product responsibility) PR3 Product and service information Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Material safety data sheets (MSDS) must accompany our copper, zinc and pyrite concentrate products during shipping. In total, 75 percent of the four different products we ship from our four majority-owned operations require MSDS. PR4 Non-compliance (product and service information) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes regarding product and service information and labelling at our majority-owned operations and closed properties. PR9 Fines and sanctions (products and services) Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services There were no significant fines for non-compliance at our majority-owned operations or closed properties concerning the provision and use of products and services. Social (people and communities) SO1 Impact assessments and programs (community) Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting Responsible mining is a joint responsibility of our corporate office and our operations. Every majority-owned operation is expected to meet our minimum social, environmental and community affairs criteria and standards for safe, responsible operation. You can find information about our management framework, policies and procedures on page 6 of this report. At Cobre Panama, community engagement is conducted by our staff of Panamanian nationals in accordance with IFC performance standards. The team is supported by our communications department and works in coordination with our team of community development specialists that assist with our community social investment programs. Troilus has an advanced community dialogue program and used its well-established relationship with the Cree community to help revise its closure plan. Exploration notifies communities and landowners of planned activities before accessing land. We take care to address land and resource sensitivities and to manage expectations about potential economic benefits and job opportunities. We rent land when necessary for exploration purposes, and repair damage if it occurs. Our closed properties have a formal/documented system in place for each site to: identify local communities of interest (COI), document outcomes of dialogues, respond to COI concerns, consider COI input when making decisions, and reporting on community engagement and dialogue activities. The process is ongoing and has evolved to include COI involvement in emergency preparedness test at several of the sites in 2010. A COI road site communication form has also been established to capture day-to-day discussions/meetings with local COI’s. The COI’s have indicated their interest in continuing the process. Çayeli, Las Cruces and the closed properties are using Anglo’s American’s process to identify and manage community impacts and help develop community development strategies. Pyhäsalmi developed their own community affairs strategy and action plan in 2010. The effectiveness of our systems is presented in the corporate and operations performance overviews starting on page 9 and 21. Our SECA standards are posted online at www.inmetmining.com. s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 53 04 data GRI indicators SO2 Corruption screening (business units) Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Inmet’s majority-owned operations have been checked for such risks as part of the annual financial controls used to certify Inmet’s financial disclosure. The Managing Director or General Manager and Finance Manager at each of our majority-owned operations is required to provide an annual confirmation and acknowledgement to the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Inmet Board of Directors with respect to Inmet’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. SO3 Anti-corruption policies and procedures Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is used at all our majority-owned operations and properties. Each employee received a handbook and pamphlet when we implemented the code and confidential reporting procedure and posters are posted throughout each site. New employees receive a copy of the code as part of their orientation. Approximately five percent of the Las Cruces workforce (the senior management team) has been trained on anti-corruption. SO4 Corruption (action taken) Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption There were no incidents of corruption reported at any of our majority-owned operations and closed properties. SO5 Public policy development and lobbying Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying We do not make donations or contributions to any political party or candidate for public office. We do not, either directly or through an agent, pay, offer to pay or promise to give anything of value to governments or public officials with the goal of influencing decisions that may affect Inmet. We do cooperate with governments in the jurisdictions where we operate, to identify and resolve issues pertaining to our operations, either directly or through memberships in business associations such as the Mining Association of Canada, the Canadian Turkish Business Council, the Finnish Mining Association, CONFEDEM, and Spain’s national mining association. You can read more about our codes and policies on page 6 of this report and online at: http://inmetmining.com/governance/charterspolicies/default.aspx. SO6 Financial and other political contributions Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country There were no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or related institutions at our majority-owned operations and closed properties. 54 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n SO8 Fines and sanctions (general) Monetary value of significant fines (000s) and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations An NOV is a notice of violation or other documented governmental warning or enforcement action. Las Cruces received a NOV in 2010 from Employment Authority due to alleged lack of preventive measures to avoid an accident. Inmet did not incur any fines in 2010. 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Fines ($) NOVs Location Çayeli 0 0 92 0 0 0 988 2 0 0 Cobre Las Cruces 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cobre Panama 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 0 50 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 MM8 Resettlement Describe resettlement policies and activities Approximately 67 families will be displaced, either physically or economically, by our Cobre Panama project. We are meeting regularly with the affected households to ensure a fair and appropriate resettlement process that will see affected community members relocated to safe housing in locations that consider their long-term livelihoods, social and family units, and cultural needs and preferences, meeting IFC Performance Standard 5 and 7 criteria. We expect to finalize a Resettlement Action Plan with affected residents in 2011. Our operation in Turkey is now using a form of Alternative Dispute Resolution to work with local residents to identify the technical causes of housing damage that community members have attributed to our mining activities. We are using geotechnical and mining engineering methods to better understand the characteristics of the impact area and determine whether our activities are in fact contributing to land subsidence and, consequently, housing damage, or whether it is occurring naturally. The Near Mine Housing project has begun working with local stakeholders to establish the trustworthy relations needed to develop solutions that meet international best practice for resettlement, avoid conflict and maintain our social license to operate. MM10 Closure plans Number or % of operations with closure plans in place, covering social, environmental and economic aspects All of our operating sites have a closure plan that addresses social, environmental and economic aspects of closure. Plans must be revised every five years to meet Inmet’s SECA Standards. Our closure objectives are to ensure that our sites are safe, physically and chemically stable, and remediated in a way that promotes ecosystem integrity and acceptable land use. As at December 31, 2010 (thousands of Canadian dollars) Asset retirement obligations Location Corporate $ 27,368 Çayeli (Turkey) $ 8,807 Pyhäsalmi (Finland) $ 19,907 Troilus (Canada) $ 5,381 Las Cruces (Spain) $ 47,129 Cobre Panama (Panama) $ 0 Total $ 108,592 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 55 04 data GRI indicators MM11 Emergency preparedness Describe the systems in place for identifying, preparing for, and responding to emergency situations affecting employees, communities or the environment. Include the nature of skills, teams, training, drills and community involvement All of our sites have an emergency response plan that includes protocols for medical emergencies, fires and explosions and accidental spills. Training and testing involves test scenarios for relevant personnel and departments, and training and drills for response teams. Our communities have been involved with test scenarios or training at Pyhäsalmi and several closed properties. Employees and contractors on our exploration team work in pairs near villages and towns and carry both first aid and basic response equipment. Over the past few years, the team reviewed its communication and call-in systems and adopted a safety, environmental and community affairs guide that has been used to develop region-specific field booklets. These include emergency preparedness planning and response elements and ties into the corporate crisis communication plan. Satellite phones are currently used by teams working in remote areas. In 2010 all sites had emergency preparedness and response plan in place and conducted regular training and simulations. Social (labour practices) LA1 Total workforce Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region On average at our operating sites, about five percent of our employees are managers, about ten percent are supervisors, and about 15 percent are trainees. Approximately 70 percent of employees at our active sites are hourly employees. Most hourly employees are directly involved in either production or maintenance activities. Total employees 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli (Turkey) 451 449 471 465 476 485 Cobre Las Cruces (Spain) 235 212 212 96 61 31 Cobre Panama 170 75 Pyhäsalmi (Finland) 215 218 212 212 210 214 Troilus 25 124 243 256 259 281 National employees 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli (Turkey) 448 445 468 460 470 473 Cobre Las Cruces (Spain) 213 194 189 78 50 25 Cobre Panama 138 62 Pyhäsalmi (Finland) 214 217 211 212 210 214 Troilus 25 123 241 212 210 214 Percentage of national employees 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Location Çayeli (Turkey) 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 98% Cobre Las Cruces (Spain) 92% 92% 89% 81% 82% 81% Cobre Panama 81% 83% Pyhäsalmi (Finland) 99.5% 99.5% 99.5% 100% 100% 100% Troilus 100% 99.2% 99.2% 100% 100% 100% 56 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n LA4 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements All Pyhäsalmi and Las Cruces employees and 72 percent of Çayeli employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Both Troilus and Çayeli have labour relations committees, including representatives from different departments that meet regularly with site management. LA6 Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs All employees at all of our majority-owned operations are covered by joint occupational health and safety committees. LA7 Illness, injuries and fatalities Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities All of our sites have employee health check systems and workplace monitoring systems in place. Identified health hazards are controlled at the source. The closed properties have workplace monitoring systems. Absenteeism is not included in the data provided below. Total working hours 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 1,105,569 1,010,464 1,204,808 1,181,512 1,304,200 Cobre Las Cruces 1,847,664 1,617,328 2,903,472 1,674,662 468,362 Ok Tedi 14,504,807 14,252,639 13,455,058 11,565,761 10,060,319 Cobre Panama 1,103,843 1,028,134 563,224 78,710 Pyhäsalmi 473,981 477,605 455,645 441,460 447,738 Troilus 265,387 475,294 475,058 685,590 678,237 Closed properties 18,735 15,014 16,973 19,203 18,647 Exploration 77,768 37,774 79,027 41,924 Inmet total w/o Ok Tedi 4,892,947 4,661,613 5,698,903 4,123,061 2,917,184 MASHA 21,032,751 27,174,755 34,029,193 34,029,192 31,524,037 LTIF Severity 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 0.9 1.0 0.5 0.7 0.5 4 28 24 1,029 31 Cobre Las Cruces 0.9 0.9 0.8 1.9 1.3 696 19 47 40 10 Ok Tedi 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 5 2 3 129 Cobre Panama 0.7 1.3 2.1 5.1 3 31 2,320 34 Pyhäsalmi 1.3 0.4 1.8 0.5 2.7 100 10 60 19 71 Troilus 0.8 1.3 0.9 0.3 1.2 11 34 124 33 55 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 7.8 0 2.5 4.8 2 0 101 19 Inmet total w/o Ok Tedi 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.2 1.1 270 24 236 319 39 MASHA 0.4 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 12 74 54 132 170 s u s ta i n a b ility r ep ort 2010 57 04 data GRI indicators TIF DIF 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 2.5 2.6 3.2 2.4 3.4 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.5 Cobre Las Cruces 4.1 3.1 4.2 4.4 1.7 2.5 1.5 1.2 2.1 1.3 Ok Tedi 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 Cobre Panama 2.4 6.8 2.9 0.9 1.5 3.9 Pyhäsalmi 3.0 2.5 6.6 3.2 5.8 2.1 1.3 3.1 0.5 2.7 Troilus 1.5 2.5 2.1 1.5 3.8 0.8 1.7 0.9 0.6 2.1 Closed properties 11.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 7.8 0 15.2 4.8 7.8 0 2.5 4.8 Inmet total w/o Ok Tedi 3.1 3.6 4.6 3.1 3.5 1.8 1.4 1.6 1.5 1.8 Number of fatalities 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 0 0 0 1 0 Cobre Las Cruces 1 0 0 0 0 Ok Tedi 0 1 0 0 1 Cobre Panama 0 0 1 Pyhäsalmi 0 0 0 0 0 Troilus 0 0 0 0 0 Closed properties 0 0 0 0 0 Exploration 0 0 0 0 LA10 Labour Performance Indicator Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Supervisors receive the most training at our operations, nearly double that of hourly workers on average. Managers receive 10 percent less training than supervisors. Average hours of training (employees) Average hours of training (contractors) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Location Çayeli 103 81 107 40 15 10 13 8 8 6 Cobre Las Cruces 48 46 237 38 13 7 5 3 3 Cobre Panama 86 72 86 72 Pyhäsalmi 17 16 30 29 11 10 12 7 7 Troilus 10 20 57 58 40 10 5 2 2 7 Closed properties 66 38 41 42 50 2 2 1 Exploration 56 14 16 24 Average Inmet majority-owned properties 55 41 81 39 26 21 18 4 5 7 58 inmet mining co rpo rat i o n www.inmetmining.com Questions, comments or feedback? We invite your comments and questions about this report. To learn more, please visit our website (www.inmetmining.com/sustainability) or contact: Craig Ford, Vice President, VP Corporate Responsibility T +1.416.860.3960 E craig.ford@inmetmining.com “Corporate responsibility (CR) describes the interactions between a company and everyone else – employees, contractors, governments and the public at large, as well as the environment we all share. On a practical level at our operations, corporate responsibility is how we integrate sustainability goals and considerations into our business plans and control systems.” Craig Ford VP Corporate Responsibility Inmet Mining Corporation 330 Bay Street, Suite 1000 Toronto, Ontario Canada M5H 2S8 www.inmetmining.com
